


Look to see if you have any leaky pipes.
If it is from heavy rains, check to see if it's weeping or seeping from the walls or if it is coming from your sump pump. Often times large amounts of water or poorly-maintained filters inside the sump pump can burn up the motor and cause it to quit functioning. If that happens, water is not being routed out of the basement adequately, which can lead to flooding.
If the water seems like it is coming from the walls, check your downspouts. In older homes with downspouts that have been buried, tree roots can interfere with water dispersal, and the water can be backing up into your basement.
Check the grade of the ground around the outside of your home. If the grade tends to slope toward the house, water will filter toward your home and follow the path of least resistance.;
,


If it's a leaky pipe, turn off your main water shut off for the home until you can have a licensed plumber address the issue.
For a malfunctioning sump pump, first, make sure that the sump pump is plugged in to the outlet. Check the filter and clean out the sediment as needed.
Fix your downspouts as needed. Consult a specialist at your local home improvement store to address questions and/or concerns as to what the best replacement method will be.
For issues with the grade of the ground around your home, you will need to add fill dirt to make sure that the ground slopes away from the home.
 Look under "Fire and Water Restoration" in the phone book, and call them for services immediately.


Flooded basements are at risk of collapse if they are drained too quickly.
Professional water removers can treat the flooring and walls to prevent mold and other growth.
 If the pressure is not adequately addressed, the walls can collapse or crumble.



Shovel out and remove debris.
Wash down the walls.
Consider adding a mold-killing agent to the walls to prevent mold and mildew.
Tear out any carpet and start to dry the under-flooring and carpet.
Consider renting large industrial fans to help with the drying process.
Move all furniture possible upstairs and outside to fully dry and ventilate.
Replace flooring as needed.
Repaint or address the walls after they are completely dry.

