 This will help the parents get to know you better, and you can get to know what the family is like.;
, This is quite awkward, so be prepared. If they're paying you $3 an hour or less, feel free to talk to them about paying you more. The best time is to talk to them before they even leave, or right when you get the next request to sit. If you think that $3 is too low, tell them so, and tell them you'd like to go up to $5, but say you normally accept $5 or $6 (or whatever you normally accept). Set a limit you think is reasonable and stick to it. Make what you are looking for clear, but don't be nervous. The family you sit for works, too. They understand the limits you have to have.
 Before accepting a babysitting job there are a few things you should ask the parents:


How many children do you have?
What ages are the children?
What are their names?
Do you have any pets I should be aware of?
When will you need me to be there?
What time will you get home?
What rules do you have that I should know about?
When is bedtime?
What is the normal bedtime routine?
Where will you be?
When will you be home?
Do you have any questions for me?
In case of an emergency, can you write down the name and number of their doctor and where I can reach you?
Cell phone numbers of both parents.
Are the children allergic to anything?
Do the children have any medical conditions I should be aware of (asthma, epilepsy, hemophilia, etc)?
Are the children taking any medications?
What is the children's bedtime?
Do the children have any special routines before bedtime?
Are the children allowed to have friends over?
Where are the first aid items (Band-Aids, Neosporin, etc)?
Where can I locate a flashlight? Do you know of any other items I may need in case of a power outage in an electrical storm?
Do the children have a nap-time? If so, when is that, and how long do the children normally sleep?
Is there anything else I should know?
Is it okay if I use the stove or the oven to make a recipe?

, Let them know of any prior babysitting experience you have; this may reassure them that they are making the right choice by allowing you to babysit their child. If you have no prior experience, be honest and tell them that. Likely, they will appreciate your honesty and have high expectations for your first job.

