 In order to manage hypertension, you should take your blood pressure daily. This will help you determine if your healthy habits are actually having an impact. Purchase a blood pressure monitor at your local drug store. They typically range in price from $50 to $100.Blood pressure measurements are made up of two parts: systolic pressure (the first, or "top" number) and diastolic pressure (the second, or "bottom" number). Normal blood pressure is less than 120/80. Hypertension is when your blood pressure is above 140/90.Record your blood pressure each time that you take it. This way you can track your progress over time.
For the best results take your blood pressure at the same time each day. You should also take it multiple times to ensure that you have an accurate reading.
 If you have been diagnosed with hypertension, you should visit your doctor at least once, possibly twice a year to help monitor your condition. High blood pressure can lead to a number of severe medical issues, including heart attacks and strokes. As a result, you should have regular medical check ups to make sure you are managing the hypertension.If you are unable to decrease your blood pressure through healthy habits, your doctor may need to prescribe medicine.
 If your doctor has prescribed medication to help you manage hypertension, make sure you take the medication regularly and follow all of the instructions provided. There are a wide variety of medications, called antihypertensives, used to treat hypertension. For example diuretics, such as Chlorthalidone are prescribed to get rid of excess salt and reduce blood pressure. You may also be prescribed Beta-Blockers, ACE Inhibitors, Calcium Channel Blockers, Alpha Blockers, Blood Vessel Dilators, as well as a host of other types of medication.Talk with your doctor to find a medication that is right for your condition.
Never change or stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor.
 You can also try reducing your blood pressure by taking a variety of different herbal remedies. Discuss any alternative treatments with your doctor first, as they can interact with other medications you may be taking. Try these remedies to see if they help manage your blood pressure:


Hibiscus tea: Hibiscus acts as a natural diuretic to remove salt from the blood stream. Make a hibiscus tea by 1 – 2 teaspoons of dried hibiscus with 1 cup of hot water. You can also add lemon and honey for taste.Coconut water: Drink 8 ounces (236 milliliters) of coconut water one to two times per day. Coconut water contains potassium which can help reduce blood pressure.Fish Oil: Take fish oil tablets daily. They have been linked to lowering blood pressure and can be purchased at your local drug store., Supportive friends and family can also help you manage and monitor hypertension. For instance, they can help encourage you to make healthy lifestyle changes. They can also help drive you to the doctor for regular check ups.You can also try and find a local support group. This will allow you to meet other people who are dealing with hypertension.

