 Syrian hamsters want to live by themselves. They are solitary animals and upon meeting other hamsters may fight with each other which can cause severe injury or in some cases, death.;
, In the wild, hamsters live in burrows so they like having somewhere under cover to sleep. You can buy plenty of cute ones from pet shops, or simply cut a doorway into a small cardboard box, such as a tissue box or shoe box. Put plenty of bedding into it - the cotton bedding often sold for hamsters can be dangerous as they can't digest it if they eat it, so unscented toilet paper ripped up is an easily available alternative.
 Hamsters are nocturnal which means that they sleep in the day and are active in the night. If you wake them up too often they can become unhealthy and overly tired. As with humans, this is okay once or twice. If you get into a schedule of usually waking them up with food at a regular time after dark (say, at about 10pm) they should get used to it.
 Hamsters aren't toys and if they do not wish to be held, ensure to give them some space and put them down. You can hold them once in a while and train them to become tame, which requires a lot of time spent with your hamster and a lot of patience.
 Even though they are small they still like to have some space - it is recommended that they have at least minimum 30cm x 60cm of total floor space. They are active and curious and like to explore, so the bigger the better. You could get them a wired cage from a pet store, or you can also use a tank as long as the lid is well-ventilated, or make your own - a popular basis for DIY cages is a large plastic bin, available cheaply in many shops.
 When you do get a wheel, you will need to get one with a closed running surface so they can't catch their toes. Make sure this is big enough for your hamster - if they have to arch their back to avoid the central hub of the wheel, it can cause them health problems. Generally aim for wheels recommended for the next animal size up to be sure.
 Hamsters are rodents, which means their teeth are continuously growing and need to be worn down on something. You can get wooden chews from pet shops for this, or use clean twigs of any hamster-safe wood.
 There are many hamster foods, and as long as it is a complete food you can feed them on that with occasional treats. Before you feed anything to your hamster, look it up to make sure it is safe - even things that are good for humans can be bad for hamsters.
 Give them a little container of pet sand (not chinchilla dust!) or child-safe playground sand. They should roll around in it. Use it at once a week or if they get really dirty.
 This means either being prepared to house them all separately yourself or knowing beforehand you have enough homes lined up for them to go to.
 Even though they are small they are just like any other animal, and it is your responsibility to make sure they are not in pain or ill for long. If your hamster has e.g. diarrhea, seems unusually lethargic, has partly closed eyes or ears or any discharge, this means they need to see a vet as soon as possible.

