 (一つ)


It is pronounced "he" (as in that guy over there) "toe" "tsu." (This is likely the most difficult sound to produce as it doesn't exist in English. Think 'sue' with your tongue starting between your teeth.)
Notice that the kanji is simply ichi (一) and hiragana tsu (つ). This pattern will continue for all the other numbers in this system.
　(二つ)


It sounds like "foo" (the f is quieter, and not as distinguished as in English) "ta" (as in talk) "tsu" (that tricky tsu again).
　(三つ)


It sounds like "me" "tsu".
Japanese is a rhythmic language. Each character or pause is given one beat. So if you spoke it with a metronome, the silences and pauses would be just as important as the spoken sounds. If you look at the phonetic characters of this word, "みっつ", it's not two sounds, but three; that little tsu in the middle represents a pause in speaking.　When Japanese is written with Latin characters (called ローマ字 "rōmaji"), you can tell these pauses by two consonants next to each other - in this case, the two Ts (mittsu). It's tricky, but if you listen to it you'll start to understand.
　(四つ)


It sounds like "yo" "tsu."

,　(五つ)


It sounds like "ee" (as in eek) "tsu" "tsu" (double the tsus!).
　(六つ)


It sounds like "moo" (with a short "oo" sound - don't drag it out) "tsu".
　(七つ)


"nana" "tsu"

,　(八つ)


It sounds like "yah" "tsu."

,　(九つ)


It sounds like "coco" "no" "tsu."

,　(十)


It sounds like "toe", but again, don't let the "oe" slip towards a "w" sound.
This is the only number in the system that doesn't have the つ at the end.
It may seem complicated, but if you remember these, you can count practically any item and Japanese people will understand. It is much easier than learning all the different counters.
Why does Japanese have two counting systems? In a nutshell, the first system's pronunciations are based on Chinese (音読み on'yomi "Chinese reading"), since the Japanese borrowed their kanji (ideographic, or idea-expressing, characters) from the Chinese language centuries ago. The second system is derived from the native Japanese words (訓読み kun'yomi "Japanese reading") for numbers. In modern Japanese, most kanji have both an on'yomi and a kun'yomi - and often more than one - and both readings are used depending on the (grammatical) situation.

