 If you've ever been in a yoga or pilates class, you've probably heard that you should draw your navel toward your spine to activate your core. However, bracing is generally a better method to activate your core for stability and balancing purposes.Bracing does a better job of activating your entire core than the hollowing action of drawing your navel to your spine.
To properly brace your abdomen, think of how you would brace yourself if someone was about to punch you in the gut.;
, A one-legged balance is a beginning exercise to help get you used to off-balance exercises and practice activating your core to maintain stability when doing off-balance exercises.Stand with your feet together, then lift one foot a few inches off the ground. Hold your foot up for a minute or two, then switch and do the other foot.
Practice this exercise with your eyes open and with your eyes closed. Activate your core to maintain your balance, and try not to lean or wobble. You may want to do this with a stable chair or table nearby when you're just starting.
 Once you've mastered the one-legged balance, you can increase the difficulty by lifting each foot and swinging it forward and back. Focus on moving your leg only, keeping your spine neutral and not moving your torso.To start, touch your foot on the floor in the middle to re-stabilize. As you get better with this exercise, you can try it without touching the floor. Do 5 to 10 repetitions with each foot.
 A one-legged clock balance will help you integrate your upper and lower body to better strengthen your balance and stability, which will help you with more challenging off-balance exercises.To do this exercise, stand on one leg and imagine your arms are the arms of a clock. Start at 12 with your arms straight overhead, then point to 3 o'clock. Try to swoop down to 9 o'clock without losing your balance, then come back up to 12.
If you're exercising with a partner, have them call out hours for you to point to with your arms. Since you don't know what's coming, this makes the exercise more difficult.
Be sure to do this exercise balancing on the other leg as well.
 Once your balance has improved to the point that you can easily balance on one leg, you can add an off-balance element to virtually any strength-training exercise.For example, if you normally do squats, you can do one-legged squats by pointing one leg out front as you go into your squat. Remember to do both legs.
You also can do weight-training exercises, such as dead lifts, with one leg. However, make sure your balance is strong before moving to off-balance weight training exercises. It's typically best to have a spotter when lifting weights while balancing on one leg.
 Back leg raises can help strengthen your glutes and buttocks to help improve your balance, while side leg raises will strengthen your hips and thighs as well. When you first start, you might want to keep a sturdy chair or table nearby that you can use for support.To do back leg raises, stand on one leg and raise the other leg backward, keeping your torso straight and activating your core. Lower the leg back to the floor in a slow, controlled movement. Do two to three sets of 10 leg raises with each leg.
Do side leg raises the same as back leg raises, only raise your leg to the side rather than backward. Avoid leaning when you do this exercise, keeping your torso straight. Do two or three sets of 10.
 Planks are the classic exercise to activate and strengthen the muscles in your core. Strengthening your core will enable you to improve your balance so you can successfully complete off-balance exercises.To do a standard plank, lie on your stomach on the floor with your wrists directly below your shoulders. Tuck your toes under and raise up so that you are on your hands and toes with your body forming a straight line from your heels to the crown of your head.
Brace your abdomen to hold the position. If a full plank is too difficult for you, start by getting onto your knees and elbows, with your forearms flat on the floor.
Try to hold the plank for as long as you are able without experiencing neck, back, or shoulder pain, then lower yourself to the floor in a slow and controlled manner.

