 You generally want to start out by holding a cigarette somewhere in its filter area. The filter is the portion of the cigarette toward its end that is often a different color from the cigarette itself.Don't inhale the smoke right into your lungs. Think of your mouth as a "staging area" for the cigarette. Put your lips around the filter area about 5 mm into the cigarette itself.
The filter end of the cigarette shouldn't extend past your teeth. Draw smoke into your mouth through the cigarette. You will want to periodically flick the ash into an ashtray.
Consider flicking the cigarette away for good when it has burned almost to where the filter starts. You could stop when it burns about 8 and 12mm in. Any closer and you risk burning your mouth.;
, When the cigarette is almost finished, place the butt between your middle finger and thumb.Take the last few puffs of the cigarette, and put it out on a wall, the ground, or the sole of your shoe. It's much safer if you do so. Never flick a lit cigarette as it could cause a fire.
Roll your middle finger over the butt, so that it meets the pad of your thumb, and the butt is wedged between the tip of the thumb and the nail of the middle finger. Hold your little finger and index finger out.
Flick the butt away from you. Moving your arm in the direction you wish to flick the butt, as you flick it, can help it travel further. In contrast, people usually hold their cigarette in between their ring and middle fingers in a gentle manner., Want to impress? How about learning a bar trick instead of just flicking a cigarette.


Light your cigarette. Smoke it to the end without any ash being lost. Here's how: Straighten out a paper clip and put it all the way through the cigarette.
The paper clip will prevent any of the ash from falling off even as the cigarette burns.That trick Clint Eastwood supposedly did on a talk show by flicking a cigarette from his breast pocket into his mouth? It seems to be an urban legend, as the actor reportedly doesn't even smoke.