 Use a common command aimed at getting your dog to stop investigating items (get away from them) and another one to drop items. This command can be used for item your dog picks up or plays with, including Christmas decorations.;
, Positive reinforcement is an important part of showing your dog that she has done the right thing.


Whenever your dog looks away, leaves the area of the decorations or drops an ornament, reward her.
 Part of the problem may be your own excitement to show off shiny decorations, waving them around and tossing the tinsel about when the dog is in the room. Ways to deal with this include:


Avoid decorating the tree or house when she is present. Put her in another room or outside until you've finished moving the decorations around. That way, there is less motion to catch her eye.
Don't show her the objects, especially not in a playful or excited way. She may interpret this as an invitation to play with them.
Play with your dog anywhere but in the decorated room. When in this room, make it clear that it's time for quiet, good behavior. Never play with your dog around the Christmas tree.
Until your dog is fully trained around the decorations, crate or gate her in a room that is undecorated.
 Accidents happen when people and pets bump the tree and any other decorative displays. Check that all fragile objects have been securely attached or are out of reach. For glass ornaments, either keep them at the top and center of the Christmas tree, well tethered, or place them on a safe place such as a mantelpiece or as a centerpiece on the dining table.
 Prevent access to the room by the dog the night/day before by keeping the door closed. Let other family members know to keep the room closed off.


Encouraging your dog to open her own gift may be asking for trouble if she interprets this as a cue to open more gifts. Use training commands to warn her off, or have her open her gift in a separate place so that she cannot see that there are other wrapped gifts.
 This will make them difficult for your dog to pull out.
 If your dog seems keen on chewing the tree lights, try using plastic Christmas lights, instead of glass. Other things to be careful about include:


Do not leave scented votives, pine cones, or paper decorations on coffee tables or anywhere else within dog's reach.
 If you have a dog, she is part of the family and you're likely to want to include her in part of the day's celebrations. Keep an eye on her, be firm if she shows any desire to be disruptive and reward her with suitable treats for good behavior. Keeping calm will go a long way to ensuring that she remains so too.

