 The first part of managing your restaurant day-to-day is to make sure that you actually implement all the policies and procedures you have. These plans should be incorporated into the practice of running your restaurant and be a constant reference point for you to turn to. They are useless if you don't implement them.


Although you need to implement the policies, you will need to be flexible at certain points.
If in practice you discover that a particular policy is not working or needs revision, don't hesitate to think it through again. Just because it is the rule doesn't mean it can't be improved., An essential element of maintaining a productive restaurant is making sure you have a well-stocked and maintained inventory. Because food is only good for so long, your inventory needs to be checked and monitored very frequently with regular adjustments made. The first step to successful inventory management is keeping all your stock organised and clearly arranged so you can get a basic picture at a glance.


Do a full inventory every week, ideally at the end of the week so you know precisely how much of what was used during the week.
Use two people to do the inventory, one to count and the other to record. Having two pairs of eyes will reduce the chances of any mistakes.
You may want to use the same people for this each week., When the restaurant is busy with customers it can become a very stressful and intense place to be. As a manager it's important that you keep calm and cool. Keep a loose eye on the food that is being produced, the level of service from the waiting staff, and the reactions of the customers. It can be tempting to get closely involved, but it's important that you can take a step back and see the broader picture.


Having well-trained staff that you trust is crucial in order to enable the manager to steer clear of the minutiae of operations.
Delegate to team managers or supervisors whenever possible and appropriate.
If you become bogged down in the daily operations you can lose sight of the strategic view and neglect crucial areas such as marketing and business development., This should go without saying, but you need to ensure that you abide by all the relevant health and safety and food safety regulations in your area. Compliance should be built into the heart of your everyday operations, but it's a good idea to have regular checks and monitor this. The costs will be serious if you fall below the standards required by the law.
 Many restaurant managers and owners do not use easily available restaurant management tools. There are restaurant management tools available available to download and purchase on the internet that can help make your life easier.Not only have these tools already been developed and tested before, they will save you time should you need to develop a new restaurant management tool like a spreadsheet, form or template.


The cost may outweigh the benefit so take time to consider whether you really need this software.
Look for testimony and reviews and remember to think of the different scale of different businesses. What may be economic for a big franchise, may not be for a small independent restaurant.

