 How often do you find yourself on auto-pilot, or going through the motions without really paying attention to what is going on? It is in these moments that we often allow our anxieties to grow. Mindfulness is about being aware of what is going on around you, and taking it all in. In general, people who practice mindfulness are usually less anxious.


One way to practice mindfulness is to pay attention to your breathing. Focus on your breathing and what happens to your body as you do so. Feel your chest expand and fall and take note to any differences you feel as you breathe deeply. Another way to get into mindfulness is to choose an activity in which you often go on “auto-pilot,” and take the time to notice everything around you while doing it.
These simple exercises can help you to become more comfortable with mindfulness, which may make you feel better about your situation., Quieting the mind, especially when you are feeling stressed, worried, and nervous, is something that people often find extremely difficult. When you are able to, however, you often find that you feel calm and at peace with yourself. Meditation is a simple way to clear your head and help you find the peace you long for.


To start meditating, sit in a comfortable position, close your eyes, and breathe slowly. Begin by taking five minutes out of your day to do this, then gradually increase the length. When your mind begins to drift, acknowledge what you were thinking, rather than trying to kick it out of your brain, then begin to focus on your breath again.Deep breathing brings more oxygen to your brain and activates your parasympathetic nervous system. It can reverse some of the side effects of anxiety, lowering your blood pressure and slowing down your heart beat., You’ll likely find that when your body is feeling good, you’ll experience less anxiety and find peace. Therefore, you need to fuel your body with nutritious foods that support your well-being. Choose whole, real foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and dairy options that are low in fat.


Stay away from fast or convenience foods. It can be tempting when you're stressed, but these foods only make you feel worse.Say "no" to sugary desserts, caffeine, alcohol, salty snacks, and drive-thru meals to feel like your best self.
 When you don’t take care of your body, your mind often suffers. Combat this by exercising for at least 30 minutes every day. Doing so releases endorphins, which are nature's "feel-good" hormones that lift your mood and give you energy to face whatever comes your way.Visit your local gym to get in some cardio or strength-training. Or, simply go outside to ride a bike, go on a hike, or walk your dog around the block.
 Sleep and stress work in a chicken-or-the-egg dynamic — it's hard to tell which came first. If you get little sleep, you will experience greater anxiety. If you're feeling stressed out and anxious, your sleep will be negatively affected.Counteract this by creating a sleep routine that optimizes you getting quality rest.


Avoid naps too close to bedtime. Turn off TVs, phones, and computers at least an hour before bed since the blue-light from these devices keeps you awake. Make your bedroom off-limits to other activities besides sleep or sex. And, try to go to sleep and wake at the same times every day.
 A Stanford University study found that walking in nature for 90 minutes can have a positive effect on your mental health.Other studies have found that having access to nature can reduce stress, depression, and anxiety.Try taking a hike hike, going camping, rock climbing, swimming, or fishing in a lake. Practice mindfulness and allow yourself to be in the moment — take deep breaths and smell the air, notice the sounds and sights around you.

Opening up to the healing connection of nature could potentially provide further insight into your own personal experiences and how you are emotionally and cognitively affected.

