 Simply cut it off in a straight line.;
, Follow the bag shape as shown in the diagram:
Leave the base of the tube intact.






Cut the bag lid or top as shown by the lines within the pink area of the diagram. Cut a slight curve across the top of the base part of the bag, as shown in the diagram.






Cut off a ring from the very top part of the tube (the area just under the neck that you've already removed). This will become the bag's handle.






Use a hole punch to punch out a circle in the top part of the bag, as shown in the diagram above. The hole must be the same size as the plastic bead you're using as the button clasp.






For the smaller hole, use a small sharp object to pierce it. You may want to leave making this until the next section (Making the Button Clasp).






If needed, tidy up the base of the bag by trimming (but don't cut it open).
 If the tube already has a design printed on it that you're happy with, you can skip this step. On the other hand, if you don't like the proprietary design, you can fix it using decorative tape.
Stick on a basic shape or make a collage using decorative tape.






Make sure that it covers up any ugly print or imagery that you don't want to show.






Use any other decorative items to embellish as liked.
 Going by the measurement of the plastic thread, make a small hole as shown in the diagram, large enough to admit the plastic thread.
 To know how to make the ball, refer to the plastic ball making method outlined in How to make a reminder ring from a plastic tag thread.
 Follow with the large plastic bead. Pull this tight against the small hole in the bag.
 Pull the bead tightly against the small hole. Make another plastic ball to firmly attach the remaining thread in place (see method above). Trim off any excess thread.
 When the lid is closed, this will turn into a handle that can be held upward.
 This will fasten the handle in place and the bag is now complete!

, The ring will need to be the same size as the top of the tube. Thread the beads onto beading wire, elastic or strong plastic thread. Knot well to prevent unraveling.
, There are many possibilities for using this miniature bag.

Use it as a charm. Attach to a real-size bag for a cute matching curio.






Slide over the arm of a doll. This could be something a child plays with or the doll could be placed on display.






Add to gift packaging for a cute touch.






Use on a keyring.







