 If you don't get enough sleep, or your sleep is interrupted through the night, you'll end up having more wrinkles on your forehead, and your eyes and cheeks will be redder if you're fair skinned.Try to go to bed earlier if you aren't getting enough sleep at night. If your sleep is interrupted by a medical condition like sleep apnea or you have insomnia, talk to your doctor about treatments that can help you get a good nights rest.


Adults between the ages of 18-64 require seven to nine hours of sleep per night, while teenagers require eight to ten hours of sleep.;
, If you feel like you're stuck and can't change your look, consider getting a new haircut. If you've had the same style forever, you may be surprised at how much it can change your look. Your hair helps frame your face, so think about your facial features and how to best compliment them.For example, if you have a thick jaw, it may be a good idea to grow your hair out on the sides to balance your face.
Experiment with different haircuts and ask your friends what looks best.
Ask a stylist for suggestions. You can say, "I'm going for a suave and sophisticated look. Do you have any ideas?"
If you like a haircut of an actor or musician, bring in a picture of him and see if the stylist can replicate it.
 Growing a beard may make you more attractive. It all depends on the existing symmetry and construction of your face, and your ability to grow facial hair. The most attractive facial hair is "heavy stubble" or a beard that hasn't been shaved in about ten days.If your beard grows out in patches, consider staying clean shaven or try to grow a goatee.
Growing a beard can make your chin look broader.
 Clear skin indicates that someone is healthy and happy, while acne prone skin can be a turnoff for some people.Wash your face daily and try to find moisturizers and face scrubs that work with your skin. If you are having problems with keeping your skin clear, consider changing your diet so it includes more fruits and vegetables and make an appointment to see a dermatologist who can diagnose and treat your acne or any skin rashes.


Olive oil, tomatoes, and dark chocolate have been shown to promote clear skin.Consuming an excess of unhealthy and sugary foods can lead to bad skin.