 The main reason why toddlers act out is because they think crying and screaming is the best way to communicate. This is leftover from infancy, when that information was probably accurate. If you want your child to feel like there are better ways to communicate, but they possibly don't have great spoken language, (learn and then) teach them baby sign language. Start as young as you possibly can, and keep it in mind for future children. Signing teaches your child to use "words", rather than crying to get what they want.


Sign language does not hinder your child's ability to learn speech normally, so long as you sign and speak at the same time, but it has been proven to aid development of the language center of their brain. This will make them better with language later on in life.
 Another reason why children throw tantrums is because they are confused and can't cope with the negative feeling of disorientation. Avoid this understandable upset by creating an environment in which your toddler encounters relatively little surprise. Keep sleeping and eating schedules regular, as well as schedules relating to daycare or pre-school.
 One of the best ways to prevent behavior problems in toddlers is to give them choices. This allows them to feel independent without having to assert that independence. Give them a limited number of choices in situations where you can, and make negotiating out of those choices not an option.For example, let them choose between peas and noodles for dinner, or rice and broccoli. If they don't want either, then just let them be hungry.
Give them a choice between two shirts when they get dressed in the morning.
Always make choosing sound exciting.
 When they are clearly getting upset, give them healthy ways to release those feelings. Like adults, simply making those feelings stop is very difficult. Teach them early on to do something productive with negative feelings.


For example, let them make angry art. Give them crayon disks and paper and tell them to make an angry picture for you.
You can also let them kick a beanbag.
Another option would be to play a yelling game. Help your child yell, but do so in a silly way so that they just end up laughing.
Singing a song can also be a good option for toddlers. "If You're Happy and You Know It" (specifically the verse about feet stomping) is a great option for a frustrated kid.
 At the end of the day, you just have to understand that small children do not have the ability to cope with emotions like you can, and some concessions may have to be made. For example, let your child have a toy while you are running errands, because he or she can't cope with boredom like you can. 