 In Florida, most forms of open carry (that is, openly brandishing or displaying your firearm in public) are illegal unless the gun owner is participating in certain legal activities (like target shooting, performing military/police work, and so on). To be able to carry a gun on one's person for personal protection, it's necessary to have a concealed weapon license. Carrying a concealed gun without this license is a crime that can potentially result in a felony.


Note that, in Florida, the concealed weapon license also certifies you to carry certain other weapons besides guns, including knives, billy clubs, tear gas guns, and other weapons.;
, Florida's Concealed Weapon License has requirements that are slightly more restrictive than those to simply purchase a firearm. The main requirements are:You must be 21 years old.
You must be able to demonstrate competency with your firearm.
Except in certain cases (such as if you are a member of the armed forces), you must be able to prove that you reside in the United States.
You must not have certain crimes or demerits on your official record, including but not limited to: felony convictions, two DUIs in the last three years, a violent misdemeanor conviction in the last three years, evidence of substance abuse, dishonorable discharge from the armed forces, evidence of domestic violence.
 The biggest difference between the requirements for buying a Handgun and those for obtaining a concealed weapon license is that the applicant must provide proof of competency with their weapon. There are a number of officially-recognized ways to prove this, including:Completing a state hunter education course
Completing a National Rifle Association training course
Completing a firearms safety course by any certified law enforcement agency or educational organization
Completing a firearms safety course as part of job training (e.g., for police and security work)

, The application for the concealed weapon license can be viewed and downloaded from the official website of the Florida Department of Agriculture. The application can be completed at home and mailed in with all required documentation or via an in-person appointment at one of eight regional offices located throughout Florida — the addresses of these offices are also available online.In addition to your completed application, you must also include a color photograph and a legible record of your fingerprints (submitted electronically via your local law enforcement agency)., Don't forget to include a payment of $112 for first-time applicants ($70 for processing the application, $42 for processing the fingerprints) with your application. License renewal is $60 and replacement/duplicate licenses are $15.


Note that several exceptions to this fee structure exist: for instance, if you have already submitted your fingerprints electronically, you don't need to pay the $42 fee, and if you are a consular security official, you will be subjected to additional fees — consult the official application fee instructions for more information., Once you've completed and submitted your application, all you need to do is wait! Your application will be reviewed by the state licensing agency, and, if it is approve, you will receive your license shortly. While you wait, you may want to use the official Florida licensing website to monitor your progress online., Once you receive your concealed carry license, you are legally allowed to carry your firearm with you for personal protection purposes in Florida and are not required to disclose this information. Note, however, that there are certain places where it is illegal to bring a firearm even if you have a valid concealed weapon permit. These include:Courtrooms
School campuses
Police stations
Polling places
Most government buildings
Airports
Any place where federal law prohibits guns

