 If your cat is unwell and vomiting, then seek veterinary advice. Vomiting is usually a symptom of a problem rather than a diagnosis in itself. Identifying the cause of the vomiting and treating the underlying problem will help to stop the sickness.


The following steps cover common underlying causes that may cause your cat to develop chronic vomiting.
 If the mucosal barrier lining the stomach is damaged, digestive acids come into contact with the stomach wall and cause an erosion, or ulcer. Certain medications such as steroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause side effects which include gastric ulceration that leads to vomiting.Diagnosis: An ulcer may be suspected if the cat has a recent history of taking NSAIDs or other medications; especially if they were given on an empty stomach by accident (food protects the lining of the stomach). Imaging such as ultrasound or endoscopy (putting a fiber optic camera into the stomach) may be required to identify the lesion.
Treatment: Treatment involves stopping the medication that caused the initial problem, and using gastroprotectants and antacid drugs to help your cat’s stomach to heal.
 Liver infection (a condition known as cholangiohepatitis) is commonly associated with vomiting. This is a self-seeded infection where bacteria from the bowel reflux up the bile duct and create an infection in the liver. Cats with cholangiohepatitis vomit, have poor appetites, and may be jaundiced.


Diagnosis: Your veterinarian will run blood tests to look for raised liver enzymes, and a high white cell count. He or she will also scan the liver using an ultrasound, in order to make a diagnosis.
Treatment: The majority of cats respond well to a therapy of antibiotics, anti-sickness injections, and intravenous fluids if the cat is dehydrated.
 A diseased kidney is not efficient at filtering the natural waste products of the digestive process. Instead, these toxins gradually build up in the blood where they cause inflammation and ulceration of the stomach lining, and sometimes the gums.Diagnosis: Kidney disease is usually diagnosed with a blood screen, which measures the levels of toxic metabolites such as urea and creatinine, and the build-up of minerals such a phosphate.
Treatment: Treatment includes putting your cat on a prescription food that is low in toxic metabolites. Another treatment is angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) such as benazepril. ACEi work by inhibiting an enzyme cascade that causes blood vessel contraction. This leads to a dilation of the blood vessels supplying the kidney, which mean blood supply to the kidney is increased.
 Phosphate, which is associated with kidney disease, is recognized as a cause of nausea in cats. However, cats can also have an increased phosphate level without having kidney disease if the phosphate levels are lowered early on.Diagnosis: Like with kidney disease, vets can use a blood screen to look for a build-up of phosphate.
Treatment: The use of phosphate binders such a Renalzin, which is added to food and binds to the phosphate content, means less phosphate gets into the bloodstream. Renalzin comes in a pump; a typical dose in one or two pumps, twice a day with food.
 Pancreatitis is a painful condition in which digestive juices leak into the tissue of the pancreas. This causes a lot of local inflammation, pain, and irritation, which can lead to vomiting.


Treatment through diet: Mild cases of pancreatitis can be managed with a bland diet, which requires less digestive juices to process than fatty diets.
Treatment through medication: Very sick cats need hospitalization for supportive care with intravenous fluids, antiemetics, and pain relief. The antiemetic most commonly used is maropitant.
 The thyroid produces thyroxine, which is a hormone that governs metabolic rate. Too much thyroxine acts like a stimulant, a bit like being permanently high on caffeine. It overstimulates the gut and can cause sickness and diarrhea.


Diagnosis: Your veterinarian will diagnose the condition by feeling for enlarged thyroid glands in the neck and running blood tests to check the levels of thyroid hormones in your cat’s bloodstream.
Treatment: Treatment for hyperthyroidism includes giving your cat a medication called thiamazole (Felimazole) that regulates the production of thyroid hormones.
 This is a spiral shaped bacterium which burrows into the stomach lining, causes inflammation, and can make your cat vomit.Treatment: Treatment helicobacteria with a combination of antibiotics. This combination includes either doxycycline with metronidazole, or amoxicillin with metronidazole. You will most likely have to give your cat these antibiotics for 10 to 21 days.
 A hairball or a small toy can sit in your cat’s stomach and rattle around, much like a lone sock inside a tumble dryer. The foreign body either blocks the exit to the stomach, or else it irritates the stomach lining, and makes the cat sick.


Diagnosis: Your vet will diagnose the foreign body through x-rays or ultrasounds after a thoroughly physical examination.
Treatment: Removing foreign bodies generally involves surgery. A laparotomy is generally used to gain access to the stomach.

