 Using literature to improve your mental health is known as bibliotherapy, and it is a surprisingly effective way to clear your mind of your own issues and focus on someone else's story.Pick a book in a genre that you find interesting and allow yourself to be immersed in the lives of the characters. Try looking at your local library or check out www.goodreads.com for suggestions from other readers.
 If you're not doing anything, it's hard to keep your mind from the issues you want to avoid. Additionally, exercise has been shown to relieve stress, reduce anxiety, and ward off depression.Find a type of physical exercise that you enjoy, whether it be aerobics at the gym or shooting hoops at the park. Read more about the following great methods of exercise that you can do all yourself:


Lift weights
Circuit train
Jog
Swim
Play basketball
Box

, One great way to get your mind off your own problems is to focus on serving others.


Call up your local homeless shelter, animal shelter, food bank, or other organization. Every community has ways to get involved.
Studies show that volunteering 100 hours a year increases overall feelings of satisfaction with life, provides a buffer for stress, and even improves physical health., You can engage your mind, your hands, and your taste-buds. Find a delicious new recipe that you'd like to try, get all the ingredients, and start cooking. And if you don't want to put on the pounds from your cooking explorations, donate it to a family in need in your community. Try out some of these great recipes:


Braise beef
Make a casserole
Bake a pie
Make fried chicken
Make vegan cupcakes

, Instead of focusing on the issues that are bothering you, do something productive with your time that will keep both your hands and your mind busy. Pick a project that you've always wanted to try.



Draw a picture, or paint. Even if you don't consider yourself an artist, spending some time doing Bob Ross imitations or launching paint at a canvas Jackson Pollock-style can be a great way to unwind.

Make small collages with newspaper, magazines, and other found-photo cutouts. You can then turn these collages into postcards and send them to your friends.

Write in your diary or journal, or write a story, or try out your poetry skills. Writing is a great way to get your mind off of things, so long as you choose a different topic to write about than the one you're trying to avoid.
 Get out the vacuum, cleaning products, and clean up your living space.


Cleaning your living space can symbolize a fresh start and help you refocus your energy on improving your own living area. In fact, living in a messy space can cause feelings of stress that can be overwhelming.Start with a quick clean, tidying everything up, throwing away garbage, and straightening generally. Then, go into your deeper clean mode, vacuuming, dusting, and scrubbing. Throw away anything that is broken or unusable and donate anything that works but you no longer need.

