, Make sure that the graham crackers are finely crushed first. They should resemble coarse sand or coffee grounds. You can do this in a blender or food processor. Keep stirring the mixture until the ingredients come together. This will make your crust., Using your fingers or a spatula, spread the crust mixture across the bottom of an un-greased, 9-inch (22.86 centimeter) springform pan. Make sure it covers the entire bottom of the pan, then pack it down with your hands. Put it into the fridge when you are done, and leave it there for 30 minutes., Thaw the strawberries first, then add them to the food processor. Add in the cornstarch, and blend until the mixture is smooth. From time to time, you may have to pause the food processor, and scrape any unblended mixture down the sides with a spatula.

If you don't have a food processor, you can use a blender.
 Once the mixture is smooth, pour it into a saucepan, and bring it to a boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Let it boil for 2 minutes, then remove it from heat., Measure out ⅓ cup (80 milliliters) of the strawberry mixture, and set it aside to cool. You will be using this in your cheesecake. Cover the rest of the mixture, and put it into the fridge. You will be using that for serving., You can use a food processor or an electric mixer for this; set it to medium or high speed. Beat the cream cheese first, until it turns light and fluffy, then slowly mix in the milk. Finish off with the lemon juice., Once the cream cheese, milk, and lemon juice are all combined, reduce the speed on your food processor or electric mixer to low. Add the eggs in one at a time. Keep mixing until everything is combined. There should be no streaks or swirls of egg yolk., Spread it evenly across the graham cracker crust. Save the rest of the cream cheese mixture for the upper layer., Don't clump all of the drops together. Instead, try to space them out. You will be swirling them together to create a marbled design. Save the rest of the strawberry mixture for the upper layer., Spoon the rest of the cream cheese mixture into the pan. Top it off with the rest of the strawberry mixture. Remember to drop the strawberry mixture onto the cake ½ teaspoon at a time., Dip the point of a knife into the mixture, far enough to go past all the layers, but not far enough to touch the crust. Swirl it towards the center of the cake until it has pass through all of the strawberry drops. Do not completely blend the two together. You want to see streaks and swirls.

If you don't want to dirty up a knife, use a toothpick instead.
 When the center of the cake is almost set, take it out of the oven, and place it onto a wire rack to cool. Do not take the cake out of its pan yet., Run a knife around the inside edge of the pan to loosen the cake, then let the cake finish cooling, about 1 hour. Do not remove the side of the pan, or the cake will fall apart., Once you have the cake out of the pan, you can drizzle the remaining strawberry sauce over the top. Refrigerate any leftovers.