 Diane Von Furstenberg once said "Be the woman you wish to become," and the same is true for hauling. Imagine yourself as not just a hauler, but a fashion expert or style icon...even if you're filming in your bedroom. Draw from fashion personalities like Stacey London, Isaac Mizrahi, Joan Rivers, and work your charm, humor, and personality in your hauls and how-to videos.;
, Literally. Most Haul videos are based on YouTube and that's exactly why you should go off the beaten path to carve out your road to fame. Market yourself and your videos on GirlHaul.com, a social network made for haulers, rumored to be a go-to for brands hunting for new brand spokesmodels. Post your videos on how-to sites to broaden your exposure, or use FireViews.com or Blog.tv to cultivate new followers. Because the haul phenomenon is so new, brands and shows seeking haulers for input are looking for raw talent with fresh opinions: you don't want to come off too polished. Focus on building a network of followers everywhere on the internet.
 Tagging your content using detailed keywords and phrases may be the most important thing you can do to generate views and create a strong fan base. No matter what search engine girls use, you need to give them plenty of ways to find your videos on Girl Haul and YouTube. Think of different searches you would use to find a haul and apply that to your own post. If you simply tag your haul as “make up haul” you may get some traffic or none at all. Use all applicable terms to tag your videos and be sure to mention the brands!


Example. Your haul is about from the following stores.






Sephora: Naked Palette and Happy Birthday Beautiful Lotion from Philosophy.






Abercrombie Kids: Tee with moose and navy blue cardigan with lace in the back






You would tag your haul as: Sephora, Makeup, Naked, Palette, Happy, Birthday, Beautiful, Lotion, Philosophy, Abercrombie, Kids, Graphic Tee, Moose, Navy, Blue, Cardigan, Lace, Clothes






What you tag it as is how YouTube finds things to match search. They take what you tag it as to what people search it as.
 Connect with friends on a variety of sites and make sure you give a call to action to bring your fans/followers/subscribers back to your hauls on a daily basis. Use “likes” and status updates on Facebook. Backlink your new video with your Twitter feed. People won’t be able to ignore your fashion web gems!

