 If your teen sees you curled up with a book, it is more likely they will pursue reading themselves. Talk enthusiastically about the books you are reading. You can create an association between reading and pleasure by simply demonstrating your own genuine enthusiasm for books., Television and radios that are constantly on can dull attention spans and discourage attentive reading. Make sure your teen has a lamp that makes reading in bed comfortable. Provide them with a bookshelf for their room and encourage them to collect books. Even if teens aren't reading the classics, a conducive home environment will help them to build the literary foundation for approaching those works later.
 There are several quizzes with titles such as “Which classic book would be perfect for me?” Involving siblings and friends can help turn this into a fun game. These quizzes are appealing to teens because activities that help them discover “who they are” are particularly interesting to them., Wrap 10 classic novels and write catchy summaries of the plot on the kraft paper. Invite a handful of your teen’s friends over and ask them to choose one. (Have a few extra in case they are disappointed by what they chose.) The first three teens to finish their book get a prize., Your teen must race against time to read 16 classics before they turn 16. If they succeed, they get a prize, something they would really love. This works especially well if the student has siblings and it becomes a family tradition., Libraries often have summer challenges that encourage youth to read with prizes and competitions. Reading will likely become more exciting for your teen if they’ve set a goal to read a certain number of books over the summer.


Get involved with your local libraries. Public libraries and school libraries often rely on very tight budgets. When libraries are faced with this minuscule funding, they often focus on reference books at the expense of classic novels. Make an effort to help fund your local libraries (including your teen's school library).
 Libraries and school textbooks often can't offer attractive editions of classic works, but publishers are increasingly paying more attention to book design as they compete with digital book formats. Take your teen to bookstores in your area; they may be inclined to approach classic novels with the help of eye-catching book jackets and cover designs.

