 Yogurt contains probiotics that help to fight bad bacteria that can cause a UTI. In fact, probiotics contain good bacteria called lactobacilli that have been shown in several studies to reduce the incidence rate of UTI in both adults and children.Have your child eat yogurt every day to help clear up a UTI and prevent future UTIs from occurring.
 The ability of cranberries to decrease the risk of UTI is still subject to debate. Some medical studies have shown benefit while others have not. Cranberries contain several substances that, in the laboratory, can be shown to have antibacterial effects. If you want to try this method, have your child:


Drink at least 8 ounces of cranberry juice a day.
If your child doesn’t like cranberry juice, you can give him/her cranberry juice concentrate in tablet form.
 Pineapples naturally contain a mixture of enzymes (bromelain) that break down proteins, including proteins that promote inflammation. Combined with another similar enzyme (trypsin), it has been shown to significantly improve the effectiveness of antibiotics for the treatment of UTIs.There has not been much research done to prove that pineapples have the same effect in children but it can never hurt to give your child pineapple (unless he/she is allergic, in which case avoid giving your child pineapple).
 While studies done to determine the effectiveness of vitamin C on UTIs are inconclusive, some people believe that vitamin C can help to fight UTIs. This is because vitamin C may turn urine more acidic, making it harder for bad bacteria to grow and cause an infection.Infants who are 0 to 6 months old should get 40 mg of vitamin C each day.
Infants who are 7 to 12 months old should get 50 mg of vitamin C each day.
Children who are 4 to 8 years old should get 25 mg of vitamin C each day.
Children who are 9 to 13 years old should get 45 mg of vitamin C each day.
Male teens who are 14 to 18 years old should get 75 mg of vitamin C each day.
Female teens who are 14 to 18 years old should get 65 mg of vitamin C each day.
 It has long been claimed that baking soda can make urine more alkali, which helps to reduce the pain and frequency of urination caused by UTIs. Sadly, there is little existing evidence that this actually works. In fact, altering the normal acidity of urine might make it a better place for bacteria to grow. Because of this, it is best to avoid baking soda as a method for treating UTIs.
 Caffeine stimulates the bladder, creating a sensation of needing to go to the bathroom to urinate more frequently. It also decreases the bladder’s normal capacity so it holds less urine. This means that caffeine can actually worsen two symptoms of UTIs: urgency and frequency. Because of this, it is best to avoid letting your child have any caffeine (although this rule should generally followed at all times, whether UTIs are present or not).