 Do this by opening your chat box, going to "Friend Lists," and creating a family group. For simplicity's sake, call it "Family". You can drag and drop people into this list. This way, you can talk with your family in a private message thread, and you find it easier to keep your family separate from your friends.


This can be a great way to bring family together. If you have a family-specific group, you might be more inclined to post about family matters there. You can cut through the social saturation of Facebook and share focused, curated information with your relatives.
When family members request to be your friends on Facebook, make sure that you put them in the "Family" group. This way, you'll be able to keep them separate from everyone else. If you don't do this right away, you might forget!;
, Understand that ultimately, the easiest way to deal with your family on Facebook is to keep your social interactions off of the site. Text your friends, or use an instant messaging app, or just hang out in person, if possible. If you are posting things that you absolutely don't want your family to see, consider who else can see them: friends, peers, and maybe (someday) potential employers. Facebook owns these posts, and they will be stored on the site for years to come – so ask yourself which sort of personal information you want to make public on the Internet.
 You can have a "family-friendly" account for tame posts that you don't mind your relatives picking through, and then create a "real" account where you post all of the things that you don't want your family to see. If you are very committed to your online life, this can be a solid way to keep everything separate.


Be aware of the privacy settings on the second, "real" account. If even one family member comes across the new account, he or she may send it a friend request – and your "cover" will be blown. Consider using the privacy settings to make your new account unsearchable.
If you are unable to have two accounts or don't want two accounts, then you will not be able to post everything you want publicly if you don't want your family to see it. You will have to post to specific groups or to "friends only, except for <insert names here>", until you are ready to share something with your family. Make sure to pay close attention to the sharing options before you post.
 If you have a friend or family member who posts things that you don't like or don't want to see, you can "unfollow" them so that their posts no longer show up on your Newsfeed. This way, you don't need to unfriend or block a family member, but you also don't need to deal with them as much. Once you "unfollow", you will no longer see anything that they post in your Newsfeed. You can go to their page if you want to see their activity.


Bear in mind that the unfollowed family member will still be able to see whatever you post, and they can still "like" and comment on your posts.
 If a family member is making you uncomfortable with the things that they're posting on your profile, the most straightforward solution is to confront him/her. This may or may not be appropriate, depending on the situation – but it will at least put your frustrations out in the open.If the relative is just oblivious about Facebook etiquette, try to kindly educate him/her about what to do.
If you're just embarrassed that your family posts on your Facebook, period, then there's not much you can do beyond blocking them from your posts with the privacy settings.

