 It may have once been the case that moving away from a friend would make for a challenging relationship. However, thanks to modern technology, you can easily stay in touch with your good friends no matter where you are located. No matter the distance between you and your friend, you should still be able to stay in contact and keep the friendship alive.]

Make sure you keep your friends contact information up to date.
Try to find a method that makes it easy for you both to stay in contact. For example, you both might find it easy to keep in regular contact through email.
There are many video based chat programs that can make it easy to connect with a friend.
You might find a game to play online with your friend for a fun way to spend time together.
 It's important that you make a real effort to reach out and contact your friend regularly. If your friend is the one who is always making plans or making contact with you, they may begin to feel the friendship is unfairly balanced. If you want to maintain a long term friendship, make sure you are making an effort to contact your friend on a regular basis.If you think your friendship is in danger, reaching out should become a priority.
If you are the one who is always making contact, you might want to ask your friend if they could try reaching out to you a bit more often.
Don't be overbearing. You'll need to learn how much contact is appropriate for you and your friend.
 Although it can be fun to vent or complain to a friend, doing so too often can damage a relationship. Too much negativity during your conversations can leave your friend feeling drained or worn out after meeting with you. Try to keep time spent with your friends positive and energizing in order to maintain a long lasting friendship., If you live far away from your friend or it's become difficult to find free time to meet up, you'll want to make time to spend together. It's easy to let life cause you and your friend to drift apart over time or distance. You'll want to actively make time for you and your friend to meet up in person every so often and keep your friendship alive.


Meeting in person is the best way to keep your bond strong.Although it may not feel spontaneous, scheduling time together can help keep your friendship going.
If you live far away from your friend, you'll want to plan a trip to meet up. One of you may travel to meet the other or you may want to meet somewhere in the middle.
 As time goes on, your friend may move into different phases of their life. These life changes can affect how much free time they have to spend with you. Understanding your friend's needs and mindset can help you engage with them in a way that will keep your friendship going strong.


Your friend may have had children and now spends more time with their family. You'll need to give your friend the time and space to enjoy their new role in life. You will also want to offer support to your friend as a new parent.
Marriage can cause a change in your friendship as your friend begins spending more time with their spouse. You'll still want to make sure you and your friend have time to hang out, while giving your friend the time they need for their new relationship as well.

