 Raw yucca flower contain saponin, which is an ingredient used in soaps and cleansing agents. While it’s not toxic, some people experience a reaction from it, ranging from an upset stomach to a dry, irritated feeling in the throat.Fortunately, if you experience a reaction, you can remove the saponin by boiling the flowers. Fill a pot with enough water to cover all of the yucca flowers you’re preparing, and bring it to a boil. Add the flowers to the boiling water, and allow them to cook for approximately five minutes. Not only will the saponin be removed, the flowers will be more tender as well.Once you’ve boiled the flowers, you can use them as you would raw yucca, such as in salads, or incorporate them in other recipes that call for edible flowers, such as soups and stews.
 If you can’t quite sell your family on eating yucca raw or even boiled, deep frying the flowers may help convince them to give it a try. Pull the petals off the flowers, gather stacks of 3 to 4 petals, and dip them in tempura batter. Heat a pot of your favorite oil for deep frying to 360 degrees and drop the stacks of petals into the oil one at a time, letting them fry for 2 to 3 minutes or until golden brown.For a basic tempura batter, combine ½ cup flour, ½ cup cornstarch, ⅛ teaspoon baking soda, and ½ teaspoon salt. Mix in 1 cup sparkling water and 1 egg yolk, and you’ll have enough batter for the petals from 12 to 15 yucca flowers.
When you remove the fried flowers from the oil, place them on a plate or tray that’s lined with paper towel. It will absorb the excess oil, so the yucca isn’t too greasy.
Hot sauce makes an ideal dipping sauce for deep fried yucca.
If you aren’t a fan of deep fried foods, you can also add yucca petals to your favorite stir fry recipe.
 Yucca flowers are often used to complement eggs in dishes such as omelets and frittatas. You can simply toss raw petals into the ingredients for your favorite egg dish, or sautee them along with other ingredients, such as onions, garlic, mushrooms, and herbs before adding them to the omelet or frittata.In Mexico and Central America, it’s common to mix yucca petals into scrambled eggs or fried eggs dishes, such as huevos rancheros.

