 This can be done by either double-clicking the GTA: VC icon on the desktop, if you have it there, or by following this Start menu sequence: Start button >> All Programs >> Rockstar Games >> Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.
 Press Enter repeatedly to skip through the pre-game cinematics till you arrive at the Main Menu. Click “Start Game” and then “New Game” to start GTA: VC from the beginning, or click “Load Game” to load a previously saved file and continue from there. This will enter you into the game world.
 Before playing the mission to replay, save your current progress. To do this, drive to your safe house (which is represented by a pink cassette tape icon on the map to the bottom left corner of your screen) and simply walk in.


Inside the safe house, you will notice a 3D pink cassette tape icon. Walk and stand in the icon to bring up the Save Screen.
On the Save Screen, click an empty save slot and click “Yes” to confirm. This will save your progress and return you to the game world.
 Start and finish the mission you want to replay. To trigger a mission in GTA: VC, check your map (located on the bottom left corner of your screen) for icons that represent missions. These icons could be pink or green colored blips or sometimes letter icons that represent the gang boss giving you the mission (e.g., L for Lawyer).


Walk or drive to the location of the mission and stand in the blue marker. This will immediately activate the mission. A pre-mission cinematic will play that will give you the mission instructions.
 To do this, press the Escape key to bring up the Main Menu. Click “Start Game” and then “Load Game” to take you to the Load Game page.


On the Load Game page, select the save slot you used earlier, and click “Yes” to confirm. This will load your previously saved game progress and return you to the game world.
 Find the mission you want to replay on the game map and trigger it so you can play it again. You can repeat this process for as many times as you want to replay the mission. When you’ve had enough fun, just save your progress to continue on to the other missions in the game’s story.

