 Since bala sharks can grow to 12 inches (30.5 cm) in captivity, they will need a fairly large tank. If you get them as juveniles, they will be fairly small at around 3 inches (7.6 cm)At this size they can do do well in a tank holding a minimum of 30 gallons (114 liters) and of a length of 30 inches (76.2 cm). But as they grow, they will need a minimum of 150 gallons (568 liters) and a tank length of at least 72 inches (182.9 cm)., Bala sharks are considered shoaling or schooling fish, which means they live in groups. So you’ll need to buy a group of between four and six fish to ensure that they’ll get along well with each other and stay in good health.A lone bala shark tends to become aggressive with other fish. And if kept in pairs, the dominant one is known to bully the other., Being larger fish, bala sharks need plenty of tank space for swimming, so don’t overcrowd them. A few plants around the perimeter of the tank, and some wood for shelter and decor, should be plenty. Provide a bed of rocks that is darker in color--this will allow the fishes’ silvery color to stand out better, and also helps them to feel secure., Since these fish come from a tropical environment, and will be living in a large tank, they’ll need a good heater to keep the large amount of water at the right temperature. An appropriate temperature range is 72 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (22.2 to 26.7 degrees Celsius)., Fill the tank with fresh water from the tap, and test its pH and hardness levels. Appropriate ranges are 6.5 to 7.8 for pH, and a water hardness of 2 to 10 dGH.Ask a tank specialist at the pet store about available gauges for monitoring these levels.


If you live in an area that takes its water from wells in limestone bedrock, the tap water will tend to be on the harder side. If the water comes from lakes, it will usually be softer.
While you can buy chemicals to adjust pH, you can also use peat in the tank or filter to raise acidity, and calcium salts to raise alkalinity., Since bala sharks are river fish, they are adapted to aquatic environments with steadily moving water. Buy a filter for your tank that is powerful enough to keep a steadily moving current running and provide enough oxygen for the fish.


A large canister filter can take care of oxygen, current, and water purity. A powerhead can help increase the current in larger tanks., Bala sharks are known to be peaceful and rarely aggressive. But their fast swimming and skittishness can cause stress for calmer species. They get along well with fish that have similar personalities,such as larger cichlids, angelfish, parrot cichlids, medium-size tetra, gouramis, and ram cichlids.


Try to keep bala sharks with other species at least half their size. They tend to see any fish small enough to fit in their mouths, such as smaller tetra, as food., When they are startled, bala sharks react by quickly moving away from what scares them, or jumping. They are known to leap as high as six feet out of an open tank. So be sure to outfit your tank with a tight-fitting lid.