 Lactic acid is an alpha hydroxy acid, which is a group of acids naturally occurring in certain foods. These acids remove the top layer of dead skin, and are often used in commercial skin care treatments to alleviate dry, scaly, or darkened skin.Only use lactic acid products at night, as it can make your skin even more susceptible to UV damage.Apply a thin layer of plain yogurt to your hands and feet before bed. Leave the yogurt on for five to 10 minutes, and rinse with warm water. Repeat a couple times per week.;
,


Apply freshly squeezed lemon or orange juice to the skin on your hands and feet with a cotton ball before bed. Leave it on for about 30 minutes, then rinse off with warm water.Dry orange peels in your oven and grind to a powder. Mix with plain yogurt and apply it to your skin before bed. Rinse off after 15 to 20 minutes.
Mash one-quarter cup of fresh papaya flesh into a pulp, and apply it to your skin. Try this method in the bathtub, as the papaya can be runny. Rinse after 20 minutes.Apple cider vinegar can also be used as a topical application that is a natural anti-fungal and can help to lighten skin. Dilute the vinegar with equal parts water, then apply it to your hands and feet and let it dry., Turmeric, gram (chickpea) flour, and Multani mitti (also known as Fuller’s earth) have long been used to lighten skin. These ingredients can all be mixed with water or other liquids to create pastes that are easily applied to the skin.


Mix one tablespoon of Multani mittior gram flour with enough rose water to make a thick paste. Apply it to your hands and feet. Allow to dry, and then rinse with warm water.Repeat two to three times weekly.
Mix one teaspoon of turmeric with enough cucumber juice to make a runny paste. Apply it to your skin and let it rest for 20 to 30 minutes before rinsing off. Repeat every two or three days., Soy-based foods like tofu and starchy foods like potatoes and rice can have a skin lightening effect. Tofu can be mashed into a paste and applied to the skin,and a potato can be sliced and rubbed directly onto the hands and feet. Rinse tofu puree or potato juice off skin after 10 to 20 minutes. With rice, you can use a flour paste or rice water:


Mix one tablespoon or rice flour with enough water to make a paste and apply it to the skin. Let sit for 10 to 20 minutes and rinse.
To use rice water, rinse one to two cups of rice with water before cooking. Strain the rice and reserve the water. Soak hands and feet in rice water for 10 minutes, then rinse., There are many creams and lotions on the market that are designed to lighten the skin, and these can be found in most beauty, drug, or cosmetics stores. Many of these products work by reducing the amount of melanin in the skin, which is what gives skin its pigment.However, there are risks associated with these products, and you should talk to your doctor before using them.


Avoid products that lighten skin with mercury.
Many skin lightening products contain hydroquinone, but unless otherwise prescribed by a doctor, avoid products that contain more than two percent of this ingredient.
 Clogged pores and dirt can make your skin look darker. Keeping your skin clean will prevent pimples and help it look fresh and clean. You don’t need any fancy or expensive cleansers to keep your skin clean; mild soap and water will do the trick!

, You can either use your favorite store-bought moisturizer or a simple homemade one, but be sure to moisturize your skin after washing. Simple homemade moisturizers include:


Coconut or almond oil
Cocoa or shea butter
Aloe vera

, One of the best ways to keep your skin healthy and help reduce darkness is by exfoliating, which is the process of removing dead cells from the surface of the skin. Avoid exfoliating more than once or twice a week. You can make a natural exfoliant for your hands and feet by mixing olive or coconut oil with:


Coffee grinds
Oats
Sugar

, Use your favorite lotion, aloe vera, or honeyand massage your hands and feet. This will moisturize your skin and improve circulation, both of which will keep your skin healthier and brighter. If you use honey, make sure to rinse it off after the massage, as it will leave a sticky residue.
 The best defense against darkened skin is preventing it in the first place, and a proper diet is one of the best ways to do this. Eating the right foods will keep your whole body healthy, and a healthy body means healthy skin.


Eat the rainbow. To get the most vitamins and minerals possible from your diet, eat fresh fruits and vegetables of all colors. Consume foods that are high in vitamin C, which will help keep your skin more toned and elastic.Drink enough water. Water is important for a healthy body and skin, but too much can also be dangerous. The best rule of thumb with water consumption is to listen to your body: if you’re thirsty, drink water.Don’t shy away from healthy fats like avocado. Not only do our bodies need fat to survive, but our skin also needs it to be healthy and vibrant.Choose fresh, homemade meals over processed foods or take-out.
 One of the biggest contributors to darkened skin is exposure to UVA and UVB, because the skin produces more melanin to protect itself, and more melanin means darker skin.The best way to protect yourself from the sun is to avoid it, but if that’s not an option, make sure you:


Wear sun-protective clothing, including gloves when driving
Use sunscreen or sunblock, especially on your hands and feet
Choose makeups and lip protection that have an SPF rating

, Darkened skin can also be caused by things like dirt, exposure to the elements, and infections, so keeping the skin on your hands and feet clean and protected is essential to healthy skin, and will help prevent skin darkening and damage.


Avoid coming into contact with harsh chemicals if possible, as these can damage your skin.
Be cautious and selective about manicures and pedicures, as improperly sterilized equipment can cause fungal infections.