 Including someone that you've just met is not a good idea. No matter how long you've talked to someone, if you've just met, you do NOT know them.;
, Your organization's name should not depict your ultimate goal, as it is a secret organization, and having someone figure out what you're all about based on your name would be a bad scenario. Try to be original as well, choosing a name that is a copy or, or similar to, the name of a band, movie, or non-secret organization shows a lack of creativity. Anagrams and Initials are overused, so try to steer clear of those.
 Make sure it's clear that all members, including the leader, are to follow this code of conduct, and list of rules. Have a policy in place for breaking these rules, such as the three strike rule, each strike deserving of a different penalty.
 You want your members to be happy and healthy, not afraid and in pain.
 This means no telling, no hints, no 20 questions-style interrogations. Have a harsh punishment in case they break this rule, such as demoting them within the group, evicting them from the group, or worse, depending on your organization and it's level of importance to you and your members.
 If they break a rule, assign them the same punishment you would had it been anyone else. This includes yourself. If you break a rule, give yourself the same punishment you would the other members. Just because you lead this organization, does not make you exempt from messing up.
 Don't hint that you have a secret to anyone. If you want to try to recruit someone, it should be done in a manner that has already been pre-discussed by the group.
 Talk it over with your members before trying to recruit anyone to make sure no one else has a problem with it. If someone does have a problem, request them to give you reasoning as per their answer.
 There should be no advertisements for it whatsoever. If you and another member(s) are determined to talk about it outside of your designated meeting area, do it in a setting where you would be unheard by others.
 If someone has noticed you and your fellow members together more than you would normally be, take a break. Spend time away from each other and with other people. On this note, however, do not just suddenly stop spending time with each other, do it in increments.
 Someone may call you on having a secret organization either based on a wild guess, or true suspicion. Never say, "Yes, I'm in one." or anything of the sort, not even 'Maybe.' This will make them more suspicious. Try not to get defensive, as when someone is defensive, it is a dead giveaway that they are either lying, or truly care too much about the subject at hand. Alternately, you may admit in a sarcastic manner; "Duh, of course I'm in a secret organization - isn't everyone?". This often works well towards putting off further questions and is, on occasion, hilarious.
 Try to make their leaving a process that harbors little to no hard feelings, as when people are hurt, they tend to do things they later regret, such as becoming a loudmouth.
 It can, and most likely will, be found. Keeping records of what happens during meetings is a great idea, but it should be done in hand written, or typewriter, form only. Keeping your records stored on a computer that is unacceptable to the internet is fine, as long as you prohibit flash drives, floppy disks, and any other item that can store information from a computer on it, within your meeting area.

