 Notice the amount of time they dedicate to being with you, and the joy they express when spending family time with you. Imagine what it would be like to put yourself in their shoes. If you were your mom or your dad, how would you like to be treated by your own children? How would it feel to have to manage the many responsibilities they have in your household? What decisions would you make if you were in your parents’ position? Thank them for the big things they do, like staying up all night with you when you’re sick, as well as for the little things, like bringing you a cup of hot tea or helping you choose a dress for a special occasions.;
, Although sometimes parents may seem overly-strict or embarrassingly old-fashioned, for example; Insisting that you respect them as well as your other elders by referring to them as "Sir", or "Madam", you must respect the fact that often their guidance toward you reflects wisdom that has been passed down from their own parents and elders. This type of strict guidance is an essential part of their teachings to insure that your able to grow up to be a good, descent, productive and respectful adult.
 But "NEVER" be afraid of discussing problems that you are having with your parents. You have to tell them if you have issues, they can't help you with things they aren't aware of. It's their job as a parent to help you through things.
 Often, when they ask you to do things that seem ridiculous or totally unfair, it’s because they want what’s best for you, and they want to teach you a very important and valuable lesson, that... "Sometimes in life things aren't always fair a big portion of the time".
 Avoid arguments with them even if sometimes they seem unfair. Remember that above all, it's your parents that should make the final decision for you and that it's inappropriate for you to try to have the last word. A mature approach on your part includes having a calm and respectful attitude at the end of the conversation and accept that as they are your parents, their will must be your way. In time this will earn their trust in you, and it will demonstrate to them that you are well on your way to becoming a competent well rounded individual who will soon be capable of making your own good decisions, and be responsible for your actions. Don't talk back to your parents because when they are strict they are only trying to teach you responsibility and they only want the best for you.
 Your parents make a lot of sacrifices for you, so reward their efforts with gratitude, obedience and a positive respectful attitude. Remember that these ways that they are teaching you will be so very valuable to you when you grow older and become parents of your own children. You will be able to convey to your own kids the family values you were taught while growing up at home. Remember this, would you want your children behaving with you, the way you may be behaving at home now? Never forget to apologize if you've argued with them; remember that they have feelings, too.
 If you have younger siblings, help them with their homework and their chores, be a model of good behavior for them and try to encourage their obedience to you just as you are obedient to your parents. This will help build a strong and loving family structure for your whole family.
 If at all possible, help them out. Earn some money of your own and save it to help pay for a portion of your clothing and entertainment.
 Parents by nature need to know and feel that their children have a great love for them. Be affectionate and give them just as many hugs and kisses as they give you, and do it as often as you wish. There never need be a special occasion reserved for doing this. Love costs nothing, and you can and should want to give it freely. It's what all parents hope and wish for from their beloved children, and I promise you this, the warm feeling you get in your heart for such acts as these last a lifetime.
, Your parents can be the best friends you’ll ever have. They have rich lives and their years of stories are invaluable treasures.
 Even if you don't live near them. You’ll be grateful for the time you spent with them when they're gone, and you’ll regret the lost opportunity if you don’t visit them.
 Invite them to movies, family dinners and on family vacation.
 If your parents are elderly and have a hard time driving or getting around, take them to see their friends, to go shopping, to restaurants and out for walks.
 If you have children, let them visit your parents as often as possible. A loving relationship between grandparents and grandchildren is one of the joys of life (not to mention free babysitting!).
 Just like you were when you were a kid!


Be affectionate and give them hugs and kisses (they still love it!).
Apologize if you've argued with them; remember that they have feelings, too.
Thank them for helping to make you the wonderful person you've become.
Now that you have income, spoil them the way they spoiled you. Bring them small gifts like flowers, chocolates or a book you think they might enjoy. Give them big gifts on their birthdays and important holidays.
Everyday, take the opportunity to tell your parents you love them.

