 You can make a gelatin face mask at home to remove unwanted facial hair. All you need is a tablespoon of unflavored gelatin, 2 to 3 tablespoons of milk, 3 to 4 drops of lime juice or 1 to 2 drops of lavender essential oil.


Mix the products together, then microwave them for about 15 seconds. Apply the mixture to your face, and let it sit for a few minutes. Then, peel it off.
Make sure you don't get the mixture near your eyebrows or eyes. When you peel the mask off, you should find that unwanted facial hair (and blackheads) come off with it.
 Fruit-based scrubs can help you remove unwanted facial hair without the harshness of chemical products.


For the lemon/orange peel scrub, mix together 1 teaspoon each of powdered orange and lemon peel, ground almond, and oatmeal. Add 2 teaspoons of olive oil and 1 teaspoon of rose water. Mixing these items should create a paste. Put the paste on your face for about 5-8 minutes. Rub the paste into your skin with small circular movements. Then rinse your face with water. You will need to do this 2-3 times a week to see results.
For the apricot scrub, grind half a cup of dried apricots in a blender until it's a powder. Then add 1 teaspoon of honey. Apply to face for 5-10 minutes. Rub into skin with small circular movements, and then rinse with lukewarm water. You also need to use this scrub 2-3 times a week to see any difference.
 Tumeric has been used for a long time in India to improve the look of the skin. You can make a homemade paste out of it. All you need is 1 to 2 teaspoons of Tumeric, and milk or water. Mix them into a paste. Put it on your face for 15 to 20 minutes. Let it dry. Then, wash it off with warm water.
This paste will work best for people with fine facial hair. If the hair is denser, you could add oatmeal to the paste.
 Another natural remedy for removing facial hair can be made with eggs. You need 1 egg white, 1 tablespoon of sugar, and 1/2 tablespoon of cornflour.


Beat them together until it turns into a paste. Apply the paste to your face, and let it dry. It will turn into a thin mask.
Pull the mask off firmly, and you should see the hair come off with it.

