 Though the following steps will outline one procedure for making lotion, you can remove/add/substitute ingredients as you see fit. This version will use:









22 oz distilled water or aloe vera gel
1/2 tsp (pinch) cinnamon
1/2 tsp (pinch) citric acid
1/2 tsp potassium sorbate (if available)
1 tsp (5 g) each of selected herbs
1 teabag of your choice
5 oz scented oil
5 tbsps (75 g) emulsifying wax or shredded beeswax
1 tbsp (15 g) stearic acid
1 tsp (5 g) honey
1/8 teaspoon (dash) vitamin E oil or rosemary extract

, Once bubbling adequately, reduce the heat to medium. Add the cinnamon, citric acid and potassium sorbate (if you have it -- it's not imperative that you do).









Once dissolved, add 1 teaspoon (5 g) each of the herbs you picked and one teabag of your choice. After everything has simmered for 10 minutes on medium, reduce heat to low and continue simmering for another 30 minutes.
 In a small pot or pan, add 5 oz of your chosen oil combined with 5 tablespoons (75 g) emulsifying wax or shredded beeswax (6 if you don't have stearic acid), 1 tablespoon (15 g) stearic acid (2 if you like it really thick), 1 teaspoon (5 g) honey and approximately 1/8 teaspoon vitamin E oil or rosemary extract.









Don't worry about mixing it yet; that'll come. You have more things to do right now!

, Alternatively, use the bottom of your double boiler. Strain the herb mixture into a large mixing bowl, squeezing all the good juice out of the herbs and teabag.









You'll be adding all the ingredients into this bowl, so make sure it can contain everything!

, Not a second more! The last thing you want is for it to overcook. Stir it often and don't let the oil get too hot -- that's the point of the double boiler. Remove from heat immediately when it reaches this point.









Though it may take time and feel like you're watching paint dry, keep an eye on this bowl. You'll want to be there to keep stirring and making sure nothing goes awry.
 Be careful; this stuff can burn! It's fine to let the mixtures cool down a little, but they do have to be hot to mix. Blend on medium for two minutes.









This can be done in a blender, but it's possible your blender won't be the same afterward, so if you're attached to yours, don't use it.
 Add up to 1 drop of essential or fragrance oil per two ounces of total mixture. Mixture will be watery until it cools and sets, so don't be alarmed if it seems runny.









Wait one or two hours before pouring mixture into the bottles. You don't want it too hot or it will melt the plastic and it will still have many air bubbles. Use a funnel or turkey baster for easy pouring.
 This recipe will last up to 3 months out of the refrigerator under normal conditions. Don't leave it in the hot sun or direct sunlight. That's a recipe for lotion 911.









Lotion recipes are designed to be perfected. If you're not 100% happy with this recipe, keep tweaking it until you have a recipe that's uniquely you.

