 Having a defender trying to block you or steal the ball can be a difficult obstacle to overcome. However, the defender has some weaknesses that you can exploit to move beyond them. Try some of the following techniques to get around a defender.Wait for them to overplay which will send them off balance and allow you to move around them.
You can try a fake or juke to make the defender move one way while you go the other.
The main focus is to keep the defender off balance, taking away their ability to recover their momentum and block you.;
, Although the defender will be trying their best to slow you down it is important that you set the pace. If you slow down or give into their defense they will have a better chance of stopping you or stealing the ball. Always be aggressive when facing any defenders and set the pace of the attack.Defenders will try to push you into a position where they can steal the ball.
Try to push into the defender, causing them to continually back up.
Try to move towards the defenders backside at all times to prevent them from stealing the ball.
 Soccer is a team sport and working with your team can greatly increase your chances of scoring more goals during a match. Passing the ball and properly attacking the defenders will make more shots possible, allowing you to increase your own chances of scoring more goals.Pass the ball when needed.
Keep an eye on your teammates and pass the ball when they are open.
Don't hog the ball. Working together will increase your chances of scoring more often.
 Once you have a clear shot at the goal you will need to shoot the ball quickly and accurately in order to score the goal. Make sure you kick the ball with proper technique and shoot it away from where the goal keeper might be located in order to increase your chances of successfully scoring a goal.Using the inside of your foot allows for greater accuracy at the cost of power.
Kicking with your toes allows for greater power but less accuracy.
Kick the middle or top half of the ball.
Shooting low makes it tough for the goalkeeper to reach the ball and block the shot.
Avoid shooting high as this can make it easy for the goalkeeper to grab the ball.
Aim your shot for the far side of the goalkeeper as these are harder for them to block.

