 In Minecraft, there is a limit to how high you can build, so if you start in a mountainous area, you will have little room to build your island. The islands shown in this article will be built over the ocean; this location offers two advantages: falling into the ocean will not kill you, and sea level is a low elevation by default.


You may have to search around a little for a good place to build. As a general rule, look for the area of lowest elevation.
While Ocean biomes work well for this, Deep Oceans may cause you some trouble if you're in Survival mode. If you aren't sure of the difference, press F3 to see data for your location. The third line from the bottom will tell you what biome you are in.;
, Dirt is best because it will not fall in the event of an accident, and it's easy to get. Place one block, stand on it, and then jump continuously (hold space bar) while placing more blocks (right click and hold). Continue until you feel you are at a sufficient height to begin building your island.
 Press and hold shift to crouch so you will not fall off the side, then build out from your pillar by placing blocks on all sides. This will become the lowest level of your island.


If you are using Creative mode while doing this, you can fly instead of standing on the platform.
 From here forward, though, make it an abnormal shape to mimic the random effects of nature.
 Make it even wider than the first level. Again, have a factor of irregularity in the process.
, If you are in survival, use a silk touch shovel and dig some grass blocks..


Adding areas of different elevation will make it even more natural-looking.
 Put trees, tall grasses, water, and/or flowers on your island, if you want to.
 This island will hold a small house for the player.
 If this will be your home in Survival mode, you will need to have a way to get up and down. The torches will make it easier to see in the shadow of your island and make it harder for monsters to spawn. If this is just a build for you or part of a challenge map, destroy the pillar.
