 Turn your broiler on and let it preheat for about 5 minutes.


If your broiler has separate "high" and "low" settings, use the "high" setting.
Meanwhile, prepare a grill rack or roasting pan with a rack by laying a sheet of parchment paper underneath the rack.
 Sprinkle the salt evenly over the ribs. Use your hands to massage the salt into the meat.


To make the ribs easier to handle, you may also wish to cut them into 2 or 3 rib chunks at this time.
 Broil for 20 minutes, or until well-browned.


If you want to brown both sides evenly, turn the ribs once during the middle of the process.
If you cannot fit all of the ribs on the rack at once, broil them in batches. Wait until all of the ribs have been broiled before proceeding with the slow cooker steps.
Technically, browning the ribs is only optional. If you don't care about browning them, you can skip the broiler steps and only follow the slow cooker steps.
 Remove the ribs from the broiler and place them directly in your slow cooker.


For easier clean-up, spray the slow cooker with nonstick cooking spray or use a slow cooker liner.
 Layer the onion over the ribs, then pour the barbecue sauce on top.


To make sure that all of the ribs are covered in sauce, you can either brush a little of the sauce over the ribs before adding the onion and the rest of the sauce, or you can stir the ribs inside the slow cooker after pouring the entire batch of sauce on top.
 Cover the slow cooker and cook the ribs on low until the meat becomes tender enough to fall off the bones.


If you did not broil the ribs first, you may need to keep them in the slow cooker for up to 8 hours.Keep the slow cooker covered throughout the entire cooking time. Opening the slow cooker can release some of the heat that has built up inside, thereby increasing the necessary amount of cooking time.
 Remove the lamb spare ribs from the slow cooker. Let them rest for about 5 minutes before enjoying.


If you have not done so already, cut the ribs into 2 to 3 rib sections before serving.

