 It can be awkward to discuss physical contact and sexual needs. However, it's better to have a discussion early on rather than inadvertently doing or saying something that makes your partner uncomfortable. At the beginning of the relationship, take efforts to be upfront.Try to be open about expectations regarding sex and physical contact.


Know when and if your partner would be open to having sex. Your partner may not feel ready for a physical relationship at this stage in his or her life. He or she may also want to wait until marriage to engage in sex. If you're dating a virgin, sex may not be a part of your relationship in the immediate future. Understand this going into the relationship.
Understand what kind of physical contact your partner would enjoy. People who abstain from sex may enjoy kissing, hand holding, cuddling, and other light forms of physical contact. Your partner may also be open to more intimate forms of sex play, like mutual masturbation or oral sex.You should also be very clear on what your partner does not enjoy. It can be awkward to pause in the moment to discuss boundaries. If there is a form of physical contact that is off the table, ask your partner to be upfront about this right away. Say something like, "I understand you're a virgin. I want to know where the line is. What forms of physical contact are you not okay with?" You want to make sure you do not inadvertently make your partner uncomfortable during a moment of intimacy., This may sound overly formal, but many people find lists helpful in terms of establishing healthy boundaries. You can find checklists online which detail a variety of sexual activity or sex play. You and your partner can check off what on the list is okay. You can also simply ask your partner to make a list of what types of physical contact and activity he or she would be comfortable with and what types of activities are unacceptable. This can be an effective way to know concrete boundaries and avoid any confusion in terms of physical contact., If your partner is a virgin, he or she may need to ease into physical contact with you. Be willing to go at your partner's pace. Physical intimacy does not need to happen quickly for you to feel happy and fulfilled in a romantic relationship. If your partner is less sexually experienced than you, it might be better to let him or her decide when to move things forward physically., When a relationship progresses, physical boundaries and expectations may change. Your partner may feel comfortable becoming more intimate at a certain point in the relationship. Conversely, there may be certain forms of physical contact you or your partner enjoy less as time goes on. Therefore, keep communication open throughout the relationship.


Periodically reconsider boundaries. Return to the checklists you made earlier in the relationship and see if you're both still comfortable with the activities you checked.You should talk to your partner during moments of physical intimacy. Throughout physical contact, ask questions like, "Is this okay?" and "Does this feel good?" You want to make sure your partner feels safe and comfortable with you.Talk to your partner about the need for communication. On occasion, say something to your partner like, "If you ever want to do something different physically, I want you to feel comfortable letting me know." As stated, some people simply do not feel ready to have sex. It's possible that, at some point in the future, your partner may be open to a sexual relationship. He or she will feel more comfortable engaging in sex for the first time if he or she knows the two of you can discuss things like safe sex, STI status, and birth control beforehand.

