 The most important thing to remember about chickenpox is that you or your child shouldn't scratch the pox. Scratching them will make them worse and cause even more irritation and possible infection. If they are scratched too much, the sores can develop into scars that might remain after the chickenpox has cleared up.


This will be hard, but you have to try or make your child try., Although you should avoid scratching or letting your child scratch the sores in general, it is typically difficult to avoid all the time. Since you or your child will likely scratch yourself, keep the fingernails short and filed smooth. This will help prevent the nails from scratching the sores, which can open the skin, prolong the healing process, be more painful, and possibly cause infection., If you or your child is still scratching with short fingernails, consider covering the hands with gloves or socks. This will help to prevent injury. If you or he attempt to itch with covered hands, there will be minimal irritation and problems because the fingernails will be covered.


Even if you or your child are good about not scratching during the day, cover the hands at night because it is possible to scratch the skin while asleep., The skin will be sweaty and irritated during the chickenpox. To avoid skin irritation, don't wear tight-fitting clothing. Choose looser, cotton-based clothes that keep the body at a comfortable temperature and that will move softly against the skin. These are best to prevent discomfort.


Don't wear harsh fabrics such denim and wool., The skin will get aggravated and hot during the chickenpox, both from the fever and the sores. Stay away from locations that are too hot or humid because this will make you or your child hotter and make the skin itch even more. This means you or your child shouldn't go outside in hot or humid weather and you need to keep your house at a cool temperature.


Also avoid activities that will increase body temperature and cause too much sweating., Calamine lotion is a great remedy for itchy skin and can help heal the sores. Apply it as often as needed if the itchiness and pain are too uncomfortable to handle. The lotion will soothe the skin and provide an element of relief.You can also try other types of skin cooling gel to help with the pox. You can put hydrocortisone cream or ointment on bumps that are especially red, itchy, or inflamed for a few days
Do not use lotion with Benadryl in it. Frequent reapplication can cause toxicity as too much of the medicine is absorbed into your bloodstream., To help ease the itchiness of your or your child's skin, take a cool or lukewarm bath. Do not use soap that might irritate the sores. If your or your child's fever is bad, make sure the water does not cause discomfort and that it will not induce shivering.


Add uncooked oatmeal grains, baking soda, or oatmeal bubble bath to the water to help soothe the sores and calm the irritation.After the bath, apply skin calming lotion or moisturizer before reapplying calamine lotion.Apply cool compresses to extra itchy areas of the skin between baths.

