 When you jack up a portion of the car, the weight of that portion will be centralized into the relatively small space beneath the jack. Because of this, it is essential that you jack your car up on a surface that can support that kind of pressure such as concrete or pavement. It is extremely unsafe to jack a car up on an angle, so it is also very important that you choose a level space.Never, under any circumstances, jack a car up on angled ground.
Jacking a car up on a surface that isn’t strong enough can cause the jack to topple over or sink.;
, People often find themselves jacking up their car while replacing a flat tire on the road. Whether you’re using an emergency jack or a trolley jack, it’s important to ensure you have enough room to work without putting yourself or others at risk. Make sure you have at least enough room to stand with an outstretched arm toward the jack without coming into contact with a wall or being in the street.You should be able to sit behind your jack without being in the lane of the road.
If you do not have sufficient space, find a different area to jack your car up.
 Wheel chocks can be purchased, but you can also use a number of things if you don’t have ready access to one. A wheel chock is usually shaped like a small ramp and is placed beneath a tire on the opposite end of the vehicle of the side you are jacking up. Always place the wheel chock on the outside end of the wheel to prevent the vehicle from rolling or shifting as you jack the other side up.One wheel chock will usually suffice, but for added safety, feel free to chock the other wheel opposite the end you’re jacking up as well.
If you don’t not want to purchase a wheel chock, you can use anything that will safely prevent the wheel from rolling, such as a large rock or block of wood.
Plastic wheel chocks can be purchased at most auto parts stores.
 If your car is equipped with an automatic transmission, it should be in park before you jack it up. Putting your car in park prevents the wheels from turning. Remember, however, your car may still shift when in park, so it’s important to utilize wheel chocks in conjunction with placing the vehicle in park.Remember that putting the car in park will lock its drive wheels in place, so a front wheel drive car’s front wheels won’t turn in park, and vice versa for a rear wheel drive vehicle.
If your car is equipped with a manual transmission, try putting the car in first gear to prevent it from rolling.
 Depending on your vehicle, the parking brake may be a handle in the center console of your car or a pedal on your left side when sitting in the driver’s seat. Pull up on the handle or press down on the pedal to engage the parking brake and prevent your vehicle from rolling while it’s being jacked up.If you are unsure where your parking brake is or how to use it, refer to your car’s owner’s manual for help.
The parking brake will lock the rear wheels in place and is of particular importance when jacking up the front of the car.

