 Having feelings of uncertainty or anxiety about turning 50 are completely normal. This may tie into feelings or experiences you have had as you’ve gotten older. Keep in mind that healthier lifestyles and medical progress make 50 look very different for you than it did for even your mother or father. Taking some time to think about how you feel about turning 50—and staying nifty—can help you more gracefully welcome your milestone.Ask yourself some of the following questions that may help you more fully explore your feelings:


What are my conceptions of a 50 year old person? Do I know anyone who is 50? How did the person change?
How do I see myself today? Is that going to change much the day I turn 50?
Is there anything specifically that scares me about turning 50?
What can I do to keep myself feeling the way I always have?;
, No one can turn back the clock. Instead, try accepting—and heartily welcoming—turning 50. Letting go and recognizing the inevitable may help you embrace everything 50 has to offer.Remember that there are many people in your life such as family members or friends, who turned 50 gracefully. Recognizing that you will not change overnight can help you embrace turning 50 and enjoy everything the decade has to offer.
Have the attitude that “50 is the new 30.” Reframing the milestone in positive terms can reduce fear or anxiety and help you embrace it with grace. It may even put you on a path to a new and exciting life.Keep in mind that age is just a number. This truism is especially appropriate today because people are living longer and looking younger at the same age than the generation before them.Taking care of yourself with exercise, diet, rest, and reducing stress may even make you healthier than a person younger than you.
Repeat Mark Twain’s, “Age is an issue of mind over matter” to yourself. This can help you focus on everything that you can do and how great you feel., By the time you turn 50, you have probably already led a full life. Maybe you’ve had a family and are successful and happy in your job. Thinking about what you’ve accomplished to this point can set you up for turning 50 gracefully and the exciting decade to follow.Think about milestones you’ve reached such as finishing your education, starting a family, or landing the job you’ve always wanted. It could even be something as simple as, “I finally learned how to swim.” These accomplishments can be a starting point for goals and wishes when you turn 50.
Forget any perceived failures. Every person will have some type of failure in life. Try letting go of expectations you may have for yourself at 50. Acknowledging and moving beyond failures and expectations can help you turn 50 and welcome the new decade with grace., Turn 50 with grace by beginning it with a fabulous party that celebrates you and what lies ahead. Ushering in your fifties positively can remind you of the wonderful things you have and will accomplish.


Schedule an occasion that reflects you and makes you happy. Maybe you throw a potluck dinner at your home or invite friends for a classy evening at your favorite restaurant. You could also have a party with music and other festivities or just spend the day with your loved ones.
 You may have worked very hard at something before you turned 50. Now that you’re turning 50, you may not have kids at home any longer or are reducing your workload. Making plans and goals that are enjoyable can help you welcome this new phase in life.Set personal and professional goals for yourself. For example, you might want to go back to college or travel the world.
Plan to enjoy experiences from a different perspective as you turn 50. Your previous experiences can help you enjoy things such as travel, learning, or engaging with others more because you’re wiser at 50. In fact, they may even help you feel younger than you did before 50.
 You may have also wanted to try something new in your life and never had the opportunity. Turning 50 is the perfect opportunity to try out something you’ve always wanted to do. Allowing yourself to be curious about the world around you is a great way to turn 50 gracefully.Keep in mind that there is virtually no limit to what you can do at 50. Think about trying things such as painting, dancing, or constructing fish flies. You could try a new sport or join a sports club for masters. You might want to work on skills such as photography or start a book club.
Stay open-minded if new activities aren’t appealing at first. You may end up truly enjoying something you thought you would hate.
 Your mind is key to turning 50 gracefully. Challenging your brain can keep you involved in life and may keep you younger longer. Take part in activities that stimulate your brain such as continuing education classes or doing the daily crossword puzzles.Take classes, lectures, or seminars in subjects that interest you. Many institutions offer courses for “senior associates” or may offer online courses.Remember that activities such as visiting museums, reading books or other literature you enjoy, doing crosswords, and engaging in conversations also stimulate your brain.
 Consider participating in your local community. You could work at a chamber of commerce, a local school, or firefighters. If you want to go beyond your community, travel as often as you can. These types of activities let you stay engaged and help others. It may introduce you to other fifty-somethings who want to be graceful at 50, too.Join local clubs or consider running for local political offices such as the school board.
Give your time to the less fortunate by volunteering in your community at a local school, hospital, or recreation center. Simple acts of kindness can boost the feelings of others and yourself. Volunteering can also put turning 50 into perspective and help you embrace it more gracefully.
Travel to places that interest you, which can open you up to new experiences and perspectives. You don’t have to go far, either. Neighboring communities may have interesting sights to see. You can also use the Internet to “explore” the world and get you off the beaten track.
 You might realize that your perspectives and tastes change throughout your life, especially as you turn 50. Enjoying your current friendships and connecting with new friendships can introduce you all kinds of wonderful experiences. It also provides a cherished group of individuals who care about you and can help you embrace 50 gracefully.Stay in regular contact with your friends and enjoy seeing them when you get a chance. Keeping these bonds strong can help you enjoy being 50.
Find ways to meet new people who can help you realize how wonderful turning 50 is. You can meet new people in places such as community events, on trips, or even just talking to someone you meet at a store. Keep yourself open to meeting new people of any age.
Meet with friends regularly to keep your brain sharp, your mental state healthy, and your relationships strong. Consider setting up a weekly coffee date or go to yoga together.
 As you turn 50, your needs change. You may be at a higher risk for diseases and conditions such as heart disease, cancer, and Alzheimer’s. Seeing your medical professionals regularly can minimize the risk for health issues or catch them early. This can help you more fully embrace turning 50.Pay close attention to your body. Keep track of anything that doesn’t seem normal. Let your doctor about know this during your appointment. Report your symptoms, how long they last, and what makes them worse or better.
 Eating healthy, regular meals is important to your health and wellbeing at 50 and beyond. Incorporate nutrient rich foods into your diet, which can minimize the risk for disease and help you turn—and stay—graceful at 50.Get 1,600 to 2,800 calories every day from whole food sources. The more active you are, the more calories you need to fuel your activities and maintain your health.
Mix a variety of colorful fruits such as pineapple, raspberries, and blueberries. You need 1-1.5 cups of whole fruits daily.Vary your choices to ensure that you get a range of nutrients. Have 2.5-3 cups of colorful vegetables every day. Vary them every day with choices such as spinach, sweet potatoes, or bell peppers.Fruits and vegetables are excellent sources of fiber, which is important at age 50 and beyond to keep your gastrointestinal system regular. Fiber can also reduce your risk for heart disease, strokes, and diabetes.Make sure you get 5-8 ounces of grains every day. At least ½ of your grain should be from whole sources. Brown rice, whole wheat pasta or bread, oatmeal, or cereal are great whole grain choices.Have 5-6.5 ounces of lean protein every day. Enjoy protein from a variety of sources such as lean beef, pork, chicken, beans, eggs, and nut butters.Consume 2-3 cups of dairy daily. Cheese, yogurt, milk, and ice cream are great ways to get your daily dairy.Dairy can help you maintain strong bones and muscles at 50 and beyond.Reduce your intake of sodium, sweets, sugary drinks, and red meat. These can contribute to health problems., Regular physical activity or exercise can help maintain and boost your physical and mental health.Choose any activity you enjoy such as walking. Not only is this good for your health, but can help you meet new people or try a new activity.


Aim to get about 150 minutes of moderate activity every week. This is about 30 minutes five days a week, which can break up into 10-minute sessions if you like.
Talk with your doctor about your plans to exercise. The doctor can ensure you’re healthy enough for activity and may make suggestions specific to your body and health.Try anything you like such as walking, running, swimming, or biking. Consider other activities such as kayaking, yoga, or tai chi.Consider strength training in addition to cardiovascular exercise. It may help reverse the process of aging and minimize your risk for conditions such as osteoporosis., Rest is an important part of any person’s overall health and wellbeing. Allow yourself to rest whenever you feel fatigued. This includes taking a day or two off from physical activity if you want.Make sure you get at least 7-9 hours of sleep every night, which can help your body and mind recover from the day., If you are having a hard time accepting that you’re turning 50 or haunted by regrets as you approach your birthday, consider seeing a mental health professional. A therapist or counselor can help you work through your feelings and find strategies to overcome them. This can help you accept that you’re turning 50 gracefully.Ask your primary care physician to recommend a psychiatrist, psychologist, or counselor for you. You may want a mental health professional who specializes in counseling individuals about aging.
Talk to the therapist openly. Remember there is nothing about which to be ashamed and being honest can help you therapist treat you more effectively.
Ask any questions about aging you may have and why you find it so difficult. This may include questions about your goals and accomplishments, regrets you have, or how to embrace turning 50.

