 Having a distinct style is the easiest way to stand out. There are several of styles to choose from. You could be preppy, hipster, goth, etc. Your personal style is an expression of your character. Be sure it is a style you really like before committing to it. Keep in mind that you should still follow your school’s dress code, especially if your school requires a uniform..


Preppy, hipster, and Goth are a few suggestions for style, but your personal style can be anything that appeals to you, even if it doesn’t have a title. Look to the music you listen to, the movies you watch, and the books you read for style inspiration. You can model your style after a person or character you admire.
A preppy style is a classic and clean style that derives from Ivy League collegiate fashion. Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, and Lacoste are a few brands known for being preppy. Collared shirts, sweaters, and chinos are popular for preppy men. Opaque tights, girly blouses, and thin sweaters are popular for womenHipster style has become very popular in recent years. It is very different from preppy style. It is an often ironic style that values non-mainstream style and interests. Flannel shirts, band t-shirts, Doc Martens, and beanies are associated with hipster style.Goth style began in the 1980s by rebellious youths with a unique and often darker view of the world. Goth style is characterized by black or brightly colored hair, dark makeup, black clothing, and large boots.;
, Choose a hairstyle that fits in with the style you would like to adhere to. For preppy style, consider short, gelled hair for men and long straight hair for women. Hipster guys often have their hair cut short on the sides and wear it long on top. The ladies have a broad range of hairstyles from short pixie cuts to long, beach waves. Goths often like to dye their hair black or brightly colored. These are a few options for hairstyles, but there are many choices. Experiment and choose what makes you feel the best about yourself.You can also tease your hair if you associate with Goth style.
Your hair doesn’t specifically have to be associated with your clothing style. You can also choose unique hair styles like braids, very short hair, or very long hair.
Temporary henna dye is also an option if you want to change the color of your hair, but ask your parents first.
 Clothing is the best and most obvious way to show off your personal style. You may need to buy new clothing if your current wardrobe doesn’t work with the style you desire to have. Look through the clothes you own to determine which items of clothing work for your preppy, hipster, Goth style, or other style of your choice. Then, buy new shoes, pants, shirts, sweaters, skirts, and/or dresses that are appropriate for the current season.You don’t have to buy a new wardrobe at once. Buy a few items of clothing at a time that you can wear for the current season. Don’t buy clothes for winter until winter weather gets near.
Buying new clothes can be costly. Save up your allowance. Offer to do odd jobs for friends, family, and/or neighbors. You can also talk with your parents to see if they would be willing to buy new clothes for you.
It’s not necessary to buy all new and expensive clothing. Buy from thrift shops or during big sales.
 Accessorizing has a few different functions. It can help you achieve the style you desire, even if the clothes don’t fall into that style. Wearing accessories can also draw attention to the parts of yourself that you want people to notice. Earrings, necklaces, belts, bracelets, hairbands, and scarves are some examples of accessories. If you attend a school that requires a uniform, accessories can be a way to make your personal style known.A great accessory can be a conversation starter. For example, wearing a necklace that has something to do with your favorite book can draw attention from another fan of the book.
A few preppy accessories for women would be pastel headbands, pearl earrings, tennis bracelets, and monogrammed purses. For men, argyle socks, ties, and leather and canvas belts work.Hipster style accessories can be very broad. A few examples are scrunchies, bowl hats, bow ties, fanny packs, and rimmed glasses.A few Goth accessories are chokers, studded belts and bracelets, jewelry with pentagrams, and purses or bags with skulls on them., It’s okay and normal to be shy. Sometimes, starting a conversation with a fellow student can seem intimidating. Keep in mind that many people feel the same way. You can start a conversation by simply saying “Hello! How are you doing today?” Remember, it’s not your problem if the other person does not respond nicely.


If it is a classmate, ask about an upcoming project or test.
Talk to another student about an upcoming school event.
 Bullying and meanness is common in middle school, but you do not want to get noticed for being unkind to others. Instead, show compassion and kindness whenever possible. Stand up for the people that get bullied. Help the girl that drops her books in the hallway. Talk to the people that seem shy and don’t have many friends. It is better to be noticed for your positive actions and traits., Humor is infectious, and people are drawn to people with a good sense of humor. There is a difference between having a sense of humor and being funny. Being funny means telling jokes, great stories, and finding what is funny about every situation. Having a sense of humor means not taking everything too seriously and having the ability to let things go. Strive for both.


Think about your sense of humor. What makes you laugh? You might have a silly, dry, or dark sense of humor.
Learn jokes by researching them on the internet and watching comedy shows.
Be careful to not be offensive or disruptive with your jokes. You should say anything that will hurt another person’s feelings or get you in trouble in class.
 Confidence is often difficult to achieve during your middle school years. Don’t worry if you don’t feel confident. Many people in your age group do not. You can, however, work on your confidence by acting like you are. People respond positively to confident people, and it is a way to stand out in the crowd. You can build your confidence by having positive expectations, recognizing your talents, and appearing confident.Don’t expect to fail or for others not to like you. Expect to be successful and liked. You can’t control what happens, but positive expectations make positive outcomes more likely.
Everyone is good at something. Recognize your strengths. You might be kind, loyal, and good at avoiding confrontation. You may also be good at running, computers, and acting.
You can appear confident by dressing the way you like, making eye contact, smiling, and having good posture.
 Helping others and setting a good example will make you stand out not just in middle school, but all throughout your life. You don’t have to be older than others students to be a good role model. You can be a good role model by utilizing your kindness and confidence and helping others whenever possible.Never treat anyone as any less than equal to you.
If you are good at a subject, like math, offer to help another student that is struggling in that subject.
Pick up messes when you see them. Offer to help teachers or students that are carrying too much. Actions get you noticed and make you a good role model.
 A good way to get noticed at school by your peers and teachers is to join a club. Joining a club or organization at your school is a way to get to know a diverse group of people, learn a skill that you can talk to people about, and get recognized in the yearbook. Becoming a part of a club will require you to spend more time at school, which will make you more recognizable.The yearbook club is a great club to become a part of because you work with others, take pictures of students, and talk with students and teachers.
Choose a club based on your interests. You will meet other people like you and learn skills that you can carry with you throughout your education. Some clubs to consider are the tech club, art club, world language club, and the band or choir., Joining a team is a great way to meet other people and get recognized as a member of that team around school. Becoming a part of a team usually requires a tryout. If you get a spot on team, you will need to commit to practices, games, or shows. Teams usually require more dedication than a club. So choose a team that you are genuinely interested in.If you are interested in sports, consider the football, basketball, lacrosse, or soccer team. Check what sports teams your school has.
If you are interested in academics, consider becoming a part of the debate, math, or chess team.
 Taking part in many or all events that your school offers is way to get recognized. The type of events offered depends on your school. Many middle schools, however, will hold dances, holiday events, concerts by the band and choir, and sometimes festivals for the beginning/end of the school year. Attend as many events as possible.Go to the event with a friend if you don’t want to attend the event alone.
Try to start conversation with other people attending about the event.
 Try out a hobby that you can practice outside of school. Often, if you work hard at the hobby, you will be known as the girl or boy that is really good at or into whatever the hobby may be. You may already have a hobby you enjoy, but if not, there are many hobbies to choose from. Becoming invested in a hobby is also a great way to meet others with similar interests.Try making jewelry, like bracelets and earrings, and giving them out to people at school. You can buy supplies at your local craft store, like Michael’s or Hobby Lobby.
Some other hobbies to choose from are dance, cooking, painting, writing, films, and gaming.

