 One of the best ways to preserve food for a long time is to make sure that whatever it is sealed in is completely air and water tight. By having air and water tight containers, you’ll keep contaminants out and limit environmental changes that may spoil your food.


Consider glass jars.
Think about canning food as a solution to preservation.
For refrigerated or frozen food, consider air tight plastic ware that is cold resistant.;
, Another important thing you need to do to store food appropriately is to check directions on food labels. Food labels will provide recommended conditions so that your food lasts as long as possible.


Check “use-by” dates.
Pay attention to directions about cooling or freezing foods.
Make sure to know if meat or dairy are present in your food – this could decrease the amount of time until the food spoils.
 One important step to take is to store food in clean containers. In addition, if food is unopened in its original container, you should keep it shut. Storing food in a clean and/or unopened container will minimize the ability of bacteria to grow and spoil the food.


Wash all containers and utensils with scalding hot water.
Use detergent or antibacterial soap to wash your utensils and containers.
Beware of dangers when using hot water or detergents. Protect your eyes and avoid burning yourself or others around you., The most important thing in storing food outside of a refrigerator or freezer is making sure that the climate is stable. By limiting temperature and humidity variations and creating optimal conditions for food, you’ll slow the rate at which it spoils.


Make sure your food storage area is away from any leaky pipes or any other sources of moisture. Moisture may increase the chance of fungal spores growing or increase the humidity of the storage area – putting your food at risk.
Make sure your food storage area is between 50 degrees to 70 degrees. Avoid placing your food storage area next to a source of heat, like an oven.
Think about storing your food in cupboards, cellars, or pantries free from temperature swings and moisture., Non-frozen food like canned or jarred food should be kept in a cool and dry location. By keeping food in a suitable location, you’ll extend its shelf life and reduce the risk of mold, mildew, or bacteria from spoiling it.


Make sure the relative humidity of the storage location remains low and constant.
Avoid storing food in an area where there might be a leaky pipe or something that can introduce water., You should also make sure that you’re keeping a constant temperature and humidity wherever you store your food. This is because temperature and humidity swings may increase the rate at which your food spoils.


Check the temperature in your storage areas from time to time.
If you don’t have one already, install a device that will monitor temperature and humidity.
If your temperature varies more than 5 or 10 degrees over the course of a day, you should take steps to improve your storage area. This might include adding insulation to a dry storage area., In order to make sure that you are safely and successfully storing food, you should check it from time-to-time. By checking your food, you’ll see if your storage system is working properly.


Inspect canned, jarred, or dried foods in your pantry or other storage area. Depending on the type of food, you should take account of food in a non-refrigerated storage area every month or two.
Make sure use-by dates are still good, make sure no containers are leaking, and make sure there have been no water pipe leaks introducing water into your pantry., Providing proper maintenance to your appliances is extremely important in storing your food. By providing maintenance, you’ll make sure that your appliances maintain a stable temperature, keep moisture out, and keep pests out.


Make sure your insulation and rubber stripping on your refrigerator and/or freezer is working. If your rubber stripping is broken or brittle, you’ll lose cool air, make your unit work harder, and may allow moisture and pests to get in.
Check coolant levels every year. To check your coolant level, locate the coolant chamber on the back of your refrigerator or freezer. Remove the cap and see if it is full -- the liquid should be apparent as you open it. If it is not full, refill it. If you are concerned there is a leak because it needs to be refilled often, contact someone to service your appliance.
Make sure there are no water leaks or mechanical problems with your appliances., Setting your appliances to the right temperature will help ensure that your food is safe and lasts long. Ultimately, if the temperature is too warm or too cold, your food will spoiler quicker.


Freezers should be set at 0 degrees Fahrenheit or lower.
Refrigerators should be set between 33 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
Inspect your refrigerators or freezers regularly to make sure they are performing properly., While you may think that food stored in a refrigerator or freezer does not need to be checked on, the opposite is true. In fact, this food is more susceptible to problems since temperature variations can have a severe impact on the safety or quality of food.


Check frozen food every month. Inspect use-by dates, feel the food to see if it has thawed and has refrozen, and see if any of your storage containers have leaked.
Check refrigerated food every week. Look at use-by dates, see if any food has begun to spoil, and see if any of your containers have spilled or leaked., Power outages are one of the biggest threats to your ability to store food for a long time in a refrigerator or freezer. As a result, you should always monitor your food during or after a power outage.


Don’t open your refrigerator or freezer during a power outage.
Invest in a power backup system or a generator if you are in an area with frequent or prolonged power outages.
Frozen or refrigerated food that is exposed to temperatures of higher than 40 degrees for several hours might be compromised.