 Do not do drugs or alcohol. Study hard, stay away from distractions and substances, get into sports. Good grades are important, but good study habits are critical. also, you should stay healthy, stay fit, and train hard. Stay in good physical shape, do community service projects, develop excellent study skills, and maintain hobbies. Even though military service is about teamwork, your goal from day one is to differentiate yourself above your peers.;
, If your guidance counselor's office doesn't have contact information, check your white pages under US Government, Department of Defense. Any recruiter will be thrilled to make sure you have all the forms, materials, and support you need to apply for an ROTC scholarship. They ask you to take a couple of tests. The better you do, the more they will want you.
 Talk to Military Officers who may be friends of the family for advice; students who are currently in ROTC; college councilors of schools who offer ROTC programs; or Regional Directors of ROTC programs for your target branch. Contact information for these people can be found on the internet. Organize your thoughts, pick up the phone and talk to them.
 This is the single most important criteria used to select high school candidates. Get a good night's sleep before the test, and have breakfast, no matter how nervous you may be. If your blood sugar gets too low, your brain will run on empty. Eat a sugary snack right before the SAT or ACT exam.
 This will give you a little advantage in college, although many many people have never worn a military uniform or walked together in a synchronized manner (they call it "marching") before entering a college ROTC program.
 A physical fitness exam is not something you can cram for at the last minute! You should be able to run a good mile and a half in less than 15 minutes, do a dozen pull ups, and crank out 50 sit ups at least, or you will be doing a lot of remedial physical training.
 You pick two or three at the time of the college entrance exams, as well as the ROTC program you prefer. Your military branch makes your scores available to all university ROTC programs for that branch. So, even if your first choices pass on you, another university ROTC may step up to offer you a scholarship. Or.
 Go to a good university with an ROTC program, and enter as a no-contract candidate. It's HARD going to college AND meeting obligations as an ROTC member. MANY students end up giving up their scholarships during the first year. ROTC units look at no-contract ROTC students first. Get good grades in college, stay in shape, stay out of trouble (don't even speed!) and you have a great shot at getting that scholarship.
 If you don't have the stuff, admit it and go home. Serving your country and the good people in the military services will be one of the greatest privileges of your life.

