 Yorkies with long or short coats need to be bathed to keep their coats clean and odorless. You should expect to bathe your Yorkie every 3 to 4 weeks.


If you bathe too frequently, the dog’s skin may become overly dry and cause irritation.
Long haired Yorkie coats need both shampoo and conditioner to keep the hair strong and clean.
Many owners find that bathing Yorkies in deep sinks, like a kitchen sink, can be easier than a bathtub due to the dog's small size.;
, Yorkies have long silky coats that need to be trimmed frequently to maintain their appearance. Their coats can become easily tangled and matted if not properly groomed. They do not shed their coat and will only lose small amounts of hair when bathed or brushed.


You can either trim the hair yourself or hire a professional dog groomer.
Some owners choose to forego the daily maintenance of a long coat and keep their Yorkie's hair cut short.
 Yorkie coats are long and can become easily tangled if they are not brushed daily. You may decide to trim the coat to a shorter length for convenience and appearance, though short coats also require frequent brushing.


The hairs of the coat can break easily if owners brush too hard. You can purchase a leave-in conditioner to moisturize the hair after it has been brushed.
 Yorkies have hair that grows like bangs over their faces. You can either trim this hair regularly to keep it very short or make a topknot that will keep the hair out of your dog’s eyes.Use a fine-toothed comb to make sure there are no knots in the hair. Gather the hair together into a small section and secure it with band. Many owners use bows or barrettes to pull the hair together and to accessorize.
 Like all dogs, Yorkies have nails that continue to grow over time. Trim their nails every 2 to 3 months to avoid breakage or overgrowth.


Check your dog’s nails if they appear to be biting them. Nails can become ingrown and cause pain and discomfort .
 Yorkies are prone to early tooth decay and oral hygiene problems like plaque and tartar buildup. You need to brush their teeth daily to help to prevent tooth decay.Use a soft toothbrush that is designed for dogs and also use a dog toothpaste. Regular toothpaste can upset your Yorkie’s stomach and cause health problems.
It is recommended that you have their teeth professionally cleaned every 2 years by an experienced veterinarian.
 Without strong leadership, Yorkies can be very bossy and attempt to run the household. When you are training your dog, you need to be firm and consistent in your training. Many Yorkies suffer from “Small Dog Syndrome” and think they are the boss. They exhibit poor behavior, like aggression towards other dogs, jumping on people, nipping and biting, and excessive barking that wouldn’t be tolerated in larger breeds.
Set healthy boundaries with your pet by staying firm in your commands. Trainers suggest not letting Yorkies on furniture, not carrying them, and making them follow commands (like sit, stay, come) before they are fed., Yorkies can be trained to follow a number of commands. They are motivated by food and praise and aim to please their owners. Commands like sit, stay, and come are all extremely important to learn. Yorkies should also be taught to walk on a leash even if they are primarily indoor pets.


Use positive reinforcement, like treats or praise, to reinforce good behavior. It is important to reward them immediately after they have successfully completed your command so they begin to associate following your commands with rewards.
 When it comes to training, practice makes perfect. Practicing the obedience commands you want your Yorkie to learn each day in 15 minute intervals can help to cement these behaviors.Training is a good way to provide much needed mental stimulation for your Yorkie. When Yorkies are bored, they can exhibit destructive behaviors like chewing on furniture or nipping.
 If you are having trouble training your Yorkie, obedience classes are a good way to establish yourself as the pack leader and to learn good training techniques. It is also a good opportunity for your Yorkie to socialize with other dogs and new people.


There are classes for puppies and adult dogs, and most will allow you to sit in on the classes so you learn proper techniques. Look for obedience classes at local pet stores and at your veterinarian's office.
 Socialization teaches your Yorkie the appropriate way to interact with other animals and new people. Yorkies should be exposed to a variety of people, animals, and experiences so they become comfortable and calm in new situations. Meet your friends or acquaintances with your dog in a neutral space, like outside, rather than inside the home, which could make the Yorkie nervous and territorial. Allow your friends to give your dog a treat, if that is aligned with your feeding guidelines for your Yorkie.


Yorkies are overprotective dogs and can be territorial over their owners. This negative behavior can be corrected through frequent socialization and correcting your dog when they become defensive.
 Yorkies are small dogs with big personalities who don’t always realize how small they are. When they meet other dogs, they may act aggressively or bark excessively. Be careful not to respond to the Yorkie in a way that rewards this behavior. A good strategy is to train the dog to respond to the "Look" command, so you can divert the Yorkie's attention away from the other dog, then lead it away.


Ask a friend to meet you at a park with their dog for a playdate with your Yorkie. Let the two dogs interact and play with each other but be on the lookout for any aggressive behavior.
 Yorkies are very attached to their owners and families and love their attention. Pats on the head, pets, belly rubs, and praise go a long way in establishing a healthy bond with your Yorkie.


Yorkies can do well with small children but it is important to make sure the child is being gentle with the dog. Children should be affectionate as well but be aware that they could hurt the dog.
 Healthy Yorkies have a lifespan of 12 to 15 years. They need regular veterinarian care and health check ups to keep them healthy.


Expect to see your veterinarian at least once a year for regular wellness checks. The veterinarian will monitor your dog’s weight, vital signs, and ask about any behavioral changes.
Pay attention to changes in your dog’s behavior like eating less, acting lethargic, or acting aggressive. Take them to the veterinarian if you notice these symptoms continue over a few days or become increasingly severe.
 Yorkies are more prone to some diseases than are other breeds. Some diseases can be detected through genetic tests and others are environmental.


One of the most common diseases in Yorkies is liver shunt. Responsible breeders will genetically test for liver shunt before breeding litters but the condition can still appear as a birth defect. If your dog becomes lethargic, is urinating very frequently, has seizures, or is vomiting take them to your veterinarian.Like other toy breeds, Yorkies are at risk of developing hypoglycemia, or severe drops in blood sugar. Dogs that are shaking, fainting, drowsy or weak may be suffering from hypoglycemia. Small meals fed throughout the day can help to prevent this condition.
Yorkies are at high risk of sustaining bone fractures and concussions. They can sustain bone fractures after jumping off furniture, being stepped on, or falling. You can prevent these by keeping Yorkies off furniture., Even if your Yorkie rarely goes outside they need to be fully vaccinated. Some vaccinations need to be administered every year.Your Yorkie may be a risk to other dogs until the vaccinations are complete, usually around 14 weeks. Until then, keep your puppy away from unfamiliar dogs, as well as any dogs that are unvaccinated or sick. Ask a vet whether it's okay for your puppy to play with healthy, vaccinated dogs.
Depending on the area you live in, your veterinarian may recommend additional vaccines. For example, if you live in a high risk area they may recommend that your Yorkie receive yearly Lyme disease vaccinations., Microchips contain your identification and contact information. Veterinarians highly recommend implanting a microchip in your dog so that in the event your Yorkie is lost or stolen, it can be returned to you.


Microchips are usually injected into the scruff of a dog’s neck or by their shoulder blades. They can be administered during a regular veterinarian visit without anesthesia. , Parasites like fleas, ticks, mites, and internal parasites can all use your dog as a host. There are a number of over the counter treatments and prevention methods that you can use to protect your dog.


Fleas and ticks feed on blood and mites will burrow in your dog’s skin. If they are infested, you will notice them scratching and biting at an area extensively. If you see small rice or spaghetti like substances in your dog’s feces, they may have an internal parasite.There are monthly tablets, injections, skin treatments, and powders available for purchase that will prevent these common parasites. Some products are more effective than others, so you may need to experiment or consult a veterinarian.
Your veterinarian may recommend parasite preventions appropriate to the area that you live in.
 Unless you plan to breed your dog, it is highly recommended that you spay or neuter your pet. Spaying and neutering has health and behavioral benefits.Yorkies that are desexed are at a lower risk of some diseases, like prostate or uterine cancers, and have longer lifespans than dogs that are not desexed.
Neutering can also lessen aggressive behaviors in male Yorkies.
 Yorkies do not need large amounts of food, particularly if they are adults and not very active. You can feed your Yorkie once a day, twice a day, or leave their food portion out for the duration of the day.Always make sure that your Yorkie has access to clean water. Since these dogs are very small, purchase a water bowl that is shallow enough for them to reach into.
Puppies have higher caloric needs than adult Yorkies and can be fed on a schedule that is conducive to housetraining. Healthy Yorkies can eat any type of commercial dog food and do not require any special diets. If you have concerns about your Yorkie's nutrition or health, speak with your veterinarian.
Avoid overfeeding your Yorkie to help them maintain a healthy weight. Overweight Yorkies are at a higher risk of developing heart conditions and diabetes.
 This breed has a lot of energy and needs physical exercise to maintain their weight and to keep them happy. They were originally bred to be working dogs so they have much more energy than most toy breeds.Yorkies enjoy going on long walks with their owners and engaging in retrieval games like fetch. They enjoy playing in fenced-in yards, either by themselves or with other dogs, or at dog parks where they can run freely.
Since Yorkies are small, weight gain can significantly impact their health. Along with a healthy diet, exercise is the best way to prevent pet obesity.

