 Lyme disease is caused by a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi, which is transmitted to a host (in this case, a dog) through a tick's bite. Ticks can thrive in many different environments in North America and Europe.If your dog has been through a grassy field or a forested area, he may have picked up a tick. While the trademark "bulls eye" rash is an easy indicator in humans, it does not show up on animals, which may make this disease more difficult to diagnose in dogs.Common symptoms include:


Neck painMuscle spasmsPain and sensitivity to touchLethargySigns of fever, Lyme disease cannot be treated without proper veterinary care. Your veterinarian will be able to give you the antibiotics your pet needs to fight the disease and start feeling better. Some of the more commonly prescribed antibiotics are doxycycline, tetracycline and amoxicillin.Your dog will most likely need to take antibiotics every day for around one month. Your vet may recommend extending or shortening the treatment length. Follow your veterinarian's advice and ask questions if you're unsure of how or when to administer antibiotics., Dogs who frequent wooded or grassy areas should be checked for ticks often. To check a dog for ticks, run through the following list:


Run your fingers over the entire length of your dog's body. Check hard-to-see places like armpits, between toes, and behind ears.Look for bumps or raised spots. Any time you find a raised spot, pull the fur apart to inspect the bump. Use a magnifying glass if you need to. If you see a tiny spot with eight legs, it is most likely a tick., It's important to act fast, as ticks can transmit disease to their hosts within 24 hours of contact.To safely remove a tick from your dog:


Use a clean pair of tweezers to grasp the tick's head, as close to your dog's skin as possible. You may wish to wear disposable gloves to reduce the likelihood of infection to yourself.Pull the tick straight out of the skin. If the tick breaks apart, be sure to remove any pieces left behind, as these may also transmit Lyme disease.