 All of the facials below are suitable for oily skin; some of them may also help clear up acne. Do not try all of the masks all in one day, however; it will be too much for your skin. Instead, choose a mask that appeals the most to you, and start with that one.
 Mix together 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon, and ½ teaspoon of nutmeg. Spread the mask over your face, taking care to avoid the eye area, and wait 20 minutes. Wash the mask off using warm water and a washcloth.If you have sensitive skin, try the mask on your inner elbow first, or don't leave it on for as long.
 In a food processor or blender, combine ½ of a cucumber with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey. Spread the mask all over your face, and wait 20 minutes. Wash the mask off using warm water and a washcloth.For an even more effective mask, add 1 teaspoon of bentonite or kaoline clay., Lean your face over a bowl of hot, steamy water for a few minutes to help open up your pores. Then, mix together 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey and the juice from half of a lemon. Spread the mixture over your face, taking extra care to avoid the eye area. Wait 15 to 30 minutes, then wash the mask off with warm water. Finish off by splashing your face with cool water and applying some moisturizer, if needed.Lemon is great for reducing blackheads and acne. It may also help even out skin tone.
Honey helps fight acne because it is naturally antibacterial.
Lemon juice can be harsh. If you have sensitive skin, you may need to wash it off after 10 to 15 minutes.
 In a small bowl, stir together 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of ground oatmeal, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 teaspoon of yogurt. Gently massage the mask onto your face using circular motions, then leave it there for 15 minutes. Wash the mask off using warm water, then splash your face with cool water to help close the pores. If you need to, follow up with some moisturizer.Yogurt helps fight acne because it contains probiotic enzymes.Honey helps fight acne because of its antimicrobial properties.Oatmeal is great for oily skin because it helps absorb excess oils. It can also help sooth irritated skin.You can use this mask as a scrub instead! Simple massage it onto your face for a few minutes, then rinse it off., In a small bowl, combine 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of ground cinnamon with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of sugar, 1 tablespoon of coconut oil, and 2 teaspoons of baking soda. Pierce a vitamin E capsule with a pin, and squeeze the oil into the bowl. Stir everything together, then gently massage the scrub onto your face, taking care to avoid the eye area. Rinse the mask off with warm water, then splash your face with cool water to seal your pores. Gently pat your face dry when you are done, and store any leftover mask in a glass jar.Cinnamon has antiseptic and antibacterial properties, making it helpful when treating acne.
Do not use this mask if you have sensitive skin. Cinnamon tends to irritate skin.
Cinnamon helps increase blood flow, so it will give your skin a healthy, rosey glow.
If you can't find any vitamin E oil capsules, you can add a few drops of bottled vitamin E oil instead—or skip it altogether.

