 This is the most important part of finding Christmas gifts. If the gifter finds you snooping, they will probably be very angry about it, and they may take away the gifts if they are really upset. Therefore, you should only look for presents when you know you won’t get caught.


For example, a good time to snoop is when you have a few hours alone at home, or if your loved one is very busy with something in another part of the house.
Make sure you have a place to hide if they do come back into the room you are searching, or at least a good excuse to give them about why you are in there in the first place.
If you are searching for your gift at someone else's house, then you should only do so if you're certain that the person won't mind you being there. Under no circumstances should you break into someone's house to look for gifts.;
, Some people are very clever when it comes to hiding things, and may have arranged clothes, bags, or blankets over your gifts. They may know exactly how they are arranged, and it will be obvious if they come back and they are arranged differently. Snap a quick photo of the area before you begin moving stuff around.


When you’re finished searching, use the picture to place everything back exactly as it was.
Don’t forget to delete the photo! If the person giving you the gift sees the picture, they might figure out what you were doing.
 If you are observant, you may already know where the gifter tends to hide stuff they don’t want you to find. For example, under the bed in their bedroom, or in the closet.


Hall closets and high shelves are also good places.
Don’t forget to search in the basement and/or attic.
Try to think of places where you don’t normally go. If you live with the person giving you the gift, and they know that you hardly ever go in the laundry room, they might have hidden something there.
 The gifter may have thought very carefully about how to hide your gifts, so they may be in places you would never think of hiding anything.


Look in your sibling’s room, if you live with them, as well as your own. If the gifter is really clever, they might even hide your gift in your own room. For example, they might have hidden them on a high shelf that you can’t easily see or reach.
If you have an outdoor shed or garage, you should also look there. This probably seems like a good hiding spot if you don’t spend much time doing outside chores.
Don’t forget to search in the trunk of the car! People often leave gifts their for a little while before sneaking them into the house.
 Your presents are unlikely to be wrapped if Christmas is still a few weeks away. Therefore, you should look inside any shopping bags you find during your search.


If you come across a suitcase, look in there too! They may have thought this to be a clever hiding place.
 If the person giving you the gift has their own office at work, or if they own their own business, they might hide your gifts at work.


Do not enter their office without permission! Especially if it is not their own business, you may get caught, and you may get yourself and the gifter into very big trouble.
If you get the chance to go to their office with them, casually walk around their office to see if you notice anything. You probably won’t be able to search too thoroughly, and it probably isn’t a good idea to try as you may unintentionally get into someone else’s property.
 If you can’t find the gifts, you may be able to find receipts. Search in kitchen drawers, where the mail is usually kept, as well as in wallets and purses.


If you look in their wallet, be sure to put everything back just as it was. Make sure none of the money falls out, as they are likely to notice missing cash.
 If you wrote a list of wishes for Christmas and gave it to them, try to find that. It might be in their purse or wallet, in their bedside table, or in a desk near the computer.


If you are able to find the list, look to see if any of the items have been crossed off. This may suggest that they have already gotten it for you.
However, be aware that a crossed off item could possibly also mean that there was no way they could get you that. If the item was a far-fetched one, or was very, very expensive, then keep in mind that this may be the case.

