 Many craftspeople start out making crafts on the side, as a hobby and to make a little extra money. It's a lot different to make crafts for fun than it is to have to produce them for full-time income. Be sure you enjoy doing the work enough to do it full time. Compare your crafts to others to make sure you are creating a product that people will want to buy and will be satisfied with.;
, There are many options for selling crafts. You could sell wholesale to retail stores or work as a retailer selling to individual customers. Another idea is to sell craft supplies. You can work from home, using a website and catalog as your storefront, or open a store of your own.
 Take some business courses or learn from books and websites about starting a home business. Become aware of finances, record keeping, and marketing to get a better grasp of how to start a craft business that is successful. Learn how to use word processing and spreadsheet software.
 If you have decided to work from home only, you'll still need a designated, organized space for craft production as well as an area for keeping records and doing administrative tasks. It doesn't have to be a huge area but should be a dedicated space. For a retail shop, consider a long term booth rental at a craft fair or flea market or a small shop. Another idea for a retail venture is to team up with other craftspeople to stock your store, or have them sell on consignment in your shop.
 Find out how to set up your business and tax structure. Decide whether to incorporate your business. The Small Business Administration and your local business association may offer free assistance.
 Ask about zoning regulations if you have a home business with customer traffic. Register your craft business with the Internal Revenue Service. Remember that if you sell food items, you will probably need to have your work area inspected and licensed.
 Insuring a retail space protects against property damage and liability.
 You can use a POTS (plain old telephone service) line, an online or cellular phone, as long as you have a dedicated phone number. Have a professional sounding recording for voicemail or use a remote answering service to take calls and notify you about new calls.
 If you are marketing as a wholesaler, have a simple catalogue printed that lists your items and costs.
 Have a blog to show off new products and add a personal touch with pictures of your studio and your crafting in action. Show off your products on Flickr, Facebook and other social networking sites.
 Get listed in online and printed directories of local businesses and the local phone directory.
 Consider placing ads in crafting magazines and websites. Join online forums to promote your crafts and network with other craftspeople. Market locally by donating products to events and displaying them in stores that sell related products.
 Etsy has low fees, a huge amount of traffic and comes up at the top in search engines. There are many other online crafts malls that don't get as much traffic but still could be a good choice for marketing a niche product.

