 Remove any debris or vegetation that will be a problem during construction or future use, and grade the soil to a suitable elevation. If you are going to leave an earth floor in the addition, compacting the soil probably will not be necessary.


Make sure the floor material will withstand expected weather conditions year-round.
 Check the placement before, during, and after you dig. The distance between posts depends on the load of the rafters, roof, and any future snow load. Check your local building code for guidelines.


Measure the distance between the wall to which you will fasten the lean-to and the starting corner.
You can start by pulling string lines along the planned addition. Use the 3-4-5 rule to confirm the outer corners are square before you dig the holes. If the outer wall is not parallel to the shed, the rafters will be difficult to place.
 Secure each post as follows:


Plumb two adjacent sides of the post to confirm the post is level.
Secure those two sides with temporary diagonal cross bracing, using two 1" x 4" boards. Drive a wooden stake into the ground next to each board.
Fasten each 1" x 4" board to a stake and to the post using easily removed nails or screws.
Once the end posts are in place, repeat with the intermediate posts.
 For best results, mix a "post mix" concrete and pour it into the post hole. Leave the bracing in place for at least 24 hours or until the concrete sets, then remove it.


If your lean to is small and your area does not experience strong wind or severe storms, you may be able to backfill the post holes with dirt instead.



This line will determine the bearing height of the rafters.
Start by marking the end posts, and use either a plain line or a chalk line to mark the intermediate posts.



Draw a notch about 1-1/2" (about 4 cm) deep into your post.
Use a circular saw set to a 1-1/2" (about 4 cm) depth to cut into the post at the base of the notch.
Set the circular saw to maximum depth. Measure out 1-1/2" (about 4 cm) on the top side of your post and cut into the top of the post on the same side as you made the first cut. When your saw blade meets the first cut, the wood block should fall off, leaving the notch for your nailers.
If necessary, finish the cut with a hand saw or a reciprocating blade saw.
Repeat the process with each post.
If you choose to, you may simply nail directly into the side of the post, but doing so places all the weight on your fasteners. You could also use metal hangers or brackets to attach the top beam or plate to the posts, using heavy gauge TECO nails.



If the nailer is not long enough to span the total length of your shed, make sure any joints are set against a post to ensure maximum bearing potential for the nailer.
Nail the nailer into place, making sure the spacing between your posts remains correct.
 Remember to nail everything solidly as you install it, so you will not overlook a critical connection before moving to the subsequent step in the project.

