 A laser system will cost between $8,000 and $45,000 dollars depending on the wattage and engraving area of the laser. Your system should be at least 25 watts. Buy a laser that fits the needs of your business. Before you purchase a laser, ask yourself some questions:What size pieces will you be working with?
What materials will you be working with? A 25 watt laser will cut most materials. However, if you are cutting materials like wood or rubber, you may want more wattage because it will take you a long time. The higher the wattage, the faster you will be able to cut.
Will you be engraving full time? If this laser business is full time, you will need a larger machine that can handle the volume of work you will be doing. If this is only a part-time business, you can buy a smaller machine.
What is your budget? Smaller systems are less expensive. Will you buy a new, used, or lease-to-own system?

, When you are shopping for lasers, speak with the sales representative about your equipment manufacturer. In addition to buying a quality laser, you want a manufacturer that has a good warranty, customer service, and technical support. Some questions you should ask are:Will parts for repairs be overnighted?
How is the company’s technical support?
Are you satisfied with the customer service? Can you refer me to any existing customers?

, You will need air assists, auto focus, vector cutting grid, and a rotary attachment. Your laser system may come with some or all of these accessories, or you may need to purchase them. Check with the system that you are purchasing to see if these are included or not.Air assist allows you to attach an air compressor to your system. A compressor blows air at the point of burn and reduces any explosions from combustible materials.
Auto focus automatically focuses your laser to the correct height for engraving.
If you plan to cut through materials, you will need a vector cutting grid.
If you plan to engrave tubular objects such as mugs, cups, and glasses, you will need a rotary attachment.
 You will need a computer with graphic software to run your machine. Popular engraving programs include CorelDRAW!, EZ-Engrave, Signlab/Engravelab, Vistool, and Letter Art.Illustrator and Photoshop can also be used.Be sure your computer is compatible with the software that you purchase.
 Once you have your laser system, accessories, and software, you need to purchase items to engrave. Many of the suppliers in this business offer next day delivery.Items you may start out with are:


Mugs, glasses, cups
Plaques
Desk nameplates
Business cards
Nametags
Buy a few items to show the work that you can do and use these items when you market to your services.

