 When you hit puberty you'll start to gain weight and height. Often your limbs grow first, so that you can seem awkward and clumsy (don't worry, this won't last forever).Most girls gain weight during puberty. You might notice more fat along the upper arms, thighs, and upper back. Typically your hips will get rounder and wider, while your waist gets narrower. Of course, this develops differently in different girls. Some girls will be bigger than others. Some girls will be shorter than others.
Girls tend to grow fastest about six months before their first period. This is why girls tend to be bigger than boys during puberty.
You'll also find that hair will start growing in your armpits and that the hair on your legs gets coarser and more profuse.;
, Having your breasts develop is a very obvious sign that you're undergoing puberty. It's important to remember, however, that some girls develop early, some develop late, and some are flat-chested throughout their lives. It all depends on your genetics.Typically you'll have small, firm, tender lumps (called buds) under one or both nipples when your breasts first start to grow. Over the next two years or so you'll find that your breasts will get larger and become less firm in texture.
If you feel uncomfortable about your breasts, or they are painful, you might try out a training bra to see if that will help you manage them. However, remember that your breasts can often feel painful right before the start of your period.
 Going through puberty means that your sexual organs grow and change. This can be a little unnerving if you don't know what to expect. However, it's nothing to be alarmed about!Your clitoris will grow larger. The clitoris is typically a sensitive, pea-sized nodule of tissue above the entrance to your vagina.
Hair will grow between your legs in your pubic area, this hair will be coarser and curly than hair on your head and may be darker. This is called pubic hair. You'll also find hair appears on your labia major, the larger of the two pairs of folds of skin that surround your vagina. The smaller pair of folds of skin are called the labia minor, not every woman has hair on their inner labia (inner labia is another term labia minor).
 Your period is one of the biggest signs that you've hit puberty. It can be unnerving in the beginning, because you aren't used to it. Fortunately, there are signs to watch for so you know that it's coming, and ways to deal with it when it does show up!Typically your period will show up between the ages of 10 and 16. It depends on the girl, because some start as early as 8, while others might get it after 16. If you're concerned that it hasn't come, or that it's coming too soon, make sure to talk to your doctor.
Your period will usually make it's first appearance soon after you've developed your breasts (although, again, it depends on the girl). It can take a while before your period gets regular while your body adjusts to this new aspect of life.
Some symptoms of your period include: aching in your upper thighs, back pain, bloating, nausea, diarrhea, fatigue, sore breasts. You also might notice some excretions in your underwear before your period starts (usually whitish or clear). You can take any over-the-counter pain medication for the cramping and pain.
There are different products you can use to manage your bleeding. If you decide to use tampons, make sure you get the ones that are designed for teenagers and younger girls as these will be easier to use. You may need to use a pad, as well especially at night when the menstrual flow can be heavier. You can also try using a menstrual cup; these cost less in the long run and they are reusable (unlike tampons and pads).
If you happen to have your period at school, you don't need to worry. Usually before your period, there will be signs that your period is coming, such as pains in your lower back. Before your period, pack a bag with panty liners, pads, and an extra pair of underwear.
 When puberty starts happening your body gets more sensitive to the hormone testosterone (girls have it as well as boys!). This hormone makes the glands in your skin produce too much oil. With dead skin blocking the little tubes where your hair grows through, the oil builds up to develop a white head or black head.Sometimes bacteria can infect a blocked hair follicle, because the hormones change the levels of acid in your skin. This infection can create a spot or pustule.
Make sure that you keep your skin clean to prevent the build-up of oil. Wash twice a day with a mild cleanser. Avoid scrubbing hard at your face, because this will irritate your skin. Use a moisturizer if your skin is dry (you'll need a non-comedogenic moisturizer so that it won't cause spots).
Keeping your face clean won't always prevent new spots from showing up, so it's good to get some cream or lotion that is designed to prevent or treat acne. You can get some over-the-counter at any drugstore or pharmacy. Make sure to look for a cream that is designed for your skin type (oily, dry, sensitive, etc.).
If you're having really bad acne, you should talk to your doctor. Treatments can take up to three months to start being effective, so make sure that you keep using whatever they've prescribed until you see signs that it's making a difference.
 When you start puberty, your body begins to develop large sweat glands in your armpits, your breasts, and your genitals. These glands (called apocrine glands) release sweat when you're stressed, when you're highly emotional, or when you're sexually excited.It's the apocrine glands that create body odor, so you'll need to keep those areas (armpits, breasts, genitals) clean, by washing with soap. This keeps bacteria from building up.
Change and wash your clothes regularly, especially the clothes that come into contact with the apocrine glands. These would be things like bra, shirts, and underwear.
Using an antiperspirant or deodorant each day can help mask or cut down on body odor. Antiperspirants reduce the amount of sweat your body produces. Deodorants use perfume to mask your body odor.
Shaving your armpits can also cut down on body odor. Armpit hair traps sweat and odor, which causes bacteria to multiply and create more body odor.
 Because puberty is the time when you're maturing physically, emotionally, and sexually you might find yourself noticing other people in new and exciting ways. This is perfectly normal.This is a time when you'll start exploring your sexuality and your sexual feelings about other people. Everyone ends up having a sexual identity (basically who you are interested in). You could find that you're interested in girls (lesbian), or boys (heterosexual), or both (bisexual), or that you aren't interested sex at all ever (asexual). This could change as you get older, or it could stay the same.There are lots of taboos associated with masturbation, but there is nothing biologically wrong with masturbating (you won't grow hair on your hands, become infertile, or go blind). It's natural to feel curiosity about your sexual organs and about other people's sexual organs and masturbation is one way to learn to be comfortable with your body and your sexuality.
It's good to keep in mind that you don't need to act on every sexual feeling that you have, especially if you're just starting out. If you do act on your feelings, make sure that you understand about consent and protection (see the third section).
 Hormones are the things that are making all the changes in your body and mental growth. Hormones also cause the wild mood swings and emotional turbulence that accompanies puberty.


Your hormones go to your ovaries (which are the two oval-shape organs to the right and left of your uterus). They trigger the growth and release of the eggs in your ovaries and the production the hormone called estrogen.
Estrogen matures your body and helps to prepare you for pregnancy (whether or not you ever decide to have children).
 Hitting puberty (and the following years) can be difficult, because of the hormones that are changing your body and your mind. This can lead to mood swings, low self-esteem, and anxiety. This is all perfectly normal (although you should keep an eye out for the parts that aren't typical).Some of the mood swings you might experience are low self-esteem, aggression (feeling angry, often for no reason), depression, feeling happy one moment and angry or upset the next. The best thing you can do is acknowledge how you're feeling and find a quiet place to decompress, especially if you're feeling angry.
PMS (premenstrual syndrome) is often a big cause of your wildly fluctuating moods. This is because of the surge of hormones. You might have difficulty sleeping, feelings of irritability, anxiety, and cravings for certain foods (often sugar). Keeping track of your menstrual cycle can allow you to feel a little more sane during PMS, because you'll know that it's just your hormones.
Sometimes puberty can trigger real problems with your mood or your mental processes. If your mood seems out of control, or your depression or anxiety has taken over the rest of your life, you may need to seek therapy. There's nothing wrong with needing therapy, remember. Lots of people need help coping with mental disorders.
 One thing you might find is that you're having problems with your parents. This is because as you go through your teenage years you're looking for independence and finding out who you are separate from your parents.


It's good to talk things out with your parents if you're feeling like they're stifling you. For example, if you're getting older you might talk with your parents about extending your curfew, or letting you go do things by yourself. If you can present your case by showing how you won't abuse the changes that you're asking for, you might find your parents dealing with your search for independence more easily.
Ask yourself why your parents are acting in certain ways that might be irritating to you. Have you recently betrayed their trust by doing something you weren't supposed to (staying out late to go to a party, or not doing your homework, for example)? Have you been hanging out with people who have been encouraging inappropriate, or unhealthy behaviors?

, Also, don't panic if it doesn't follow exactly like you think it should. Sometimes women's breasts don't come in until way after their period has shown up, sometimes they never do. It's all okay. If you do think there's a problem, make sure that you talk to a doctor about it.


Sometimes puberty comes really early. This can be difficult because suddenly you're taller than everyone else, you have breasts, and you've already gotten your period. If you're an early-bloomer, talk to an adult lady that you trust about your feelings and the changes you're going through.
On the other hand, sometimes you'll start puberty later than everyone else. This can be difficult, because you feel like you're missing out on something or that no one will find you attractive! Don't worry about that. If you think there's a problem, talk to a doctor, but otherwise know that puberty will happen eventually.
 Because you're starting to feel sexual feelings, puberty is a good time to educate yourself about being safe sexually. This doesn't mean that you should start sleeping with everyone you have the hots for, but it does mean that when you are ready to have sex, you are prepared for it.Consent is something that should be taught in schools, but isn't. Never pressure someone into having sex with you, never force them if they aren't interested. Unless you get an enthusiastic and non-coerced "yes" you shouldn't be having sex with that person. The same goes for you, however. Unless you give an enthusiastic and non-coerced "yes" they should not try to have sex with you. If someone has sex with you without you giving an absolute "yes" that can be considered sexual assault (even if it happens while you're both drunk).
Make sure that you're being honest about your sexual habits. If you have to lie to friends and family about being sexually active, it's probably best to wait until you're able to be honest. It's also best to be honest about your feelings (or lack thereof) for someone, so that no one (including you) feels like they've been led on. If someone can't take a hint, that's their problem, not yours.
Make sure that you're educated about the forms of birth control (like pills, IUDs, morning after pills, condoms). It's a good idea to use condoms when you're having sex regardless of whether you're on birth control, to avoid sexually transmitted diseases and infections. Birth control can also be used to help lighten your period (if you have a difficult one), and control certain health issues.
 Puberty can be a confusing time, so it helps to talk to someone who has already experienced it. A trusted adult can answer your questions, and help you cope with the changes that you'll experience. You can talk to someone like your mom, or an older sister, or a female relative (they don't have to be related to you).


A doctor can be a good person to talk to, especially if you're having things happen that don't seem normal. They can lay to rest any fears you have, or help assess you and see if something is actually wrong.
You might need to see a counselor or therapist if you're having a particularly difficult time with puberty (possibly with depression or anxiety). A lot of good therapists can help you with issues relating to your sexuality, to your mood swings, even with your physical changes.
There are lots of help-lines for issues dealing with depression, anxiety, sexual identity. You can also find good websites to help you deal with the changes you're undergoing, and where you can talk with other people who are experiencing the same things.

