 Internet users love bargains and deals, and sales are a sure way to capture their attention time and again. You might enact short sales periods to motivate people to take action. Giving them six months to make a final decision may just help them avoid making that decision at all. Let your audience know that the products/services on special are always changing to encourage them to visit your site often. Keep your site "dynamic", ever-changing and perpetually evolving. Try getting creative with your specials. For example, consider giving away a free token product or service rather than bopping them over the head with a direct discount.;
, Internet travelers often look online to learn more about interesting topics in the news. Creating a link between your PodCast/Blog/Business model and a hot news story can be an essential way to attract listeners and readers to your Web world. This is a common tactic used often by public relations firms to obtain media coverage for their clients, and could work equally well for you. For example, following a significant court ruling, an attorney could write an article or be a guest expert for your PodCast/Blog about the impact the ruling might have on your listeners/readers.
 Provide dynamic content. Why would a Web traveler want to return to a Web site that rarely changes? Keeping your information up-to-date and even up-to-the-minute sends a more defined message to visitors that your PodCast/Blog/Business model is serious about doing business.
 This is a great way to get visitors excited about your Web site and what you do. Consider asking users for (input) feedback, so that your contest can double as a market research tool. Keep in mind that prizes and awards need not to be extravagant, but should exude fun and be in direct correlation with your intended target market. As an added bonus, you can ask entrants whether or not they would like to be notified of any special news and/or information when they initially enter your contest. Was the contest you ran a total success? The answer can better help you home in on your online marketing, podcasting and blogging efforts.
 This popular promotional tactic is an effective one. Don't expect to build a list of thousands of subscribers, but focus instead on building a high quality list of targeted readers. When sending an e-mail newsletter, keep it short and informative. Company promotions are expected, but don't overdo it.
 If you have the time, participating in a targeted email list is a great way to connect with potential listeners and readers. The object is to keep your "brand" at the top of their minds. An email list is a community of subscribers who are interested in a particular topic, and may exchange between 1 and 100 email letters daily. Participation in an email group works best when you reach out to a niche' market. For example, the owner of a computer store might join a mailing list for computer owners. By participating as an expert, the store owner is able to promote his business to a community of prospective clients.
 A solid understanding of the needs and goals of your audience is the best way to ensure that your marketing efforts are maximized. Statistics and tracking reports will help you gauge the interests of visitors to your Web site, which is a good reason to utilize a site-traffic analysis tool. Web site usage statistics will help you understand how people come to your site, and what they do once they have arrived. Are they finding what they want, or do certain pages on your site trigger them to leave?

