 When your self-esteem is low, you may forget about all of the things you have achieved. Get a piece of paper and set a timer for 20 minutes. Write down all of your accomplishments. Nothing is too big or too small to be included on your list.For example, passing a test, finishing a project at school, making the honor roll, or making 1st chair in the band are all accomplishments.
You can repeat this exercise anytime you are feeling bad about yourself.;
, The more you listen to the negative thoughts about yourself, the more you will believe them. These thoughts are often not true. Make a list of the negative thoughts you have about yourself and then write a positive statement to refute each thought.If you think, "I am a failure," refute that by saying, "I am successful at many things." If you write, "Nobody cares about me," refute that by saying, "I have people that care for me."
Read the positive statements out loud. Keep the list by your bed. You may need to look at the list daily.
 It can be easy to look at another person and feel less important, less attractive, or less accomplished.However, you do not really know someone else's life or what it is really like to be them. The only person you are competing against is yourself.Make a list of your strengths and weakness. Some of your weaknesses may be things you can work on. For example, one of your weaknesses may be that you are late everywhere you go. Learning to be on time is something that you can definitely improve upon.
By focusing on yourself, you will spend less time focusing on other people.
 Your goals should be small and something that you can actually achieve. You do not want to set yourself up for failure. Reaching your goals is a process, and you may experience set backs or not achieve as fast as you had planned to. Just keep trying; never give up.If you have not been exercising at all and your goal is to run a marathon in one month, you would be setting yourself up for failure. A more realistic goal would be to run a 5k in three months and following a consistent running plan.
Using the SMART goals framework can help you set realistic goals for yourself.
 Exercising, getting enough sleep, and eating well can make you feel better about yourself. Exercise releases endorphins that can improve your mood. If you do not sleep enough, your negative feelings about yourself may feel more intense. A balanced diet, high in fruits and vegetables, can improve your mood as well.Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes a day.
Most people need between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night.If you are a teenager, you need a little more sleep. Try to get 8 to 10 hours of sleep each night., Try to do at least one thing every day that you enjoy. Take a walk, watch a television show, read a magazine article, listen to music, or spend time with a friend. When you spend time with others, make sure that they are positive people who make you feel good about yourself.You can also do something nice for someone else (e.g. give someone a card, smile at a person, volunteer) . You will typically feel better about yourself when you do something good for another person.
Engaging in activities that you enjoy is another way you can take care of yourself.

