 That is, after you have the pieces of fabric you want to work with. Cut them to size and then cut out the corners -- around 2" (5 cm) is a good size.









Corners are virtually impossible to knot or braid. This makes everything much easier and keeps you from wondering what the heck to do with those pesky edges.
 An easy way to do this is with painter's masking tape. Mark a line down all four sides of your blanket (on the top side). Keep it in line with the depth of your corner cuts.









Make your cuts. You'll want around 1 1/2" (1.9 cm) to 2" (2.5 cm) for your fringe depth. The width of each piece should be around 1" (2.5 cm). Grab your rotary cutter are start making slits down all four lengths of the blanket.
 If you're knotting, congratulations! All you have to do is double knot the top and bottom layers of fringe together. Start at one edge and grab two pieces of fringe that are laying on top of each other. Double knot and work your way around. If you're braiding, continue reading:









Make slits in each piece of fringe. That's right: there will be little teeny holes in all your fringes -- that's how they'll stay braided together.
 Any will do. Use a bent paperclip (a crochet hook will work great too) and stick it through the slit of your first fringe.









Then stick the paperclip through the slit of the fringe underneath. It will "hook" the second fringe and you can pull it through the first fringe.
 Once you've pulled it all the way through on your first move, your paperclip (or crochet hook) should already be through the slit of the second fringe, and you can move on to the next fringe on the top. Put the paperclip through the next slit to hook the next fringe. If you're right handed, it'll be easiest to work right to left and vice versa.









The most important thing is to always alternate between using a fringe on the top and a fringe from the bottom. When you get to the corners, just keep doing the same thing. It will naturally curve around the corner.
 Use them to tie a knot around the first fringe. Make sure to do at least a double knot and triple if the fringe is long enough. That will be the only knot on your entire blanket.









You're done! And no, the edge will not unravel. As long as you've knotted the last piece, you're good to go.

