 While some of the height and weight averages are not necessarily applicable for pug puppies, other parts of the American Kennel Club standard for pugs may be helpful when choosing a puppy. Use these standards to feel confident in selecting a puppy who is truly a pure-bred and will grow to be healthy. The pug's coat should be shiny and dense. Accepted pug coloring is full black or fawn, and fawn-colored pugs should have a fully black face mask (muzzle and area around the eyes)., An ethical breeder should have puppies wormed and vaccinated prior to sale. Before you purchase a pug puppy, ask for a report detailing all of their visits to the veterinarian, vaccinations, any past health issues and treatments they received, and providing timelines for upcoming vaccinations., See a new litter of puppies at several different points. You’ll want to watch the personality of the puppies as they grow, make sure the breeder is socializing them properly, and get to know the puppies and their parents. Watch how the pug puppies grow and interact with each other, the dam (mother), and with people. This will help you choose a friendly, healthy dog when the time comes., Once the puppies have reached the age where you can take one home, it’s time to decide which pug is right for you and your family. Each puppy will have a unique personality, but there are a number of behaviors you can look for to help you choose the right pug for you. When it comes to making a choice from a litter of puppies, there are three main dog personalities: curious, cautious, and shy.


The curious investigator pug is typically the first one to be chosen. This puppy comes right up to you when you arrive. They typically make the best dog for a family. They’ve been socialized and are not scared of or intimidated by new people or situations.
The timid, cautious pug is a great option for a family with at least one adult in the home for most of the day. As puppies, timid pugs don’t run up and greet you, but they don’t shy away either. They observe and approach when they feel comfortable. If you have the time to invest, these dogs will socialize quickly and make a great family member, though they typically show loyalty to the person who spends the most time with them.
Shy and fearful pugs are not for everyone, but they still deserve a loving home. If you have extra time to spend with them, want a companion you can take everywhere, and don’t have young children in the home, this could be the perfect dog for you. A naturally affectionate breed, once a shy pug gets used to a new owner, it will follow you wherever you go and is a great lap dog. Shy or fearful pugs are perfect for retirees and people who work from home., Most purchase contracts allow for the pug to be housed with you for a period of time, typically between 3 days and week. This trial period allows you to make sure the dog you met at the breeder’s home or adoption center is the same when it comes to interacting with you, your family, and your home. If returned before the trial period expires, you should expect to receive a full or partial refund. Review your purchase contract before taking the pug home with you, and ask for a trial period agreement if there is not one in the contract.