 It’s a good idea to familiarize yourself with the process of EFT before you try to use it on yourself. In particular, focus on learning the 10 major tapping points. It may be helpful to watch videos on YouTube to help you identify the tapping points. This will make it easier to focus on your thoughts as you use the technique, instead of trying to remember which spot you should tap next.The 10 major tapping points are listed below, in the order you should tap them:


The outer edge of the hand, also known as the “karate chop” spot.
The crown of the head.
The spot where the eyebrow begins, beside the bridge of the nose.
The bone just outside the outer corner of the eye.
The cheekbone, about an inch under the pupil of the eye.
The spot centered between the nose and upper lip.
The center of the chin.
The spot under the knob of the collarbone.
The spot several inches under the arm.
The inside of the wrist.;
, Think about which aspect of your trauma is most difficult to deal with. Be as specific as possible.For instance, if you developed PTSD after a car crash, you might want to focus on the fear you feel when you hear screeching brakes.
 Ask yourself how difficult your traumatic memory is to deal with, on a scale of 1 to 10. Write down your estimate so you can compare your results later (you may want to keep a journal specifically to track your progress).A memory with a rating of 1 causes no discomfort at all, while a 10 is very painful to think about.
 Create a setup phrase about the issue you want to address. Start your phrase by acknowledging your trauma, and finish with unconditional acceptance of yourself. Repeat your phrase several times to yourself while tapping the karate chop point on your hands.Be as specific as you can with your phrase. One example of a possible setup phrase is “Even though loud noises still frighten me, I deeply and completely accept myself.”
This step primes your brain to focus on the issue at hand. Once you have repeated it several times, then go through the process of EFT.
 Now, use your fingertips to tap each of the 10 points three to seven times. Start at the crown of your head and work your way down to the karate chop point on your hands. Each time you tap, repeat your chosen phrase that reminds you of the traumatic memory you’re working on.Tap firmly, but not hard enough to cause pain.
If you’re working on your fear of loud noises, for example, your reminder phrase might simply be “loud noises.”

, A single round of tapping may be enough to decrease the intensity of your traumatic memory. If thinking about the memory is still painful, repeat the tapping cycle.Write down your rating of the memory after the session. Make sure you record your rating before and after each session.
Try to get your memory’s intensity down to a 3 or less on your 1 – 10 scale.
 If your trauma is very deep, or if you’ve been struggling with it for a long time, you may not be able to use EFT to treat your own PTSD. If the technique doesn’t seem to be helping you, a mental health professional may be better equipped to guide your recovery.