 Having a victim mentality means that you might feel like other people are the cause of your problems or that things never work out your way. This may cause you to wallow in negative thoughts and complain often.If this is something you struggle with, then it is important to work on overcoming this mindset.


Try to focus on the positives in your life instead of dwelling on the negatives. For example, if you are having a bad day, then you might try to identify three things that have gone well, even if they are little things like having a good breakfast, listening to your favorite song on your way to school or work, or having the luxury of some quiet time to read before bed.
 Try thinking of your situation in a different light. While you might not be able to control what happens in any given stage of life, you certainly can control how you perceive a situation. Instead of seeing your diagnosis of high blood pressure as a curse, re-imagine the situation as an opportunity to eat healthier and exercise more. If your landlord refused to renew your lease, try to think of the positive aspects of having a new apartment.Try sitting down with a journal and writing about the unfair situation in your life, why it is so awful, and what positive things you might gain from the situation.
Ask a friend or family member to help you come up with new, more positive ways to think about the unfair situation. They might have ideas you wouldn’t think of on your own.
 When life is unfair, we tend to ruminate on the injustice and allow it to take up precious mental real estate. A way to begin working toward acceptance is to stop negative and obsessive thinking in its tracks. When you find yourself obsessively thinking about life being unfair, try taking a deep breath and thinking about something entirely different., When life is unfair, it’s easy to get caught up in a negative thinking loop. Instead of focusing on the job you didn’t get, try being grateful for the job you already have. Rather than being upset about not having enough money to take a trip to Europe, try practicing gratitude for having the flexibility and funds to take a long weekend in New York City.