 Start with a rectangle that reaches from your nose to the back of your jaw, and from the bridge of your nose down to your chin.You are only making one side for right now. You'll be cutting two identical shapes, then sewing them together.;
, Cut the left side edge an outward curve. Next, cut from the top-left corner at a downward angle towards the right for about ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters), then cut straight across towards the right side edge., Trace the template twice first, then cut the shapes out with sharp scissors. Use stiff felt, if possible, about 3 millimeters thick.You can also use light blue vinyl instead.You can also use light blue jersey fabric, but be aware that it won't hold its shape as well.
 Place the two pieces together so that the right sides are facing in. Sew along the left side edge (the one with the bigger curve) from top to bottom. You can do this by hand or on a sewing machine. Use a matching thread color and a 1/4-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance.

Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
 Turn the mask so that the front is facing you. Load an embroidery needle with black embroider thread, then sew a series of X's down the front seam, from top to bottom. This will give your mask a rustic, hand-sewn feel.Even though you are going for a rustic feel, try to be as neat as possible.
 Cut the ribbon down so that it is the same length as the entire top edge. Fold it over the top edge, sandwiching it inside, then sew the sides of the ribbon down. It's best if you do this by hand; this way, you can be sure that you sew through both sides of the ribbon.Repeat this for the bottom edge.
Alternatively, you can topstitch the top and bottom edges instead. Use black thread and a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance., Turn the mask so that the wrong side is facing you. Fold both the left and right side edges down by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Secure them with sewing pins.

If you made your mask from vinyl, do not use sewing pins, or they will leave marks. Use clips instead.
 Try to use the same color of thread as your felt. Sew about ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) from the inside folded edge, and remember to backstitch at the stat and end of your sewing. This will create the channels for your elastic., They need to be about three times the height of your folded edge. Make sure that the elastic is thin enough to fit through the channels you made., Take your first piece of elastic, and thread it through the left channel. Tie the ends of the elastic into a knot, then slide the knot into the channel, out of sight.Repeat this step for the other elastic and the right side of the mask.
The elastics need to be long enough to hook over your ears.
 It looks like black circle with a line going through it, sort of like the non-smoking sign. The symbol needs to be almost the same height as your mask; the top and bottom edges need to be just inside your ribbon border or topstitching.

If you are using vinyl, then use black vinyl instead., Start by sewing around the outside edge of the circle, then sew around the two inside edges. You can also glue the symbol on using hot glue, tacky glue, or fabric glue.

If you used vinyl, hot glue or fabric glue will work the best.
 Hold the mask over your face. Slip the left elastic over you left ear, and the right elastic over your right.