;
, This is the most common way of using VoIP. This adapter actually allows you to hook up the phone, which is already in your house, to your Internet connection. What the ATA does, is turn the normal analog signal that your average home phone sends into digital signals that can be sent over the Internet. Setting up an ATA is quite simple: Order an ATA, plug the cord from your phone (the one you normally plug into wall socket) into the ATA, and then an internet cord from the ATA into your router or internet connection. If you don't have a router you there are even ATA's that can do that for you as well. Some ATAs include software that has to be installed on your computer before it is ready to be used, but basically it is quite a simple process.
 The IP Phone looks just like a normal phone, with all the same buttons and cradle. The only difference is that instead of having a normal wall jack connector, it has an Ethernet connector. So, instead of plugging in your IP phone to the wall jack (like you would with a regular analog phone), it is plugged directly into your router. This option allows you more options like placing the call on hold and works just like any office phone you have probably ever used. The only difference is the calls are going over the internet rather then the normal phone line. It also means that you will not need an ATA because it is all built into the phone. In addition, with the availability of Wi-Fi IP phones, subscribing callers can make VoIP calls from any Wi-Fi hot spots. All these features make IP Phones an extremely exciting option.


If you want intercom office extensions in your home, or other countries, this is the way to go.
 With some service these calls are entirely free, meaning that there is no need for any calling plans. The only things you need are the software (which can be found for free on the internet), a good internet connection, a microphone, speakers and a sound card. Depending on which service you pick, except for your monthly internet service fee, there is literally no cost for making these calls, no matter how many you make. However, in most cases you will only be able to call people who have the same computer-to-comptuer calling service you have.
 911 is affected, also.

