 When you go to the barn for your first ride or lesson, you should be dressed appropriately for handling and riding horses. Here are some things that you should remember to acquire and wear before your first trip to the barn:


Long pants (jeans or breeches)
Closed-toe shoes, such as boots with a small heel or sneakers
A helmet (many barns provide helmets, but you should check to make sure)Gloves (optional, but sometimes helpful if you have sensitive skin);
, One way to make you and your horse more comfortable with one another before you ride is petting it. Always approach your horse from the side, preferably the left side. Scratch your horse’s neck gently. Different horses like affection in different ways, but almost all horses love a good neck scratch.You can also ask whoever is helping you tack up your horse for the first time (such as a barn manager, riding instructor, or the owner of the horse) if you can feed your horse a quick treat before you ride. Keep in mind, however, that it might be a good idea to wait until after you ride to reward your horse.
 At most barns, you will have to groom your horse before you ride it. You will have to use several different brushes to take good care of your horse before and after you ride.


First, you curry comb your horse. Using the curry comb, brush your horse’s entire body, travelling from front to back in small circles. The curry comb is used to bring up dust and dirt out from the horse’s coat.
Use a hard brush next. Use the hard brush in short, firm strokes that go with your horse’s hair. Go from the front of your horse to the back of your horse. Do not use the hard brush below the horse’s knees or on its face.
Finally, use a soft brush. You can use the soft brush everywhere on your horse, including below its knees and on its face.
You should also pick your horse’s hooves with a hoof pick. Stand at your horse’s side, next to one of its hooves. You should be facing the opposite way that your horse is. Run your hand down your horse’s leg. When you get to the area below the knee and the hoof, pull gently. Your horse should recognize this nonverbal command lift up its foot, exposing the underside of its hoof. With the metal hook of your hoof pick, pick out dirt and rocks from your horse’s hoof. However, the “frog,” or the soft middle part of the hoof, is often sensitive, so be careful not to pick at that., Depending on whether you ride hunt seat, western, or dressage, you will have different types of saddles and bridles. If this is your first time riding, someone will help you tack up your horse. Pay close attention to how this person puts on the saddle pad, saddle, girth, and bridle, so that you can do it by yourself next time.


Make sure that the girth it tight enough. You should be able to put one finger between the girth and your horse, but no more than that.
 When you lead your horse to the ring, you should be standing to the left side of it. The reins should be in your hands, not over the horse’s head. Your right hand should grip both reins near your horse’s mouth. Don’t hold them too tightly. Your left hand should hold the excess reins. Do not loops the reins around your hands.


When you walk forward, your horse should follow. If it resists, do not look back at the horse. Say something like “Come on,” and tug the reins lightly.

