 Use bergamot to reduce the daily stress of cancer treatment.Bergamot is a citrus fruit whose rind is used to make the essential oil of the same name, which can be found in certain drinks like early grey tea. Bergamot is a tonic that relieves nervous tension, aids in digestion, and relaxes the body. It also has stimulating and anti-depressive properties, which can induce feelings of joy and increased energy.


Talk to your doctor about using bergamot aromatherapy to supplement your treatment plan.
If you enjoy black tea, try drinking earl grey tea which contains bergamot.
Put a few drops of bergamot essential oil in an essential oil diffuser in your bedroom.
You can purchase bergamot essential oil at your local health food store. You will only need a few drops each time, so a small bottle should last a long time.;
, If you are experiencing a lot of stress and anxiety during your cancer treatment, you may want to smell some lavender.Lavender is great for improving sleep and reducing anxiety and emotional stress. If you are looking for some stress relief after a day of cancer related treatment, put a few drops of lavender oil in a diffuser by your bed or in the living room. Enjoy the scent of lavender before falling asleep.Chat with your doctor about using lavender to help with stress and anxiety.
You can purchase lavender essential oil at your local health food store. You will only need a few drops each time, so a small bottle should last a long time.
 If you feel like your energy levels have really fallen from the cancer treatment, it might help to smell some peppermint in the morning. Peppermint essential oil is also supposed to be good for reducing chemotherapy-related nausea.Ask your doctor if peppermint scents may help increase your energy levels.
 Try putting a few drops of chamomile in your diffuser beside your bed at night.


Tell your doctor you want to try using chamomile to deal with chronic pain.
You could also ask your massage therapist to give you a massage with chamomile essential oil.
Pick up a small bottle of chamomile from your local health food store and use a few drops each time.
 Ginger oil can help you cope with chemotherapy-related nausea.Ginger oil is great for treating stomach related problems as well as nausea and vomiting.If you don’t have any essential oil on hand, you could also try drinking some ginger tea.


Pick up some essential ginger oil from your health food store and use a few drops each time.
Ask your doctor if ginger oil might help with the nausea.

