 You can still assign most of the reading as homework, but let your students start it in class. If they get hooked on the story, they're much more likely to finish it. In primary school, having students read aloud can help the less skilled readers understand the assignment.;
, If you're teaching primary school, ask the parents to encourage the children to finish their reading at home. If the parents have to sign off on each stage of the reading assignment, they'll have an easier time tracking their child's progress.
 A visual tracker and reward systems may motivate some students. This works best if you know what motivates your students, and provide rewards to match.
 If feasible, invite your students to come to your classroom and read before or after school, or during lunch. If any your students have free periods, consider letting them sit at the side and read while you're teaching another class.


Consider making this mandatory if a student falls behind too far. Arrange a system with other teachers and staff so only one or two adults have to supervise this reading session each day.
 Have one-on-one conversations with the students who are falling behind. Find out what's causing the problem, and work from there.


If the whole class is behind, have a class discussion about it. They may need extra help with a type of writing they're not used to.
 It's very difficult to pass on the reading bug to a student who doesn't have it already. The possibility of pop quizzes is a more universal motivator. It's up to you how often to actually give one, but it's usually a good idea when participation starts to flag.


If the class is really falling behind, hint that there's a good chance at a pop quiz tomorrow.
 If the students are tackling more advanced reading than they're used to, help them along with a study guide. Include vocabulary words to learn, and discussion questions to think about before class.


Including worksheets or a short journal assignment lets you find out immediately who did the reading.
 Come up with a short in-class assignment for students who don't do the reading. For example, have them write two paragraphs on what they think will happen next in the story. Most students will prefer to finish the reading instead of doing the extra work again next time.
 Breaking the assignment into smaller chunks can reduce the amount of procrastination in your students. Discuss each section of the reading the very next day so students are aware that they need to keep up.
 Not all students learn well from lecture or class discussion. Try to get all your students involved in the reading with some of the following ideas:


Divide students into pairs or small groups to discuss the reading.
Draw sketches on the board for younger kids, or give older kids a handout or slideshow with visual elements.
Have students who like attention read passages aloud in a dramatic voice, or even act it out in short skits.

