 One way that you and a doctor can accurately diagnose the source of your back pain is through body imaging: X-rays and MRI and CT scans. These procedures are usually done in a hospital on your doctor’s orders and can reveal problems in your skeletal or muscular systems. They are usually only necessary for chronic or specific acute conditions.X-rays use electromagnetic radiation to produce an image of your skeleton. Your doctor may order one if she suspects your back pain is a result of a misalignment in the spine, arthritis, or broken bones. However, it won’t show problems with the spinal cord, muscles, or disks.
MRI and CT scans are an option if your doctor thinks the pain is related to soft tissue. These images can show herniated disks, muscle tears, and problems with blood vessels, nerves, and the spinal cord.
 In some cases, back pain can come from infections in the back vertebrae (osteomyelitis), the discs (discitis), or the joints that connect the pelvis to the lower spine (sacroiliitis). In other cases, pain may be related to a tumor. These are not common conditions but can be diagnosed with blood tests.Your may need blood tests if your back pain is accompanied by fever, chills, headache, or neck stiffness. These are all possible symptoms of a spinal infection.
Expect the doctor to take a blood sample to check for a bacterial or fungal infection. She may also need to test your white blood cell count, c-reactive proteins, and other factors.
If the doctor suspects a deep infection, she may need to do use a long needle with X-ray guidance to remove a blood specimen from your back.
 Another way to diagnose back problems is through a nerve study, which is also called electromyography or EMG. EMG measures nerve impulses in your body as well as your muscle reactions, and can help to confirm spinal compression caused by herniated disks or a narrowing of the spinal column (stenosis).Your doctor may order an EMG if she thinks your back pain is the result of compression. You’ll be attached to electrodes where you’re experiencing symptoms. You may feel uncomfortable twinges or spasms when the electrodes send an electric current.
Before an EMG, make sure your doctor knows if you have a pacemaker or other electrical medical device, if you are on blood-thinners, or if you have hemophilia.
Take a bath beforehand to remove oils from your skin, and do not apply lotions or creams.

