 Knowing how bowling is actually scored helps you decide which pins to go for and when. The basics are easy -- there are ten pins, and each pin you hit is worth a point. However, spares and strikes are worth more than just 10 pins. Strikes (X) are worth 10 points, plus whatever you hit on the next two throws. Spares (/) are worth 10 points, plus whatever you hit on the next throw. This means a single frame can be worth more than 10 points if you get a strike or spare.For example, say you throw a strike in the first frame. In the second frame you hit 2 pins on the first throw and 3 on the next one for 5 total pins. Your first frame would be worth 15 points (10 for the strike, + 2 for the first throw and + 3 for the second). You still score, however, the 5 points from the second frame too. So your total score, after two frames, is 20 points (15+2+3).
If your throw three strikes in a row, your first frame is worth 30 points, 10 for the strike, plus 10 for the second frame and 10 for the third frame. You cannot score you second and third frames until you take another throw.
Spares add to your next shot only. So, if I throw a spare in one frame, then throw a gutter ball immediately after, my spare is only worth 10 points (10+0), no matter what I do after that. A spare followed by a strike is worth 20 points (10+10).
If you throw a strike or spare in the 10th frame you get a free shot at the end, making the 10th frame the only one with three potential rolls. Thus you should always go for the spare in the 10th frame.
 Higher speeds mean there is less time for the ball to react and turn off line. Practice a straight, consistent spare shot and you will beat many a people who throw the same shot every time. Everybody can strike. Not everybody spares.
 This provides a more accurate shot, as less spin means the ball will hook less. To weaken your wrist, start your shot with your wrist curved slightly down, towards the floor. On your follow through, don't let your wrist and fingers snap up as much. This may take some practice, but changing wrist positions is one of the most important skills for intermediate or advanced bowlers., By adjusting your starting position you can often throw right at your normal mark and still get a spare. The boards on the lane (thin wooden pieces running to the pins) are made to give you a measurement system for aiming. If you need to hit a pin left of the center, you move several boards to the right, and vice verse. You then throw at the same mark you aim at for strikes. The system is actually pretty easy to learn and is reversed for the opposite direction of throws.


If you want to hit the first pin to the left of the center, move your start position 3 boards to the right.
If you want to hit the second pin to the left of the center, move 6 boards to the right.
 Most lanes are the slickest in the middle. Oil is applied to lanes in complex patterns that determine how much a ball hooks -- more oil means less hook, or a straighter, more accurate shot. Since a right-hander going after the far right pins doesn't want the ball to curve to the middle, you should throw diagonally across center instead. This ensures a straighter flight, curving just a bit at the end to avoid the gutter and hitting all the pins.


For example, there may be one solo pin on the far right side of the lane. While you could try and hug the gutter, the ball will naturally want to spin to the center because the outside of the line is low on oil. Instead, start your walk from the far left of the lane, throwing the ball from the left diagonally, across the middle, to the far right pins.
 Unless you are skilled enough to hit the outside edge of a lone pin, shooting it like a missile at the pack of three pins in the back corner, you should take the sure-fire three pins. This is especially important if you threw a strike the previous frame, because any pins you hit now get counted twice, once for the strike and once in this frame.


If you didn't get a strike in the previous frame, you might be more likely to take a risk now, trying to get a spare to boost your score for later.