 One of the easiest and best ways of decorating your notebooks, binders, and other school supplies is to use stickers. Head to the craft store or the hobby store and find some stickers that you like, and decorate your notebooks.


Apply the stickers in unusual patterns for a neat effect. Even if you've just got a bunch of football stickers, if you make them into the shape of a face, or a peace sign, it might be cool.;
, Want to show your creativity? Instead of letting stickers do the work, draw on the notebooks yourself using pencil or marker. Even if the pictures don't look that great, you'll personalize your own stuff.


You don't have to draw complicated pictures. Write out song lyrics that you like, or your own name, or funny messages.
If you're not a great drawer, print out some pictures, cut them out, and tape them onto your notebook, then trace around them. It'll look like you did the drawing yourself!

, One cool and kind of punk rock style for your schools supplies is to put duct tape on everything. Wrap duct tape around the binding of your books, or around the spiral of your notebook. Put strips of duct tape across the cover of your notebook, and write your name on it. Use duct tape in a variety of ways.


Duct tape doesn't have to be gray and boring. You can find pink, yellow, red, and a bunch of other colors of duct tape at the store. Use a variety for a neat effect.
 you can even get more creative and use a certain wrapping paper that has cool designs and put it on the front, or coloring pages that have cool pictures.


You can even use little pictures from your childhood make a decorative paper frame for it, and put it behind a plastic cover on a folder or a binder.
 Print out pictures you like or look through magazines for them. They could be anything, including nice patterns, celebrities, pictures of animals, cartoons, quotes, logos, or anything that catches your eye. It's a good idea to have a mix of photos, patterns, quotes for a balanced and fun collage. You could also cut out letters and spell out your name or subject, or maybe add your own photos.

