 Some of your largest muscles are in your legs, and so they need longer to recover than other muscles. Work on your legs early in the week to allow them ample time to recover.Squats are one of the best ways to work on your legs. Perform a simple squat by standing with your legs shoulder-width apart. Then push your butt back and squat, lowering your waist so it's below your knees. Make sure your knees stay pushed out over your toes - don't let them cave in since this can hurt you.
You can also try calf raises. Stand on a platform with just your toes on the platform and the rest of your feet hanging off. Slowly raise your body so that you're standing on your tiptoes. Then lower your body back down until your feet are parallel to the platform. Perform 2 to 3 sets of 15 reps of this move.;
, There are three main muscle groups in your arms: your biceps, triceps, and forearm muscles. When you exercise your arms, make sure you focus on each of the groups.Dumbbell curls are a great way to work your biceps. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, with your arms at your sides and your palms facing outward. In a controlled motion, raise both arms at the elbow, bringing the dumbbells to chest level. Lower the dumbbells, again controlling the motion, until your hands return to your side. Perform 2 to 3 sets of 15 reps each.
A bent-over row will work your triceps. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and bend slightly forward at the waist so that your chest is almost parallel to the floor. Holding a dumbbell in each hand, bring your arms up so that your upper arms are parallel to your body and your forearms are pointing toward the floor. Carefully lift the dumbbells back until your forearms are also parallel to the floor and make a straight line with your triceps. Lower the dumbbells carefully back to start position. Perform 2 to 3 sets of 15 reps each.
A barbell wrist curl will help work your forearms. Kneel at the side of a flat bench, with a barbell on the ground opposite you. Carefully reach down and hold the barbell in your hands, with your palms facing up, your forearms resting on the bench, and your wrists hanging over the side of the bench. Inhale and curl your wrists toward you so that you lift the barbell slightly. Then exhale and lower the barbell. Perform 2 to 3 sets of 15 reps each.
 Your abdominal muscles are a large muscle group and need a lot of work to tire out. You can combine more than one of the moves listed below to really work on your core.

Try a side balance crunch. Begin in a kneeling position, then lean over until your left knee and hand are on the floor and your right knee is lifted off. Extend your right leg until it makes a straight line with the rest of your body. As your bring your right knee up toward your chest, bring your right arm down so your right elbow touches your right knee, all while balancing on your left side. Repeat for your left side, with your right knee and hand on the floor and your left leg and arm performing the crunch. Perform the move 10 times on each side.Crunches are also a great way to strengthen your core. Lie on your back and either place your feet flat on the floor, with your legs bent at the knee, or with your feet flat on a wall in front of you so that your legs make a 90 degree angle with the floor. Cross your arms across your chest and slowly raise your head and shoulders off the floor. Hold this position for a few seconds before lowering yourself back to the ground. Repeat this move 10 times.