 When pickling peppers, it is up to you to decide which kind of peppers you would like to pickle. Many picklers mix hot peppers and red or green sweet peppers for a balanced flavor, but the the peppers you choose are up to you. However, there are some characteristics you should keep in mind, regardless of what type of peppers you use:Look for peppers that are firm and have a smooth skin.
Avoid old peppers that are soft and wrinkled or have brown spots, as old peppers can taste bad and become chewy when pickled.;
, This is the standard amount. The step-by-step process listed below will yield 9 pint jars.A bushel of peppers generally weighs 25 pounds and can yield 20 to 30 pints.
 You can use cold or lukewarm water with the same results.
 Remove any bad spots on the peppers. Quarter the now seedless peppers.


Small peppers can be left whole. If you choose to leave them whole, cut several slits along their sides., If you have already cut your peppers, make sure to place them skin side down during whatever heating method you choose to use.


Preheat your oven or broiler to 400º or 450ºF (205º to 232ºC). Place the peppers on a cookie sheet and stick them in the oven or broiler for 6 to 8 minutes. Using tongs, turn the peppers often so that they blister evenly on all sides.Place peppers on a wire mesh for the stovetop method. Hold the wire mesh over a heated electric or gas burner. Turn the peppers frequently with a pair of tongs. Make sure each side is heated equally.Heat an outdoor grill. Place the peppers 5 to 6 inches above glowing coals. Rotate the peppers using tongs., Place a damp cloth over them. Doing this allows the peppers to cool quickly and makes the skins easier to peel., Occasionally rinse the peppers with water.Use a knife to scrape off any skin that does not peel easily.
 Place 5 cups (1.2l) vinegar, 1 cups (240ml) water, 4 tsp. (20g) pickling salt, 2 tbsp. (28g) sugar and 2 cloves of garlic in a pot.The garlic is optional. It adds to the flavor but is not necessary.
 Once boiling, reduce the heat to a simmer for 10 minutes.
 Discard used garlic cloves.
 You don't want any bacteria festering in your jar of pickled peppers.
 Leave them in the pot for 10 minutes.
, Leave 1 inch of space at the top of the jar. Flatten whole peppers.Add ½ a teaspoon of salt if you would like your peppers to be saltier.
 Leave a 1/2 in. (1.3cm) of space at the top of the jars.
 Bubbles can cause mold to form inside the jar once it has been sealed.
,, Once all of the jars are placed inside, lower the rack down into the canner.


If you do not have a canner, you can make your own. Find a pot or saucepan that is large enough to hold the jars. There should also be room for an inch of water above the jars. Place a washcloth or towel at the bottom of the pot before you put the jars in. This will keep the jars from directly touching the metal of the pot.
If you do not have a jar lifter, place rubber bands at the ends of tongs. The tongs will act exactly like a jar lifter.
, Be sure that the water is at a constant boil for 10 minutes., After 2 minutes, remove the jars from the canner and place them in a safe place to cool.

