 In a mixing bowl, add olive oil, rice wine vinegar, smoked paprika, sugar, garlic powder, onion powder, lemon pepper, rosemary, basil, and salt. Then use your whisk to stir the ingredients well so the mixture is consistent throughout., You can also marinate your chicken in a bowl, though for longer marinating times, a sealable container will help prevent potential spills. Put the marinate in your container and insert the chicken, tossing the chicken so it’s well coated in marinade.

Sealable plastic bags make an excellent marinating receptacle. When using these, there will be less cleanup, and the shape of the bag will promote an even distribution of the marinade., To ensure the maximum flavor, marinade your chicken for 2 hours or overnight.

Generally, poultry can safely marinate in a refrigerator for up to two days. However, high acid marinades could actually make the meat tougher. Due to this, 2 hours or overnight marinating is recommended., Warm your pan over medium-high heat on your stove top. Place the chicken breasts in the pan, and pour the remainder of your marinade into the pan so the chicken bastes in it. Cook the chicken for about 8 to 10 minutes per side.

When the chicken is finished cooking, it should be firm and the inside white. If you poke the chicken with a fork, the juice that comes from it should be clear., Use kitchen utensil, like a fork, tongs, or a wooden spoon to remove the chicken from the hot pan. Then place the chicken off to the side on a plate. You’ll want it to cool before you cut it., Decrease the heat of your stove top to medium and add your olive oil to the sauté pan. Insert your mushroom and onions into the pan. Cook these for about 6 minutes, or until they have started to brown and caramelize., Stir in these ingredients with a kitchen utensil. Continue stirring the mixture until all ingredients are well blended. This should only take about a minute., Insert your carrots into the pan. Allow these to cook for 1 to 2 minutes. After that, add your broth, water, and miso to the mixture. Cook the ingredients until the miso has completely dissolved, stirring gently while doing so., Generally, you’ll want to cook these ingredients until the noodles become tender, which should take roughly 5 minutes. However, you may want to decrease this time for firmer noodles, or increase it for softer ones., Use a kitchen utensil to stir in the spinach and equally distribute it throughout the soup. Then use a ladle to transfer the soup to individual bowls. Cut your cooled chicken into strips with a knife, layer the strips on top, and enjoy your bowl of soba.

You can improve the presentation and add a little flavor to this dish by garnishing it with sesame seeds and cilantro., Add the soy sauce and grated ginger to a small sauté pan. Turn on the heat to your stove top and heat the ingredients until they simmer. After reaching a simmer, remove the pan from the heat and stir in the honey and Dijon mustard until both dissolve fully.

Once you finish preparing your sauce, put this off to the side to cool., Use a knife to cut the tempeh into slices that are roughly ¼-inch (.64 cm) thick. Put these in a sealable container or mixing bowl to marinate in ½ cup (118 ml) of the soy-ginger sauce for 20 minutes. Remove the tempeh from the marinade and use medium heat to fry it in a sauté pan until crispy.

When you have finished frying the tempeh, remove it from the pan with a kitchen implement, like a wooden spoon or tongs, and place it in a serving bowl., While the tempeh fries, put a large pot of water on high heat. Add your soba noodles after the water comes to a boil. Drain the noodles in a strainer, then transfer the noodles to a sauté pan. Combine ½ cup (118 ml) of your soy-ginger sauce with the noodles and fry these ingredients over medium heat for 2 minutes.

When the noodles have finished cooking, move them to a serving bowl of their own and set them off to the side., You can garnish the top of your soba and tempeh in whatever way you please. Common toppings include sliced avocado, scallions, julienned carrots, sliced kale, sesame seeds, and more. Top your noodles and tempeh with these accents.

While eating your noodles and tempeh, dip them into the soy-ginger sauce served on the side to impart more flavor to both.