 Bunny rabbits are usually white, pink, grey, but they can also be black and brown. If you are recreating a character like the Energizer Bunny, you will want to match your color to an image on the Internet.;
, You can also repurpose a fleece sweat suit into an adult costume, or turn a large fleece sweatshirt into a bodysuit for a child.Fleece is an excellent material for costumes because it’s synthetic material and doesn’t fray.
In place of a fuzzy body rabbit costume, you can find a solid colored sweat suit in pink, white or grey.
In place of a fuzzy rabbit costume, you can also do ballet tights, a tutu and a ballet leotard for a little girl. Then, you can add a tail and ears.
 Cut out a small hole for your head by cutting a semi-circle halfway through the folded edge. Turn it inside out and slip it over your head to measure the rest of the suit.


Keep your cuts conservative. You can always cut more, but you can’t cut less.
 The “pinch and pin” tailoring method is a fast way to tailor a costume to the exact measurements of your body. You can make it as loose or tight as you want.
 If you have more fabric, you can continue pinching and pinning around the legs to make a full body suit.
 Sew along the pin line with a sewing machine. Use a thread that matches the body suit. Turn the suit right side out and try it on.
 Cut out a circle of satin, felt or fleece in a contrasting shade of white, grey or pink. Glue it to the center of the suit, from your chest to your waist.


Reserve some of this colored fabric for the inside of your rabbit ears.
 If possible, cover all the skin except your face to make a convincing fur coat.
 Attach sturdy wire to the top of the ears by wrapping it around the headband once. The excess wire should continue up about six inches to give form to your bunny ears.
 You can use the template at http://d7nsd3m1z2har.cloudfront.net/Bunny%20Ears.pdf to draw perfect oval ears. Measure out four pieces for the front and back of the ears.
 Press the outside of the fabric together. Sew around the perimeter, and then turn the ear inside out. Repeat with the other ear.
 Affix them to the outside of the ears with sewing pins.
 Make sure you don’t go too far inside the inner ear, or you will not leave enough space to fit your wire.


Repeat with the opposite ear.
 Bend one ear halfway down, if you want to be a lop-eared rabbit.
 Use a strong craft or fabric glue.
 Glue as you wrap it to secure it well.
, Marabou boas are available in craft stores.You can also attach batting from a pillow to the back of your costume for an easy puffy tail., Leave it to dry overnight before using.
 Stick safety pins from the inside of the suit. Catch some of the boa in the pin before you pull it back inside the fabric.

