 True enough, it’s more awe-inspiring to recreate your first date after you’ve been married ten years rather than dating for a month.That said, even in the span of thirty days your relationship has surely developed in terms of comfort level and knowledge of each other. Replaying your first night out, or the moment when you gathered up the courage to ask your sweetheart out on a date, can demonstrate how your bond has strengthened and build excitement for further growth moving forward.


Wear the same outfits, go out to the same restaurant, sit in the same spot in the theater, and so on. Laugh about the nerves and awkwardness then and the increasing amount of comfort with each other now.
If you want to further emphasize the “looking ahead” part while reminiscing, present a gift during the date that you wouldn’t have known your partner liked a month ago.;
, You’ve probably been out to dinner several times already, and may have already gotten into a routine of “your places.” Why not try a new style of food neither of you have had before, or switch it up even further and hire a personal chef for the evening? Another option is taking a cooking class, where you get to eat what you cook and spend quality time together.


If, for instance, you both drive each other around a lot and have a friendly dispute over who is the better driver, settle it at the nearby go-kart track.
 If you're dating someone and he or she likes ice skating or canoeing and you don't know (or don't think you want to know) how to do it, try it! Doing so will show your significant other that you are interested in growing as a person in the relationship.


Alternatively, you can both agree to go outside your comfort zones together. It doesn’t have to be as extreme as skydiving (although that might be an awesome gift); maybe just doing a duet at karaoke night will bring you closer together. The options are truly endless., Whether you’re trying to decide between chocolates or flowers, or a hike or a shopping trip, draw from your experiences with your significant other. What likes and dislikes of theirs have you found out about? How do they like to spend their leisure time? What do they talk about trying or seeing “someday”?Make a conscious effort to take note of things that they like. Over the last month, you have probably heard your partner mention things that they really like. Think back to what those things may have been to help you choose your gift.
If you need a bit of help but still want to surprise the person you are dating, ask their friends if the potential gift is a good idea.

