 Contact dermatitis is one of the most common forms of dermatitis.This type of skin inflammation is caused by exposure to an allergen or irritant (such as poison ivy).Signs of contact dermatitis include a localized rash, red patches and bumps, and localized itching.More severe symptoms include blisters and swelling.Symptoms begin very shortly after exposure to the irritating substance.



Allergic contact dermatitis is a rash triggered even by brief contact with the allergen, and often takes up to two weeks after exposure to develop.This can be a well known cause such as poison ivy or any number of metals, fragrances, plants, or other materials that an individual can develop an allergy to.

Irritant contact dermatitis is dry, damaged skin caused by repeated rough exposure. This is commonly caused by washing hands too frequently, but harsh soaps, detergents, or other chemicals can also be at fault.;
, Use lots of warm water to remove any remaining irritants.Use small amounts of gentle, unscented soap to avoid further irritation. Do not scrub or rub too harshly: you do not want to break the skin or cause infection.
 Identifying and removing the cause of exposure should be your main priority. Cosmetics, perfumes, hair products, and metal jewelry are common causes of dermatitis, as are detergent, soap, or other household cleaning chemicals.If you don't know the exact cause of your dermatitis, avoid all harsh and scented products and metallic jewelry as much as possible or switch to gentler and fragrance-free alternatives.


If you are having trouble isolating the cause of your contact dermatitis, talk to your doctor about performing an allergy test. A patch test can help your doctor discern the specific substance that is irritating your skin and give you tips on how to avoid it in the future., If the cause of your dermatitis is a substance you work with or otherwise have trouble avoiding, a barrier can physically prevent the irritant from contacting your skin. Depending on the specific cause of your dermatitis, you can use different barriers such as:


Protective gloves or clothing
Barrier creams
Clear coats of nail polish (on metal jewelry)

, If itching is severe, an over-the-counter antihistamine such as Benadryl can both help you get to sleep and soothe the itching to prevent you scratching at night., Keep affected areas protected and moisturized to speed the healing process.Be sure that the moisturizers are fragrance-free, alcohol-free, and hypoallergenic so that they will not irritate your skin further.


When applying an ointment, cream, or lotion, smooth a large amount onto the skin in the direction hair grows. Do not rub it in; it is there to moisturize the outer skin and create a protective layer to prevent dehydration.
Switch to a different moisturizer if you find it irritates your skin further. Be on the lookout for more symptoms, especially if you do not yet know the cause of your contact dermatitis.
Try using calamine lotion to help soothe your skin., Painful, oozing lesions can be treated with lukewarm or cool (not hot) baths. This will not cure the dermatitis, but it can soothe your skin and make the symptoms easier to deal with.


Add baking soda or colloidal oatmeal to the bath to make it extra soothing and calming on the skin.If you do not have time for a cool bath, try cool, wet compresses instead. They can also work to alleviate symptoms and soothe affected areas. Apply them to your skin for 15-30 minutes at a time and repeat as needed.You can even use a large towel or cloth for larger areas and cover the damp cloth with a dry piece of clothing., If your condition does not improve with home remedies, a topical corticosteroid may reduce the inflammation. You can buy a hydrocortisone cream over the counter or see a doctor for prescription-strength alternatives (ointment, pills, or shots).


Do not use a corticosteroid on an infant under 2 years of age. Pregnant women should apply with caution and use low-strength creams.
Apply the ointment once a day, and do not continue for more than two weeks without doctor approval., Contact dermatitis can often be treated within one or two weeks using home remedies, over the counter treatments, and lifestyle changes. If you still have a severe rash after 2 weeks, consult a dermatologist. She may recommend phototherapy, immunosuppressants, or another treatment option.She might also be able to prescribe stronger corticosteroids to calm inflammation or antibiotics to treat skin infections that may have developed.You should also see your doctor if your dermatitis is affecting your sleeping, breathing, or work performance. Other indications that you should see a doctor include if you experience a great deal of pain or if you begin to develop infections or blisters on the affected area.