 Hacking a Skype connection is difficult, but to reduce the risk even more you’ll want to secure your connection by establishing a password for your home internet. Then, go with an odd combination of numbers, letters, and special symbols as a password, making it difficult to guess. Never go with an obvious choice, such as “password.”, Go onto the Skype website and download the program or application. Even if you have a personal Skype account, you will likely want to create a new one just for the purpose of monitoring your baby. Make sure that you have a strong password for this account as well., Once Skype is installed, head to the Tools header and click on Options. Under General Settings, choose to start Skype once your operating system is running. Then, under Video Settings, choose to automatically receive video sharing from your contact list only.To make it possible to answer calls, go to Show Advanced Options and select “answer incoming calls automatically” and “start my video automatically.”

, Go to the Privacy category and select the box to only allow people in your contact list to have access. Then, click on the Advanced Options button and go down and choose people in my "contact list only” for all choices. Under Call Settings, select the "only contact list" option.Make sure to go through and save every change that you make to your settings.
 Verify that your outside device has your baby’s account as part of its contacts. Then, check that your baby’s monitoring device has your outside device as part of its contacts. This will establish the connection that will make it possible for you to communicate with the in-room device when you are elsewhere., Whether you choose to have a phone, webcam, or other device in your baby’s room, make sure to turn it to mute before starting to monitor. This is important because otherwise your baby will be awakened by the Skype connection noises each time you log in to check on them., Once you have both devices in place, make a test call from another room in the house. The connection should automatically establish and you should see video right away. Now is the time to make any other small adjustments to positioning or to troubleshoot any problems with picture quality.

