 Recently many deniers have attacked evolution with a pseudo-scientific theory called “Intelligent Design.” This is the idea that the physical and biological systems in the universe must come from the ‘’’purposeful design’’’ of a creator. It’s more complex than Young Earth Creationism, but it’s no more scientific.In a nutshell, ID states that the universe is really complex and has things that are well-suited to their observed function. Think the human eye. This functionality and complexity can’t be chance, it states. It must be the work of a designer, i.e. God.
Many supporters of ID also accept microevolution, i.e. the idea of development in existing species.
Sound good? Not so fast. Scientific theory has to have evidence that excludes all other possibilities. It also needs to make predictions that can be tested and confirmed or denied.
The problem is that ID can’t be empirically tested. It also doesn’t exclude other explanations: biologists have shown that complex things, like blood clotting, for example, could have developed from earlier, simpler systems.ID fails to predict new things, as well. This is something scientific concepts should do.
 ID doesn’t deny that life forms in the universe can progress from simple to more complex states. But it quibbles. Its supporters argue that the ‘’’fact’’’ of evolution could not have occurred only through natural processes. They point to the complexity and patterns we see in nature, and also to how animals are well-adapted to environments.As said, evolution is an alternative explanation for complexity. ID can’t disprove this, and it has no way of testing its own claims.
ID also claims that functionality proves the hand of a creator – that a creator designed animals to be well-adapted. However, evolution also explains function. Be sure to point this out.
Functionality does not have to come from design. In fact, scientists argue that evolution is blind. Species that survive are not perfectly adapted but “good enough,” and live long enough to reproduce.
Use the example of dinosaurs. Why would a designer have to create so many species that went extinct? What was the purpose of these animals?

, Supporters of ID like to argue that the evolution of complex forms is improbable. It is unbelievable that life could arise all by itself, because the odds are so small. What are the chances of a working car emerging from a “junkyard tornado”? Slim to none. Therefore, they point to an intelligent plan. This argument is also not very good.The “junkyard tornado” is not a sound analogy with life. Supporters of ID ignore the fact that there are laws of interaction in the universe, natural forces acting between particles, and other considerations.
Point out that the odds are not stacked against the natural origin of life (abiogenesis). The probability of the simplest building block forming is about 1 in 10 to the 40th power. This is a huge number. But billions of trials would happened at every moment on primordial earth.Cite the infinite monkey theorem. Say a monkey or group of monkeys are randomly mashing keyboards. The odds that they will type something comprehensible are near zero at any one moment. BUT, if with enough time or enough monkeys the long-term odds are near certain.The odds for abiogenesis are similar.
 ID is based on a key flaw: the idea of a designer, or that design requires a designer. This is a logical fallacy, one you should point out to your friend.Poke holes in the assumptions. ID relates complexity and pattern with intelligence, for one thing. We look at things around us – chairs, cars, computers – and assume they have a designer.
Shouldn’t we suppose other complex things in the universe need a designer? Actually, no. This is a “fallacy of incredulity”: you assume something did not happen because you can’t understand how it could happen.
Point out slippery definitions, too. ID confuses the meaning of the word “design.” Design can mean (1) a structure or pattern that is functional, stable, or seen as beautiful or (2) the act of purposefully making such a structure. Note that “design” in the first sense can, in fact, arise accidentally or randomly.

