 Many times when we are bored we turn to eating as a pleasurable activity to pass time; however, this can wreak havoc on our weight loss plans, especially if we choose unhealthy foods.


Avoid mindless eating in front of the TV or computer. Find other activities to keep your hands and/or mouth busy, such as knitting or chewing gum, so you don't feel compelled to mindlessly snack.When you do eat, turn off the TV and put away your laptop, smartphone, or anything else distracting. Focus on eating mindfully and paying attention to your body.
 We often eat when we are stressed, sad, happy, or angry. Before you have a meal or snack, pause and ask yourself if you are actually hungry or if you're eating because of your present feelings.Try keeping a food journal. Not only will this help you identify emotional eating, but it is also an excellent way to track your calories and plan for indulgences.
For example, if you want ice cream later in the day, you can plan ahead in your food journal to have a lighter lunch to make up for your high calorie treat. This will help you satisfy your cravings for the foods you love while still keeping you on track for your weight loss goals., It is easy to confuse thirst for hunger because the same part of our brain, the hypothalamus, regulates both hunger and thirst. To combat this confusion, try having a large glass of water and waiting fifteen minutes. If you no longer feel hungry, then you were likely just dehydrated.To avoid dehydration and help curb cravings, invest in a refillable water bottle, so you always have access to water.
 If you're craving a particular unhealthy food that you love, try to distract yourself and wait twenty minutes. Do something unrelated to food like going for a short walk or calling a friend. Have a small piece of fruit or vegetable, and then if you still want the food that you were craving, then don't deprive yourself (but limit your portion size).
 Some foods and drinks contain ingredients that make us feel hungry when we consume them. Artificial sweeteners in diet sodas and regular sugar can cause us to feel hungrier by spiking blood sugar and having little nutritional value.