 One of the best ways to manage antidepressants side effects is to take your antidepressants just as they have been prescribed.Doing this will decrease the chances of you having any unexpected side effects. This is true for any medication that you take and may prevent adverse reactions to the antidepressant.


Follow the instructions for what to do if you miss a dose. Some medications suggest skipping a missed dose, while others suggest taking it as soon as possible.
Only take the dose prescribed and only take it as often as prescribed.
Do not alter your dose or stop taking your antidepressant on your own. Always consult a professional first.
 Antidepressants do not work overnight and cannot make your depressive symptoms immediately disappear. It takes about six weeks for antidepressants to begin to affect your emotions and behavior.Being patient will help you manage your antidepressant side effects by giving you time to see if you have any side effects or if your side effects get better over time.


Mark it on your calendar when you start your antidepressant so that you can keep track of how long you have been taking it.
You may also want to make a note on the calendar showing when the six-week mark will be.
 In order to manage antidepressant side effects you’ve got to be able to tell if you feel any of the side effects. You have to know what you feel like without the antidepressant and notice and changes in how you feel. Being aware of changes in your body physically, as well as emotional and mental changes will help you manage antidepressant side effects.


Take a time out occasionally during the day to scan your body from head to toe. Notice any strange, uncomfortable, or pleasant sensations.
Pay attention to your thoughts. Check in with yourself to see if you are focused, anxious, or having depressive or suicidal thoughts.
Monitor your emotions. Make a note of any mood swings or extreme emotions that you’re feeling. Also pay attention to any feelings you may have that are inappropriate for the situation like laughing at something sad.
Ask a family member or close friend to pay attention to any changes in you.You might say, “I’m taking a new antidepressant. Could you keep an eye out for any changes in me that concern you?”

, This gives you a way to keep track of taking your antidepressant and any effects it is having on you. This helps you manage antidepressant side effects by documenting any changes or patterns in the way your antidepressant is affecting you.


Write down the date, time, and dose of each antidepressant when you take it.
Write about any changes you notice in yourself after taking the antidepressant. For instance, you might write that you notice you’re feeling more energetic.
Make a note of any special situations. For example, if you notice that you don’t feel nauseous when you take your antidepressant with food.
 Talk to your physician or mental health professional if you have given your antidepressant time to work and still don’t see a change in your depressive symptoms. You may have to try more than one antidepressant before you find the one that works best for you with the least side effects.Use the information you have been writing in your medication to support your feelings that you need to change antidepressants.
You might say to your healthcare provider, “Could we talk about a different antidepressant for me? The side effects haven’t gotten any better.”
There are many antidepressants out there and each one has a different side effect profile. Keep trying different medications until you feel a decrease in your depression with the least amount of adverse effects.
 Although it may seem that your symptoms get better when you drink or use illegal drugs, doing this actually makes things worse.You may make your depression harder to treat or end up with a substance abuse problem on top of your depression. In addition, mixing alcohol and other substances with your antidepressants may cause serious negative side effects.


If you feel like you have a problem with drugs or alcohol, you are not alone. There are treatment facilities available to help you kick your addiction.

