 Deep conditioning when you wash can help moisturize your locks, but frizzy sometimes need more intensive hydration. Using a hydrating hair mask that contains ingredients such as oils, glycerin, and silk proteins once a week can deliver enough moisture to smooth your frizz.You should follow the instructions on your hair mask, but in most cases, you want to leave it on your head for at least 20 minutes.
To make sure the mask is evenly distributed throughout your locks, comb it through with a wide-tooth comb.
You can apply a mask to dry hair, but it usually absorbs more effectively when your hair is wet.
Some heat can help the mask penetrate more easily, so you may want to put a shower cap over it or wrap your head in plastic wrap when you apply it.
It’s a good idea to wash and deep condition your hair after you use a mask to make sure that there isn’t any residue left behind.
 If you don’t have thick hair, using a mask regularly may be too heavy for your tresses. Instead, make time for a hot oil treatment each week. It’s lighter than a mask, so it won’t weigh your hair down. Allow it to sit for approximately 30 minutes.You should only apply the hot oil treatment to the length of your hair from your ears down. It can make the top of your hair look greasy if you apply it there.
You can purchase pre-made hot oil treatments that are easy to use. Follow the instructions on the packaging for the best results.
You can also make your own hot oil treatment with hair-healthy oils such as avocado, castor, sweet almond, and argan oils. Set the container of the oil in a pot of water that’s near boiling to warm it up, and then apply it to your hair in sections., Just as drying your hair with cotton towel can rough up the cuticle and leave it frizzy, sleeping on cotton pillowcases can mean waking up with major frizz. To keep your hair smooth, wrap your head in a silk scarf before going to bed. Silk is a soft, smooth material that won’t damage your hair.Wet hair is especially prone to damage, so be sure to wear a silk scarf if you’re going to sleep right after washing your hair.
Instead of wearing a scarf, you can swap your cotton or other material pillowcases for silk.

