 Even if you have perfect vision, you will need to have your eyes fitted for contacts. There are different eyeball shapes, and wearing contacts with the wrong shape can be painful. Sometimes, your eyes might not be compatible with contacts. Other times, the doctor may prescribe a special type of contacts for you, especially if you have dry eyes., You get what you pay for, especially when it comes to contacts. In this case, it might be better to spend more on a pair of contacts and be safe, rather than buy a cheaper pair and be sorry later. Eyes are delicate, and a badly-made product can permanently damage them.The best place to get contacts is at an eye glass shop or from an optometrist.
Tinted prescription lenses are also available for those who have poor eyesight.
 Some contacts can only be worn once, while others can be worn several times. Because tinted lenses tend to be more expensive than regular ones, this is something you should keep in mind. Here are the different types of lenses that you can get:Disposable lenses can be expensive. Some can only be worn once. If you plan on wearing the contacts for just one or two occasions, keep these in mind.
Daily wear lenses need to be taken out at night. How often you replace them will depend on the manufacturer. Some need to be replaced once a week, while others can last for up to a month, if not longer.
Extended wear lenses can be worn even while you sleep, although this is not recommended. The longer you keep your contacts in, the more likely you are to get an infection. Like daily wear lenses, extended wear lenses need to be replaced depending on the manufacturer. Some can last for only a week while others much longer.
 You can also get these if you just want to enhance your natural eye color (even if you have dark eyes). Because these lenses are translucent, they are not recommended for those who have dark-colored eyes. The color simply won't show.
 Like the name implies, these contact lenses are opaque, and can completely change your eye color. You can get them in natural colors, such as brown, blue, gray, green, and hazel. You can also get them in unnatural colors, such as white, red, cat-eye, and purple.


Some places also offer custom colors and tinting.
 You will be putting lenses on your eyes, which can slide around when you blink. This means that if the lens moves a little on your eye, your natural iris will be visible. People will know right away that you are wearing contact lenses.


This will be most obvious on opaque lenses and less on enhancement lenses.
 Your iris and pupil change sizes naturally as you enter different light conditions. Contact lenses do not change size. This means that when you step into a dark room, and your pupils dilate, part of your vision will be blocked by the colored part of the contact lens. If you step into bright sunlight, your pupils will become smaller, and part of your natural eye color may peek through the clear portion of the contact lens.
 If you do not clean your lenses regularly or properly, you may get an infection. Some eye infections are very serious, and can lead to blindness. You should always keep your contacts in their case whenever you are not wearing them. You should also clean them with the saline solution before you put them back into the case. Be sure to refill the case with fresh saline solution before you put the contacts back in.


Always wash your hands before touching your contacts.
Never use your saliva to moisten the contacts. The human mouth is filled with germs.
Never share contacts with anyone, even if you disinfect them.
 This means that you should always take your contacts out of your eyes before you go to sleep. This included the extended-wear lenses. Even though extended-wear contacts can be worn overnight, leaving them in for so long makes it more likely for you to get an eye infection. You should also take out contacts before you take a bath or shower, or go swimming.Some contacts can be worn several times while others can only be worn once. Never use contacts for longer than the recommended time.
Saline solution can also expire. Never use saline solution past its expiration date.
To prevent bacteria buildup, contact lens cases should be replaced every three to six months.

