 A big reason people are susceptible to shame is that they pay attention to other people's opinions. Try to disregard other people's criticism as much as you can. If someone gives you a hard time about your makeup, ask yourself, "How much does this person's opinion really matter?"Another person's opinion often has little to do with you. People are sometimes judgmental towards others because of their own insecurity, or due to their own world views. Their judgments are not necessarily relevant to you.
For example, someone who is very judgmental about makeup may be very insecure about themselves. If they're shaming you, they may be jealous that you're talented at applying makeup. This is a reflection of their insecurity and not you as a person.
 Sometimes, we feel shame because we're not dealing with other emotions. If someone is able to make you feel bad about yourself, it may be easier to deal with this external negativity than internal negativity. Examine whether your feelings about makeup shaming have something to do with buried emotions.For example, if you do feel insecure about yourself, you're more likely to get mad at others for chastising you. Evaluate whether your self-esteem could use boosting.
If you find you're not feeling great about yourself, do something to change this. Take up a new hobby, for example, or work on developing a new skill. The better you feel about yourself, the less likely you'll be to succumb to shaming.
 When you react to makeup shaming, take stock of any negative thoughts you're experiencing. Try to engage with these thoughts and redirect or reexamine them. Combating negative thoughts can help you be less affected by makeup shaming.Recognize when you're having a negative thought. For example, you may think something like, "Maybe I am insecure and that's why I wear makeup."
Confront this thought. Think something like, "Even if I am insecure, isn't it good my makeup makes me feel better? Everyone has ways to boost their self-esteem."

, Sometimes, it takes awhile to become confident with yourself and your choices. Ultimately, it may simply take awhile to learn to disregard shaming. Work on being confident in your choices and embracing your love of makeup. With time, you will be less affected by shaming.