 Cut a long piece of paracord and lay it on your working surface. Place the top of the handle over the center of the cut paracord.


You need a piece of paracord that is at least at least four to five times longer than the length of the handle. Any excess cord can be trimmed at the end of the process, so it's better to start with too much than too little.
 Grab the left end of the paracord and cross it over the top of the handle. Slip it under the right end of the cord, drawing it through from the bottom and out from the top.









The two ends should form a loop over the width of the handle. The intersection of this loop should be at the right side of the handle.
 Take the other end (the one you haven't worked with yet) and slide it into the loop from the back. Draw it back through to the left side of the handle.









From the back side of the loop (lying beneath the handle), you will need to slip this end into the bottom of the loop and out through the top. This step will tie the loop in place.
Pull the paracord tight with both ends to tighten the loop in place around the handle.
At the end of this step, the right and left ends of the paracord will have changed places. The end that was previously the left end is now the right end and vice versa.
 Grab the right end of the paracord and cross it over the top of the handle, beneath your previously formed loop. Slip the right end under the left, drawing it through from the bottom and out from the top.









As before, this should create a loose loop. The point of intersection should lie at the left side of the handle this time.
 Take the left end of the cord and pass it underneath the handle of the knife.









Since both ends are on the left at the start of this step, the "left end" refers to the end previously positioned on the left side before you created this current loop.
 Take the end you worked with in the previous step and pass it through the loop around the handle from the right side.









You'll need to insert the end through the loop from bottom to top.
Pull the cord tight to secure the loop in place.
At the end of this step, the two ends will have reversed sides again.
 Repeat the steps used to create the last loop, working with the cord on the left instead of the cord on the right.









Cross the left end over the front of the sheath. Pass it under the right end to create a loop.
Pass the right end behind the handle to the left side, then insert it through the loop at the left side, working from back to front.
Pull both ends to secure the new loop in place.
 Continue making crisscross loops over the knife, keeping them as snug and close together as possible, until you reach the bottom of the handle.









Use the same steps followed to create the previous two loops. Alternate back and forth between the right and left ends.
 Slip both ends through the eyelet at the bottom of the knife.









You thread the ends through the eyelet from the same side, or you can thread them into the eyelet from opposite sides. If you do the latter, knot the ends around the side of the eyelet to help secure the cord.
 Tie the ends of both sides into a tight knot. The resulting loop can be used as a wrist loop.









The completion of this step completes the project.

