 Asthma attacks are caused by triggers. Triggers are different substances or events that cause your airways to become more inflamed, causing an attack. In order to write a detailed action plan, you need to be able to list all your triggers and how much they affect you. As time passes, keep a lookout for any new triggers and add them to your plan. Common triggers can include:


Irritants from cigarette smoke, chemicals in the air, fumes from cleaning and beauty products, and air pollution
Allergens from animal fur, dust, mold, cockroaches, grasses, trees, and flowers
Sickness such as colds and other viral infections of the lungs
Conditions such stress, heartburn (acid reflux), and sleep apnea
Medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and nonselective beta-blockers
Exertion from exercise and other physical activities
Dry or cold air;
, A peak flow meter is a hand-held device that tests how well your lungs are working day to day. You should include a space on the action plan for recording your peak flow rate every day to check if your asthma is getting worse. Talk to your doctor about getting a peak flow meter.


A low measurement on a peak flow meter is an indication that your lungs are not working as well as they should be., When you start to write your action plan, you need all of the relevant information that will help take care of an attack. These relevant facts include:


A list of all the medications you are taking, both long-term and short-term
What your ideal peak flow measurements are, which may be used with moderate to severe asthma patients and will be determined by your doctor.
Names and numbers of emergency contacts, which should include a loved ones, your doctor, and your local hospital, Your asthma action plan requires you to understanding your condition and know your asthma history. The plan is a written document that outlines the steps you need to take in order to deal with your asthma and stop it from getting worse. You need your doctor and respiratory therapist to help you outline the best set of steps to help treat your asthma anywhere you go.


In preparation for your plan, you doctor may have you track your symptoms so you know what triggers you the most and to what extent. Your plan will outline the three levels of urgency when dealing with an asthma attack and give you guidelines on when you need to call your doctor or seek emergency medical attention.If you want a base action plan to start from, you can download one from the American Lung Association.
 The American Lung Association recommends that your action plan be divided into three sections called zones. These zones reflect the severity of your asthma attack. The Green Zone is when you have no problem breathing, you are not coughing or wheezing, and you can go about your daily activities like normal., The second section, called the Yellow Zone, is the zone that you need when you are experiencing some kind of asthma symptoms but not a full on asthma attack. You are in the Yellow Zone if you are coughing, wheezing, and a tight chest. These symptoms may also wake you up at night.


If you find yourself in the Yellow Zone, get away from any triggers, if possible and then take time to breath deep and slow down. This is the time where you might need to take some prescription quick-relief medication.
 The Red Zone, which is the most severe, means you are having an asthma attack. If you are in this zone, you are breathing fast and hard, you can't walk or talk well, and your rescue medication is not working. This is the stage where you may need emergency care if you cannot get your asthma attack under control.


This section should include any rescue medications such as inhaled corticosteroids that are prescribed by your physician.