 If you don’t already have an author website, consider creating a free website to promote your writing. Rather than hire a web designer, use a site like WordPress to build a basic, professional website. You can then update your website with any publication notes, and start a blog on the site to attract more readers.Ensure your website appears clean and is not cluttered with images and text. The text should be in a font that is easy to read and free of any spelling or grammatical errors. Avoid placing a light font on a dark background or a font color that is too close to the background color. Choose a color scheme of one main color and one complimenting color for the text. The text should be the focal point of the website.
Avoid using programs like Flash, animated backgrounds, or music. Users will be turned off if your site takes a long time to load or doesn’t load on a mobile device.
Build an easy to use navigation bar with titles that are clear and to the point. You should have a bio page, a page for publications, a page for your blog (if you want to have one), and a page for general news.;
, If you decide to link a blog to your author website, you will need to commit to updating it weekly with short or long posts. The more you post on your blog, the most traffic you can attract to your site.You may decide to write a blog post about the writing process behind a recent story you completed, or you may review books you are currently readings. If you have had a story published in a journal or magazine, you should write a post about this to promote it to visitors to your site.
 This is a good way to show your stories to other writers who are just starting their writing career, or who are mid career and can provide feedback as well as publishing contacts. Look for writing groups at your local community college or university writing program, or ask other friends or peers interested in writing fiction to start a writing workshop group.


Establish a weekly or bi-monthly meeting time for the writing group. Often, writing groups will ask one to two people to submit their stories for review and they are then workshopped by the group. This will allow you to show your stories to others and improve them for publication.
 Another useful way to get more exposure as a writer is to attend local fiction and poetry readings at venues in your city or town. Look for advertisements for readings at your local coffee shop or the community center board. Most university writing programs put on readings of students’ work once a month at a local venue in an effort to promote new writers.


Try to share your work at these readings so you can showcase your writing and stick around after the readings to introduce yourself to other writers. This could then lead to invitations to other readings, existing writing groups, or invitations to publish your work.

