 The thing that makes stacked eyeliner so striking is its precision. To achieve these crisp, perfect lines, liquid or gel eyeliners work perfectly. While pencil eyeliners are great for everyday lining, it is more difficult to achieve that precise line you want. You can find liquid and gel eyeliners at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store.

If you have pencil eyeliner you want to use for this look, use it for the bottom line, closest to the lash line. Then, use a liquid liner for the top line.
If you are using a gel liner, make sure to pick up a tiny eyeliner brush as well. The bent liner brushes work extremely well for this technique.;
, This technique works best with a light and a dark color, so that you can see the two separate lines distinctly. Unless you're going for a very funky look, think one neutral, and one more "flashy" color. Consider color combinations that look great together, like black and gold, navy and gold, black and red, and so on. You can certainly be creative!, Makeup primer is an important first step for any makeup look. Primer creates a smooth, even base for your makeup, helping it adhere to your skin and stay in place all day. Think of your primer as makeup insurance. It helps your makeup go on perfectly, and keeps it looking flawless all day.You can buy primer specifically for your eyelids at the pharmacy or beauty supply store.
 You really want your stacked eyeliner to steal the show. To make sure it does, minimize any discoloration of your eyelids with a bit of concealer. Dot it across your lid with your fingertip, and then gently rub it in thoroughly.

If your eyelids have no visible discoloration, you can skip this step.
 It’s easiest to use the darker color eyeliner out of the pair you’ve chosen. Black, navy, and dark brown work beautifully for this step. You can create the line as thick or thin as you desire, just remember that you’ll be creating another line on top of it.Begin applying your eyeliner in the center of your lash line. Bring it out towards the outer corner of your lid. Let the line become thicker as you move it outwards.
Then go the opposite way, bringing your liner into your inner corner. As you get closer to the corner, thin out your line.
Create an eyeliner wing or cat eyes from the outer corner. This is optional, but creates a really cool effect when done with stacked eyeliner.
 For this step, you should absolutely use liquid or gel eyeliner. You want this line to be very crisp and precise, and these products will help you achieve that. Carefully, create a line above the first line you just created.The most important aspect of your stacked liner is getting the two lines perfectly layered. Make sure you don’t leave any space between your two eyeliners, and try not to overlap your first liner with your second.
Don’t forget to line the top of your winged liner or cat eyes as well. Only apply your eyeliner to the top of the extension, rather than the entire perimeter.
 It can be hard to apply your eyeliner perfectly, especially the first couple of times you experiment with stacked eyeliner. Luckily, you can clean up any errors after you’ve applied both colors. Dip a small, angled eyeliner brush into makeup remover to even out the top border.Do the same thing on your wings, making sure that they come to a sharp point.

