 Both the girl and the guy should hold each other's hands, almost at eye level. This will provide leverage for the girl to hold onto as she is being moved, and swung. Both partners should be facing each other as their hands hold together., The girl steps back with her right leg. As both partners continue to hold hands, the girl first steps back and then steps forward, into the guy's chest area (about 6 inches away). As the girl does this, she lets go of the guy's hands and wraps her hands around his neck. The girl should maintain a tight grip around the guy's neck, because this will keep her from falling., The guy wraps his hands around the girls hips. As the girl breaks away from holding hands, the guy should immediately place his hands on her hips. Make sure that his hands maintain a tight grip. The guy should try and position the girls hips to his right, because that is where the first swinging motion will take place., The girl lifts her legs up into the air. The girl should kick her legs to the guy's right side. As she does this, the guy maintains his grip on her hips. He swings her back, to his right side, never letting her touch the ground. He then swings her back up, in front of him, holding her in midair., The guy swings her to his left side. As the guy maintains her position in midair in front of him, he then swings her back to his left side. This should all be done without letting her touch the ground. The guy then brings her back up to the midair position again., The guy rests her on the ground. After the guy has the girl in midair, he swings her down beneath his legs. He then, calmly rests her on the ground, trying to not bang her head against the floor. Make sure the guy's stance is wide enough that the girl can slide easily through. She should be laying on the ground, her face looking up at the guy's pants legs., The guy turns his body around. At the resting point, the guy should be able to look down at the girl's face. To do the next step, the guy needs to change positions. The guy should simply turn his body around. Still in the same position, above the girls face, except now he is facing her legs., The girl raises her arms up to the guy's arms. Both partners should hold hands using a thumb handhold (thumbs on tip of one another's). This will form a tight grip for the next flip. The guy should flex his elbows so that there is room to flip the girl upwards., The girl lifts her legs upwards. She then wraps them around the guy's back, crossing her feet. The guy maintains strength in his arms, and tight grip around her hands. The girl's hips should press against the back of the guy's palms, so the guy can maintain the brunt of the weight as he flips her., The guy flips the girl upwards. The guy straightens his back, as the girl comes up in front of him. The partners maintain strong grips with their hands so that the girl does not fall. The guy then lowers the girl to the ground. Both partners bend their knees and lift up again, maintaining a resting position., Especially with the initial side-to-side lift, you want to do that fast, otherwise the guy might lose his balance, or not be able to hold the girl's weight. In the second flip upwards, the guy can hold her midair as long as he likes, before lowering her to the ground. The faster you perform the moves together, the more crisp and professional it will look. Practice slowly first, and then gradually build up your speed.

