 Some Pillow Pets are more designed for travel than others. If you have a Jumbo Pillow Pet, for example, you may want to consider carrying him/her or leaving them at home, but if you have a PeeWee, they can easily squeeze into a suitcase or backpack, and if you have a standard Pillow Pet, it can go either way.


If you have a PeeWee version of the pet you want to take, try taking them along instead. Then you can bring your favorite Pillow Pet in a more compact size!;
, If you don't mind placing him/her in a suitcase, go ahead! But if you want to show them everything that goes on, be prepared to carry him/her, or, depending on his/her size, you may be able to place them in a small carry-on suitcase or a backpack.


Find out how much space they're going to need before you leave. Then you can plan accordingly.
 Going to the beach? Bring a Pillow Pet-sized sunhat. Going up North for the winter? Bring a warm hat for them. If you are having difficulty figuring out what to bring for them, look at your own accessories and mirror off of those.


Don't forget their most favorite possessions. A blanket, a favorite toy, even a small stuffed animal can be a huge comfort to Pillow Pets who are feeling a little homesick.
 This should keep it from getting lost on the way to your destination. Be sure your backpack/carry-on suitcase is zipped up tight to keep things from getting out of it!


If you are putting your Pillow Pet in your backpack/carry-on suitcase, be sure there is room for him/her to fit. If not, move around some things if you can and try again until you get the right fit.
 This is especially good for when you take him/her on an airplane, where there is very little elbow room, as it saves space, or when you have to pack him/her in the car. You only want to unfold them if you plan to sleep on your way to your destination. If this is the case, remember to fold him/her up and tuck them somewhere you can find them and reach them on short notice but also somewhere out of the way of the main hub of activity.


Stowing your Pillow Pets under the seat in front of you on an airplane is likely the best place for them. In a car, they can be placed in the back seat (if you are in the front and there are few people in the back) or on the center console of the car if you are in the back (this is where the drink holder is). Putting it on the center console can add a barrier between you and anyone who is sitting next to you, which can be handy when your sibling wants to pester you.
 Tell him/her where you'll be going, when you will leave and come back, why you are going, how you are going to get there, who you are going with, and what you will do there. This can be especially helpful for Pillow Pets new to traveling.


If your Pillow Pet seems nervous, reassure their worries, but be realistic if you think their worries are of some accuracy. Like, if your Pillow Pet is terrified they'll get left on the airplane or in the hotel, agree that it could happen, but also state that it is very unlikely as you plan to either take them everywhere or make sure they come home with you.
 If you left anything important behind, make sure you go get it BEFORE you leave. This will decrease the stress of the day a little and you will be able to leave whenever you need to.
 Point out sights, landmarks, and interesting things, or show them what you brought to do and invite them to do some of it with you, or reassure them as needed. Give them lots of hugs on the trip as well.


If you have to sleep on your Pillow Pet, do so. They can be very comfortable and will feel like something from home, especially if you are homesick.
 Go to your hotel/bed and breakfast/lodge/cabin/camp/cottage/condo and take them out, and put them on your bed if you don't plan to take them anywhere.
