 You will want to approach someone who you trust and who has the power to help you. This may be a parent, guardian, relative, or family friend. Choose a person who you know will keep your personal information private. The person that you ask will also need to have the money to purchase a bra for you or the ability to take you out shopping.


If you are uncertain about who to ask, it may help to write down a quick list of potential people. Then, try to assess the pros and cons of approaching each person on your list. For example, next to “Dad” you might write, “I trust him the most,” but, “I’m not sure he’d be comfortable talking about this.”;
, Sit in front of a mirror and walk through a mock conversation in which you ask for a bra. You can do both sides of the dialogue. Or, you can get a trusted friend to practice with you. This will better prepare you to accept counterarguments and to stay calm.
 Don’t pick a time when the person is particularly rushed or stressed. They will be less likely to listen to your request and give you a positive answer. Instead, find a time when they are relaxed and in a good mood. If you are talking with a parent, perhaps after dinner would be a good idea.
 To have their undivided attention, it is best if you talk with them when no one else is around. This will also ensure that whatever you have to say will stay private. Maybe mention something when you are both in the car. Or, perhaps try to get their attention right before you head to bed., If you are not quite ready to have a full conversation, you could briefly mention your request a few times over the course of a couple of weeks. Perhaps talk about how you will need some new clothing items for school? Or, you could talk about how a friend of yours just got her first bra. Keep it casual to see how your listener will react.


You might say, “I’ve been thinking that I might need some new sports clothes for gym class.” Then, you can bring up the idea of getting a sports bra and a regular one too.
 Many women have been exactly where you are and they were probably nervous too. This is a very common occurrence and can actually be an exciting time if you see it as another entry point into your teen years. If you are asking another woman for a bra, such as your mom, you might ask her about her first bra shopping experience., If your nerves seem to get the best of you, take a few minutes and think about a time when you were afraid and pushed through your fears. Tell yourself, “I did it then and I can do it now.” Just keep repeating this until you get up the courage to ask.