 If you have minor grass allergies, then you may just need an over-the-counter allergy medication to control the symptoms. Over the counter medications can control itchy and runny noses, coughing, and irritated eyes.Medications available over-the-counter for allergies include antihistamines and decongestants.
There are a wide variety of medications available, so consider discussing your symptoms with the pharmacist at your local drug store. For example, say to your pharmacist "I am having severe grass allergies that are making my nose run and giving me a headache. Could you recommend an over-the-counter medication that could help with these symptoms?" They should be able to suggest a product that will help control your specific symptoms.;
, If you have allergies that cannot be controlled by over-the-counter medication, your doctor should be able to assess your symptoms in order to give you a specific diagnosis and in order to give you effective treatment.Tell your doctor about all of your symptoms and when they have occurred. Tell them "I have had a runny nose, a cough, and a headache on and off for two weeks." This can help the doctor figure out your allergies.
Your doctor may suggest that you go to an allergy specialist called an allergist for a more thorough diagnosis involving skin-scratch or skin-prick tests.
 Your doctor may want to do allergy testing on you to figure out exactly what you are allergic to. For seasonal allergies, allergy testing on the skin is usually done. This type of testing entails small pricks to the skin that include suspected allergens. If you are allergic to the allergen, your skin will react by getting red and swollen.Allergy testing may show that you are allergic to more than one substance. It can also show the degree to which you are allergic to specific substances.
There are many types of grass that you may be allergic to. Have your doctor test for several types, so that you can understand your specific allergy more thoroughly., If your doctor finds that you have a specific allergy, they can tailor the medications they prescribe for you. In cases of severe allergies, your doctor may prescribe more than one medication.


Prescription medications that can help with allergies include antihistamines, decongestants, corticosteroids, leukotriene inhibitors, and allergy shots.