 In order to make an online request for a service person’s DD214, you must be either a veteran requesting your own records or a deceased veteran’s next of kin, including:


The surviving spouse who has not remarried.
The veteran’s father or mother.
The veteran’s children.
The veteran’s siblings.;
, You can begin the online request process by accessing the veteran’s online record request system (eVetRecs) at https://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records/index.html and clicking on the “Submit your request ONLINE with eVetRecs” hyperlink.
 Once you select the hyperlink, you will be redirected to a page asking for identifying information. You can provide your answers by selecting the appropriate response from the drop down menus. The information requested includes:


Are you the :? Your answer can be next of kin of deceased veteran or veteran.
What is your relationship to the deceased veteran? If you chose veteran in response to the first question, the answer will pre-fill as “not applicable.” If you chose next of kin, you will be given the following options: un-remarried surviving spouse; father; mother; son, daughter, sister, brother.
Are you seeking information concerning:? Your can answer either “former military service” or “current military service.”
If you meet all of the requirements above, the system will give you the option to continue. If you do not meet the requirements, will be instructed to complete form SF-180.
SF-180 is the standard, hard copy form that is used to request military records. You can use this form if you do not meet the requestor requirements for the online system, discussed above, or if you prefer to a paper request form, as discussed below., After selecting the continue button, you will be prompted with five questions regarding the veteran’s service information. You must provide the following information:


Veteran’s branch of service.
Veteran’s service component (either active or reserve).
Whether the veteran was an officer or enlisted.
The reason for your request. There is a drop down menu that gives the following options: benefits; employment; medical; retirement; military awards/decorations; correction of records; personal military history; genealogy; or decline to disclose.
Lastly, depending on your above choice, you may be prompted to provide additional information., After providing general information about the veteran, you will be prompted with a continue button. This will redirect you to another request for information, this time for specific identifying information about the veteran. This information is used by the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) to locate the DD214. You will be asked to provide the following information:


Veteran’s full name used while in service.
Veteran’s social security number and military service number.
Veteran’s branch of service and approximate dates of service.
Veteran’s city and state of birth., Once you have completed your online request, you must print and sign the request form and submit it by mail or fax.


If you are submitting your request by mail, send the form to: National Personnel Records Center, Military Personnel Records, 1 Archives Drive, St. Louis, MO 63138.
You can fax your request to: 314-801-9195.
If you are requesting records as the next of kin, you are required to provide proof of the veteran’s death such as a death certificate, letter from the funeral home, or a published obituary., It may take NPRC anywhere from 10 days to 6 months depending on the complexity of your request.


You can make a follow-up request after 90 days.
You can check the status of your request by contacting the NPRC at 314-801-0800.