 Fur is an investment piece, especially if you’re buying new. Even an inexpensive new fur can cost thousands of dollars. If you don’t want to spend that much money, that doesn’t mean you can’t buy a fur coat. Vintage and faux furs are both readily available at lower price points.


Check online for good deals, but watch out for scams. If it’s too good to be true, don’t believe it.
Try to visit sample sales if you can. This is not an option for everyone, but they can be a great place to buy a fur if you’re able to attend one.;
, Fur is a great option for staying warm, but if you live in an area with mild winters, you may realize that your fur is too warm. You can find lighter coats made out minks or broadtails, but heavier coats made from foxes, raccoons, and coyotes may be too warm.Look for coats that are made to be lighter. Mink coats can still be warm. You may also find a lighter fur in another animal, such as rabbit.
 You can find furs made from many different animals, though minks, rabbits, foxes, raccoons, chinchillas, beavers, coyotes, and lambs are the most commonly thought of. Unless you’re looking for something that’s rare or exotic, most of your choices will be from one of these animals. Each one is different.


Mink fur is shorter, coarser, insulating, shiny, and easily colored.
Rabbit fur is fine, silky, affordable, and easily colored.
Fox fur is plush, thick, and soft. Most fox fur coats will be cognac or white-grey in color.
Raccoon fur is plush, thick, and soft like a fox, but it’s color is usually the ombre grey of a raccoon.
Chinchilla fur is very soft, but expensive and rare. It’s usually a grey or bluish color.Beaver coats can be long and luxurious or cropped and colored. The fur is very versatile.
Coyote fur is durable, short, and dense. The colors range from creamy tan to grey.
Lamb coats are available both is light textures such as the broadtail or in thicker, curlier textures that are very warm, such as the Mongolian lambs., Some furs like those of a fox or coyote can trigger allergies in people who are allergic to dogs since foxes and coyotes are part of the canine family. Additionally, you may find yourself sneezing around a fluffy rabbit coat. If your allergies are mild, you may be able to choose a short-haired coat instead, such as a nice mink.
 Coats come in various colors and lengths, so consider the look you want. Since furs are an investment piece, it’s important to know if you want a classic or trendy look.


Consider your coloring. Know what looks good on your skin tone. A coat that makes your best friend look like a screen queen could make you look washed-out.
Decide if you’d prefer a natural or dyed color.
Know the length you want. If you plan to wear your coat to work, you may want a shorter length; however, if you plan to wear it as eveningwear, then choose a longer coat.
Consider your size and the volume of the fur.
 Because the animals are small, many coats will be made from partial skins; however, how many partial pieces were used is also important. Full skins will cost much more, so budget for the added expense if that’s your preference., Your coat should fit comfortably and feel light on your shoulders. Leave enough room to wear your clothes under it, so consider the thickness of what you’ll wear when you purchase the coat.


For example, a coat meant for warmth should be large enough to fit over sweaters, while an evening coat can be more fitted.
Look at where the natural markings on the fur fall to make sure that you like how it looks on you. The markings may look great while the coat’s on the hanger but strange when it’s on your body.