 The ideal winter hat will keep your head warm while you are outdoors but, depending on the activity, prevent it from getting too hot. For most activities, a simple wool cap that covers your ears should suffice. If you are doing more strenuous activities, you might consider a winter headband that allows heat to escape from the top of your head while keeping your ears warm.Ear muffs are also a great choice if you want to keep your ears warm but prevent the rest of your head from overheating.
If you want to keep your neck and face warm, you should consider a scarf. You can wrap it around your neck and pull it over your face if it gets too cold.
Ultimately, you might want a number of winter caps. You might want to consider a thick cap for walking around in the snow and a light cap for running, snowshoeing, or doing other high-energy activities.
 Protecting your hands is essential to enjoying the outdoors during winter. Proper gloves will keep you from getting too cold or developing frostbite. If you are walking around or ice skating, you may want a thicker glove made from wool. For playing in the snow, skiing, or snowshoeing, you will want a thicker glove that is also waterproof. Depending on the activity, you may also want a glove that affords you some dexterity to use your phone or manipulate things with your fingers.Ultimately, you may want to have different gloves depending on the activity., A warm winter coat is essential to enjoying the outdoors during winter. In general, you will want a thick insulated coat.However, if you are going to be more active, you may opt for lighter clothing that helps you stay warm but keeps you from overheating.In addition, layering can also help you stay warm by creating pockets of warm air and preventing moisture from seeping in.Consider investing in at least two winter coats, a heavier one for general use and a lighter coat for any strenuous outdoor activities.
A down-filled puffer coat is great for staying warm. However, it is not a great option if you are going to be doing anything active because you can easily get overheated. Also, down absorbs moisture and loses much of its warmth if exposed to humidity.If you are going to be active outdoors, you might want to consider a ski coat that offers water-resistance and helps keep you cool.
 Depending on the activity, there are a number of things to consider when looking for a good winter boot. Generally, you want a boot that is insulated and waterproof. If your feet get wet and cold, you will quickly cool down and you run the risk of hypothermia. If you are doing any snowshoeing or playing in the snow, you might want to consider a waterproof boot that gives you a little more flexibility.Finally, skiing, snowboarding, and skating all have their own footwear with special considerations.


Be sure to talk with a sales representative when you buy any boots for skiing or snowboarding. They will help you get the appropriate boots.
 A good pair of socks helps keep your feet warm and dry. For brief excursions outdoors, wear a thicker sock that traps more warm air and keeps your foot insulated. If you are going to spend an extended period outdoors, you should wear two to three layers of socks to keep your feet warm and dry.When layering socks, you might want to start with a lightweight wicking sock, covered by a lightweight wool sock, with a medium wool sock on top. This combination will keep your feet warm while wicking away moisture.
 Depending on the activity, you will need to consider other pieces of equipment or clothing. If you are skiing or snowboarding, you will need to find skis or a snowboard that are the right size. You will also need goggles to protect your eyes from ice and glare and a sturdy helmet to protect your head. If you are on the ice, you may want ice grabbers to attach to the bottoms of your boots. Make sure that you know what equipment you will need to perform the specific outdoor activity.


A sales associate at a local sporting goods or outdoor store should be able to help you find the gear that will work best for your outdoor adventures.

