 In addition to copious amounts of fruits and veggies, you should also eat plenty of protein everyday. While specific daily requirements vary based on gender, age, and weight, it will likely be advantageous to increase your current protein intake, as long as it comes from healthy sources. In fact, replacing red meat with fish is a great way to keep protein consumption up, reduce the risk of stroke, and get healthy nutrients.Shoot for at least two portions of fish per week, ideally mackerel, sardines, trout, or salmon.
Consistency is especially important with protein intake. If you don't eat much meat, make sure you're eating plenty of nuts, beans, and/or Greek Yogurt on days you don't eat fish. Other healthy sources of protein include tempeh, tofu, and textured veggie protein, and more.
The saturated fats in red meat can raise your cholesterol, increasing your risk of heart complications such as stroke. Limit red meat consumption to once or twice per week at most, and choose lean cuts. If you’re making a stew or other type of mixed entree, use more beans and lentils than meat.
 A high-fiber diet will help reduce the cholesterol levels in your blood. You’ll get a good amount of fiber from vegetables, but you should also eat some whole grain every day. Examples include cereals and breads with whole grains listed as the primary ingredient, brown rice, and whole grain couscous.An especially heart-healthy dish is an whole grain and veggie medley, such as whole grain quinoa with broccoli and kale.
Oatmeal Oatmeal is one of the best foods for lowering bad cholesterol., Increasing your magnesium intake is likely to immediately reduce your risk of having a stroke. Adult females need 320mg per day, while males need 420mg. Most people do not meet these recommended values.Supplements don’t work as well, so get your magnesium from food. Fortunately, those foods high in magnesium are generally very healthy for you.
Fish is the ideal source, especially salmon and trout. Dark, leafy greens, colorful veggies, nuts, seeds, and whole grains provide magnesium as well. Try mixing these sources, especially flaxseed, into any of the dishes you regularly cook.

