 Pour the aloe vera gel and water into a spray bottle, and shake it to mix. In a separate container, combine the coconut oil and the avocado oil. Add the oil mixture into the spray bottle, and shake it to mix it again. Apply the conditioner to damp hair.1 ounce (30 grams) coconut oil
1 teaspoon avocado oil
2 ounces (60 milliliters) aloe vera gel
⅓ cup (80 milliliters) distilled water

, Combine all of the ingredients listed below into a spray bottle, preferably a glass one. Close the bottle and shake it to combine the ingredients. Apply the conditioner to damp hair; you will need to shake the bottle before each use.1½ cups (350 milliliters) aloe vera juice
2 cups (475 milliliters) coconut water
2 teaspoons jojoba oil

, Melt the shea butter first, then stir it into the coconut milk. Mix in the jojoba oil and the lavender essential oil. Pour the mixture into a glass spray bottle. Warm the conditioner up before applying it to your hair. This conditioner may also help stimulate growth and scalp sooth irritations.½ cup (120 milliliters) coconut milk
3 teaspoons shea butter
2 teaspoons jojoba oil
5 drops lavender essential oil

, Pour the ingredients from the list below into a glass spray bottle, then shake it until the aloe vera gel dissolves. Spray the detangler onto damp hair, wait 1 minute, then gently brush your hair.This may also help relieve dandruff and dryness as well.

5 tablespoons (75 milliliters) distilled water
1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) aloe vera gel
½ to 1 tablespoon (7.5 to 15 milliliters) vegetable glycerin
10 drops rosemary or lavender essential oil

, Pour the distilled water into an 8-ounce (240-milliliter) glass spray bottle. Add the apple cider vinegar and the lemon essential oil. Close the bottle and shake it to combine the ingredients. Spray the conditioner onto damp hair to detangle it, remove build-up, and add shine.⅔ cup (160 milliliters) distilled water
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
7 drops lemon essential oil

, Mix together the aloe vera and coconut water in a glass spray bottle. Stir in the distilled water and the honey. Melt the coconut oil in a separate jar, then stir in the ylang-ylang oil and essential oil. Stir the oil mixture into the aloe vera mixture.2 teaspoons aloe vera juice or gel
2 teaspoons coconut water
4 ounces (120 milliliters) distilled water
2 teaspoons honey
2 teaspoons coconut oil
2 teaspoons ylang-ylang oil
6 drops essential oil

