 In the Catholic faith, Mass is very important. You may attend on Saturday evening or Sunday night (main days to go). However, many churches also have services during the week.


When you go to Mass, make sure you know all the responses. For example, at the start of the service, the priest will say, "The Lord be with you!" You must reply, "And with your spirit."
Get involved in the Mass! There are many ways to help out, like reading, being an altar server, or collecting during offertory.
Make sure you dress appropriately for Mass. No jeans or sneakers. Girls should dress modestly, avoiding low-cut tops and short skirts. Boys should wear dress pants and a nice collared shirt.;
, There is communion at every Mass because the Eucharist is the center of the Catholic faith. Before you go to receive Communion, you must realize and believe that it is the full body, blood, soul, and divinity of Jesus Christ.


Go up when it is your pew's turn. You can receive the Eucharistic wafer in cupped hands or right on your tongue. Bow your head and say "Amen." Next to the priest, there should be a Eucharistic minister holding the chalice. Taking the chalice is optional, but if you do take it, you must still say "Amen."
Go back to your pew quietly and pray afterward. Some Catholics thank God for being in their presence, but you can pray for certain people or other such intentions. The point of the time after Communion is to reflect on the presence of God within each of us. Say whatever prayer you want; it is your own personal prayer time.
Remember that it is gravely wrong to receive Holy Communion with a mortal sin (grave offence against the law of God) on your soul. You must go to Confession if you are aware of having committed a mortal sin.
 The sacrament of Confession is just as important as the the sacrament of Holy Communion. Familiarize yourself with its basic outline, and what you are expected to do and say during Confession. There are many excellent online resources for help with examining your conscience, making an Act of Contrition, etc.. Most churches offer Confession Saturday afternoons, or any time upon request.
 Mary is without a doubt the greatest saint to whom we can have recourse. When she said yes to God's wish to make her the mother of His son, she said yes to Jesus, making her the very first Christian. She embodies the virtues of love, compassion, mercy, and countless others. She is truly our heavenly mother. No one in heaven knows God as intimately as she does, and you would greatly benefit from praying to her on a daily basis.
 Catholics are serious about prayer, so make sure you bow your head a few times a day and have a conversation with Jesus.
 You should ask your local church what you can do to help out. There should be much to do, even if it is something small. Do it!

, As a teen, it can be very difficult to hold fast to sexual morality, but the Catholic faith emphasizes the importance of saving sex for marriage, as God intended. In addition to simply abstaining from sexual acts outside of marriage, being chaste also means keeping your thoughts pure. Things like pornography and masturbation prevent us from honoring our bodies as temples of the Holy Spirit.


Jason and Crystalina Evert are husband and wife speakers who give talks to teens all over the world on the importance of purity. Drawing from their Catholic faith, they offer a unique perspective on chastity and pure love. They have written several books on chastity for teens, which are available in many Christian bookstores, and they have a website, Chastity.com, with resources for young Catholics pursuing a chaste lifestyle.
 If your parish has one, join! It is a great way to grow in your faith and meet other Catholic teens. Some youth groups offer monthly volunteering opportunities, or service projects. Others offer retreats for teens that will hopefully build up your relation with God. Youth group can help you to become involved with your church.
 The Church strongly opposes the destruction of human life through abortion because it undermines the preciousness of God's gift of life, however, it does not oblige its followers to be pro-life. Follow your opinions. Participating in pro-life activities with your church can provide you with a stronger sense of God's love for all His children.


Consider taking part in March for Life. The March for Life is an annual meeting and march in Washington, D.C. where tens of thousands of pro-lifers protest against abortion. Beginning with a powerful youth rally and mass at the Verizon Center and concluding with the protest march to the Supreme Court, the March for Life can be a great experience. Consider encouraging your church's youth group to take part!
Organize drives and fundraisers for your church's single expecting mothers. Raising a child alone can be difficult, and so, helping single mothers with the expenses can help them to realize that they are not alone.

