

This model comes with 6GB RAM, type DDR3L SDRAM.
The operating speed is 1600 Mhz.
The maximum RAM for this model is 16GB.
There are two card slots available; try to use both equally for optimal performance.
If you are unsure which cards to purchase, ask an employee or do more research on your model.;
, You will be working with small delicate parts, so create a clean work space. 2' x 2' should be plenty.


Get an electronics screwdriver, too (any precision screwdriver will work)

,


Power off.
Remove anything connected to the input ports. (Charger, USB, HDMI, etc.)
Remove the battery.



Remove the two screws from the panel.
Slide the panel in a downward direction.
When the panel comes to a stop, pull it from the device.



You're working with delicate electronic parts, and you may be carrying a static charge. Remove this possibility by touching something metal.
The cards are held in place by a pair of clips; they are located at the edges of each card.
Gently slide the two clips away from the card you're removing.



Once clear of the clips, the card will rise away from the device at an angle. It is now loose and may be pulled away from it's holder.
Repeat the same steps to remove the second RAM card.



Do not touch the gold edge on either RAM card. These components are sensitive and may be damaged by oils on the human hand. It's a good idea to hold the cards as shown in the picture.
It is best to hold the card by the edges on the sides.
Take note of the small notch in the RAM card; this will line up with the holder.
Gently line up the new card and slide it into its holder. The card will be at the same angle as the original cards during their removal.
Carefully press the card down until it is horizontal and the clips engage, holding it in place.
Repeat these steps to install the second RAM card.


Line up the panel with it's opening, offset just under it.
Slide the panel in an upward direction until it fully covers the opening.
Replace both screws that were removed at the beginning of the task.



Power on the device.






Go to "Control Panel".






Go to "System and Security".






Go to "System".






Confirm that your system is reading the correct amount of RAM.
 The parts you've been handling are sensitive, static charge or contact with the gold pins can damage them. With that in mind, there isn't much you can do if the new cards have been damaged. If you want to check them for damage, try two things:

First, check that both cards are fully installed. The clips can sometimes engage even when the card isn't fully in place.
Second, reinstall the original RAM cards. We know they worked before removing them.
If they work once they're reinstalled, than you know the new cards are likely damaged.
If they fail once they're reinstalled, there is likely a larger problem at hand. If this is the case, its best to take the matter to a professional.

