 It doesn’t need to be freshly washed. As you need it to hold curls and pins, you might even find that it helps if it’s a day or two after being washed. Keep in mind that you’ll want your hair to have volume, so if it’s oily and flat, you may want to either dry it out with a spray shampoo, or, if you do end up washing and drying it, use a volumizing spray.
 Using a comb, mark out a straight side part and comb your hair so that it falls neatly on either side of the part.
 This will really depend upon how much hair you have. Maintaining the side part, use a comb and hair clips to section off your hair in a way that facilitates the most curls. The more curls, the better!

, Starting with the back, bottom sections of your hair, go around your head with a 1- or 1.5-inch curling iron or wand and curl roughly 1- to 2-inch sections of hair, alternating between curling your hair towards and away from your face.
 If you have shorter bangs, you’ll simply brush them sideways towards the larger side of your parted hair. What you do will depend on the length of your hair/bangs, but ultimately you want to try to incorporate them into the rest of your hair on the larger side part.
 This will help to break up the curls and make them look a bit more like soft curls/a natural wave.


If you find that your hair looks frizzy, add a small amount of shine serum to your hands before running your fingers through your hair.
 To make a more voluminous-looking bob, tease your hair lightly. This will also help bring it up a bit more if it’s quite long. To tease your hair, gently hold a chunk of your hair above your head (being careful not to ruin the curl) and back-comb it (brush it downwards, from the end towards your scalp) with a teasing brush.


You can also tease your hair with a fine-toothed comb, but some stylists say that this is more damaging than using a proper teasing brush.
 Once all of your hair is curled, spray it with a hairspray that boasts a strong and flexible hold. If your bangs are shorter, you may find it helpful to give them an extra spritz of hairspray to hold them in place once you’ve brushed them to the side.


Spray waxes are also great for maintaining hold and flexibility, and are less likely to become flakey and white if you overdo it. (Although if you put too much spray wax on, you’re like to have oily-looking, heavy hair.)

, Take a triangular section of hair at the nape of your neck, with the tip of the triangle pointing up away from your neck (the larger base at the nape of your neck). Tease your hair before wrapping it into a messy bun, securing it with bobby pins., Section the top part of your hair away, and begin with the lower part, tucking your curls in loosely to the bun at the nape of your neck. Repeat until that section is done, then start on the top section, leaving shorter layers out and pinning longer ones into the bottom of the bun.
 Finish off the look by leaving out your shorter layers as well as the hair at the very front of your head, which frames your face. You will achieve the best results if you have layered hair, but if you don’t, it just means you’ll have a longer (but still lovely) looking bob! Once you're happy with how it looks, you can either leave it as-is, or plump it up a bit more with a teasing comb and give it one final spritz with hairspray.

