 NOAA has five regional offices that issue and administer permits to fish in those waters. Your regional office will have information on permit requirements and how to maintain your permit once it is issued.The five regional offices cover the Alaska, Greater Atlantic, Pacific Islands, Southeast, and West Coast regions.
If you're fishing on the high seas, you'll need a high seas permit in addition to permits for any regions where you plan to fish.
For example, if you're fishing in the Pacific Ocean, you potentially would need permits for the West Coast Region, the Alaska Region, and the Pacific Islands region as well as a High Seas permit.
Fishing in the Alaska Region also may require your vessel to be listed under other treaties or compacts to give you permission to fish in Canadian or Russian waters.
If you contact the nearest regional office and explain where you are fishing, they can let you know which permits you'll need.;
, NOAA offers web access for many of the forms and permit applications you will need to obtain and maintain your commercial fishing permit. In addition to national forms, there also are region-specific forms available.Some of these forms are fillable PDFs, while others are web-based forms that you can complete and transmit online.
Forms that are not conducive to online transmission may be available to download and print.
The forms portal also has contact emails for each of the regional offices and individuals within those offices who handle specific types of applications.
 The forms you need depend on where you intend to fish and the kinds of fish you intend to catch. If you're fishing on the high seas and crossing through several regions, you may need to get permits for each region.The best way to be sure you're getting all the permits you need is to talk to someone in your nearest regional office and tell them about your commercial fishing operation.
While permits are required to take some types of fish, this doesn't mean that if you don't get a permit for a type of fish you aren't allowed to take it. Fish other than those you're primarily targeting may end up in your nets, but your allowable catch numbers will be different.
Keep in mind that fishing in an area without the proper permits can result in stiff fines as well as possible jail time.
 All forms must be filled out completely with information about your fishing vessel, its ownership, the types of fish you're taking, and your fishing methods. Some sections may require you to submit additional documentation.The main form you'll need to fill out is an application for a Federal Fisheries Permit (FFP). Although each region has its own FFP application, the information you must provide is the same for all. However, the types of fish listed on each region's FFP will be different.
You must be a U.S. citizen to get an FFP in any region.
Include information about your vessel, including the complete name of the vessel and the name, address, and phone number of the owner. If there is more than one owner, list the principal owner first.
You also will need to include the home port of your vessel, its U.S. Coast Guard documentation number, and other registration numbers. Write the overall length and registered length in feet, and attach a color photograph of the vessel to your application.
The application also requires information about the types of gear you have on board your vessel and the fish you intend to take using that gear.
 Your permit application and supporting documentation must be sent to the NOAA regional office that administers permits for those waters, along with the required fees. Applications for multiple regions must be sent to each separate office.Typically you must either submit your application online or mail it using U.S. mail. Most regional offices permit the use of express mail if you want to get your application there sooner.
Your application must be accompanied by the appropriate fee, which will differ depending on the type of permit you seek. For example, the fee for a high seas permit is $129.
If you're mailing your application, pay your fee with a check or money order made payable to the U.S. Department of Commerce – NOAA. You can use a credit or debit card for online submissions.
Your permit will be active for between one and three years from the date of issuance, depending on the type of permit it is.
 The appropriate regional office will send you the official logbook for that year within two weeks after your permit is issued. If you don't receive the correct logbook within that period, you must contact the regional office responsible for issuing your permit.Logbooks for the upcoming year are sent out to permit holders each December.
If you have more than one permit, you may have several logbooks that must be used for each permit. Label your logbooks carefully and make sure you're entering the correct information in the correct logbook.
You also will receive supplies including envelopes for mailing logbook entries and reports back to the regional office.
 When you go on a fishing trip, use the logbook to promptly record the number of fish of each type that you catch and the gear used to catch those fish.You must log all species of fish that you catch. If a particular species of fish isn't listed, there are blank spaces towards the bottom of the logbook page and the report form that you can use to log and report those fish.
 Each time you go on a fishing trip, you must complete a trip report recording the fish you caught and sold, the price for which you sold those fish, and the gear you used to catch them..The top part of your trip report requires you to enter your vessel name, identifying numbers, and information about your trip, including when you started and finished, how many days you were at sea, and the number of people on your crew.
In addition to the basic trip reports, a percentage of permit holders are selected at random to report economic information regarding the trip expenses and payment. This information can be entered on the same form as your trip report.
The gear section includes information on each type of gear, including traps, longline, gill net, and reels. You must list the number of traps or lines used, the number of hooks per line (in the case of long lines or reels), and the total hours fished.
 Each trip report must be filed with the regional office within seven days. If you don't go on any fishing trips for an entire month, you must fill out and submit a "no fishing" activity form within seven days following the end of the month.All reports should be sent to the same address for your regional office. You may be provided with pre-addressed envelopes for this purpose.
You can contact the regional office's logbook program at any time to confirm that your logbooks and reports are up to date with the office.
If you need the catch history for your vessel, you can fill out a catch history request form and submit it to your regional office. You will receive a report that summarizes the catch history of your vessel under that permit.
 Since logbook entries and reports are the main reason renewal permits may be delayed, make sure you've submitted the required documentation and logbooks up to the month you file your renewal application.You can call the logbook program number at the appropriate office to verify your records.
If you're missing any reports or failed to submit logbook entries, take care of those deficiencies before you file your renewal application.
 The appropriate regional office typically will mail you a renewal package within two months of the date your permit is set to expire. If you don't receive a renewal package, you are responsible for getting the forms yourself from the regional office.Keep track of your permit expiration dates and contact the regional office if a permit is set to expire within a month and you've not yet received a renewal package.
Keep in mind that renewal packages are sent to the mailing address on your permit application. You need to keep this address up to date and can file an address change form if necessary. However, if that address is no longer valid, you may have to pick up a renewal application in person from the regional office.
 The renewal application must be completed in full, even though it typically asks for information that may be exactly the same as the information on your original application.The information you enter on your renewal application must be accurate as of the date on the renewal application.
In addition to the application with your complete signature, you must include a check or money order for the appropriate amount of fees and your vessel's U.S. Coast Guard Certificate of Documentation or state registration.
If the required fees aren't listed on your application, you can find out how much you must pay by contacting the appropriate regional office.
 While some types of permits can be renewed after they've expired, getting your permit renewed before the expiration date ensures you can continue your commercial fishing business without interruption.You may mail your renewal application or use overnight delivery services. You also can take it in personally. However, keep in mind that applications are processed in the order in which they are received, so getting it there more quickly doesn't necessarily guarantee that it will be processed immediately.
Keep in mind that even if you send in your renewal application before the date your old permit is set to expire, it may not be processed by that expiration date.
If your permit expires, you are not allowed to engage in commercial fishing until a renewal or new permit has been issued.
Letting your permit expire can result in a longer processing time for your application.

