 Before you even begin the application process, take some time to analyze your readiness to take on the commitment required for graduate education. Completing a graduate degree will take multiple (and perhaps many) years, can cost significant amounts of money (even with grants, fellowships, assistantships, etc.), and will either delay or interrupt your time in the workforce.Don’t just say to yourself “Well, I’m not sure what I want to do after undergrad, and I like history, so I guess I’ll try going to graduate school for that.” Take time to seriously consider the time and monetary commitments, the potential benefits (or even drawbacks) vis-a-vis your career prospects, the impacts upon your personal life, and so on.
Graduate school isn’t just about “really liking” a subject. It’s about dedicating yourself to rigorous study and advanced mastery of some element of that subject. It’s hard work, and it isn’t always fun, but it can be very rewarding — financially, personally, and otherwise.
Talk to professors or people you know who have gone to graduate school. Look into the job prospects and the “return on investment” of a graduate degree in your field.
 There is no one-size-fits-all answer to when it is right to go to graduate school. For many people, it makes more sense to continue straight through and complete a graduate degree before starting (or re-starting) their careers. For others, financial, personal, or other reasons make a delay more practical and advisable.


If you have an established career plan in mind, and don’t have any impediments in your way, it’s probably best to continue straight through from undergrad.
Don’t feel as though you’re at a significant disadvantage if you’ve been in the workforce for several years, however. Many graduate programs will appreciate the real-world experience you have to offer, especially if you craft your application materials to emphasize this as a strength. Also, many business- or technology-oriented graduate programs in particular are constructed with workers seeking to advance their careers in mind., No one has the time or mental stamina to apply to every potentially suitable graduate program. You have to be choosy, and use the factors — from finances to proximity to specific faculty members — that are most relevant to you. The same is true when it comes to deciding between multiple offers for admission.


When choosing where to apply, take time to write down your goals (career and personal), your career, financial, and individual circumstances, and your current strengths and weaknesses. Talk to people you trust, and to people at the schools you’re considering. Visit if possible. Gather as much information as you can.If multiple approvals arrive, visit the schools you were accepted to and get a real feel of what the campus is like. Talk to current students, walk around the area, ask questions, and trust your instincts. If more than one school looks good to you, it's time for more lists. Once again, give each school a separate page and create detailed comparisons of pros and cons.

Plan for Graduate School provides a lot of good information on choosing where to apply and where to accept.
 Ideally, you’ll automatically be given funding support upon your approval to a program. Even if this is the case (and especially if it isn’t), look into external fellowships, grants, and loans to help ease your financial burden. The program can probably provide you with some helpful information, but do your own homework as well. Pay for Graduate School might be a good place for you to start.


You might also be moving, so things like finding and furnishing an apartment may need to be part of your preparations.
Don’t spend the couple of months between graduation and the start of graduate school just sitting on the couch. Contact your new professors, see if there are any reading lists you can get started with, make sure you have filled out all necessary paperwork, learn your way around campus, find the best places to study (and unwind), and so on.
If you weren’t accepted to any of your chosen programs, take some time to consider whether you should try again next year or choose a different track. If you were accepted only at a school you were “on the fence” about, decide whether you should accept there or wait and try again at your preferred choice(s).

