 Dozens of Native American tribes and other cultures have their own smudging ceremonies, and each one has its own traditions concerning which plants to use. Sage is probably the most common choice, and is especially important for the Cheyenne and other Great Plains cultures. While many cultures consider white sage to be excellent at driving away bad spirits or energies, other varieties are commonly used as well.;
, Cedar is another plant often burned in cleansing ceremonies, especially in the Pacific Northwest or Canada. Note that some trees referred to as "cedars" are actually juniper trees, which some tribes use in smudging and some do not.While many people now mix multiple herbs together, the practice is not supported by some Native American elders.Again, there are many different smudging ceremonies, and some of them may call for sweetgrass or a different plant instead of sage or cedar. Follow this advice to perform an effective and respectful ceremony if you have not been taught a specific culture's tradition.
 Sweetgrass, or holy grass, is a sacred plant across North America, and is often considered to represent kindness and please spirits.It is sometimes burned after the sage or cedar have cleared away negative energy.


If you have been taught a specific tribe's tradition that uses sweetgrass in the main ceremony, feel free to use it, or any other plant that tribe allows.
 While tobacco can be added to the smudging ceremony, stick to one herb if this is your first time smudging. Instead, use tobacco as an offering before you harvest a different herb.See below for more information.
 If you can, harvest these plants yourself as described in the sub-steps, preferably in as natural an environment as possible. Otherwise, obtain them from a Native American shop in person or online, to ensure the plants were treated appropriately.


Before picking the plant, many tribes thank the Creator or nature, then place or burn natural, raw tobacco as an offering.
Harvest the correct part of the cedar tree. Pick branches at eye level with green tips. Dry them and crush them into a rough powder before burning.You should not harvest sweetgrass yourself, as it is endangered in some areas.Sweetgrass is usually dried and braided before use, so try to find sustainably harvested sweetgrass braids from a Native American shop or online store., Clay or stone bowls are commonly used in smudging rituals. Abalone shells are another common container, but be aware that some Pacific Northwest tribes believe they are not appropriate for this ritual.


Bundles of herbs, called "smudge sticks", can be made yourself or purchased pre-bundled. Some Native American elders question how traditional smudge sticks are, but they are now used even by many Native Americans., Many people use a feather or fan of feathers to waft the smoke during a smudging ceremony. In the US, eagle and hawk feathers are illegal to possess unless you belong to certain native tribes.Turkey feathers are legal, and traditionally used by some tribes in eastern North America. Do not use owl feathers, as these have different ritual purposes.It is illegal to buy wild feathers in the United States.Purchase cruelty-free feathers from farm-raised birds, or use feathers you've obtained yourself from hunting or finding them in the wild.
 Keep your plants and smudging container on a space cleared for them, above the ground. A high bookshelf cleared for their use is a good choice. Do not use the herbs until they are dry, or you will fail to produce the right kind of smoke.
 Many people smudge when they move into a new place or stay in a hotel room, to purify the new space. You may wish to perform a smudging ceremony after you hear bad news, or when you are preparing for a big change in your life.Smudging could also help you deal with the aftereffects of a big argument or a long illness.


Smudging is performed more frequently under certain circumstances, such as in places where other ceremonies take place, or sometimes during archaeological excavations of native remains and sacred materials.
Smudging a dorm room may be against university policy against fire use, although some U.S. institutions have changed these policies after challenges based on the First Amendment and freedom of religion.

