 You may want to store the numbers to your favorite radio stations in your phone so you can always be ready to call and not be searching for the number. Don't let the radio become background noise. Pay attention to when the contest happens.Call exactly when you are told to call. Don't start too early because your call won't go through and you could miss out on the actual calling time.
 When you hear about a contest that a station is offering, put a reminder in your calendar or phone to alert you to call. You can even set an alarm to go off ten to fifteen minutes before the station comes on to help prepare you.Digital watches, cell phones, and email accounts usually offer easy-to-use reminders.
 Grab your cell phone and house phone and use them simultaneously. Have your family and friends call in for you too. As soon as you hear a busy signal, hang up and re-dial. Don’t just try once and hang up. Use the redial button if you can't get through on your first try. Those few seconds spent redialing manually will reduce or likely eliminate your chances of being the correct caller.
 Be persistent and keep trying. The people who win a lot of radio contests, play a lot of radio contests. People do get through, and you never know when a phone line will open up, so don’t let the busy signal discourage you.
 Don't call into the business office or reception. It is not a sneaky way to get around the busy signal and you may miss your chance at winning. The only phone number you can win a prize at is the one that you hear the radio station give out on the air or the one that is listed on the website.
 Be optimistic and understand your chances are just as good as someone else's chance. If you never try, you will never win. You will not win every time, but with effort it may happen. Just don’t give up and remember to have fun.


It can be frustrating when you get a busy signal and you’ve tried multiple times, but there are contests everyday so be persistent. You can’t win if you don’t play.