 Ashley has blonde hair that ranges from light brown to almost white-blonde near her face. It's described as being 'surfer girl' hair, so you should try using the product 'surfer hair' by Garnier. She also has super-shiny and glossy hair, and it is revealed in the book that she rinses her hair with white vinegar so that it becomes shinier. Now this actually works, so consider it: you will need 1 part white vinegar mixed with three parts cold water. Give your hair a rinse with this mixture after shampooing and before conditioning.;
, Ashley is described as having absolutely no zits. She washes her face twice a day with a face wash. Consider purchasing a good cleanser, a great (and not too expensive) brand which will give good results, such as Neutrogena, Proactiv, Clean and Clear. All are available at drugstores. Note that if you wash your face MORE than twice a day the cleansers can seriously irritate and hence damage your skin. Ashley also has lightly tanned skin: you can use a tanning lotion or a spray tan. Note that it is dangerous to tan in the sunlight, even with sunscreen on.
 Ashley does two hours of aerobics in her basement, and has thighs that 'flex' instead of jiggle. If you do not want to pay for aerobics lessons, go to your local gym and check out machines like the treadmill, the cycle, and consider a personal trainer or any special offers or courses your gym may be having. Ashley is also the captain of the Field Hockey team. You could try field hockey, other good sports are also lacrosse, soccer and basketball.
 Ashley has a closet full of great things to wear. She especially loves jeans, and is described as having 'cool jeans'. Consider buying a few pairs for variety, such as skinny or bootcut. Bootcut jeans have the plus of looking longer and leaner. Since decent jeans are available at just about any clothing store, any brand should be fine as long as it fits right. Make sure you are comfortable and ensure that you can insert a finger at your hip with them on, even for the skinny variety. Too-tight jeans will give even the skinniest person a muffin top! The book doesn't say much about her actual clothes except that they're "perfect". But, I suggest stocking up on cute in style clothing.


Jeans
Boyfriend Cardigans
Solid Colorful Tank Tops/Fitted T-Shirts
Camisoles
Graphic Ts
Uggs
Converse
Anything Cute That You Like!

, Ashley has perfect, straight, white teeth. Achieve this by brushing 2-3 times a day, flossing, rinsing with mouth wash, using a tongue scraper, and chewing whitening gum. Do not over brush, as this will scrape away the protective coating around your teeth.
 Ashley is noted to have a clean room with an organised wardrobe (and of course, perfectly white and sorted underwear and crisp, clean clothes). If you keep your wardrobe well, your clothes will turn out well, just as Ashley's do.

