 You can purchase your fabric from your local fabric store. If you don’t have a fabric store near you, you can order it online.


Fabric stores usually have a discount section. If you’re on a budget, check there first.
You will need about one yard (36 inches) of fabric so that you have plenty of material to wrap around your head and tie in the back.
You can use any type of fabric, such as cotton, linen, or rayon. However, these fabrics will fray on the edges. Other fabrics, such as jersey knit, faux leather, or vinyl will not fray. Of these, knit fabric will likely be the easiest to find in the color you need (and less expensive than the others).;
, Be sure that the strip of fabric you cut is about 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide and however long you need to wrap around your head. Leave enough extra to tie off behind your head.


It would be a good idea to measure around your head first and determine the length you would like your headband to be.
Be sure to cut your edges straight. Lay out your fabric on a flat surface and use a measuring stick and chalk to create an outline for your headband.
 If you have opted for a fabric that frays around the edges after being cut (such as cotton), you can apply an anti-fray aerosol spray to the edges to make your headband last longer and prevent wear and tear., You can use cardboard, poster board, or an aluminum can for a more authentic look.

If you are using cardboard or poster board, grab a measuring stick and trace an approximately 2 inch (height) by 6 inch (length) rectangle. Round each of the four corners.
If you are using a recycled aluminum can, wash and dry the can first. Take some scissors and create a slit lengthwise down the center of the can (from top to bottom). Carefully cut around the top and bottom of the can and discard those pieces. Take the aluminum from the middle of the can and bend it back and forth to smooth it out.Measure and cut your aluminum (approximately 2 inches by 6 inches with rounded corners).
 (Skip this step if you have used aluminum.) Choose a silver paint with a metallic finish, and but be sure to allow plenty of time for it to dry. Paint only on the side that will be visible once it is applied to your fabric.
 Use a marker to draw the emblem of your choice in the center of your cardboard or aluminum piece.


If you are worried about making a mistake, trace the image with a pencil first. Don’t press down too hard, though, because the indentations will still show in your cardboard or aluminum.
 If you don’t want your fabric to show through your emblem, use a permanent marker to draw the circles instead of cutting them.


Alternately, you could cut the backs off of six round, silver thumb tacks and glue them to the sides of your emblem plate.
 When you are satisfied with the plate, apply super glue to the back of the plate. Press the plate firmly into the center of the middle of your fabric headband.Adding a phone book or other large book as a weight will improve bonding.
 The instructions on your glue will tell you how long to wait. When the glue has dried, your headband is complete.
 Wear your headband with pride as you represent your village.

