 If you tend to veer towards the traditional, and have a color scheme that doesn't go with many colors, traditional neutrals can work. These include shades like grays, whites, browns, and beiges. If you don't want an overwhelming backsplash, go with traditional neutral colors., White does not have to be boring. There are a variety of shades of white to choose from. A white backsplash may brighten a darker kitchen, making it a great choice for you. You can go for off-whites, cream colors, and ivories.White tends to work best with smaller rooms with poor lighting.
White also works best when your kitchen is primarily made up of other neutral colors. If your drawers and counters are in a shade of gray, for example, a white backsplash can be an excellent touch.
 While neutrals are traditionally thought of as plainer, simpler colors, a new trend uses what are called complex neutrals. Complex neutrals are made by mixing neutral colors with more complicated shades. A complex neutral may end up being a light olive shade with warm undertones.You have to create complex neutrals yourself by mixing a lot of colors, so you may have to talk to an interior designer to get the shade you want.
Complex neutrals work best if you want your home to have a more modern feel.
 Lighter neutrals do not work for everyone. You may want warmer neutrals that come in shades like brown and tan. Many warmer neutrals have orange undertones.A warmer neutral backsplash can create a calming feel in your kitchen.
Warmer neutrals tend to pair well with white trims.
 If you're unsure what shade to go for, there are a few things that can help you make a decision. Look at the color scheme in your kitchen and home and try to find something that matches.Consider other items in your kitchen. Look at things like rugs, artwork, appliances, counters, and stoves. One particular color, or type of color, may already dominate the kitchen. Try to select a backsplash that matches.
Think about how color flows from room to room, especially if you have an open kitchen. You may want to choose a backsplash color that doesn't have too dramatic of a transition between, say, the kitchen and living room.
 If you're going for a gray or brown backsplash, there are many attractive stone options. Stone naturally comes in shades of gray and brown, so a stone backsplash can be great for getting the color you desire.Stone backsplashes are relatively affordable and tend to pair well with most kitchens.
On the downside, stone does require yearly maintenance and it may collect more dirt and grime than other options.
 You can simply use horizontal boards for a unique backsplash. You can find boards in traditionally neutral shades, like tan, and adhere them to the walls yourself. This is a simple and economical way to achieve a neutral backsplash.Another benefit of boards is that they can be painted a variety of colors, so you can go for any backsplash shade you want.
One downside of boards is that they produce a bit of a busy pattern. If you already have heavily patterned wallpaper, appliances, or countertops, you may want to choose another option besides boards.
 Wallpaper is easy to clean, so it can be used a simple backsplash. Waterproof wallpaper is best, as it will easily guard against splashes. Wallpaper is fairly easy to install on your own, so it will cut back on the cost of labor.Wallpaper comes in a variety of colors, so it should be easy to find a neutral shade.
 If you have your heart set on a gray backsplash already, stainless steel holds up well and is resistant to gathering dirt and grime. You may have to put in some cost for installation, but it is a durable longterm option. It can also bring extra light to a darker room.Stainless steel does tend to dent easily. While it will not stain, it does require more frequent cleaning as grease marks and fingerprints show up easily.
 If your kitchen is low on natural light, make sure to keep this in mind when selecting colors. Selecting the wrong color for a poorly lit kitchen can leave your kitchen looking dark and dreary.If you're using fluorescent lights to light up a darker kitchen, a neutral blue shade will pair well with them.
In general, darker neutrals will make a dark kitchen look dimmer.
 Having a lot of color contrast can make a tiny room look more spacious. Therefore, try to choose a neutral in a different shade than things like your countertop and trimmings. If you, for example, have a white countertop, go for a darker neutral like a deep gray. This will make your kitchen feel bigger., You don't want a dramatic room to room transition if your home has an open layout. Make sure the neutral color you select does not contrast greatly with, say, the paint or wallpaper in the nearby living room.Gray neutrals tend to match with most color schemes. This may be a good option for an open floor layout.
 If you have a lot of wood, this affects your choice of colors. If you want to show the wood off, pick a neutral shade that's lighter than the wood. If you want to compliment it, try to find a neutral shade similar to the shade of the wood.