 Opioids are prescription narcotic pain relievers. They are used for acute pain, generally after surgery. Your physician can also provide opioids to you intravenously in a medical setting.Opioids are generally prescribed for:


Moderate to severe burns
Moderate to severe wounds
Moderate to severe fractures or sprains
Kidney stones
Common opioids include oxycodone, Demerol, hydrocodone, and codeine.
Opioids do not cause stomach bleeding. People rarely get addicted to opioids if they are used for short periods of time to treat acute pain.
Side effects of opioids are nausea, constipation, breathing problems, and drowsiness. If the use of opioids is abused, patients can get abused.
 Long-lasting, slow release opioids can be used in the treatment for chronic pain. This needs to be discussed with your physician, and you should be monitored while taking them. In some cases, patients have formed an addition to these opioids.Examples of long-lasting opioids include morphine, oxycodone, hydrocodone, fentanyl, and methadone.
Side effects include nausea, vomiting, mental impairment, constipation, and drowsiness. Opioids can be dangerous used with antidepressants, sleeping pills, and antihistamines.
Over a third of people who use opioids for chronic pain management have constipation and must manage that with diet and laxatives.
Taking opioids for an extended amount of time can result in tolerance, dependence, and addiction.
Never stop taking opioids without using a physician-approved weaning method.
The use of opioids for chronic pain not due to cancer is controversial. The controversy is due to the prolonged use, safety, effectiveness, and potential for abuse.Discuss with your doctor whether this option is right for you.
 Corticosteroids are commonly used for bony, visceral, and neuropathic pain. This medication should be used in the lowest dose possible because of the common side effects. Because side effects are cumulative, they should also be used for short periods of time, not lasting longer than 3 weeks.Corticosteroids are used for arthritis, sore throat, and cancer pain. They also help reduce swelling, inflamed areas, and redness.
Common side effects include weight gain, muscle weakness, insomnia, gastrointestinal issues, delerium, depression, anxiety, infections, and hyperglycemia.
 Even if you don’t have depression, depression medication may be effective in the treatment of your chronic pain. The reason they help with pain isn’t quite understood. However, they are commonly prescribed in a chronic pain management treatment plan.Antidepressants are used for:


Nerve damage due to diabetes, shingles, or other conditions
Arthritis
Migraines or tension headaches
Facial pain
Lower back pain
Pelvic pain
Fibromyalgia
It can take a few weeks to feel pain relief from antidepressants. Most people feel moderate pain relief.
Anticonvulsants or antiepileptics may be used along with antidepressants for pain management.
 Medical marijuana is now legal in some states. Doctors can now prescribe medical marijuana for chronic pain in some patients. Some doctors won’t prescribe or recommend marijuana for pain. Other physicians might refuse to let patients use marijuana along with opioids.If you smoke marijuana, either medical or recreational, along with taking any other recreational drugs, you should discuss this openly with your physician. Some medications can react negatively with recreational drugs, including marijuana.
Side effects include severe respiratory illnesses, reduced productivity, impaired judgment, impaired cognitive performance, and impaired neuropsychological activity.
Using medical marijuana in a state where marijuana is illegal can result in a drug charge.

