 You can download the client at the GameRanger website. Run the install file once the download is complete. The client is very small, less than 1MB in size.


GameRanger will automatically download and install the program updates. After it updates, it will begin downloading additional content. This may take a few moments.
 After the installation is complete, you will begin the account creation process. You will need to agree to the Terms of Service in order to continue. After agreeing to the Terms, you will be given the option to use an existing account or create a new one.


If you have an invite code from a friend, you will be able to enter it after selecting Create New Account.






You will need a valid email address to start an account. You will also need to create a password for your account.
 You will be prompted to create a nickname. By default, it may put your first name in this box. Be sure to change it to protect your identity. GameRanger also asks for your real name. This will be visible to the public, so enter your name at your own risk.
 If you are offended by foul language, or children will be using the program, you may want to enable the profanity filter. This will filter profane messages in the chat windows. You can lock the profanity filter with a password.
 This will be in your profile and will be used to match you to the closest games possible.
 Once you create your account, GameRanger will send an email to the address you provided. Click the link that is provided in order to activate your account before clicking Continue in the GameRanger window. Once you have clicked the verification link, click Next to log into GameRanger.
 In order to join a game, you will need to tell GameRanger where your Warcraft III program is located. Click the Edit menu and select Options… In the Games tab, scroll down until you find Warcraft III. In the Location section, click Browse and navigate to your Warcraft II install if it is not already set.
 In the main Games list, either scroll down to Warcraft III, or select My Games from the dropdown menu and select a Warcraft III game. Each game listed is a lobby that is being hosted by another person. Try to find a game with a full Ping bar, as well as a green light signifying that it can be joined.


The description of the game will say which version of the Warcraft you need to have. Most use the latest patch available.






Games with a padlock icon will require a password to join. The host sets the password.
 Once you have joined a lobby, the Host will start the game when he or she I ready. Once the game has started, Warcraft III will be launched automatically and it will automatically join the game through the LAN menu.

