 Scientist Steve Spangler has a great recipe that's useful for bleeding wounds, and is completely nontoxic, making it ideal for bite bags and other effects that might contact actual body fluids. It's as easy as mixing a cup of corn syrup, two tablespoons of cornstarch, and some coloring and thinning ingredients: two tablespoons of red food coloring, a bit of powdered cocoa and chocolate syrup to darken the color, and some fruit punch to thin and brighten it to your liking.


This recipe is especially useful since its thickness and color can be adjusted easily.
 The most basic method of doing this is to pour some of your fake blood into a cup, cover the top with cling wrap, pour the blood out into the cling wrap, and carefully pull up and cinch the cling wrap closed around the blood. It takes some practice to get right, and it's pretty messy in the meantime, so wear an apron and work somewhere that's easy to clean, like the kitchen counter.


To properly seal your burst bag, use a bit of gaffer tape. Gaffer tape is a lot like duct tape, but it doesn't leave the same gunky residue, so it's easier to clean up after.
Burst bags can be placed pretty much anywhere – palmed in a hand, held lightly in the mouth, or taped to the inside of a shirt or pant leg. As long as your actors don't ingest the cling wrap or the tape, burst bags are perfectly harmless and can add a great bloody effect to stabs and bullet wounds.
To burst the burst bag, simply apply pointed pressure until it pops. A burst bag in the mouth can be bitten to produce this effect.
 Start with a burst bag taped under the shirt where the shot will hit. Film the shot with a prop gun (use blanks, or edit the sound effect in later) and have the victim clutch at his or her torso, squeezing the bag to burst the blood out.
 Even with a prop knife (never use a real knife!), stabbing someone is an unpleasant experience for that person. Minimize his or her discomfort by making a bit of hidden armor out of some thin sheet metal and hard foam or rubber. Layer the foam on top of the metal, and cut both to make a plate you can attach over your victim's chest. Attach it with gaffer tape or bind it with twine, and then tape a burst bag to the front of it. When the victim is stabbed, the force from the knife tip should be more than enough to burst the blood bag.


The metal helps prevent the victim from feeling any discomfort, while the hard foam gives the knife a bit of sticking power for a more realistic effect.
 This dramatic effect can be simply achieved with stuffing and a spare set of clothes. Use leaves, cotton batting, or whatever other fill you want to stuff some plastic bags, then dress the bags up in a shirt and pants, binding them together at the waist with safety pins or thread so that the bags don't show in the middle. Run a thin dowel rod down the back of the shirt, and film a close shot of the monster bringing the dummy down over one knee, cracking the dowel.


You can use two rolled-up bags with light stuffing to make legs, and vary the distribution of the stuffing in the hips, waist, and chest to make the physique as realistic as possible.
If you don't get the scream right on the first try, there's no need to set up another dummy. Just add the scream in later.
 Mix water and cornstarch with red food coloring until you get a thick, viscous, blood-colored substance (remember, you can darken the blood with cocoa powder if needed). Use this extra-thick blood to fill a latex rubber glove. Have your victim hold the glove tightly at the end of a long-sleeved shirt arm, and film the hand being ripped away from the opposite side, so the fact that it's a glove is less obvious. Your thick fake blood should splatter everywhere when the victim releases the open glove.


Consider using a burst bag for extra “arm stump” bleeding as well.

