 Along with holding and talking to your newborn, facilitating some time spent on their bellies is the best way to spend time together. While many of the steps in this article can occur while your baby is on the floor – they will most often be on their back. Rolling your newborn onto their belly will help them begin to develop their motor skills, and will eventually contribute to their learning to roll around, push themselves up, sit, crawl, and otherwise ramble around.Check with your pediatrician if you feel uncomfortable placing your baby on their belly when they’re still itty-bitty. However, know that even day-old newborn babies can usually be safely rolled onto their bellies, after first being placed gently on their back.
However, many babies will not tolerate very much time (a few seconds or minutes) on their bellies because they don't yet have the neck strength to hold up their heads.
There are plenty of games you can play with your baby on their belly. Peek-a-boo is a classic; you may find yourself enjoying belly time just as much as your baby!

, Get in the habit of always rolling your baby onto their belly for a while after changing them or playing with them when they’re lying on their backs. Once your baby has control of their head, default towards placing them belly-down most of the times you set them on the floor. Start slowly and don’t rush it, but incorporate belly-down time into regular daily activities to get your newborn used to using the muscles they’ll need to start moving around and really start testing your playfulness.
However, don't leave your baby alone on their belly, and don't put your baby to sleep on their belly.
 Your baby’s visual capabilities will drastically change during the first few months of their lives. Dangle or suspend simple, safe toys designed for newborns about 8-12 inches from your baby’s face. If they reach for it, help them feel or bat at the toy.Choose toys that incorporate high contrast between colors – even simply black and white – as these will help babies begin to be able to tell colors apart.


Show your baby interesting visual things as well. For instance, tornado bottles, glittery items, and even lava lamps may totally mystify your newborn – though do not allow them to touch anything that is not designed for a newborn to hold.
Another benefit of dangling toys in front of your newborn is that it can help your baby begin to control their visual concentration and ability to track movement.
 Sure, they may not ever take the lead, but swaying back and forth with your newborn is delightfully playful and will greatly increase your bond with your baby. Swinging your baby gently through the air is not only especially likely to get them giggling, it will help increase their bodily awareness, which will help as they begin to learn how to control their own bodies as well.Make sure to support their neck and head until they can do so safely on their own.

