 Some basic things you need are shampoo, conditioner, brush, wide toothed comb, heat protection, and whatever else you think is necessary.


It is important to keep your hair clean and conditioned. This does not mean scrubbing the living daylights out of your hair day in and day out, however. This simply means washing as often as needed. If you can, try to wash your hair every other day. It is okay to wash every night, but this can weaken your hair.
Brush and comb out your hair every day and night. This will keep knots from forming. If you get knots in your hair, however, I suggest a detangling spray or serum. Brush from the bottom of your hair, working your way to the top. When your hair is wet, do not brush it. Instead, comb it out with a wide toothed comb. Dreadlocks and pulled out hair don't always look the best...
Deep condition your hair once a week, but once a week only! When deep conditioning, leave the conditioner in your hair for about two or three minutes, and comb through your hair so you coat every strand with conditioner. Make sure you rinse well.
When using heat appliances, such as flat irons, hair dryers, curlers and crimpers, make sure you apply a heat protection balm or spray to say your hair from nasty heat damage!
Trim your split ends once a month, as this will make you look clean and well kept, plus make your hair a lot healthier.;
, After you mastered the grooming techniques suitable for your hair type, head to the salon. The best way to get a nice haircut is to look at pictures of hairstyles and cut them out and bring them to the salon. Try online and in magazines. Look at some obese celebrities, or just a regular celebrity. Ask your friends and family what they think ever looked best on you...short hair or long hair, if you ever had the liberty of having short hair and long hair.
 Studies show that overweight people with darker hair actually look slimmer. But this is all up to you. There are many dark colors to choose from; black, brown, dark reds, blue, light brown, even dirty blonde. However, if this does not work for you, feel free to have whatever color you want.
 You can use just about anything your heart desires...gel, shine serum, hairspray, wax, curl hydration, straightening gel, mousse, anything. Curly hair and wavy hair tends to look the best, however.
 Pony tails, pig tails, bows, bobby pins, barrettes, headbands...be unique, remember it's your hair and no one else's!

, When you wake up the next morning, you're hair will have very few knots.

