 Figure out what finances are available to spend on your trip, and what splurges you can live without to save money. Check out a few Orlando travel guides from your local library or browse the web for current prices. Use the information to write out a spending plan in a binder or folder, and keep the information with you.;
, Discuss with your family what attractions you'd like to visit while in the area, such as the Disney theme parks, SeaWorld, Universal Orlando, water parks, etc. If you have time, consider making a day trip to the beach or the Kennedy Space Center, both about an hour's drive away.
 You can save a lot of money by renting a vacation home. If you search early and vigilantly, you can find some great bargains as there are so many homes available. Most houses include the luxury of a private swimming pool, full kitchen, dining room, etc.


If you buy groceries at the beginning of the vacation, you can enjoy most meals at the home for a fraction of the cost you'll pay at many area restaurants. Most of the vacation home neighborhoods are private resorts offering various amenities, such as basketball courts, small theaters, game rooms, public pools, and more. Oftentimes, especially if there are young children in the party, they would rather just spend time at the vacation home and in the neighborhood enjoying all the amenities or the private pool (as opposed to spending each day at the parks).
 Lunch is usually less expensive than dinner at restaurants. So, eat breakfast and dinner at your vacation house. Make a detailed grocery list before going to the store. You want to get exactly what you need for you stay so you will not have to throw food away or go overboard on your spending. Pack a few non-perishable snacks in your bag before heading out to enjoy the attractions, and take along some frozen bottles of water. They'll thaw quickly in the Florida heat and allow you to enjoy an ice cold drink.
 Make a tentative schedule and spending list. Keep the money for each expense in separate envelopes. For example, keep a gas envelope, a souvenir envelope, a theme park envelope, etc. Then you will not run out of money or spend more than expected.
 If you buy your tickets ahead of time on the Internet you can save money or get "more days to play" at some parks.
 That way you save time and gas.
 Most theme parks sell the fans that mist water to keep you cool. You can also find these at a much more reasonable price at a local drugstore or Walmart.
