 Once you've set the right mood, you should begin to turn your girl on by making her feel at home. If she's relaxed, she's more likely to hook up. Here's how to do it:


Hang up her coat and have her take off her shoes. She'll feel more at ease once she does.
Offer her a drink. Don't force her to drink, but pour her a glass of wine if she wants one. If she's drinking, you should drink too so she doesn't feel self-conscious.
Compliment her. Make your woman feel good by letting her know how much you like her. Tell her how great she looks, what an amazing time you're having, or how much you love the way she laughs.
 When your lady is relaxed, she'll want you to come closer to her. Don't be shy! Get next to her and begin touching her in subtle ways to initiate foreplay. Here's how to do it:


Sit next to her and let your legs touch. Put your arm around her. If she's really into it, start playing with her hair.
If she's wearing dangly earrings, gently hold one in your hand and say how much you like it while your fingers brush against her earlobes.
Let your hands graze, and even hold her hand and caress her fingers if she wants you to.
Give her a sexy massage. Massage her shoulders, her lower back, or even her biceps. This will surely turn her on and help her let loose.
 Kissing is the first big move you'll make, and you have to get it right if you want to take your night to the next level. To be the perfect kisser, you need to find an irresistible kissing style. Here's how to do it:


Be gentle. Kiss her gently at first, without using too much tongue. Lightly graze your lips, and slowly touch the tip of your tongue to hers. If she's receptive, move your tongue deeper into her mouth, but take it slowly.
Leave her wanting more. Take breaks from kissing to lock eyes, brush back her hair, or to start kissing her gently on the nape of her neck or her shoulders. Don't just kiss without stopping for hours on end. She'll either get bored or will just be exhausted.
Be more aggressive with your touches. While you're kissing her, move your hands down her body to gently touch her waist, her breasts, or her inner thighs. Make sure she's comfortable with your new moves.
 Once your kissing is getting hot and heavy, it's time to start removing your clothes so you can get it on. To set the tone for hot sex, you have to take your clothes off in the right way. Here's how:


Take your girl's shirt off first. Gently put your hands under her shirt and slip it off over her head. If it's a button-down shirt, slowly unbutton it and throw it aside.
Next, take off your own shirt. Do not take off all of your clothes first. This may freak a girl out and will make her think you're being too aggressive. Take your time.
Once your shirts are off, continue kissing, but take off the girl's bra after a while. Note if the clasp is in the front or the back, and try to be smooth about taking it off. Don't be awkward and make jokes about how you haven't done this in a while, or how impossible it is to take off her bra. This will just turn her off and will make you look inexperienced.
Gently touch the girl over her underwear. This will make her want you to take off her skirt or pants. If she's wearing pants, slowly pull them down. If it's a skirt, slide it down over her legs.
Take off your pants, or wait for her to take them off if she's comfortable with it. Now that you're both down to your underwear, if you're both willing, it's time to start preparing for sex.

