 One beautiful way to integrate citrus slices into your centerpiece is to line the inside of a clear vase with citrus rounds and place another, smaller clear vase that holds a flower arrangement inside the first vase. To begin making this arrangement, find two clear flower vases, making sure one of which is small enough to fit inside the other.Make sure that the vases are a similar shape but have different diameters. For instance, you can use two cube shaped vases, or two cylindrical vases.
The vases should be of similar or equal height, but one vase's diameter should be about one inch (2.54 cm) smaller than the other vase's diameter so it can be comfortably placed within the larger vase.;
, Before getting to the citrus element of the centerpiece, first pick out flowers to arrange in the smaller vase. Consider the size of the smaller vase when estimating the number of flowers you will need. If the vase has a small diameter, you may need 10 or so flowers, depending on their size, to fill the vase. If you have a larger vase, you may need more.If you have no idea how many flowers you will need, buy inexpensive fake flowers that you can use to fill the vase and help give you some idea of how many real flowers you will need.
 Use a mix of flowers in your arrangement so that it looks interesting and dynamic. Use a few colors that compliment each other, as well as a few different types of flowers to give your arrangements texture and variety. Ask your florist for advice on which colors and flowers look good together, or find inspiration from bridal catalogs or pictures of floral arrangements on the Internet.

Consider what kind of citrus fruit you will be using before choosing the colors of your flowers. For instance, if you are using orange slices, you may consider adding a few orange flowers to compliment the orange slices.
Because citrus slices give this arrangement a summery look, consider using light colors and pastels to keep with the summery theme.
 Once you have a sense of what flowers you want and how many you will need, decide if you want to buy the flowers yourself and arrangement them or entrust this to a florist. Depending on what florist you choose, having a florist make the arrangements may not be much more expensive than buying all the flowers individually, and it could save you stress if you are making many separate arrangements. Once you have decided, pay for the flowers and arrange to pick them up the morning of the event., The morning of your wedding, dinner, or whatever event you are planning, get the flowers from your florist or floral vendor. Fill the smaller vase with about 3 inches (7.62 cm) of water, then set up the arrangements in each small vase.You may decide to do the same arrangement in each vase, or do a few different arrangements, depending on how consistent you want your centerpieces to look.
 Once you finish making your floral arrangement in the small vases, place each small vase into one of the larger vases. Try to center the small vases inside the large vases so that there is an equal amount of space on all sides of the small vases., Take several lemons, limes, or oranges, and slice them into ½ inch (1.27 cm) rounds. Try to slice the citrus right before the event, a few hours at most, so that the citrus fruit still looks fresh and vibrant when displayed.Make sure to slice the fruit the morning of as opposed to far in advance so that the fruit stays fresh and beautiful.
 After you slice the citrus rounds, drop the rounds in the small space between the two vases, stacking the rounds on all sides of the vase until they fill the vase and obscure the stems of the flowers., Once you add the citrus rounds, your centerpiece is complete! Place your centerpieces on tables, and even add whole citrus fruits on the table around the arrangements to give your centerpieces an extra touch!