 You and your child will most likely both be nervous during these sex talks. But, as a parent, you establish the emotional cues and it is important that you keep a level head and calm demeanor. Do not laugh at your child’s questions and try to provide a response that demonstrates your respect of their curiosity.If you are especially nervous, it may help to practice this conversation with another adult before talking to your child. This could prepare you for, at least some of, the awkward moments.
Consider bringing the topic up slowly over time so that you and your child both eventually feel more comfortable talking calmly about the matter with one another.
 Instead, try to take a different tone with your child. Stick to proactive subjects, such as what they can do to stay sexually healthy. Talk about how they can avoid peer pressuring their romantic partners and how they should respond if pressured.For example, instead of saying, “Don’t get pregnant,” you might talk with your child about birth control or condoms.
 Be supportive regardless of whether your child discusses their playground crush or how they’ve started to explore masturbation. Try not to judge them for their actions. Instead, ask questions, so that you more fully understand your child’s behavior and can offer better advice.When in doubt, you can always emphasize the natural basis of many of your child’s actions. If they are embarrassed about their actions, you can just say, “That is natural and normal.”

, As the more experienced person, you may expect to do most of the talking during these conversations, but it is far better to be an active listener. Show your child that you are listening by nodding your head or making sounds of agreement. Create more engagement by seeing what they already know and addressing any misconceptions that may arise. Ask questions when they’ve finished speaking and pay attention to the answers.You can also show that you are listening by bringing up the conversation later on and asking follow-up questions. Try your best to avoid interrupting your child.
 At the end of each talk, make sure to ask them if they have any lingering questions that they would like to talk about. Emphasize that your door is always open if anything comes to mind. To add trust, you might tell them that you’ll come to them if you have any questions, too.

