 If your dog is particularly fearful of cars or if it has never been in one before, you'll need to do some basic desensitization work. This should entail getting your dog familiar with being in the vehicle, even if it is not yet comfortable being in there for prolonged periods of time.Open both rear doors so that your dog can see there is a way out. Seeing that it won't be trapped may help alleviate some of your dog's fears.
Put your dog on a leash and climb in on one side. Without saying anything, gently tug the leash to lead your dog into the backseat.
Slide all the way over and get out on the other side, making sure your dog comes right behind you.
Quickly return to the other side and repeat the process until your dog can get in and out comfortably. You may also want to reverse which side you enter and exit on so your dog gets used to both sides of the vehicle.
If you have a hatchback or "boot" on your car, keep the rear door open and begin alternating between the backseat and the rear of the vehicle.;
, Once your dog has been in the car multiple times, you'll want to start extending the amount of time your pet spends with you in the vehicle. Always stay in the car with your dog so it does not think you're locking it inside the car alone.Don't start the engine or put the key in the ignition. The goal is to simply get your dog used to being in your car and make it a positive experience.
Offer treats and verbal praise whenever your dog sits comfortably in the car. You should also pet your dog to make it feel comforted.
If your dog won't get in the vehicle, try to get it as close to the vehicle as possible. Then offer treats and praise.
You can also get your dog used to being in the car by moving its food bowl in the vehicle and feeding it one or more meals in the car.
Repeat this process several times on multiple occasions. You may want to do this for at least one to two weeks before starting the engine with your dog inside.
 Now that your dog is comfortable being inside the vehicle, the next step is adding the sound and feel of a running engine. This may frighten some dogs, even those that have been calm up to this point. Be patient and make sure your dog is doing okay at every step of the way.Make sure your dog is already used to being in a stationary vehicle before turning the engine on. Your dog should have spent about one to two weeks, or as long as necessary, simply sitting in your vehicle.
Continue offering treats and/or feeding your dog in the vehicle. Start the engine while your dog is already inside, then immediately offer food or treats.
Watch your dog's reaction. If it seems anxious or upset, offer even more petting and verbal praise, being sure to speak in a calm, soothing voice.
Be sure your dog is as relaxed and calm as possible before you end each session with the engine running.
 A moving vehicle can easily scare an unaccustomed dog. Your dog should be comfortable being in a vehicle with the engine running by this point. Do not attempt to put your dog into a moving vehicle without proper acclimation.Don't actually go for a drive yet. Simply shift gears between "drive" and "reverse," pulling your car in and out of the garage or up and down the driveway.
If you do not have a garage or driveway, try simply pulling forward about 10 to 20 feet on a quiet side street, then putting the vehicle into reverse and backing up that same distance.
 Taking an actual trip should be tolerable to your dog if it's used to being in a moving car for short periods of time. Make sure your initial trips are very brief and cover very short distances.Take your dog someplace fun that will feel like a reward for car travel. For example, you might take your dog to a park to play with a ball or Frisbee, to a dog park for social time, or to a familiar hiking location., Ideally, you should create a comfortable little refuge in the car for your dog. This can help make your dog calmer and feel more at ease during travel. Many dog owners use a crate for this reason, but you can achieve the same effect without one.Bring one of your dog's favorite toys, a familiar blanket, and anything else that will help put your dog at ease.
Play some soothing music in your vehicle. This can help calm your dog once it gets inside the car., Walking your dog can help lower its stress levels and increase its sense of calm. A good, long walk will also reduce the risk of your dog urinating or defecating in the vehicle.Give your dog a good, long walk. Try to walk your dog for whatever time and/or distance you usually cover during a typical walk, but make sure it's more than just being let outside to urinate.
Aim to walk your dog approximately 10 to 20 minutes before departure. That way your dog will still be calm when you approach your vehicle.
 Some dogs have specific travel-related things that cause anxiety. For example, some dogs get fearful when the vehicle drives over rumble strips or comes to a complete stop. It will take some time and experience in the car to determine what (if any) specific triggers your dog has. Be patient and offer support as best you can.Speak in a calm, reassuring voice before, during, and after the trigger.
If you're traveling with another passenger, have them offer your dog treats after your dog experiences any of its anxiety triggers in the car.
Try to avoid those triggers as best you can in the future, but make sure you prioritize road safety. If you can't safely avoid a trigger, do not attempt to do so.
 In some cases, it may be easier to simply leave your pet at home. This may be true if your dog has particularly severe anxiety or if you do not have adequate time to train and desensitize your dog to car travel.If you plan on being gone for longer than your dog is normally left alone (like typical work hours), make sure your dog has a sitter to feed, walk, and comfort your pet.
You can have a friend or relative come care for your dog at your home, or you can drop your dog off at a friend/relative's house. You can also drop your dog off at doggie day care or hire a dog walker to come to your home.
Ask to see the credentials of anyone you hire to care for your dog. If you're using a kennel or daycare service, make sure you go in person to inspect the facility ahead of time.
Make sure your dog has a microchip and an up-to-date ID tag on its collar before leaving your pet in anyone else's care. That way, if your dog runs away, it will be easier to track it down and bring it home safely.
 Anti-anxiety wraps are worn by anxious dogs to naturally calm them down during stressful situations. An anti-anxiety wrap gives your dog a gentle yet un-intrusive squeeze, which may provide some relief for your pet.You can purchase anti-anxiety wraps from many pet stores or through an online retailer.
 Dog appeasing pheromones (also called DAP) are a synthetic version of naturally occurring pheromones your dog's body produces. Adding these pheromones to your dog's environment can help alleviate anxiety and leave your dog feeling calm.Dog pheromone products come in a number of forms, including sprays, diffusers, wipes, and medicated collars.Remember to plan ahead if you intend to use this product. Like many other medications, it usually takes some time (two weeks, on average) of consistent use for this product to be effective.Talk to your vet before using this or any other medicated product for your pet.
 If your dog paces in the vehicle or tries to climb up to the front seat, you may need a restraining device. These devices can help keep your dog safe and secure during travel.Some common restraining devices include:


a harness
a head halter
a portable carrier or crate, If your dog's travel phobias are severe, your vet may recommend a medication like Alprazolam (Xanax). This can help relieve the symptoms of your dog's anxiety and, if administered in low doses, should not sedate your pet.


Remember that you will need a prescription from your vet to get anti-anxiety medication for your dog.
Follow your vet's instructions on how and when to administer medication to your dog.

