 Though it’s a classic style, there are plenty of ways to freshen up a ponytail and make it look older for middle school.Wear a high ponytail. This looks especially great if you have medium-length hair. After you put your ponytail in place and secure it with elastic, pull on the top and bottom of the ponytail right beside the band. This will add volume to your hair. This look is also great for athletes and cheerleaders because it looks cute but keeps your hair out of your way.
Wear a low side ponytail. If you want to add an extra touch to your side pony, form a part in your hair just above the hairband that’s holding your ponytail. Take the end of your ponytail, and thread it through the hole you made. This will create a kind of twist above your hairband.
For a fancier ponytail, wrap a strand of your hair around your hairband to cover it. Tuck it back into the hairband, or secure it with a bobby pin, if you need to.
Let your hair draw attention to your face. If you have bangs or layers, let some of your hair hang loose around your face to soften your look. If you don’t have bangs, try wearing a cute headband or headscarf with your ponytail.;
, Like the ponytail, a bun is a great go-to hairstyle that you can dress up or down for school or special occasions. Buns are easier to make if you haven’t washed your hair for a day or two. If you just washed your hair, however, work in some texturizing hairspray for more hold.


A ballet bun creates a sleek, pulled together look. To create a ballet-style bun, first put your hair in a tight ponytail. Use a brush or a comb to make your hair lay flat and smooth. Grab the end of your ponytail and begin to twist it into a tight rope. Then, twist your rope of hair around the elastic of your ponytail. Starting with the base of your ponytail, begin to bobby pin your hair rope as you twist is around your hairband. Make sure to bobby pin the end of your ponytail, as well. When you are done, spray your bun with hairspray.If you want, you can add a scrunchy around your bun to make it more fun.
Ballet buns are great for events like formal dances or for a performance, if you are in an organization like choir or band.
A messy bun is a popular go-to hairstyle on lazier days. To get the look, just pull all your hair into a high ponytail. Don’t worry about making sure your hair is smooth. Then, twist your hair into a rope and circle it around the base of your ponytail. Secure it with another elastic. Pull at the bun so that it’s loose and some pieces stick out. Use a few bobby pins to hide the elastic and secure your bun in place. Pull out some strands of hair to frame your face.
 Once you get the hang of it, a French braid is a quick style that looks sophisticated and cool. Before you begin to braid your hair, make sure you comb it well and get out any tangles. Keep a hairband on your wrist.


With your thumb and forefinger, create an approximately two-inch section of your hair on the very top of your head. Divide this into three sections and hold them between your fingers.
Begin braiding like a simple braid. Start by crossing the right strand on top of the middle strand so that it becomes the middle. Then, cross the left strand over the new middle.
After you complete this once, add another small section of hair to the right strand. Use your left hand to hold the braid and your right to add the new hair. Now cross it over the middle like before.
Before you cross the left strand over, add in a new piece of hair from the left side of your hand. Move the braid to your right hand, and add the new hair with your left index finger.
Continue this process until you reach the nape of your neck. Then, you can finish just like a normal braid, and secure it with a hairband.After you’ve finished your braid, try pulling at it a bit to loosen it up. This will keep it casual and pretty.
French braids a great alternative to simple braids that will make you look older than an elementary school kid. They are also good for athletes who want to wear a style other than a ponytail.
 A Dutch braid is an inverted French braid and has a bolder, more three-dimensional look.









Section off two inches of hair on the top of your head. Divide this into three sections and hold them between your fingers.
Begin braiding like a simple three-strand braid. Start by crossing the right strand underneath the middle strand so that it becomes the middle. Then, cross the left strand under the new middle.
After you complete this once, add another small section of hair to the right strand. Use your left hand to hold the braid and your right to add the new hair. Now cross it under the middle like before.
Before you cross the left strand under, add in a new piece of hair from the left side of your hand. Move the braid to your right hand, and add the new hair with your left index finger.
Continue this process until you reach the nape of your neck. Then, you can finish just like a normal braid, and secure it with a hairband.
A Dutch braid is exactly like a French braid, except you cross all the strands of hair under each other, rather than over.
Braids are great hairstyles because they’ll stay in place and look great all day through school and any of your extracurricular activities. You can even sleep in your braid and wear it two days in a row.
 For this look, section off the top part of your hair above your ears, and secure it in a ponytail. Leave the bottom layer down and flowy.


If you want, you can use a barrette of your choosing to secure your half ponytail instead of a hairband.
Like you might in a ponytail, try wrapping a piece of your hair around the hairband for a more sleek look.
Pull some shorter strands of hair down around your face to frame it so that the style doesn’t look harsh.
This is a pretty style that you can wear every day or to events like middle school dances.
 This is a stylish, current half-up do that takes only minutes to create.Like the classic messy bun, it works better with hair that hasn’t been washed in a few days or with texturizing spray worked through the hair.


Section off the top third of your hair above your ears, as though you were going to secure it in a half-up ponytail.
Instead of securing it, however, grab the end of this section of your hair and begin to twist it into a rope, holding it above your head.
Take your twisted rope and begin to curl it around itself into a knot, and then secure this knot with a hairband.
Pull at the hair in your small bun to loosen, and let some strands fall around your face. If you need to, secure it with bobby pins so that it stays just how you like it.
This is a unique style that you can pull together even if you are rushing to get ready for school on time.
 For this easy style that looks sweet and romantic, you’ll need small clear hairbands and some bobby pins.


Take two small sections of hair, one on either side of your face, and braid them tightly. Secure each small braid with a clear band.
Then, take your two small braids, and wrap them around to the back of your head so they cross. Secure them with bobby pins. Form an “X” with your bobby pins for better hold.
If you have shorter hair, just secure each braid as far as it reaches.
This style is pretty for days you feel like dressing up for school or for school dances.

