 Walls or fences around your property can keep others out and also put intruders on notice that the land within the barrier is private property.


You may want to look at your deed and get a survey done before you install a fence, to make sure the fence is being installed within your property boundaries.If you live in a neighborhood governed by covenants or other restrictions, you also need to check those to make sure the fence you want to build is allowed. Keep in mind that some communities have rules against certain types of privacy fences, and there may be restrictions regarding the height of the fence or the types of materials you can use.Many state laws or local ordinances require neighbors to share the responsibility for maintenance of a boundary fence between adjoining properties. There also may be local ordinances that govern where you can place your fence or how far it must be set back from the road.;
, Perimeter alarms and motion detection system can alert you to intruders on your property so you can take action.


If you're interested in an alarm system, get terms and estimates from several different companies before you choose the system you want to buy. Evaluate the contracts carefully and make sure you understand what it covers and what it doesn't.Check early-termination clauses so you understand what you'll have to pay if you move or have to cancel your service contract for other reasons.Exterior lights with motion sensors help defend your home from intruders and also keep you safer by providing well-lit walkways if you come home late at night.
 Warning signs won't keep anyone off of your property, but can inform them of consequences should they proceed.


Even if you don't have an alarm system, security company signs and window stickers can dissuade would-be burglars or intruders from entering your home or property because they place doubt on the assumption that your property is an easy target.Signs with "Beware of Dog" or similar messages also can serve as a deterrent, and can be purchased at most home improvement stores.
 After you've designed your security system, you still should monitor it for weaknesses.


Check all doors and windows to make sure they lock properly and can't be easily broken.You might want to talk to your local law enforcement agency and see if it offers complimentary home inspections. Many police precincts offer this service to local residents and can help you identify weak points in your home's security.Practice home defense and safety responses with your family so you aren't caught unprepared in the event of an emergency., Your state's law determines the circumstances under which you can use force to protect your property.


Each state has its own version of the "castle doctrine," which allows you to use force – even deadly force in certain circumstances – to defend your home and property.To justify the use of force, you typically must be able to prove that the force you used was immediately necessary to prevent or stop someone's illegal actions, such as someone trying to break into your house to steal your belongings.Your state may have further requirements to justify use of deadly force, such as a gun, to stop intruders.Keep in mind that there is no bright-line rule to determine when the use of force is justified. Instead, courts typically evaluate all of the circumstances of the situation to decide whether the amount of force you used was reasonable.Creating boobie traps or other mechanical means to stop intruders on your property generally is not permitted by any state's law.