 This type of x-ray is called a hysterosalpingography, and most doctors recommend you have one before you are artificially inseminated. The purpose of the test is to make sure you have at least one functioning fallopian tube.Before the test, a technician will use a speculum in your vagina and then will clean out your cervix. He or she will next inject a dye into your cervix with a catheter.
An x-ray is then taken with the dye in your uterus and fallopian tubes. If your tubes are open, then dye can be seen spilling out of them on the x-ray.
Basically, the procedure will feel much like a pap smear.;
, If you have abnormal results, you may need to get treatment before proceeding with insemination. It's possible you may not be able to go through with insemination at all, but your doctor will discuss your options with you.Some possible complications this test might show include obstructed fallopian tubes, scarring, polyps or tumors, intrauterine adhesion, or a development disorder in your uterus or fallopian tubes.
However, the results might be normal, as well.
 While not all states require this step, you may need to have tests done for sexually transmitted diseases before being inseminated. In addition, if your partner is providing sperm, he will need to be tested, as well.Tests can take up to a week to come back, so you'll need to do this well in advance of your insemination appointment.
As you will need to be tested for a wide range of diseases, you will likely need to provide urine, as well as have a swab test done of your genital area. In addition, you'll likely need a blood test., Some people choose to try insemination the first time without the addition of fertility drugs, especially if they're having normal periods. Others choose to go ahead and try fertility drugs. One of the main fertility drugs, clomiphene citrate (Clomid), works to help you release eggs when you ovulate.This drug is mainly for women who are having trouble releasing eggs at all. For example, women with PCOS often have this problem. This drug is usually taken starting at day 3 or 5 of your period, for 5 days in a row. Day 1 of your period is when first bleed. If you don't have regular periods, you may be given a drug to start your period.
One consideration is that fertility drugs increase your chances of having more than one baby at once, which makes your pregnancy more dangerous.The risk of multiples with Clomid is 7%, while it is only 1% when trying to conceive without medication.
Talk to your doctor about whether this drug is an appropriate choice for you.
 With these tests, you check your own urine for an increase in the luteinizing hormone (LH). Because this is the hormone that tells your ovary to drop the egg, checking for a rise tells you when you're ovulating.You can find these tests at drug stores, though your doctor might provide you with one, as well.
Start testing 11 days after you started your last period.
The kit comes with about a week's worth of sticks that you must use to test your urine once a day. You can either hold the stick will you pee on it or pee into a sterile container, then dip the stick in. The test will tell you what color the stick should turn to indicate an increase in the hormone.
 Another option is having your doctor monitor your ovulation through regularly scheduled appointments. Your doctor will do a transvaginal ultrasound, which lets the doctor see when you are ovulating.Your doctor will be looking for what is called a dominant follicle. This is a cyst on the ovary that is large enough for an egg to develop inside of.


For this test, you may need an injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG). This drug can help you ovulate, so that you can be inseminated at the correct time.
 Once you show you are ovulating or about to ovulate, it's time to schedule your appointment. Your doctor should have already let you know how and when to schedule your appointment following ovulation., If you're being impregnated with your partner's sperm, he's going to need to come into the clinic and be able to produce on command. If you're not using your partner's sperm, the clinic should have the sperm you've chosen ready when you're ready.Sperm is usually chosen from a sperm bank and they will send the sperm directly to the clinic.


After your partner produces sperm, it will need to be "washed." Basically, they are separating the best sperm from the dead sperm, as well as washing off the seminal fluid, which shouldn't go directly into the uterus., Some women experience cramping and/or spotting after the procedure is over, which quickly lessens or goes away completely. Some women may continue to experience mild cramping for a day or two after the procedure along with some light vaginal spotting.Try to relax and take it easy the day of the IUI. You can go about your usual activities the day after the IUI.
 While studies disagree about whether stress can cause infertility, de-stressing may improve your chances of getting pregnant. One study showed that women who were more stressed during their conception window were less likely to get pregnant than women who were less stressed. Therefore, it can't hurt to try to calm down before your insemination.Try taking a meditation class, which has helped many people de-stress. If you don't have time, try taking a few moments several times a day to practice deep breathing. Simply find a quiet place, and close your eyes. Breathe in deeply through your nose while counting to 4 in your head. Breathe out slowly through your mouth, counting to 4 again in your head. Yoga may have similar benefits.
You could also try journaling about what's bothered you throughout the day before you sleep. That way, you get it out on paper and can have a restful night.
Listening to calming music can also help you de-stress or just doing things you enjoy.Exercising regularly can also cut down on stress.
 While it may not magically make you fertile, eating a healthy "fertility" diet may help increase your chances of becoming pregnant. In addition, getting the right nutrients and vitamins will help your body be ready for a baby if you do get pregnant.Focus on lean proteins, such as chicken, fish, beans, and nuts, and get plenty of fruits and vegetables every day. Also, make sure your carbohydrates are mostly whole grains.
In addition, try to eat full-fat dairy at least twice a day. You can eat yogurt, cheese, or milk.
Include a folic acid supplement of at least 400 micrograms per day before you undergo IUI and after the procedure as well. This will help to reduce your baby’s risk of anencephaly and spina bifida, which are birth defects that can happen in the first few weeks of pregnancy.Decrease your caffeine intake to less than 200 mg per day to decrease the chances of miscarring after you are pregnant.
Cut out alcohol altogether as well. Drink lots of water instead., While this step may seem silly, visualizing yourself as pregnant can make you happier and less stressed overall. In turn, that can increase your chances of getting pregnant. Therefore, as you are waiting for the go ahead from your ovulation kit, try visualization techniques a couple of times a day.One way to use this process is to simply envision yourself pregnant. Imagine your belly expanding and what it will feel like to have a baby kicking inside you, for instance.
Another way is to use another image. For instance, you could imagine your uterus as a lotus, slowly blooming into a flower., If you haven't already, you should stop smoking. Smoking can adversely affect your chances of getting pregnant, so if you want to up your chances, try to cut out the cigarettes.You should also consider asking your partner to stop, as secondhand smoke can be just as bad.

