 Cholesterol testing should be routine for any adult. If you are at risk for cardiovascular disease, such as being overweight or having high blood pressure or diabetes, your LDL level should be kept low. Most doctors feel your target LDL level should be less than 70.


Those with moderate risk should target a level under 130. Low risk patients can reasonably keep a level of less than 160.
With HDL levels, however, the higher the number, the better. A score of 40 and under (50 and under for women) is considered a major risk. 60 and over is actually protective against LDL cholesterol.
 Studies have shown some natural supplements might help lower bad cholesterol levels. Examples include fish oils, artichoke extract, fiber supplements, and green tea extract. Ask your doctor about what you can add to your diet to improve your numbers, which choices to avoid, and what amount you should take., Anti-cholesterol drugs, known as statins, help eliminate LDL cholesterol. All medications have side effects, and many experts feel medication should be used as a last resort. Most would suggest diet and lifestyle changes be attempted first.


If a cholesterol-lowering medication becomes necessary, ask your doctor for a range of options and for a thorough list of side effects for each potential prescription.
Ask if you need to make any dietary changes specific for that medication, such as drinking more water than you usually would.
 Don’t let your doctor act as a prescription pad alone. Work together to build a plan that involves diet, exercise, and, if necessary, medication. If medication becomes necessary, ask how your doctor about lifestyle changes that will help lower the dosage of your prescription. They can help you put together an exercise routine and a diet tailored to your specific needs., It is important to remember that not all cholesterol is bad. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) picks up extra cholesterol in your blood and transports it to your liver, where it can be broken down.Raising HDL cholesterol by exercising, quitting smoking, or improving your diet can lower your risk of heart attack.