 Sometimes they sell a specific item, like Hudson Valley Trees specializes in artificial trees. There are several sites out there that specialize entirely on Christmas light sets. Others like Bronner's Christmas Store in Frankenmuth, Michigan, sell everything Christmas for the entire year. If an item goes out of stock, unless it's a limited edition, a rare item hardly ever made, or it's no longer in production, it'll likely be back soon, usually in a few days or weeks. Some will even special order an item for you, if they can.;
, These can be places people shop in general like Sears, Macy's, Walmart, Target or they can be another store that is exclusively online or mail-order like Fingerhut, Frontgate or maybe like a local garden shop in town that also sells things online. These sites are pretty much the same store you could go to in person, look through the printed catalogs only online with other items not sold in stores or web exclusive items only available from purchasing via online. The same also applies to coupons. When an item goes out of stock in that store, you might as well wait until next year or forget it. Craft stores like JoAnn's, Micheal's, Hobby Lobby and home improvement stores like ACE Hardware, Home Depot, Menard's, and Lowe's also belong here.


Often times these stores will sale merchandise from a different store or site. You'll know this when you see a completely different store name from the store site your on.
 These stores buy what other stores have left behind, like returns, discontinued, bad sales, or buy a lot of things in wholesale in large quantities and pass the savings to you. Overstock and Wayfair are good examples. It's first come, first served on items being on stock here. When it's gone, it's gone!

, This is when you are buying directly from the factory or from a company that has close ties to that company. The method is selling by bulk. This mains you are buying in quantity. Many of the whole sale items have a minimum number of an item you can buy. Some items are sold in singles or pairs but others you need to buy like 100 or more. Who needs a 1000 red shiny apple ornaments? The more you buy the more you save. The items here may never go out of stock unless there's a monstrously huge demand that sells the entire stock out or they stop producing it. Alibada.com is an Asian example of such a site.


Don't confuse wholesale with low quality. Many times wholesale can equal or even have higher quality than retail.
Expect higher selection from a wholesale store than a retail store. Many wholesalers will be willing to let you customize your purchase by mixing and matching your selections. Like you can buy the same ornament in different colors, designs and patterns. The same brand can offer different characters and shapes as well.
 These places can sell either used or new items. Availability and stocking here is very variable and can also have any of the features of the other categories listed above depending on the vendor or store.



Amazon is an example of an online marketplace where multiple stores are combined into one like a huge online mall. Sometimes two users or two stores will have the same exact item for sale for different prices and shipping rates. Amazon can also sell things from another stores like Walmart.

Ebay is a lot like Amazon.Some vendors have a concrete (Buy it Now) price like any other store and others will have auctions where one user posts an item for a limited time. Other users place bids in money amounts over the asking original price. Each time a bid is outbid the minimum price you can post will increase. When the time expires, the user with the highest bid wins the item. Also sometimes you'll see "Buy it Now" where if you post that same price the you win automatically. Some stores and vendors will only sale an item to a buyer that has a PayPal account, which is an electronic money management site.
Etsy is a flea marketish, art gallery-like, crafty website where you can find decor that the users made (hand made crafts)or collected /are collecting, small scale productions and collectibles. There are a lot of antiques here as well. Many of the vendors here can also make an custom item for you or let you leave a request for a specific item so the vendor can contact you if it's in stock.
Craigslist and garage sale (estate) are also an option. There several other sites that pretty much are like an online version of reading Classified Ads in a printed newspaper or responding to a post of an yard/garage sale while out on the town. Many sellers choose this option because it's free of charges that Ebay and Amazon charge.They are similar new sites and apps like WallPop appearing let users post photos of the items they want to sell on that site or forum and ones who want to buy that item give offers, quotes or deals for that item.
 It can really pay off to be adventurous and get off the Christmas bandwagon when shopping. The exact same Flickering Light Set offered for clearance for Halloween? Maybe that purple light set can go greatly with a Sugar Plum Fairy theme. Floral, fabric, party and bridal stores offer endless selections and alternatives for ribbons, bows, rhinestones, tinsel and aluminum shapes, fancy roping and tassels, ball ornaments, bead strands for garlands, as well as floral picks. The color and design options are endless and prices can be cheaper than Christmas shops.


Don't be afraid to be inventive. Many floral fillers can be made to hang on a tree just by either tying any ribbon or string in a loop or poking the ornament with any hanger or loops you can find at a jewelry making, crafts or hardware shop. Consider making a mantle cover, tablecloth/runner or tree skirt by purchasing any fabric by the yard and draping it around the tree stand or neatly over the table shelf or mantle. There's also the option of spray painting and adding glitter to plain items. Have fun!

, There's a bunch of schemes and tricks used in advertisements on the web that can easily distract any online shopper. When the shopper is distracted there's more changes of impulse purchases (purchases brought at first site without good judgement) and the original shopping list, goals and budget to get larger than intended.


One marketing scheme is the professionally decorated room or the pre-selected theme. Like stores use the perfectly decorated tree and those nicely decorated scenes, the sites use the same process. This might cause the consumer to make impulsive purchases or try to duplicate that tree or scene.However the color trend or fad of 2015 may be out by 2016. Also decorating tastes and styles are very likely to change over time. There's also many times a list of the exact items and the exact number of the specific items to use in that setup with instructions. There may more links for other accessories and tools... Watch out! It's best to purchase a few of the items from the theme or set and move on.
Watch what you click! When visiting Pinterest, Facebook, or a gallery picture of a decorated tree on a decorator or home/style magazine note you (mostly) are clicking ads disguised as pictures. One click for one ornament can turn into a whole day of searching an entire theme or site and purchasing more items from that company than intended. Or clicking on an entirely different ad that goes back to a same store over again! The more traffic (visits) a company gets the more profits it makes. The companies use this to pay the decor designers, the website designer, the editors, the photographer, for website upkeep and shipping the decor to their store. This also raises the prices you pay for decor from such stores.
Another marketing strategy is the color name game. Just like an art, fabric, or paint stores have a lot of different names for the same color Christmas decor sellers also use the same idea. It's making a color sound or seem more festive or worth having than another.Often times an identical ornament can have the identical color but the color can be a totally different name. Christmas Green becomes Emerald Green, Balsam, or Holly Green. One must remember that not every holly leaf or emerald gemstone is really one exact color. Sometimes the name of the color will be exactly the same but the color you see on the scene or receive upon delivery is completely different.
Also the color of the item can vary from scene to scene depending on the display settings on that device or the model or brand of the device. Many of photos on the store sites may be edited by photo editing software (Photoshop) and also colors in the background of the item or the kind of lighting used while the photograph was token can also affect how the color appears. Also the settings of the scanner (device used to get a photograph on the computer screen) can also throw off colors. Any color red or pink can be difficult to reproduce exactly. A crimson or ruby (purplish-red) apple ornament can actually in real-life be scarlet (bright orangish red) or salmon (orange-pink) in real life.
 Stay away from using very generic searches that are vague. Don't just say Christmas decor, or you'll get flooded with millions of results and get lost. Instead of typing "red ball ornaments," type "red glass ball shiny ornaments." Whenever you can, type brands and other specific terms to narrow your searches down. Knowing the size, brand or artist you want will help narrow things down to precise details.


Use your search engine filters. For example, on Ebay you can check the boxes and slider bars that help you narrow down the condition, price, size, color, material etc. Some sites like Bing and Google and a number of apps let you search for an item by uploading or scanning a picture of an item and submitting to the search engine search box. You can learn what they are and how much and where to purchase it. Many smartphone apps use Barcode or QR Codes in the same manner.
Watch out for results that are hidden as ads that may not lead you to the site listed on it. This can also lead to viruses and malware that can harm the computer or device your using.Google labels such results but other sites don't.
 Coupons and promo codes are easy to find on websites of shops, in Christmas forums and blogs, on Facebook, or on coupon sites like RetailMeNot. Watch for sales as well. Pay attention when you watch a video or the TV or radio for those codes. Reading newspapers and magazines may yield new sales for saving money as well as new site options.
 There are a some sites that let you compare prices for the exact same item within different stores. Examples of these include Pricegrabber, Google Shopping, Nextag, Shopzilla, Shopping.com, Bing Shopping. These are like search engines that collect information about prices from sellers and give the prices to you. Some sites like Ebay and Amazon will have this already built in and you get the results automatically.Often you will get the price with shipping and handling included other sites do not.
 Swagbucks, Ebates, Beezid are examples of sites that give points for every cent or dollar you spend in a shop while on their site or using an extension, app or button installed on the browser's toolbar. These "points" can depending on that site be converted into gift cards or a check. It's like an online version of a mail-in rebate you receive at stores while in person.
 Shipping and handling can present the consumer with surprises. Sometimes an item is very cheaply priced, but the shipping cost can make you pay more than just buying the ornament in a store in person. Some international sites have free shipping but the object being shipped has to go through customs and inspections, and this can take weeks or months.


Some sites will have site-to-store shipping options where you can have the store ship the item to a location of your choice. Many retailers like Walmart or Target will have this. This is free but may not be so good for your time, transportation, or gas budget, since you have to go and pick the item up.
When filling out the shipping information, like your address, zip code, and city, make sure the information is accurate. If the shipping address is different from the billing address make sure you have this correct. Postal Services and UPS would love to charge you extra for little mistakes like you not being there to get the package and signing it. Same goes for companies! Restocking fees and return fees can add up! Be careful.
If shipping cost are not on the site or in a shipping page link. Make a "pretend checkout" and when the site asks you for payment you'll get a whole total with the shipping cost added. After you find out the shipping rate you can cancel out the site by closing the browser down and clearing the history

, Don't overpay for off-brand low quality lights when you can get cheaper ones that are a name brand. Quality and construction is important. Don't forget to read the descriptions for size, color and material. Sometimes it pays to do research on brand by visiting its site and reading reviews.
 The pine, spruce or fir rule doesn't necessarily mean the product has to really resemble the natural counterparts outside. Also same names are made up. Instead follow these guidelines.



Height and Diameter: You don't want a 10 foot tall tree in a 6 foot tall room or very likely a 10 inch wreath on a 18 foot window. The diameter is the width around the widest branches across the entire tree (usually the bottom). You can almost always bend the branches to make them less wide but unless you are a pro you can't make a tree shorter. Be careful with names like slim, tabletop, grand as each designer has his or her own perception of how big or small each one is. If you don't have specific measurements in a room measure it or get a technician or carpenter to do this for you. Or use a lazer measuring device sold in home improvement/hardware stores.

Number of branches or tips: The more tips and branches the more fuller the product will be. More tips can mean more room for decorations as well. If you want a wild mountain look or want to keep a room bright pick a product with less branches.

The construction which gives hint about the assembly: Many trees come already fully assembled with or without hinges. Hinges make the tree fold out and in like an umbrella which makes assembly a breeze. Other trees come with the tree "trunk" and branches in pieces you attach to the pole. Some of these have the bottom of the branches color coded so you know which branches go on top and which on bottom. Others, get ready to to play a guessing game.

The material the tree is made off: Some "evergreens" are actually made of feathers of geese and ducks. There are artificial evergreens are made of a polyester, nylon, shredded, ribbon fabric material which is soft and pleasant to work with. There are other "evergreens" however that are made with very hard and sharp plastic or even metal that is very sharp and dangerous to work with. Also make sure the wires are coated with PVC and not exposed to prevent the presence of shock and fire. Sharp plastic and "needles" can cut wires of lights as well.
 Try to stay away from old, outdated holiday electronics because they are not built to current codes of proper authorities.


Many older light sets burn hotter, blow bulbs and fuses, stop lighting and or burn too much energy. These most likely won't have the new "stay lit technology" or lamp locks. Fire and electric shock risks are more likely with these than with newer models.
Old blow-mold or decorations that act like a lamp can be updated by having the old wiring replaced and replacing the old bulb with cooler burning current ones that are the correct size of the socket. You can also replace an entire set of large classic light bulbs(C-9,C-5) with cooler burning LED bulbs.
Know the ratings of your electronics. Look for the UL (Underwriters Laboratories) ratings on electronic decorations including battery operated. Low Voltage Directive is an European version which means that the product has had at least some testing and research for strict categories and standards. The wattage is also important.
Know how many of an electronic project (mainly light sets) can connect within a single connection. There should be a number of possible sets that can connect listed on this package. Do not connect more than this number of the identical set or go over the wattage maximum (when using nonidentical sets) on the package to avoid blown fuses and shortages. Make sure your extension cord and/or outlets can handle the wattage without overloading. These are also listed on the caution tags attached to the cord or on the package of a newly purchased cord.
 Some wires on some electronics aren't really made for withstanding severe cold.Sometimes the lights on a electronic device like a wreath are outdoor rated but the material the wreath is made out of or ornaments and other decor on the wreath itself are not. The control boxes, twinkling bulbs and red tipped flashing bulbs are sensitive to cold. Cold and wet can also cause flashing light sets not to flash or the effects of chasing/function lights to not work as they would on a warmer or dryer day. Placing decor in non-recommended situations voids the warranty on them. This also many times includes leaving the item installed year-round or over 1 to 4 month.


Keep "indoor rated" electronics away from damp situations and water.Many indoor decorations can be placed in a sheltered spot safe from the sun, extreme temperatures, or rain and snow. The sheltered porch, on the door is less like likely to do much harm. If these are exposed to a lot of water or a flood it's best to be safe and throw out.
Even "outdoor rated" electronics can't withstand everything nature throws at them. Make sure you take measures like protecting the outlets and connections by covering them with plastic or tape or tucking outlets and connections in deep within like an evergreen bush or in a tree hole. These items give off a lot heat and can cause sparks and fire easily within a house.
Visit the stores you can in person to find out about the specific brands and what the specific light set or pre-lit decor looks like when on whenever possible. Many stores will light the set for you or have it displayed in some way. Video demos may not work because the colors on the video vary via monitor display settings on the screen your using.
Make sure you know the bulb size in actual measurements. The name C-7, C-9, M-5 for example are really there for guidelines and are not really specific measurements for companies to use. The tiny thumbnail image of the bulb on the site or package or the product being shown used as a decoration can be misleading.
If there aren't any pre-light or pre-decorated decor that is suitable for outdoor use that is desired, consider purchasing an non-decorated outdoor rated version, and then purchasing outdoor suitable decorations for it. Stores that sell funeral floral decorations which are made for outdoor displays may have lots of options for decorating such items.You can then decorate the item yourself or have a decorator friend or local florist do this for you.
 Many things can go wrong with holiday electronics. Many times it's not the product itself it's how it's been designed or a misunderstanding of the effect or how it's constructed.


Many of the lighted decor you come across will consist of multiple smaller sets connected to form one big set. If any of the strands shall not function correctly there will be a gap in your design. It can be a time-consuming chore trying to find a few 10 loose or blown out bulbs on a tree with 2000 lights. The same also goes for curtain or icicle light sets, swag lights, lighted 20 wire trees and any lighted sculptures.
Many of the larger sets like sets of 300 lights are really 2 or more smaller sets plugged into on one with end to end plugs or 2 separate sets. In many cases it's better and less expensive to buy several small sets of a specific light set and connect them as you go. High count light sets are more difficult to maintain and more costly to replace.
When shopping chasing, musical or computer function light sets get the ones with the even number of strands like 2 or 4 way. The 3 way sets will skip or miss a step messing up the effect. This also is true when a strand on the set breaks down. Effects of LED twinkling sets and incandescent twinkling sets are totally different. Some of the "twinkling" sets are really separate stands each with a red-tipped bulb on each strand making each strand flash at random independently of each other. True twinkling sets have independent single bulbs within the set that blink randomly.
Use caution when considering the purchase of novelty light sets with special design bulbs.These may be more sensitive than regular bulbs. Keep the model name or/and number of these sets so you can be able to find the replacement bulbs or want to purchase the set again. Make sure you are able to find the replacement bulbs and where to buy them. Sometimes the bulb is covered by a twist off or pull off cover which is removed to reveal the bulb inside. Other times it's the whole bulb itself has to removed then replaced. Sometimes you come across light covers for average light sets. If using make sure the covers don't make the set malfunction or act different.
Many mini bulb sets have bulbs that look like clones, however in some cases only the replacement bulbs for that company that manufactured specifically that set is accepted on it. Also it can be only the replacement bulbs for that specific model by the same company. Bad replacements will act strange.
 LED is a new and relative young technology.These light emitting diodes as they called burn cooler and with the right brands burn brighter than traditional light sets. The often times plastic bulbs make them break-resistant. The colored versions don't fade as easily as well. Many sets can connect 30 to 60 number of the identical set. These new innovative lights give seasonal decorators lots of new options. However there are some common pitfalls here to watch out for.


LED sets can have the same malfunctions as regular (incandescent) sets and lighted decor. Mentioned above.
Some of the older LEDs have ugly "converters" within the set on the wire itself. The newer ones have "converters" that not so obvious or hidden within the bulb socket or plug. Many low quality LED sets will also flicker and buzz, start bright the first year than next year shine dimmer or never burn bright at all.
LEDs called Rice Lights which are also called Micro Lights have tiny bulbs and fine wires but can also have clumsy large plugs and adapters.
Some LEDs are made with removable replaceable bulbs. Some have the lights built into the set itself and they cannot be removed or replaced. When replacing LEDs don't change the order of the color arrangement. LED colors each have a specific wattage and if you replace a bulb in different order than original the set can get a shortage and fail to work.
LED Light colors can be tricky and may or may not be exactly like they seem on the site or package. White for example comes in pure white, cool white, and warm white.Pure white is the approximate color of bright white typing paper and has no colors in it. Cool white has a bluish tone like the "daylight" household bulbs and craft light have. Warm white is yellowish like traditional lights or candlelight. However there are variables to this rule and some warm whites turn out pure white or pure whites almost are cool whites. Pinks can be tricky too! Some pinks are purple not pink. Other pinks are fleshy skin colored.
Also there are LED products that are made to look more like "incandescent" colors. These colors are more "softer" look than regular LEDs. Softer means more like "pastel" or "chalky" colors like the old fashioned bulbs of yesteryear or regular incandescent light sets.
Also many LED sets or stores that sell them have different names for the same color. Halloween's "orange" becomes in some cases Christmas's "amber". "Gold" and "yellow" can be used as names but are the same color in some stores. "Tropical blue" is "cool white" in some cases.
 Beware if you, family, or a potential guest have allergic reactions to strong perfumes or colognes or just artificial fragrances. Some people are allergic to smells of certain plants. Unless you are buying from a reputable brand you trust with fragrances, you are at risk to being shipped something that could make you sick. You can copy or adopt these by buying non fragrant items and putting them in a container with a trusted potpourri, a brand of fragrance you trust, natural herbs, fragrant natural flowers or even evergreen branches and fresh pine cones from the woods (after washing them first to remove bugs).


If you see a fragrance type, chemical or flower name from a fragrance being sold and you or anyone you are expecting a visit from during the holiday season have an allergy to it, don't buy it. If something is only listed as "fragrances" on the package, be safe and don't buy it.
Whenever a new fragrant object starts causing you or anyone in the room problems like headaches, strange behavior, fatigue, breaking out in welts, hives, itching or breathing problems. Put the object in a sealed container and return it to the place you purchased it from. Don't wait for "the strength of the scent to get weaker on Christmas". There are other better, safer alternatives.
 Pretty decor doesn't mean safe decor. You might accidentally have had items delivered to your home with hazards like a unknown chemicals, unwanted critters, fire hazards and potential injury and death. If you find something wrong or something about it in your gut does not feel right about it send it back.


Older decorations can contain lead and some newer plastic and "metal" ornament sets will give off a chemical smell. Plastic ornaments, "metal" and really bad acrylic ones also break down and turn brittle and shatter like glass! Not all "metal" is actually real metal! Sometimes it's plastic painted with metallic paint. It can also be some weak wrongly processed mixture of metal and alloys (mixtures). Flocking rather in a can or on decorations made to look snowy may be made of some material you don't know about and can cause allergies or health problems.
Styrofoam materials are fire hazards and can cash fire immediately if exposed to open flame or high heat. Some other materials used as some kinds fabric or even some natural materials that haven't been treated with fireproof spray can ignite into deadly flame quickly. Many Styrofoam materials you get shipped are completed sealed and are not really flammable unless the fire burns through the covering and gets to the foam. Always keep fire hazard materials away from flames, heat and hot light bulbs. Hay, paper, straw, old dried out wreaths, garlands, trees and pine cones can also present fire risk.
Other fire hazards evolving Christmas decoration can be bad combos. If you put flocking on first then a fine decorative product called angel hair there's no risk. However if you spray flocking on angel hair the two will form a potential flame ready to happen.
Beware of also hidden pests, mold and in fabric materials bedbugs. Some times a object shipped might have lingering perfumes from previous locations and also silicate anti-moisture stuff which needs to be kept away form kids and pets so it's not accidentally ingested.
Falling apart decorative pieces will present choking hazards.Any ornament that has nails, sewing pins, screws that fall off can also cause potential injuries. Sharp plastic, wood, and metal can be just as bad as broken glass.
Be aware of the chemicals used in glass ornaments. Use caution when purchasing mercury glass and leaded crystal decor. Mercury glass doesn't have mercury chemicals in it however it contains silver and other colorants and metals in it that can be equally toxic if ingested. Many "crystal" decorations may contain lead. Quality crystal from reputable dealers like Waterford and Swarovski have very strict limits on how much lead is used in the glass and are also carefully monitored by government,however some other ones may or may not be so carefully watched. Sometimes chemicals within the ornament are released in a cloud if the ornament is shattered. Also use this caution with any metal ornaments. Like some people are allergic to gold and silver chemicals in any metal or glass can cause similar reactions. Don't let pets or children put metal in their mouths.Christmas light wires also contain lead. Don't let pets or children put these wires in their months. Also after working with lights wash hands.
Some live plants, or natural materials could also contain the next major insect, rodent or weed infestation that must be exterminated or poisonous chemicals on the plant,in the container or soil it's potted in.
Also some classic holiday plants and houseplants are hazardous. Many are poisonous to eat. There are others that poisonous to touch and to eat. Others are poisonous to touch. A number also have poisonous sap that can do harm if you get it in your eyes, nose ,mouth or on an open cut or wound. When ever you buy a plant get it's botanical name.This name is the one written differently on the garden tag (in italics) or is a strange name. and is will help you find out about how toxic a plant is for pet and/or human consumption. Mistletoe, Poinsettia, Paperwhites, Amaryllis, Tulips, Hyacinth, Narcissus, are poisonous. Some also have sharp thorns and sharp leaves. All ornamental peppers(Solanaceae) including the Jerusalem Cherry have non-poisonous yet hot fruit but the rest of the plant is toxic.
 Check over the details as many times you wish to avoid surprises.


Assembly and more supplies required? Sometimes ornament are shipped in deconstructed or "ready-to-make" condition. This means actually putting the ornament together using instructions that come with it or viewing the tutorial on a site to complete it. Sometimes you'll receive only a sheet of paper with instructions and patterns.
Make sure to also look for a count number for the quantity or number of ornaments your getting. Sometimes someone will click for one ornament and get the package with a whole set of them.
Make sure you know if the tree or wreath comes decorated with the decor on it, sold with the decor included, or comes by itself. Some light wires even come only with the wires and not the bulbs! And a big box of bulbs for lights but there's no wire! Some decor runs by batteries.
 Beware of items that made without good construction and those that are too old to survive. These things will fall apart and require repair or throwing into the trash. A new ornament is not supposed perform as if it's an antique and should last for years. Some decorations are supposed to be fragile but other decorations being sold that are supposed to be sturdy are not really worth the investment.


Some old and poorly constructed artificial "evergreen" material will shed their "needles" and leave you with bare wires. Some silk floral will actually "pop" off because they are simply glued or "snapped"on and not taped or wired on. Old tinsel trees and garland will shred or became dull and flat like old carpet.
A cheap, poorly made bird or fabric-covered ornament will have the coverings come off the base form leaving it completely naked.
Old wood ornaments will snap apart or peel paint if not made correctly.
Sometimes a buyer can receive old worn out stuff that been on the shelf for years.
Beware what you're getting before you buy. Check reviews for the seller and the product.
 Many times a company make the same identical product for different stores and have them sold in differently colored or designed packages. Same colors but difference backgrounds and letter formats.


Changes may be slight to totally different. Looking for a manufacturer name may help, but sometimes it's hidden or replaced by the store name or logo. However many times you'll have that "Did I just have this brand before..." or "This brand works exactly like..." feeling.
Sometimes two very different brands will be in an identical package. Try to avoid the low quality knockoff, aka cheap copycat. Look for clues and read reviews from other buyers.

