 Oftentimes, family members are more open to listening to outsiders than their own relatives. A respected family friend or community leader may be able to bring up the topic in a way that your relative is receptive to. Pinpoint who in your loved one’s life they hold in high esteem. Then, ask this person to assist in your cause., Gender differences, cultural barriers, and even educational gaps may affect a person’s decision not to see a doctor. If this is the case with your loved one, try to work with them in choosing a healthcare provider that aligns with their beliefs and makes them more comfortable.For example, your relative may prefer a practitioner of traditional medicine to a Western-style physician. If your loved one is a female, she may prefer to be seen by a female physician.
Work with them to conduct research and find a credentialed provider who can address your loved one’s needs while easing their distress, too.
 Your relative may feel less distress if you join them at the doctor’s visit as a patient, too. This may release them from the pressure that they alone have a problem. Make it causal and relaxed, like you both simply need to get a yearly examination. Your loved one may be more inclined to see the doctor with this approach.For example, you might say, “Dad, I was thinking we could schedule our checkups together this year. I know that going with you will make me far less nervous than going on my own. Does that sound okay to you?”
Making it like they are going to support you rather than the other way around may remove the pressure, also.
 Despite your best attempt, your loved one is ultimately the deciding factor in their medical treatment. Unless they are at risk of harming themselves or someone else, you can’t actually force the issue. Be honest with yourself in recognizing that there is only so much you can do.If your loved one refuses to see a doctor, you might try mailing their physician a letter stating your concerns and hope that they call your relative in for an appointment.
Or, you might mention a problem to a doctor that they are willing to go to, such as privately telling a cardiologist about any memory problems you've noticed with the hope that they'll pass the info along to the primary care physician.

