 Mogul skiing consists of a course of bumps, called moguls, in the snow with networks of gaps between the bumps, called troughs. In competitive events, the run is timed, but noncompetitive mogul skiers may simply have fun taking untimed, creative routes down a course. By starting with smaller moguls and wider troughs, you will have an easier time navigating the run and absorbing the bumps as you practice the other basics of skiing moguls.
 By going across the bumps, you can practice important techniques for skiing moguls, such as keeping your balance with your head over your feet and absorbing the the bumps by keeping your head at the same height and instead correcting for the height difference in your knees., By going across a bump and turning yourself in the direction of the next trough (the lower parts of the mogul between the bumps), you can use the angle of the bump to turn more swiftly.The ideal path down a mogul run will consist of a combination of going around the bumps (down the troughs) and going across a bump to angle yourself into a better oncoming trough. Practice both skills on their own, and then try linking them together.
 With larger bumps and narrower gaps, you will have to cut harder to maintain your route through the troughs, which is more difficult on steeper hills where you gain more speed. By using the initial incline of an oncoming bump, you can appropriately slow yourself while positioning into the best angle of the oncoming trough.For best results, begin to turn in the direction of the trough, creating a wider plane with your skis to inch up to the back of the bump in front of you. Combined with the incline, this will help you control your speed even more.
Plant your pole into the bump just before you feel the major slowdown. By doing so, you help maintain balance as you brake, and you additionally give yourself leverage to push off the pole, which will help you more easily angle into the trough., Don’t just set off down the course ahead. Instead, survey the run and plan your first several turns. This will set your rhythm for the course and help you keep control farther down the run.


Your initial planning should also take your corridor into account. A wider corridor—one which crosses from left to right across four or five moguls—spreads your descent across a greater distance and means less acceleration. A narrower corridor—only two or three moguls across—will mean a faster descent and greater speed.As you decide how to take a bump or trough, begin to execute the necessary maneuver and keep your gaze ahead. This way you can stay mentally ahead of yourself and make a better decision for the next oncoming bump.

