 This may seem like an unlikely way to straighten hair, but it actually works very well. Allow your hair to air dry almost completely. Then part hair into four or five sections. Pull each section tight and wrap it around. Then, pin it in place. Allow your hair to dry for several hours or overnight. When let down, hair will be dramatically straighter, and you can use a flat iron to straighten further, if you desire.


Depending on length and thickness you may need more or less sections, but the goal is to have a section you can wrap and pull tightly around your head and hold in place with a single pin.
Use bobby pins or other straight clips to avoid making kinks in the ends of your hair., Like blow drying or cool air drying, this technique relies on pulling the curls to gently straighten them. Brushing hair dry does not offer a perfectly straight finish, but it does significantly relax curls without heat or chemicals. Directly from the shower, pat hair dry with a towel. Once you’ve absorbed most of the excess moisture from hair, use a wide-toothed comb to brush out tangles. Then, brush hair continually until it dries., These types of brushes were often recommended for styling in the past, but unless you want to add a curl under or out to the ends of your hair, they don’t really deliver a straight, flat look. Instead, use a paddle brush with lots of soft bristles. These types of brushes are available in most pharmacies, beauty supply stores, and even in the big-box stores. They can range in price from ten to fifty dollars, but the quality tends to be fairly even. Save a few dollars, and buy the ten dollar model.
 Find hair rollers that are large enough to accommodate the length of your hair. If you have shorter hair, use a smaller roller, and if you have long hair, an extra-large roller will be necessary. The goal is to pull the hair tight over the roller without twisting or wrapping. Let the hair dry naturally, use cool air, or a blow dryer. When you take hair down, you’ll have a sleek, manageable locks.


You can start with damp hair or dry hair. If you put dry hair in the rollers, you will need heat to break the curls.
Brush any tangles out, and separate hair into three sections, one to each side of the head and the back.
Depending on the size the rollers, further section hair to lay flat against the roller, and clip or pin each roller in place.
Allow to air dry, cool dry, or use heat to straighten already dry hair. If you air dry, the process will take an hour or more. Cool drying typically cuts that time in half, and heated blow drying will usually only take ten or twenty minutes., This method works best with long hair. Like pinning hair around the head, this technique helps keep hair from kinking as it dries. The results are not as straight as some of the other techniques, but this is a great option for travel or to save time. You’ll wear damp hair in a bun until it dries, and when you let it down, your hair will have soft, manageable waves.


Pat dry hair with a towel, and gently brush it out with a comb
Brush hair back. Holding the hair like a ponytail near your scalp, twist it with the other hand. Then, roll the twisted hair into a bun.
You can hold hair in place using an elastic or several pins depending on preference.
Wear the bun to allow your hair to dry on the way to work, on a plane, or overnight.