 To win, you need to set goals and achieve them. Write a list of the goal or goals you want to win at. Make them as detailed as possible. Break large, vague goals down into achievable parts. For example, if your goal is to "win at life," break that down into smaller goals, such as "get a job I love" "finish my education" "build meaningful relationships" "feel good about myself.";
, First, break each goal into smaller ones. Breaking your goals down allows you to track your progress. For instance, the goal "feel good about myself" could be broken down into sub-goals such as "build a positive self-image" "exercise" "be well rested" and "work through negative feelings."Break those goals down again into actionable steps. For instance, "be well rested" can be broken down into "1. Start winding down at 8:30." "2. Be ready for bed by 10 every night." "3. Wake up at 7:30am and get immediately out of bed."
Identify the steps that are most difficult. For instance, it may be easy for you to wind down and get into bed at the same time every night, but difficult to pop right out of bed in the morning.Identifying the challenging steps allows you to practice and revise. If getting out of bed immediately is difficult, add helpful steps, such as setting your clothes out beside your bed the night before.
 Get organized and create an achievement schedule for yourself. Have daily goals, weekly goals, monthly goals, and yearly goals. Check in regularly to make sure you are achieving them all. If you don't achieve all your goals one week, try again the next.
 Make sure your goals are actually achievable. You can't win at an impossible game. If a goal can be broken down into actionable steps, it is probably realistic. Make sure your time frame is also realistic. Can everything you want to achieve be achieved in the time you envision? Check your progress as you go, and revise your schedule until the pace of improvement is reasonable.


Try introducing one or two changes to your schedule at a time. If you try to change everything in your life at once, you may overwhelm yourself and end up reverting to old habits.
Talk to people you trust about your goals, especially if you're worried they may not be reasonable., Take a few minutes to imagine yourself winning at your goal. Imagine every detail of perfect success: how it feels, what it looks like, how everyone will react. Then turn it around entirely. Imagine each and ever possible roadblock you might come up against.Take several minutes to think of anything that might get in your way. Don't solve the problem, just imagine any scenario that might lead to disaster.
Mental contrasting has been shown to be more helpful than pure positivity. Thinking too positively can lead you to relax too soon, and thinking only of the possible downfalls can lead you to sabotage your own project.