 To make gum paste, you will need confectioner's sugar, gum tragacanth, shortening, unflavored gelatin, extra large eggs and warm water. Gum tragacanth is the ingredient that makes the gum paste pliable. You can find this at stores that carry cake decorating supplies or from bakery supply retailers on the Internet.;
, Fill a saucepan halfway with water and begin to simmer it on the stove.



Place 6 cups of confectioner's sugar and 2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons of gum tragacanth in a metal bowl. Sit the bowl on the pan of simmering water. This acts as a double boiler, heating the items in the top bowl while decreasing the likelihood that the ingredients will burn. Leave for about 5 minutes, stirring once about midway. Remove the mixture from the heat.
Mix 6 tablespoons of warm water with 4 teaspoons of unflavored gelatin in a small bowl. Stir slowly until the gelatin dissolves. If necessary, place the bowl on the saucepan of simmering water to raise the temperature of the water a little and progress the dissolving process. You can also place the mixture in the microwave for a few seconds to heat things up. Add 1 heaping tablespoon of shortening to the liquid and stir until it melts and incorporates together.
Add the gelatin mixture to the bowl of sugar. You will also put in 2 eggs. Mix well. This can be mixed together in a mixer. Due to the consistency, you may find that using dough hooks works the best.
Knead this mixture in with 1 1/3 cups of confectioner's sugar. One way to do this is to place the confectioner's sugar in another bowl and make a well in the center of it. Add this mixture to the center of the well. Incorporate the items together by kneading with your hands. Grease your hands if necessary.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a lid so the container is airtight. This keeps the gum paste from becoming too dry.
Allow it to sit and rest overnight. You can place it in the refrigerator for several hours, but you will need to bring it back to room temperature for it to be easy to use.

