 For a basic henna paste, you'll need a few ingredients. Utensils, such as stirring spoons and mixing bowls, should be found somewhere in your home kitchen.


Henna powder. Gazab henna powder is recommended.Be sure to buy body art quality henna, and not henna for hair.
Cloves. Cloves are a type of flower, typically used in spices.Seven or eight cloves are a good match for a standard bag of henna powder. Make sure to use solid cloves rather than their oil. Clove oils are known to be harmful.Grounded coffee beans. Two tablespoons of finely grounded coffee beans are enough to match a standard bag of henna powder.
Lemon juice. Lemon juice bottles can typically be picked up at a food or dollar store. The lemon juice will be added to the powder before you add the heated coffee clover mixture.;
, A perfect henna paste will be consistent. This means taking out the bigger particles that may put up a fight against stirring.









Store the powder in a sealable glass container. This will limit the risk of the powder coming into contact with moisture.
 Stir the ingredients together until they're relatively consistent.









For the time being, the henna powder itself should be kept separate from the rest of your mixture.
 Pour the mixture into a pot and bring a stovetop element to medium-high. Wait until the mixture has reached a rolling boil, then take it off the element.
 You can do this by sifting it, much as you did with the henna powder. Sift through a cheesecloth into another bowl.









Sifting the mixture multiple times will maximize the chances that you got all of the particulate sediment out of it.
 Add one tablespoon of lemon juice per every two tablespoons of ground coffee you're using in the other mixture. Pour it onto the powder, then stir it thoroughly until you think it's consistent.









Using an alternative to lemon juice (like an oil) may drastically change the dye's release time.Do not use lemon juice if you are allergic to citrus. Strong, cold black tea or flat Coke or Pepsi will work in place of the lemon juice. Keep in mind, however, that caffeine is absorbed through skin, so do not use a caffeinated beverage if you are sensitive to it.
 Add the coffee clove mixture into your henna powder bowl by using a tablespoon. Gauge your mixture by stirring consistently after delivering each tablespoon into the mix. You can stop adding mixture to the powder when the powder has a toothpaste-like consistency.








Add the mixture one spoonful at a time. This will make sure you have sufficient control over the consistency.
 Tea Tree, Lavender, and Frankincense are a few of the oils you might use for this. 30ml of essential oil should be enough to add color to your henna mixture. As always, stir it thoroughly once it's been added.
 Applying it before it's been sufficiently released will result in a weak stain. Wrap over the top of the mixing bowl with plastic wrap and tie it over with an elastic band.









Tape over the plastic bag with your fingers as you place it over the bowl. This will force the excess air out of the bowl as you secure it.
Alternatively, the hotter the room or area is, the faster it will be for the henna's dye to release in the mixture.
 Wash your skin with soap and water. This will rub away any excess dirty and help maximize the effectiveness of your henna.
 However, narrow tipped funnels and specialized henna funnels are perfect for henna application. Henna funnels can be purchased from anywhere where regular henna powder is sold.


Henna funnels sometimes come in packs alongside the powder.
Henna funnels can be made at home as well by rolling plastic into a cone and snipping off the end with scissors.
 Use a spoon to gradually fill the funnel up with paste.Take a tablespoonful of the paste and let it drip slowly into the funnel. Done in this way, you'll be able to control the amount that comes into your funnel without risking damage to the funnel itself. Fill the funnel until it is roughly 2








Because the henna paste has such a sticky consistency, you'll have to be patient while the funnel is filled.
 Fold the end of the henna cone and tape it shut with scotch tape.










You can untape the cone and reuse it if you run out of henna paste. However, due to the fact that you'll need to allow the henna time to properly dry into your skin, it's a good idea to make more than the amount of henna you think you'll need.
 With this in mind, it's a good idea to keep a wet towel nearby just in case. Wipe away design errors when you first see them.
 However, it doesn't take long before the designs begin to fade from the skin. If this is the case, it's a good idea to touch up the designs by lightly tracing over them with fresh henna.
 The possibilities with Henna are virtually endless. The complexity of the designs you draw will depend entirely on your skill set. However, if you're just starting out, you'll quickly get a better grasp of what to do.









Once you get the proper hang of henna application, you should make your own original designs. Because the best henna art is often very complex, it may be a good idea to draw out some patterns on paper before applying it to your sin.

