 Your room will look more tidy if it's well-organized. Haphazard organization, where items are stored in random places, can fuel stress. Make sure there is a space for everything in your apartment.


If you have a desk with drawers, each drawer can hold a different type of item. One drawer on your desk can hold photographs, another can hold papers for work or school, another can hold office supplies, and so on.
Divide up your closet space. Put formal clothing in the back, and every day clothing and sleep wear towards the middle.
It may help to divide your bedroom into different sections. One corner can be for recreation, and you can put things like a stereo and fun decorations there. Another corner can be for studying, where you can keep your desk and bookshelf.
 If you do not have a lot of drawers or storage space, make use of boxes and baskets. Small items can be stored in boxes and baskets, which you can arrange neatly throughout your room.


Wicker baskets, which you can purchase at most craft stores, can be a cute edition to your bedroom. You can fold and store extra linens in a wicker basket and position it near the foot of your bed.
You can also use cute, decorative boxes that you can purchase at a craft store. You can store mementos, like old photographs, in such boxes. You can also keep supplies that do not fit in your desk drawers, like pens and papers, in a box that you can tuck under your desk.
 Your room will feel more tidy if you maximize floor space. Therefore, try to hang up what you can. In addition to hanging up clothes in the closet, consider installing a peg rail above your bed. You can hang up mementos from a peg rail, as well as wardrobe items like hats and jewelry. This will keep such items from clogging up desk and floor space.
 A hanging shoe rack is a device, made from malleable material, that you can hang vertically from your closet. It comes with individual compartments where you can place shoes. If you have a lot of shoes that you keep in the bedroom, consider storing them in a hanging rack. This will free up floor space, making your room look much tidier., If you want your room to be tidier, it's a good idea to clean out your closet. A lot of clutter gets pushed into the closet, and it should be periodically cleaned out.Go through your clothes. If you have anything that's out of season, consider storing it in a container under your bed or somewhere else in your home. It can also help to arrange clothing in your closet. Keep dressy items in the back, while pushing every day items forward.
You should also look for any items you placed in the closet without thought. You may have, for example, shoved old school supplies or knick-knacks into the closet. Throw away what you no longer want and find a better place to store the items you want to keep.
 You should also strive to tidy up drawer space in your room. Even if you don't always see inside your drawers, knowing they're cluttered can cause stress. Open your drawers and clean them out to give your room a tidier feel.


A lot of times, drawers end up cluttered with old papers. You may have old homework assignments, receipts, bills, or other unneeded mess in your drawers. Throw away such items.
Strive to make the space inside the drawers as tidy as possible. Stack papers. Organize space. For example, keep photographs stacked in one corner, old postcards in another, and so on.
 If you want to maximize floor space, a great trick to doing so is storing certain items under your bed. Push boxes full of items under the bed, as well as instruments, bins of clothing for a different season, suitcases, and other larger items. This can create a lot more floor space, leaving your room feeling a lot tidier.

