 Look for signs of an approaching train. You should see signs, like a sign with an X and RR written on it. Check for flashing lights, a person signaling a train, and a horn or bell from an approaching train. Even if there are no signs of a train, slow your bike. Crossing tracks at full speed on a bike can be dangerous.Make sure you are in the appropriate spot for a bike. The laws may state that bikers stay on the road, or on a specific bike path.
 If there is a train, you should stop your bike completely and wait. Do not try to race across the track before the train approaches. Either continue sitting on your bike, or get off your bike and stand next to it while holding the handle bars. Wait until the train has passed. Make sure another train is not coming. You are able to cross the tracks when the lights have stopped flashing, and the crossing gate has been lifted., There are several risks you are taking when crossing railroad tracks on a bike. Knowing the risks before crossing the tracks will help prevent you from falling or becoming stuck on the tracks. The risks include falling into the gap next to the rail, falling in a gap near the tracks, and sliding on the tracks. The way you cross the tracks depends on what risks your perceive before crossing., Falling into the gap perpendicular to the rail happens because sometimes railroad crossings use coverings to make the railway smoother, but the coverings are made up of individual pieces that leave gaps. The gaps are often wider than a bike tire, which risks the bike tire falling into the gap. To avoid this, cross the tracks close to a 45 degree angle, instead of perpendicularly.


Judge what is a 45 degree angle by using the outermost tracks as your basis for the bottom line of the angle.
 Sliding happens on the tracks when they are slippery and/or wet. Avoid leaning the bike on slippery tracks. Instead, cross the tracks in a straight line. Try to go as slowly as possible when crossing.
 Do not try to line your bike up with the tracks. If your bike tires are narrow, do a slight S weave on the tracks, between 20 and 70 degrees. It is also an option to get off of your bike and walk it across the tracks.You can “hop” across the raised tracks on your bike if you are an experienced bike rider. Do not attempt this if you do not know how to jump with a bike. It is dangerous and could lead to a crash if you are not experienced.