 If you're feeling certain that someone is avoiding you, consider tactfully bringing up the issue. Perhaps you want to right any wrongs that you've committed; perhaps you suspect that your friend is avoiding you because she's going through a hard time. Be respectful and direct, and explain exactly what's bothering you.


If you aren't sure why someone is avoiding you, say, "I've been meaning to bring this up – I feel like you've been avoiding me lately. Did I do something to upset you?"
If you know why someone is avoiding you, don't beat around the bush. Apologize for anything that you've done, and try to reconcile the situation. Say, for example, "I've feel like things have been awkward between us ever since we had that fight last week. I value our friendship a lot, and I want to talk about this so that we can move past it. This argument isn't worth ruining our friendship."
You can confront the person by getting them one-on-one, or you can ask a guidance counselor to moderate the conversation. Consider your comfort level, and choose the situation that you think will best resolve the problem.
 If you have mutual friends with the person who is avoiding you, ask someone trustworthy to weigh in on the situation. Say, "Do you have any idea why X would be upset with me? I feel like she's been avoiding me lately."


Do not spread rumors or gossip about the avoidant person. If you value your relationship with this person, be very careful about what you say. If you say negative things behind the person's back, there's a decent chance that your words will find your way to his/her ears – which will only further inflame the situation.
 Sometimes, people need to go through their own personal journey before they are ready to reconnect with others. In many cases, forcing this connection will only push the avoidant person further away. Be patient, be open, and move on with your life. If the person decides that he or she wants to be in your life, you will know.


Make your intention clear. Say, "It seems like you need your own space to grow right now, so I'm going to leave you alone. If you ever want to talk, my door's always open."
Keep your heart open. It can be very difficult to move on with your life and still remain open to letting this person back in. Take a step back from the relationship, remember the good times, and try to let go of any anger.
 It can be very hard to give up on someone, especially if you've invested a lot of time and energy. At some point, though, you may need to accept that things are not going to return to the way they used to be. It's a matter of growth and emotional well-being: if you spend your hours living in the past, lingering on what once was and could have been, it will be immeasurably more difficult for you to learn and bloom in the present. Let go.


Letting go does not mean forever. It does not mean that you can't rekindle a friendship with this person. It simply means that you aren't spending your precious emotional energy on someone who isn't receptive to it right now.

