 Where do you plan to house the canopy bed and how much room do you have in your abode?


Determine the room layout and size allotment before identifying the right piece of furniture.
Review your design plan to have an idea of what kind of end table or night stand would work best for you. You can always paint or stain the table but you will need to make sure the table structure compliments your style.
Think about what you want the bed to look like from the upside down table. Some tables have overhangs, which could create a lovely headboard.;
, Do you have an end table that you’ve relegated to the garage or are ready to give away?

, Not only can you find quite a bargain, you may have a large table selection.
 From EBay and Craigslist to specialty stores (if you are prepared to paid a higher price); you can find your pet the ideal bed from a variety of sources. If you plan to shop online, have a clear idea of not only the table shape but also specific dimensions since you won’t be able to see and touch the merchandise before you buy. Also, ask about the return policy in case what you see isn’t exactly what you end up receiving.
 You will be turning the table over and laying the bed inside the table base . Some bases have rough edges and possibly some hardware sticking out.


Remove the nails or staples if they are unnecessary to the table’s integrity. If the table needs the hardware in place, simply use your hammer to turn the sharp end inward or smooth the staple by lightly hammering it into the wood.



Repair any damage or dings if necessary.



Consider applying several coats of stain or paint. Remember--if your pet will be using the bed, he or she may not be as gentle with it as a human. Prepare the bed to be somewhat durable.






Provide ample dry time before adding pet bedding and flourish.
, Fluff up bedding so it provides a welcoming spot.
 Take measurements of the inside of the table base before you shop for the perfect fit. Some doll stores can also special order mattresses that may meet your dimensions.


Before adding the mattress or bedding to the bed, cover mattress in waterproof material or inquire about rubber sheeting. This will add a layer of protection to the mattress in case your kitty or pup lays on the bed while soaking wet or muddy.
Make sure you can wash the pet’s bedding. From dander and errant fur to pet stains--you’ll need to ensure you can toss bedding in the wash to refresh and clean your pet’s bed.
 For some pets, just the bedding will work well. However, if your pet likes a nice pillow add a doll pillow at the head or find a warm, micro fleece blanket to keep him or her warm during cold winter nights.

