 Pick products made for your skin type (oily, dry, combination, normal) in order to achieve the best results. Wash your face no less than two times a day; in the morning and before you go to bed. Be gentle. If you scrub really hard you will only irritate your skin. Don't ever sleep with your make-up on. Your pores will get clogged and you'll start breaking out. After washing your face, use a good moisturizer that is made for your skin type. If you have blackheads or whiteheads, try using Biore Deep Cleansing Pore Strips.;
, Wash your hair as often as needed.Don't let it get greasy. Use deodorant. Moisturize your skin daily. It's best to do this after you shower because your skin is still damp and the lotion will soak in easily. Grooming your nails is also important. Keep them cut short and buff them once every couple of weeks to keep them smooth and nice. Push back your cuticles to prevent hangnails. Don't ever cut them! If you like nail polish, try using a sheer pink color or clear coat them. If you use a sheer pink color, use one coat so the natural color variations of your nails show through. It really does look nice.
 When getting your hair cut, make sure you know exactly what you want. If you're not sure then ask your hairdresser for a cut that will go with your face shape. Don't dye your hair; keep it natural. If you must, find a color that's close to your natural color, only better. Try not to use heat devices to style your hair. You can look up tutorials on curling or straightening your hair without heat on YouTube. Don't spend a ton of time styling your hair. The whole point is to bring out your natural beauty. Find a way to rock your natural style.
 Find your favorite facial feature and capitalize it. But don't overdo it if you go one day without all the makeup everybody will notice and their thoughts won't be very good. If your teeth aren't as white as they could be, don't wear bright lipstick. This will draw attention to the contrast. Instead, for example, wear a dark mascara. This will bring out the intensity/ beauty of your eyes.
 Make yourself do it. It's the ultimate act of self-respect. Soak in the bubble bath or read an inspiring book. These little pleasures allow you to feel special. You can fake it if you need to until you actually feel deserving of it. Whatever you choose, follow the action by writing down what you did and how it made you feel. Make it your own "attitude file". Include stories, quotes from friends and photographs that have made you feel good about yourself.
 Feel good, feel pretty and that's what the world will see. If you feel ugly, that's what people will see. Try to look as good as you can. There are ways to live in beauty without being obsessive about it.
 What people say, whether intentional or not, make us feel good or bad about ourselves. Look for people who make you feel good when you're down. This person will give you compliments. If you've done something different or if you're wearing something new, they will notice it. Keep these compliments and they will build your self esteem.
 Each of us has a voice inside our head that will give us advice. This is like a therapist. It will guide us in the right direction. It will calm us down, cheer us up and even help us figure out why we're overeating or not bothering to iron our clothes. The problem is that we often don't take the time we need to hear this important information. Schedule some quiet time in a leisurely bath or walk, or even while putting on your make-up. Treat this intuition as an inner cheering section.
 Relax. At least twice a day, set aside five minutes to recheck your make-up, hair, posture and clothing. No matter how impeccably you started out your day, a touch is both necessary and warranted. Take some deep breaths to renew and restore your appearance.
 When you smile you look confident and pretty. Take advantage of this!

, (These are convenient, money saving and work!) Some that I use are; An egg. Which is brilliant as a facial- crack the egg in half and separate the egg whites and yolk. Roughly whisk the egg white in a bowl and apply to your face (leave on for approximately 5 minutes). Wash off with slightly warm water. Next apply the yolk (which is a great moisturizing ingredient) leave on for again 5 minutes then wash with lightly warm water. Another is a Tomato; wash your face with slightly warm water. Cut the tomato in half and rub gently around your full face (this can be done 2/3 per week a gentle exfoliator) leave on for 10 minutes to soak up the goodness and then lightly rinse face with warm water, then freezing cold (to close your beautiful pores!). Finish off with your favorite skin appropriate moisturizer. Learn more easy home-made beauty tips online.
 "Beauty is in the eye of the beholder." Remember, you can't please everyone nor should you try. No one else's opinion of you matters but your own. You are beautiful just the way you are, so tell yourself that every chance you get until you believe it. Hope this helps, stay beautiful!

