 Determine which side of the package is longest. This will be used as the length measurement.


Measure the longest distance from one end to the other using a measuring stick. Only measure along the outer edge if the outer edge is the longest point. If the longest distance lies somewhere in between the outer edges of the package, you must measure there instead.
Round the measurement to the nearest 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Set the package down so that the length runs parallel to the table or floor. The other (shorter) parallel side is the width.


Identify the longest distance along this width. It might be at one of the outer edges of the package, but it may lie somewhere in between the outer edges.
Measure this widest portion of the package width using a measuring stick. Round this measurement to the nearest 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Identify the remaining unmeasured side. It should run perpendicular to the floor or table. This side is the height of the package.


Look for the tallest point of the package. Measure from this point down to floor or table, where the bottom of the package rests. Do not measure along the outer edge of the height unless that outer edge is the tallest one.
Use a measuring stick and round off your measurement to the nearest 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 To calculate the girth or overall size of the box, apply the same method you would use when calculating the measurements of a regular rectangular box.When asked for separate length, width, and height measurements, provide the measurements you just took as they are.
When asked for length and girth measurements, provide the length measurement you just took as it is. For the girth, double both the width and height measurements, then add the two doubled values together.

Example: Length = 6 inches (15 cm); Width = 2 inches (5 cm); Height = 4 inches (10 cm)
Girth = (2 * 2 inches ) + (2 * 4 inches ) = 4 inches (10 cm) + 8 inches (20 cm) = 12 inches (30 cm)


When asked for the total package measurement, add the girth and length together.

Example: Girth = 12 inches (30 cm); Length = 6 inches (15 cm)
Total size = 12 inches (30 cm) + 6 inches (15 cm) = 18 inches (45 cm)



