 Take out a piece of paper or open up a spreadsheet on your computer. Write down all of the details regarding your debts. Include information about required payment amounts, due dates, and interest percentages. Update this list often and mark off the debts as you pay them off.This will also allow you to see which debts need to be paid off first and which ones can come later. For example, it is always a good idea to pay off high interest credit card charges as soon as possible.
One entry on your list might look like, “American Express Card, $1,800 balance, 18% percent interest rate, $25 minimum payment per month.”

, Even without any money at present, it is still a good idea to consider what you will do with cash when you have it. Your goal should be to move away from a lifestyle that involves surviving paycheck to paycheck. This could mean finding a job and moving a certain percentage of pay into a savings account each month. This could also mean spending some time learning about saving on a site such as Learnvest.There are also some handy spending “tricks” that you can learn, such as setting aside the change from your checking transactions using an app, such as Qapital., Make a decision to pursue frugal, but safe, accommodations. If you are moving, select a location that will allow you to live in a thrifty way. Look into the cost of living numbers and consider the benefits of living within a city versus in a rural area, for example. You can also investigate saving money on transportation by forgoing a car.For example, Panama is one location where you can live comfortably for around $300 a month., If do not have a paid position, then look for one by creating a solid resume. It might help for you to list out all of your skills before you begin applying for positions. You could contact a temp agency as well or just browse the job sites on your own. Make sure that you only apply for legitimate work opportunities.You might also consider putting your skills to work by creating a business., Without a financial safety net, there are many moments in life that you will need to navigate carefully. You’ll feel less anxious if you create at least one back-up plan for all of the major decisions and actions that you take. Try to think about both worst and best case scenarios.For example, if you are saving money by cycling to work and your bicycle breaks down, what will you do? You might want to investigate public transportation as a back-up option.
 Go online and enter your city and “financial advisor.” Then, contact each advisor and ask if they offer any fee-free assistance. If they do, make an appointment and bring all of your financial paperwork with you to the meeting. They may also ask that you attend a financial support group with some of their other clients.


You can also find a forum for financial advice online and ask the members for tips on savings and tracking spending.

