 One of the best reasons to hire a personal trainer is if you need help meeting a very specific fitness goal. They'll be able to guide and train you so you'll be successful.Before meeting with possible trainers, make sure that your goal is well thought out and clear. This will help possible trainers know whether or not they'll be able to help you.
For example, "I want to improve my current running pace from a 10 minute mile to a 9 minute mile so I can finish a 5K quicker."
Many trainers are certified in specialty areas - similar to doctors. You may need to hire a personal trainer who is also a running coach. Or you may need to find a personal trainer familiar with fitness or weight lifting competitions.
Having a trainer work with you on these specific goals is an invaluable experience. This could mean the difference between meeting your goal and missing it.;
, Another popular reason that many people end up hiring a personal trainer is that they want to improve their general fitness levels.Even if you don't have a very specific goal, a personal trainer could still be useful. Many people don't have a specific end goal, but just want to get in better shape.
You may feel like you're stuck at a plateau - doing the same weekly routine but without any improvements or progress. Or you may not exercise regularly but are looking to be able to get more consistent with a higher intensity activity.
For example, if you are not sure how to improve your baseline fitness levels, a personal trainer would be a great option.
A trainer could show you how to improve speed, strength and endurance with a variety of training exercises.
 If you're interested in becoming stronger, building more muscle mass or seeing more definition, consider hiring a personal trainer.


Anyone can hop on a treadmill or elliptical and torch calories doing cardiovascular exercise. Most of the time, it's fairly self explanatory. However, if you're interested in perfecting strength training, it can be a little more complicated.
Many times, just lifting weights or using weight machines isn't enough. It's about the type of exercise, the amount of weight you use, the total reps you can perform and how many sets you do. This can make it complicated to meet your goal.
A personal trainer will be able to help explain to you and show you how to incorporate specific strength training exercises to help meet a goal of increased mass or definition.
In addition, they can change or adapt your plan as you slowly come closer to your goal and progress overtime.
 Another very common reason people hire personal trainers is to help them lose weight. If this is part of your goal, consider hiring a trainer to help you.Exercise is an important part of any weight loss routine. It can help burn calories and increase muscle mass which helps improve your metabolism over time.Although exercise alone generally doesn't result in a lot of weight loss, using a personal trainer in conjunction with a lowered calorie diet can result in great weight loss.
If you feel you need a little extra help losing weight, talk to a personal trainer. Discuss your weight loss goals with them, what type of diet you plan to follow and how you think exercise will help you meet your goals.
A trainer is also great for weight loss, as they can hold you accountable. But, depending on your needs and on your specific trainer, you might choose to have weight loss as a fitness goal, or you might choose not to be weighed. Being weighed can be intimidating, and you also might not want to lose weight as a result of personal training. Either way, you can choose with your personal trainer how much and how often you will be weighed, if at all.
 Another great reason to consider hiring a personal trainer is if you're getting a little bored with your current exercise routine. A trainer can help spice up your workouts.It's easy to get into the habit of doing the same thing over and over again each week. Whether it's a morning run a few days a week or going to the same spin class each week, your workouts could get a little boring.
If you feel yourself getting burnout and bored with your workout, consider booking a few sessions with a personal trainer. They may be able to give you a unique workout that could motivate you to stay consistent with exercise.
Talk to a trainer about your typical workouts and why they just aren't cutting it anymore. You want them to be able to fully understand what does and doesn't work for you.
Ask them to help design you a new program that's more exciting and motivating. They may show you new cardio moves or even teach you how to use different types of gym equipment.
 If there's one thing to consider before choosing a personal trainer, it's figuring out your budget. Personal training can be costly, so be prepared to budget for this expense.


Personal training can range widely on cost. It'll depend on whether or not you do one-on-one sessions, group sessions or are doing it through your gym or at home.
If you can, start by doing an introductory or promotional package. This could be through your gym or a special you find online. This will allow you to save some money and see whether or not you enjoy the sessions.
Also, decide whether or not you want to see your trainer multiple times a week, once a week or just twice a month. Fewer sessions will be less expensive in the long run.
Also look for package discounts. Sometimes you can purchase 3 sessions or 10 sessions for a package price which would be cheaper than 3 or 10 individual sessions.
If you do enjoy personal training and would like to continue, make sure to budget for that expense weekly or monthly.
 One particular reason that many people want to hire a personal trainer is because they need a little extra push when it comes to exercise.If you feel like you stop exercising when you get tired and don't have the self discipline to push yourself further, consider hiring a personal trainer.


A personal trainer can be useful not only in teaching you different or new exercise routines, but they also can provide an extra push of encouragement when you need it. If a trainer is instructing you and watching you, you may be more likely to do a few extra sets or push through a few extra seconds of cardio.
A personal trainer is also great for accountability. If you find yourself sleeping through your morning workouts more often than not, a personal trainer can help.
Not only do you have to pay for your training sessions (which makes it much more likely you'll show up), thinking of letting someone else down, may help you stick to your training schedule more often.
 Another great reason you may want to hire a personal trainer is because you have a special competition, event or race coming up.A personal trainer, especially if they train in specific areas of fitness, can really make the difference between failure and success in an event.
If you know you have a half marathon coming or a weight lifting competition coming up in the next few months, a personal trainer can make sure that you're trained appropriately and are truly ready for your event.
In addition, a trainer can help your body get to where it needs to be for your event without a possible injury.
 One of the most common reasons that people hire a personal trainer is that they haven't had a great exercise history.


If you've had a lot of injuries in the past from exercise, haven't been able to meet exercise goals or consistently hit an exercise plateau, consider hiring a personal trainer.
You can avoid a lot of heartache and injury by using a personal trainer. They can give you the right plan to meet your specific goals. There won't be anymore plateaus or injuries.
In addition, if you do injure yourself or are hitting a stall, the trainer will be able to modify your workout on the spot to account for these changes.
 One of the best ways to find a trustworthy and reliable trainer is through family and friends. Nothing is better than getting a positive recommendation from someone you know.


Give your friends and family a call and see if any of them are using a personal trainer or have used one in the past.
If they're local, ask whether or not they enjoyed that particular trainer and why. Was the price decent? Was the trainer fun to work with? What was their personality like?
If any of your friends or family members are currently using a personal trainer, ask if they'd be willing to split a session with you. This allows you and your friend to split the cost in half and workout together.
 One of the first places to look is at your local gym. Even if you don't belong to a gym, look for personal training options that are offered at nearby fitness centers.


Most gyms will have personal trainers on staff for their clients. Many times, the trainers are there to help clients learn to use machines or to answer quick questions.Some gyms, especially when you start a new membership, will offer you a discounted training package or a session free. Talk to your gym manager to see if there are any special offers like these.
 If using a personal trainer at a gym is just not the right option for you, consider seeing if you can find a trainer that does in home services.


If you have a well stocked home gym, you might want to consider searching for a trainer that would be willing to come to your house. Although this can be more expensive, it's very convenient.If this is the option you go for, make sure you inform the trainer of exactly what equipment you have. They may opt to bring additional equipment with them to help you get the best workout.
You can search online for trainers that offer in-home personal training either at your own home or their home. Many trainers will offer one or the other and sometimes both options.
 Another, yet not as common option, is looking for a virtual or online trainer. This can be helpful if you'd like to have some specific guidance but can't find a local trainer near you.Start by doing a quick search online for online personal training services. You may see services that are done via email or even done through a live video feed. Choose which option you feel most comfortable with.
You can find trainers that do a workout with you and you watch them and mimic their moves. Or you can find a trainer who instructs you and watches you through a live video feed.
Although not as convenient, online options may be a little less expensive than in-person training.
 Regardless of where you find your personal trainer, it's important to interview them first. You may even want to consider interviewing multiple trainers to make sure you find just the right one for you.Try interviewing a few trainers at your gym, or gym trainers and a home trainer, to see which person is best for your needs.
You may also consider asking them if you can watch them working with other clients. You'll be able to see their personality, style of training and how they motivate their clients.
Ask the trainer about their personal style of training. Are they more of a "drill sergeant" type? Or do they gently encourage you?
Review your trainer's credentials and certifications as part of your interview process. Ask to see their license and any other credentials or certifications they have.
 Always start by reviewing your personal fitness goals with your trainer. This will help both you and the trainer decide if you'd make a good match.It's a good idea to review your goals with a prospective trainer before you officially hire them or purchase sessions with them. If you don't, you might end up mismatched with someone who is not the best choice.
Be specific with your goals. The more specific you are about where you are now and where you want to be long term, the more helpful your personal trainer will be.
Also, ask your trainer how they will help you meet your goals. Ask them for some details on a prospective plan for you.
 One important component to review with a potential personal trainer is their schedule and current openings. You need to make sure that you'll be able to fit in your training.


Most trainers will have a variety of openings for clients. They will generally see people early in the morning or in the evening hours after work.
Consider what time of day works best for you. You need to have probably at least an hour of time for a session and make sure that it's a time that you'll want to be exercising.
Talk to the trainer about their openings and availability in addition to your own personal schedule. Then decide whether or not you'll be able to work together.
 Although most of the personal trainers you'll meet and interview will be well qualified and personable, there are some trainers that should raise a red flag.


If you are meeting with a trainer that's suggesting you start taking a variety of vitamin, mineral or herbal supplements, this is a red flag. Supplements should not be involved with personal training and only be suggested by a physician.Also, if your trainer starts giving you medical advice, be mindful that this is coming from a fitness professional, not a doctor. This is another reason for a red flag.
Personal trainers are fitness experts, but their scope of practice does not include nutrition, supplementation or medical advice. It's not recommended to take advice from trainers in these areas. Follow up with a dietitian or your doctor if needed.

