 Pick up reference material on anatomy. You can find fantastic books geared specifically toward figure drawing from an anatomical perspective that will give you a better idea of how human beings are put together. The works of Leonardo da Vinci and Henry Gray are wonderful to study because they are both artful and anatomically accurate.;
, Try to really draw what you see, (which is a challenging skill to acquire in and of itself) and not simply copy the movement your hand is used to. If you are simply sketching an image from your head, though, there are still some basics that can help us all create a realistic looking nose. Remember that no two faces are exactly the same, and no face is 100% symmetrical. Human beings are comprised of organic matter, and we are all delightfully imperfect! There are many variations on the human nose, but this guide will give you a basic idea of how to create a "beginner's nose."

, Instead of using a No. 2 pencil, you might want to use a 4 or greater to create finer lines.


Draw the basic framework of the head before you draw any facial features. This will allow you to determine how your face will be situated. Will your person be looking up, off in the distance, or directly facing the viewer? There are many variations to consider, and they will all affect proportion and perspective.
It's easiest to draw a profile (a person looking away, so we view the side of the face) or straight on, as if you were having a conversation with your subject. For this guide, we'll assume you're looking straight on. Draw an egg shape, with the widest part of the egg at the top, with the narrowest part on bottom, where the chin will be. Yes, facial shape will vary widely from person to person, but this is just to get an idea for proportion.
, Generally speaking, the eyes should be along that middle "equator" line, and the nose will start just above this line. If you prefer to draw the eyes in first, (which I do,) this can help keep your proportions in check.
 Bring it down into a "j" shape, the bottom part of the j being about halfway between the equator and chin.
,,


This process can be amended and modified according to your own style, but this should give you a basic nose shape without too much strain and effort. Again, it's best to start off with a light touch so you can erase and try again if your proportion looks a bit off.
A different and more realistic technique (that can be slightly more challenging) is to begin drawing one side of the bridge of the nose from above the equator, then stop your line about halfway between the equator and the chin. Do the same on the other side of the bridge of the nose. You should now have two lines on either side of the "prime meridian" line on your face.
,,


This will look more natural once you've mastered it, so as with all artistic endeavors, practice makes perfect!

