 Gently exfoliating the skin around pimples can essentially “pull out” the embedded contents and can accelerate healing. Try using natural exfoliants that you can make yourself. For example, mix ¼ cup of honey with enough baking soda to make a paste.


Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas. You can also use a Q-tip or cotton ball to apply the mixture to smaller areas. Just be sure not to be too firm with your cleaning, as this can damage the skin more than help it.Gently work the mixture into the area for two to three minutes and then gently rinse off with warm water.
 Grind ¼ to ½ cup of rolled whole oats in a food processor or coffee grinder. Add enough oil (olive, jojoba, Vitamin E, avocado, or almond oil) to make a paste. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas or use a Q-tip or cotton ball to apply to smaller areas.


Consider adding a tablespoon or two of honey to this mixture, so that it will stay in place on your face.Work the oatmeal mixture into the area for two to three minutes. Then rinse with warm water.
 Mix a teaspoon of sugar with ½ cup of olive oil. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas or use a Q-tip or cotton ball to apply to smaller areas.Gently rub the mixture on to the area for two to three minutes and then rinse with warm water.
You can also use castor, jojoba, Vitamin E, avocado, or almond oil, whichever you prefer.
 Take 1 – 2 teaspoons of sea salt and add enough oil (olive, jojoba, Vitamin E, avocado or almond oil) to make a paste. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas or use a Q-tip or cotton ball to apply to smaller areas.


Work the mixture into the area for two to three minutes and then rinse with warm water once the area is exfoliated.
 Most of these contain salicylic acid, usually 2%. These are available at most drugstores and department stores and should be used following the manufacturer's instructions.Salicylic acid can dissolve dead skin cells and skin oils. It can also help kill any bacteria that is forming the pus in a pimple.
Salicylic acid also acts as an astringent and tightens the pores, reducing the appearance of the pimple.
The exfoliant will remove dead skin. Always be very gentle when exfoliating, as being too rough can damage or irritate your skin.

