 Place the square origami paper color-side up on your work surface. Make a standard waterbomb base, also called the "water balloon base" and "triangle base."


Fold the paper in half vertically. Crease and unfold.
Fold the paper in half horizontally. Crease and unfold.
Turn the paper so that it looks like a diamond. Fold the top and bottom corners together. Crease and unfold.
Fold the left and right corners together. Crease and unfold.
Turn the paper over so that the sides slope down, then pinch the paper on both sides of the diagonal crease. Four triangles should begin taking shape. Continue pushing inward to collapse the figure, resulting in four triangular shaped sides.
Flatten the figure down. Two triangles should remain intact, but the other two should fold inward along your previous creases.
 Turn the model so that the isolated corner faces left. Fold the tip of this corner down along the center line.


The folded tip should cover roughly half of the visible center line.
 Carefully pry open the waterbomb base. The center crease along both surface triangles should push outward, but the center fold along both inner triangles should remain inwardly folded.


As you ease the base open, press on the corner of the top inner triangle fold. Carefully flatten this triangle out against itself, but do not completely unfold it. When finished, this triangle should lie flat against two-thirds of its original position.
Repeat the same process with the corner of the bottom inner triangle. When finished, you should see a full square of the "wrong" side facing up, with four small triangles of the "right" side still showing at the top and bottom of the model.
 Fold the paper in half along its horizontal center line. The two upper triangles should overlap the two lower triangles.


This step completes the body of the cow. The excess triangular portions lying beyond the folded square will act as the feet of the cow.
 Place a second piece of square origami paper color-side up. Fold the paper in half so that the top and bottom edges meet.


You'll use this piece to make the cow's head. Connecting the head to the body will come in a later step.
 Fold the bottom edge of the upper layer in half. When finished, the bottom edge should lie flat against the fold.


Flip the paper over and repeat this process with the bottom edge on the other side.
 Fold the bottom right corner upward and inward, continuing until the outer edge meets the top edge. Crease, then unfold. Squash fold along this crease.


Fold one-quarter of the right edge toward the center; crease, then unfold.
Pry open the right corner of the upper layer, then flatten out the diagonal crease so that it lies directly against the vertical crease.
Flip the model over, then squash fold the surface layer on the opposite side in the same manner.
 Fold the point of the remaining right tip into the model, hiding it in between the inner layers.


This should blunt the tip and create the nose of the cow. Note that you should reverse fold no more than one-quarter to one-third of the pointed tip during this step.
 Lay the model flat and identify the left corner of the upper triangle. Fold the tip of this triangle forward , bringing the tip the the center fold.


Flip the model over and repeat this action on the corresponding point.
Together, both of these folded sections make the ears of the cow.
 Starting just behind the ear of the cow, fold the upper edge of the long rectangular portion down.


The left edge of the rectangle should lie perpendicular beneath the middle portion.
This fold will create the cow's neck.
 Reverse fold the rectangular portion into itself along its newly created crease.


You'll also need to reverse fold the bottom right corner into itself by approximately one-fifth the length of the edge. Doing so will allow you to insert the neck into the body.
 Slide the neck of the cow into the folds at one end of the body.


If necessary, you can keep the head in place by applying a small piece of tape to the inner layers.
 Move to the tip of the body lying opposite the newly placed head. Fold the point into the body to blunt the edge.


Only fold in just enough of the point to blunt the edge. If you fold too much in, it may look odd and could cause the cow to tip over due to the weight of the head.
 Stand the cow up on its four feet. At this point, the model is finished and ready to enjoy.

