 Wearing an application of concealer can help your eyes stand out more. The concealer evens your skin tone around your eyes, providing a sort of blank canvass against which your eyes will look more striking. Choose a concealer that matches your skin tone, and lightly apply it around your eyes. Blend it in with your foundation to create an even palette.









If you have dark circles under your eyes, you might want to go with a concealer that's a shade lighter than your natural skin tone.
Apply it gently with your pinky finger, lightly dabbing and blending. Don't rub it in, since this can tear at the delicate skin around your eyes.;
, Since you're going for a natural look, choose a natural-hued pink, brown or gold shadow that's just a shade or two different from your natural skin tone. This will help your eyes pop without screaming "look at me!" The effect will be subtly sexy, almost like you're not wearing makeup at all.









Use an eye shadow brush to apply the color to your lids, from one corner of your eye to the other.
Blend lightly at the top of your lids up toward your brows so no distinct line is visible there. This will help the look appear more natural.
 If you want look like you're barely wearing makeup, choose a liner that's just a few shades darker than your natural skin tone. Navy blue is also fine, but avoid using black, since it will create a much more striking look. Apply the liner on your upper and lower lids.









Use a steady hands so that the liner goes on evenly. If you accidentally draw a wavy line, you can wipe it off and try again. Try to draw the line right up against your lashes.
You can use a cream eyeshadow instead of regular eyeliner. Simply dip an eyeliner brush into your cream shadow and apply it on the upper and lower lids. This creates a much wider range of color choices.
 If you have short or thin lashes, curl them with an eyelash curler to help them stand out a little more. Otherwise, just apply mascara to your upper and lower lashes. Keep the application light so that your lashes don't clump.









If your lashes clump, use a toothpick to gently separate them so you don't have to wipe it all off and start over.
Avoid false eyelashes when you're going for a natural look. They can help your eyes stand out, but it's better to use them when the rest of your makeup is just as bold.
 Create a dewy, natural-looking glow by strategically applying highlighter around your eyes. Dab a little around the inner and outer corners of your eyes, as well as along your brow bone. Swipe more over the applies of your cheeks. The overall effect will be fresh, pretty and sexy.








