 When it comes to lace up flats, you want to show the laces! These shoes look great with jeans and pants, but don’t hide the laces under your pant leg. Pair your lace ups with cropped pants, ankle jeans, or roll up the hems of your pant legs just above the ankle.You can still wear lace ups with regular jeans, but they lose a bit of their pizzazz when the laces are hidden.


Ankle-length skinny jeans are very popular with these shoes. For a casual look, opt for a pair of black or distressed jeans.
Baggier “boyfriend” jeans can also look great with lace up flats, as long as you cuff them., Lace ups tend to look very feminine, so pairing them with contrasting clothing can really make an impact. For example, you could wear a pair of lace ups with skinny jeans and a biker jacket. These dainty-looking shoes also look great with clean lines and classic designs, like structured blazers or even a slim-cut suit.Try wearing a pair of glossy black lace ups with cuffed trousers or dress pants.
 If you’re dressed down in a simple outfit, lace ups can add a little energy to your overall look, especially if you choose a statement pair with interesting details or a bold color. They look great with basic neutrals, too. For example, try wearing something very simple, like a fitted black t-shirt and black shorts, with a pair of bright orange pointed toe lace up flats. The shoes give this easygoing outfit a very trendy edge.Wear a basic neutral colored dress with a pair of animal print lace ups. Opt for warm, natural colors like tan, beige, sand and camel.
 Lace flats are quite dainty and work well with dresses and skirts. The look is very feminine. Dresses and skirts also allow for the entire shoe to be visible, which draws attention to the details and laces. Try wearing a black pair with a soft floral printed dress. You could wear statement red lace ups with a black skirt and top, too. These flats are extremely versatile, so definitely try additional combinations.
 As long as the laces are showing, you don’t need to get too hung up on how you actually tie these shoes, as long as you’re comfortable. Different kinds of ties can create a variety of looks, as well. You can tie yours in the front (which is the most typical choice), on the side, or even in the back. You can knot the laces or tie them in a bow, either way is fine.For a playful look, try tying your laces in a bow in the back.

