 The night before you plan to make your koeksisters, make a batch of syrup. This gives the syrup time to chill, and the hot doughnuts will be dipped into the cold syrup to get them crispy and shiny.Bring the water, sugar, and cream of tartar to a boil over medium heat in a small saucepan. Stir constantly so the sugar doesn’t burn.
When the mixture comes to a boil, add the lemon juice. Simmer for 10 minutes, stirring frequently. You can also add a pinch of cinnamon and dried ginger to the syrup at this point if you want to add a bit of spice.
After simmering, remove the syrup from the heat and allow it to cool to room temperature. Then divide the syrup into two separate bowls and chill overnight in the fridge.;
, Sift the flour and baking powder into a large bowl. Sifting will remove clumps and make the batter smooth. Add the butter to the flour and use the tips of your fingers to rub the butter into the flour until the butter has been distributed throughout.You want to distribute the butter in the flour as evenly as possible. The texture will become slightly crumbly.
 Crack the egg into a small bowl and whisk it together with the water until incorporated. Then pour the egg into the flour and stir with a spoon to combine all the ingredients.


Continue stirring until everything comes together as a ball of dough. Then knead the dough until it becomes smooth and soft.
Cover the bowl with a piece of plastic wrap or a damp towel and set it aside for an hour to rest.
 Heat the oil over medium heat in a deep fryer or in a deep frying pan. For the best results, you want about three to four inches (seven to 10 cm) of oil.Place a pea-sized ball of dough into the oil.

When the piece of dough begins to cook and sizzle, the oil is ready.
If you have a candy thermometer, heat the oil to about 340 F (171 C).
 Turn the dough out onto a flat and lightly oiled surface. Grease a rolling pin with a bit of oil and roll out the dough into a large rectangle that’s about a quarter-inch (6.3 mm) thick.


Cut the dough into long thin strips that are about an inch (2.5 cm) wide and six inches (15 cm) long., Take three strips of dough and pinch them all together at one end. Then braid the three pieces together. When you get to the end of the dough, pinch all three ends together to seal them.To braid the dough, lay the three strips out side by side. Take the left strip and lay it over the middle strip, so that the two switch positions. Then take the right strip and lay it over the middle strip. Go back to the left strip and lay it over the middle again. Repeat until you reach the end of the strips.
Repeat this process with all the dough strips until you have assembled all the koeksisters.
This recipe will make about a dozen doughnuts. If you have any strips of dough left, you can cut them in half lengthwise to make smaller koeksisters, or fry single strips of dough.
 Place a few doughnuts into the hot oil and let them cook for about three to five minutes, until they are golden brown. When they are cooked, transfer them to a paper towel for a few seconds to allow the excess oil to drain off.When the first batch of doughnuts is cooking in the oil, remove one of the bowls of syrup from the fridge and place the entire bowl into a larger bowl filled with ice.Keep the other bowl chilling in the fridge.
 After a few seconds on the paper towel, dunk the doughnuts immediately into the bowl of syrup. Allow the doughnuts to soak in the syrup for a minute or two.

Remove the koeksisters from the syrup with a slotted spoon, allowing the excess syrup to drain off back into the bowl.
Transfer the syrupy doughnuts to a wire rack to cool.
When the bowl of syrup becomes warm from the hot doughnuts, return it to the fridge and start using the second chilled batch. Place the fresh batch into a bowl of ice as well., Allow the koeksisters to cool to room temperature before serving. If you have extra syrup left over, transfer it to small serving bowls for dunking the doughnuts into.

