 Top sellers don’t just get the best wholesale prices overnight. Instead, they work hard for it. Aside from obtaining massive orders, top sellers also connect with their suppliers. First time sellers should really do this as a good relationship between the seller and supplier is really an important element in any business. As a new seller, it’s best that you call them frequently. Discuss about new products and your future plans. By doing so, they can see that you really are interested in building and upholding a relationship with them, whether at present or in the future.


No matter how small or meager the amount is, nearly all suppliers still give high regard for your business. 99% of online retailers started out like these. They started out with a smaller amount and eventually got bigger and bigger in business while retaining their loyal customers. In turn, suppliers will also try their best to know you and keep you happy as much as possible so you will keep them as your suppliers in the future. As much as possible, both you and your suppliers have to be able to rely on each other. Whatever actions they show you, you must take these into consideration. When they give time for you, make the most of it by telling about yourself, you family and your future plans for your business. These actions and other means to get to know each other is actually very important so both you and your suppliers will uphold a good relationship in the near future.
Out of the ordinary treatment for overseas suppliers. In dealing with overseas suppliers, language can be your hindrance from getting acquainted and making friends with them. However, you should never give up. Instead, you should try even harder to make friends with them by giving an out of the ordinary treatment. You could send your supplier with local treats that are unique only to your country. Include also written information tackling about you and your business. This is a better idea since non-native speakers find it easier to read than talk.;
, You need money because buying from manufacturers entail buying in huge bulk or approximately 1,000 units per order. Since you’ll be taking on massive orders, you also have to prepare a storage unit, transportation and an arranged shipment as well.

