 Regular aerobic exercise is an important component of managing symptoms of PCOS. It may help support weight loss, improve insulin resistance and manage any mood imbalances.It's recommended to include 150 minutes of aerobic exercise each week.This is the standard recommendation for healthy adults and will also be appropriate for those who have PCOS.
It's recommended to exercise for at least 20-30 minutes per session.This will elevate your heart rate and keep it elevated for a sustained period of time.
Exercise may improve insulin sensitivity or resistance that is frequently associated with PCOS. Aerobic exercise helps your body use glucose and insulin more efficiently.;
, In addition to regular aerobic activity, studies have shown that performing strength training can also help manage insulin resistance associated with PCOS.Aim to include 2 sessions of strength training each week. Each session should last about 20-30 minutes and work all major muscle groups.Typical strength training exercises include: lifting weights or using weight machines, taking strength training classes or doing body weight exercises (like push-ups, tricep dips or pull-ups).
Yoga and pilates are types of strength training that can both help you build your strength while relieving your stress.
 These fitness professionals can help keep you on track and challenge you so you can obtain optimal results.


Many gyms offer complimentary personal training sessions to new members. They may also offer more low-cost and affordable training sessions compared to independent personal trainers.
You may also want to consider taking a strength training class. Many gyms and fitness centers offer classes that focus only on strength training and will be able to teach you the basics in addition to having a professional assist you.
 Another way to get in extra activity and boost your daily calorie burn from exercise is to increase your lifestyle activity.


Lifestyle activity or "baseline activity" are things you do everyday. For example: walking to and from your car or taking the stairs at work.Although each individual activity doesn't burn many calories, over the course of the entire day, you can burn a significant amount of calories from lifestyle activity.
Increasing your lifestyle activity can help you manage your weight and support your weight loss program (if you're following one).
Think about your typical day and find additional ways to move more and take more steps.

