 Kool-Aid comes in a variety of flavors, so you could easily do a different color stain every day of the week if you wanted to! Experiment to see which works best with your skin tone, but this is a general guideline for the colors you can achieve with some of the

Grape = deep mauve/purple.If you want your stain to taste sweet, make sure to use the pre-sweetened Kool-Aid.;
, Add a teaspoon of water and stir them together until mixed.The final consistency of the mixture should be like a paste, not a liquid.


If you want to make a smaller amount of stain, spoon a little scoop of the Kool-Aid powder into a small container. A contact lens case is a great miniature vessel for this.
Add a few drops of water to the tiny scoop of powder and mix and until you get a paste-like consistency., If your lips are a little flaky and dry, prep them by using an exfoliating scrub first. It is essential that your lips are clean and completely dry. Make sure you’ve removed every trace of other lip products from your mouth before you proceed, since they can get in the way of an even stain..


If your lips are still a little dry after you’ve prepped them, apply a small amount of lip balm evenly to your lips.The stain might be a little less intense if you apply balm first, but the end result will look smooth and even.
Avoid doing this stain if you have chapped lips. The mixture will sink into the cracked skin, causing it to sting and stain unevenly.
 Apply the paste evenly. Be sure to stay within your lip line when applying the mixture.


Wipe off any mistakes immediately so that you won’t stain the skin outside of your lips.
 You can leave the formula longer than 5 minutes if you want an even deeper stain. If the mixture clumps or pools in any areas while you’re waiting, dip a Q-tip in your mixture and apply a little more. Reapply as needed.


You can also rub your lips together to redistribute the mixture evenly.
Apply more mixture if rubbing your lips together doesn’t give you an even application.
 Don’t soak it in water, or you’ll risk wiping some of the stain off when you remove the paste. Be sure to wipe your lips gently and remove all of the textured bits.
 This will give your stained mouth that glossy look. The stain will last for hours, possibly even all day. Reapply the petroleum jelly throughout the day if you need to reboot your gloss.


Staining your lips before adding the petroleum jelly gloss will give you the deepest hue and last the longest on your lips.
Omit the petroleum jelly if you want a matte stain. Apply a little balm throughout the day to keep your lips soft., If you want to reapply the formula during the day to deepen your stain, pour the remaining mixture into a small container. You could use another contact lens case for this, or one of those tiny pill containers that can be found in pharmacies, or even re-purpose an empty lip gloss pot.


Make sure to bring along a few Q-tips in a zip lock bag for easy application.
Throw the stain paste out at the end of the day.

