 Although steelhead spawn in fresh water and grow up in salt water, they do not all return to spawn at the same time.


Some steelhead spend only 1 year in the ocean before returning to fresh water to spawn. These fish tend to spawn any time from late spring to midsummer and run in lengths from 23 to 26 inches (58 to 66 cm) and weights of 4 to 6 pounds (1.8 to 2.7 kg).
Some steelhead spend 2 years in the ocean before returning to fresh water to spawn. These fish tend to spawn from late summer to early fall and run in lengths of 31 to 34 inches (79 to 86 cm) and weights of 10 to 13 pounds (4.5 to 5.9 kg). These steelhead may also go a longer distance to spawn than steelhead that spend only a single year in the ocean before spawn.
Some steelhead spend 3 years in the ocean before returning to fresh water to spawn. These fish can run in lengths over 37 inches (94 cm) and weights over 20 pounds (9 kg).If you’re not fussy about the size of steelhead you’re looking to catch, steelhead fishing generally starts to get good in early summer, peaks in early fall, and starts dropping off at the start of winter, then picks up again somewhat during mid-winter. Peak times vary according to how far upstream you are and also how far from the equator your location is.;
, Steelhead return to the freshwater area where they were spawned to lay their eggs and rear the next generation. As the swim upstream can be arduous, they look for places to rest along the way. Both holding and resting places can be prime places for anglers to present their offerings.


Look for water that flows fast enough to provide the steelhead with oxygen, but not so fast that the flow would exhaust the fish if they tried to hold position in it.
Look for a deep area that the steelhead can escape to if threatened. In streams, this usually means the outer bend, which is usually deeper than the inner bend.Look for rocky areas. Boulders and gravel areas often attract steelhead, as they can use the rocks to shield themselves from the brunt of fast-moving current while taking in the oxygen they need.
It’s a good idea to spend time familiarizing yourself with the area where you plan to fish for steelhead to learn how well visited the area is and what the fish’s habits are., Steelhead can be caught using a variety of baits or lures. Fishermen have used any of the following successfully:


Shrimp/prawns. This is what steelhead commonly feed on in the ocean. They can be used by themselves or to sweeten jigs and plugs.Eggs. Like other trout, steelhead are cannibalistic and will eat the eggs of other steelhead and other fish, as well as their own eggs.Eggs can be used jointly with shrimp.Spoons. Polished silver can be particular effective.
Spinners. The blade of a French spinner can be as attractive as the wobble of a spoon.
Plugs. Although more typically associated with bass fishing, plugs can be effective in catching large steelhead – and large rainbow trout, as well.
Flies. Like strictly freshwater rainbow trout, steelhead will take flies. Unlike strictly freshwater trout, they aren’t attracted to a particular type of fly at a particular time, as steelhead generally don’t eat much during their spawning runs. Flies thus don’t have to “match the hatch,” but they do have to be appropriate for water conditions, with larger, brighter flies (hook size up to 1/0 or 2/0) more appropriate for muddier water and smaller, duller flies (hook size 6) more appropriate for clear water., As noted, when steelhead are swimming upstream to spawn, they don’t stop to eat. They will, however, hit any bait or lure that makes them curious or annoys them into eating it. There are several methods you can use to present your offering to make them take it:

Drift fishing. This is the method most steelhead anglers employ when using tackle other than fly tackle. It involves putting a sinker 30 inches (75 cm) above the hook, often with a bobber further up the line. Cast the bait slightly upstream and let the current drift it in front of the steelhead.






Float fishing. Similar to drift fishing, except the bait is not expected to be moved around by the current. It also involves using a sinker to take the bait under the surface and a bobber to provide lift and indicate when a fish has taken the bait.






Back trolling. Often used with diving plugs near the mouths of rivers, this method involves letting out about 50 feet (15.2 m) of line, setting the motor in reverse, and trolling downstream stern first at a slight angle to let the current push the lure from side to side as the boat pulls it along. (This method could also be employed using a bow-mounted trolling motor on a forward-moving boat.)Deep water casting. Used near the mouths of rivers, this method involves casting and slowly retrieving spinners, spoons, and buzz-bombs into deeper areas.