 Open-ended questions that require responses other than “yes” and “no” allow the other party to deliver detailed explanations that create opportunities for additional conversation topics. For example, ask a person what they like best about their job, instead of asking whether or not they like their job.;
, Talking about your shared, common interests is a natural way to prolong conversation since you’re both familiar with the topic. For example, if you both enjoy watching basketball, discuss your favorite players, your favorite teams, and upcoming playoffs.
 Small-talk conversations about topics such as the weather or traffic can seem forced and uninteresting, and lead your conversation to a dead end.
 When you’re getting to know someone new, avoid topics normally viewed as controversial, such as religion, politics, and health care. Conversations about these topics can turn negative if you both have opposing views -- leading to disagreement, frustration, and the end of your text conversation.
 Whether you’re feeling excited, frustrated, or stressed out, sometimes sharing what’s on your mind naturally leads to longer conversations. For example, if you’re dealing with a situation you don’t know how to resolve, share your dilemma with the other person to gain their feedback and opinions.
 Conversation threading is where you dissect a sentence into several parts and follow one of those parts to keep the conversation going. For example, if the other party sends a text stating their vacation to Mexico was fun because they went parasailing and ate tacos, start a new conversation about Mexico, parasailing, or tacos, or all of the above.
 This helps keep conversation authentic, meaningful, and easier for both parties to understand. For example, respond to comments with questions and meaningful conversation instead of using acronyms and text jargon such as “LOL.” This also prevents you from appearing dismissive and uninterested in what the other person is saying., This allows you to proofread your texts and verify they make sense so the other party isn’t confused and stops responding to your messages.
 This is one of the more natural ways to keep a text conversation going, since most people enjoy talking about themselves and their own interests. For example, ask the other person about their favorite movie or what they enjoy doing most in their spare time.
 Most people prefer spending their time talking about enjoyable, fun topics, rather than topics that are negative and depressing., This shows you’re an active listener and interested in the other person’s life and well-being. For example, if the other party mentioned buying tickets for a concert last time you spoke, ask them to tell you about their experience at the concert.
 This prolongs conversation by allowing you to change topics quickly when a conversation ends. Next time a conversation reaches a dead end, refer to your list of topics to revive the conversation., This exercise helps you learn and become more comfortable with prolonging conversation in general so you can struggle less via text message.

