 Depending on how close your relationship is, figure out what feels comfortable between the two of you. If you’re close friends you can probably be more physical, but if you two aren’t super close it’s probably better to keep contact minimal.


Do what makes you feel comfortable. It’s good to step outside of your comfort zone from time to time but when you’re greeting a girl, in general, the more comfortable you are the more she’ll be.;
, Just because she’s a girl doesn’t necessarily mean you have to treat her unlike your guy friends, especially if your relationship is platonic. But also use common sense here and don't do something inappropriate. A simple “Hello” or “Hey” is always a great place to start.


If you’re greeting a girl who is more like one of your guy friends, bump fists with her or give her a playful nudge.
If you two are close enough give her a hug, as physical touch can strengthen relationships., Noticing something about her appearance or even something she has recently done that she’s proud of is a great way to make her feel more comfortable with you, and shows you’re genuinely interested in her.


This doesn’t have to be done in a flirty way, just notice something you like about what she’s wearing. Maybe you like her shoes, or she has a new haircut. Noticing details and pointing them out will make her comfortable around you.

"I really like your shoes. looks really good on you!"
"Did you get a haircut? I really like the new look, it works for you."



, By looking her in the eyes, you’re making a connection and showing genuine interest.


Keeping eye contact is also a good way to help you stay calm and comfortable. Just focus on her and forget about everything happening around you.
 People like to feel wanted in any capacity and telling her that you’re glad to see her shows that you value her in your life and you like that she’s a part of it.


"It's great to see you! I'm excited we're hanging out."

, Even if you’re shy by nature or feel awkward in social situations, especially with girls or women, just treat her like any other friend and show that you care about her.


You can even reference something you saw that she did on social media. For example, if she went on a trip a simple "I saw you went on vacation. I'm so jealous, it looked awesome! Did you have a good time?" works well.
By asking questions about her day you are further showing interest and that she’s important to you.

