 Cats with kidney issues can become easily dehydrated, as their kidneys cannot retain water efficiently. They need to consume a lot of water on a regular basis to stay healthy. Giving your cat wet food will ensure it gets enough water when it eats. Dry food is too dehydrating and should be avoided.Go for canned wet food that is high quality and all natural. Look for wet food that contains tuna juice, clam juice, chicken broth, and beef broth.
You can also add water or warm broth to your cat’s wet food for added water consumption.;
, A low protein diet is important for cats with kidney issues, as it can be hard on your cat’s kidneys to process a lot of protein at once. Give your cat wet food that contains less protein and protein that is high quality. High quality protein like rabbit and chicken are usually easier to digest for cats with kidney issues.Look at the ingredients list on the food to make sure it contains lower protein content than regular cat food. Try to get your cat mostly wet food made with proteins like rabbit or chicken. Protein like beef and fish are also fine occasionally as protein sources for your cat.
 Phosphorous can make kidney issues worse. Limit or restrict your cat’s intake of phosphorous so its kidney issues do not get worse. Look for food that is advertised as low in phosphorous for your cat.Low sodium is also important for the maintenance of your cat’s kidneys, especially if it has kidney issues. Go for cat food that is advertised as low sodium.
 Your vet should be able to recommend several food brands that make cat food for cats with kidney issues. These foods are usually low in protein, phosphorous and sodium. They will be made with cats with kidney problems in mind., Cats can find it difficult to switch their diet, especially to a diet that may not taste like their usual food. Start by changing your cat’s diet gradually over a few weeks. Mix in a small amount of the new food with your cat’s old food. Increase the amount of new food in the old food slowly over a period of weeks, adding more each day. Only give your cat more new food in its old food when it eats all of the mixture.Be patient and do not try to rush your cat into eating the new food right away. Doing this can make your cat not want to eat at all, which is very bad for its health.
 Bringing the cat food to a warm temperature, around 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit), can make it more enticing to your cat. Present the wet food warm in your cat’s bowl so it is encouraged to eat it., Feed your cat at the same time every day, twice a day. Doing this will help your cat regulate its appetite and make it easier for it to adjust to a new diet. Try not to deviate from the feeding schedule for your cat once it is established.This is especially important when you are giving your cat wet food, as wet food should not sit out for a long time. Give it to your cat at the same time every day and make sure your cat eats all of it. Throw away any remaining food in its bowl when it is done eating.
 Cats with kidney problems are susceptible to dehydration and should have access to fresh water at all times. Keep your cat’s water bowl full with fresh water. Put out multiple water bowls in your home so your cat has access to fresh water.You can also put out flavored waters, like chicken or tuna water, for your cat to encourage it to drink.
 If your cat has serious kidney problems, such as chronic kidney disease, your vet may prescribe special cat food that you can give your pet. This prescription cat food will be specially formulated to help manage your cat’s symptoms and condition.Your vet should also instruct you on how often you should feed your cat the prescription cat food. Follow your vets instructions when feeding your cat so its condition improves.
 Depending your cat’s needs, your vet may recommend supplements for your cat to help manage its condition. Only give your cat supplements on your vet’s recommendations. Look for supplements that are pet safe and approved by your vet.If your cat has high phosphate levels in its blood due to kidney issues, for example, your vet may recommend a phosphate binder that you can add to its diet.
If your cat has low potassium levels due to kidney issues, your vet may suggest a potassium supplement for your cat.
 This will allow your vet to monitor your cat’s condition. Your vet may ask you to bring in your cat once you start it on its new diet to ensure it is adjusting well and doing better. Scheduling regular check ups can also help to prevent other major kidney issues from developing in your cat.