 If your child has not been officially diagnosed by a physician and you suspect she has a metabolic disorder, you should contact a doctor immediately. The physician will run blood work and other tests in order to gather important data needed for a diagnosis. Your physician might even refer you to a specialist or others who might be important members of your medical support team.


Be prepared for a wide array of tests, including blood work. Your doctor may order a comprehensive metabolic panel to check organ function and levels of enzymes and other
You’ll probably have to visit the doctor or specialist several times before your child is diagnosed.
Make sure to find a doctor you and your child like, as you’ll be visiting their office often.
Some common metabolic disorders include: diabetes, Tay-Sachs disease (TSD), von Gierke disease, Niemann-Pick disease, Morquio syndrome, maple syrup urine disease, cystinosis, cystinuria, Galactosemia. This is only a fraction of existing metabolic disorders — there are hundreds of different types.;
, Just because your child has received an official diagnosis does not mean that you’re done with the doctor. You’ll be visiting his office on a regular basis so that he can monitor your child’s status and progress. This is necessary in making sure your child’s vitals, nutrition, and overall health are stabilized.


Your doctor might run blood work relatively regularly.
 Because there are so many different types of metabolic disorders, each with its own specific medications and dietary adjustments or supplements needed to keep a child healthy. Some metabolic disorders are fatal, while others are relatively benign. Work with your doctor to learn more about your child's specific disorder and make sure your child is taking her medications exactly as prescribed and/or is following her recommended diet.For instance, your child may need to receive steroids to replace hormones that her body cannot create on its own.In other cases, treatment may simply be focused on reducing symptoms and making your child as comfortable as possible., Some metabolic disorders impair the body’s ability to metabolize and incorporate important enzymes. If this is the case, your doctor will prescribe enzyme replacements. Make sure your child regularly takes her enzyme replacements, as they will be extremely important in managing her metabolic disorder and maintaining good health. Enzyme replacement therapy might include:


Imiglucerase
Velaglucerase alfa
Taliglucerase alfa, Some children with metabolic disorders do not get enough fiber to maintain a healthy metabolism. In order to overcome this, you might consider putting your child on fiber supplements.


Fiber supplements will help make sure your child has regular bowel movements.
Fiber supplements might help reduce your child’s LDL cholesterol level.
Consult your doctor before putting your child on any supplement., Monitoring your child's condition is going to be an on-going task for you to do. You need to keep vigilant about your child's health and well-being, as somewhat innocuous changes can signal potentially life threatening consequences.


If your child sleeps too much, contact your physician.
If you notice rapid breathing patterns or changes in appetite, contact your physician.
If your child's health is deteriorating in any way, contact your doctor.
 Everyone in your home and others who you frequently associate with should be part of your support team. They can help monitor your child’s diet and wellbeing when needed, and they can provide emotional support during rough times. A non-medical support team is extremely important in managing metabolic disorders, as the demands of metabolic disorders on caregivers are often high and time-consuming.


Educate others in your family and social circle on the specific condition and the child's ever changing eating patterns.
Even if one parent is able to stay home full-time, you should enlist the help from those in whom you trust.
Always have a couple people on backup just in case the primary care giver can’t be around to monitor the child., Since diet is so important in keeping children with metabolic disorders healthy, you need to communicate with everyone who will have supervisory roles around your child. Talk with your child’s teachers and let them know the specifics of your child’s disorder. Communicate with the parents of your child’s friends so they can know the specifics, too. Let both know what your child can and can’t eat, and if and when your child needs to take medication., Make sure you have all of the healthcare contact numbers with you at all times. At the same time, make sure your partner (if you have one) or other members of your support team also have any numbers they might need in the event of a metabolic crisis.


Keep numbers in your cell phone.
Post emergency numbers in an obvious place at home so members of your support team can find them.
If your child is old enough, have her memorize her primary care physician’s phone number.
Have your child wear a medical alert bracelet or carry a card with appropriate medical information and contact numbers., Talk to everyone in your support team and make sure they know where your child’s medicines are located. You don’t want someone to have to search for them in the event of a time-sensitive event.


Keep them in an easily accessible and obvious location.
Try not to put them away in a drawer or behind other things in the fridge.
Make sure your child cannot reach them by herself.
 Educating yourself about your child's disorder is perhaps one of the most important things you can do in your battle to keep your child healthy. This way you'll be informed about the latest breakthroughs in treatment and the newest drug developments.


Join official support groups for the particular disorder and learn from other families who are dealing with the same issues as you are. Most organizations on the specific disorder have websites with information about the disorder along with other resources and support group information.
Attend seminars and conferences for updates in education and medical advances and/or setbacks.
Read and study to get educated on the condition and others like it.
Talk to your doctors and don't be afraid to ask them for recommendations about things you can read or conferences or talks you can attend.
 After receiving a proper diagnosis from your medical professional, you should have a very good idea of what food and drugs your child needs to avoid in order to maintain a healthy metabolism. Once you’ve done that, try to eliminate those food and drugs from your child’s diet. If you can’t completely eliminate them, minimize them as much as you can., Whatever the metabolic problem, weight is often an associated challenge. Because of this, you (along with your doctor) should draft a weight management plan for your child. This plan sets a target weight goal and then you and your child take the appropriate steps to reach and maintain that goal.


Weight management plans are not just for overweight children, but for underweight children, too.
Weight management plans are not “diets” but are intended to reach and maintain a healthy weight.
Always consult your doctor before starting your child on any weight management plan., Some babies are unfortunately born with metabolic disorders and need special formula in order to manage their disorder. Fortunately, we now better understand what nutritional steps to take in order to manage metabolic disorders in infants.


If your baby has galactosemia, try to eliminate dairy products and put her on a non-milk formula.
If your baby has PKU, put her on a phenylalanine-free formula and a low-protein diet.
Consult your doctor for a proper diagnosis and treatment as well as recommendations or even prescriptions for formulas., An exercise routine will make sure that your child is not only active, but healthy. Exercising should be an important part of any overall plan that is intended to manage metabolic disorders. In many cases, exercising will be the cornerstone of your child’s overall plan to overcome metabolic disorders.


Exercising will help kids lower their blood pressure and cholesterol.
Exercising could help your child’s body regulate insulin better.
Exercising will help your child mentally, too., Your child’s overall metabolic plan will hinge on a healthy diet. As metabolic disorders are associated with how your child processes food, your child will undoubtedly have to be on a strict diet. You’ll need to make sure your child is getting all of the nutrition she needs to stay healthy. This is perhaps one of the most important aspects of managing your child’s disorder, so if your child is old enough, you should have frequent conversations with them about their nutrition and overall health.


Your doctor will with you to formulate a proper nutrition plan.
Talk about “cheating” on the diet with your doctor. Your child might be able to veer off the diet and have treats occasionally, but this should only be done with the sanction of your doctor.
Make sure to communicate your child’s diet to other members of your support team.