 Major cities often have multiple media sources that can help you keep up with all the free opportunities the city offers. While the free monthly music periodical will include lists of certain types of events, social media sources are even better, providing timely info on free events and activities throughout the city.


Search something like “free events in Chicago” online and check out the results. There will likely be Facebook pages or Instagram accounts dedicated to notifying their followers what, when, and where you can catch free local events.
For example, the organization Do512 is a multi-platform media source that keeps followers up-to-date on all sorts of events in Austin, Texas. Notably, the “DoStuff” network has expanded around the U.S. - check to see if there is website dedicated to your area by switching the "512" to your area code in an online search., In addition to free shows and other events, stay on the lookout for regular free opportunities as well. For instance, certain art galleries might host free monthly shows, or your local brewery may have free yoga once or twice a week.


Particularly good examples include the museums in your city. Many large museums - and even some planetariums, zoos, etc. - invite local residents to visit for free once a month, or even once a week. Check the websites for the museums in your area.
Whenever you attend or happen upon a free event you enjoy, as organizers if similar events occur regularly. Even if they happen elsewhere, these are the folks that might be able to point your towards similar opportunities.
 While most tangible items may cost more (and be harder to find) in the city, the high population also means there are plenty of people to borrow from. In particular, many regular household items you may need are likely available online.Websites like Craigslist or local equivalents often contain used furniture and other home goods at a very low cost - or even free.
The quality and quantity of items on these websites may surprise you. It can’t hurt to look.
 One of the pitfalls many people fall into in urban life is lots of take out, delivery, and meals out on the town. Not only can this out a hit on your health, the cost can add up quickly. To save money, plan meals ahead of time, shop accordingly, and make large batches of food that will can provide multiple meals.Ideally, you can even go in on groceries with your roommates. A big batch of rice or noodles with veggies and chicken or tofu, for instance, can provide several people with multiple servings for a surprisingly low cost.
Get in the habit of shopping at market in culturally distinct areas of town to add intrigue and fun to your meals.

