 While the preventative steps are similar for all types of pests, you will want to focus on certain types of decoy, beneficial predator, or pesticide depending on the pest.
 Piles of wood under or around your home attract ants. Tree clippings, fallen leaves or dropped fruit may harbor insects. Pet droppings attract flies. Standing water breeds mosquitoes.
 A carefully tended garden with good drainage will attract fewer unwanted plants and insects.


Consider a raised bed, particularly for clay soil with poor drainage.
Before planting, try tilling to break up the dirt, and add sand for better drainage.
Clean up debris to remove homes for pests.
Mulch to prevent weeds, but be sure to pull back the mulch from the plants you are growing, as mulch can provide a home for insect pests., Monocultures are a delight for pests, and exotic plants are often vulnerable to local pests. By varying what you plant year-to-year and row to row, you can cut down on pests.


Select healthy seedlings that are appropriate for you area. Native plants, in particular, are frequently more resistant to local pests.
Alternate rows with different types of plants, and mix ornamentals in amongst your edibles.Pests are less likely to spread if another edible plant is not nearby.
Don’t plant the same plants in the same space year after year. That way, you can save your plants from being ravaged by pests that survived the winter.
To get rid of nematodes (worms that eat roots), plant a thick cover of marigolds one season, then turn them under the soil. Next year, you can plant whatever you like with no fear of nematodes., Growing a single decoy weed amongst your cultivated crops can keep them pest free, with a little work.Redroot pigweed will attract blister beetles away from tomatoes. Be sure to check the weed each morning and shake the beetles off into soapy water to get rid of them.
Arugula will attract flea beetles, which also eat eggplant, brassicas, and potatoes. Check the arugula every day and use a handheld vacuum to suck up the beetles.
Planting nasturtiums at the base of tomato plants will attract aphids. Remove the flower and throw it away once it has attracted a good number of aphids.
 Birds and predatory insects can fight unwanted insects without the need for pesticides.


Install a purple martin house. These bird eat many of the larger insects that pray on garden plants.
Plant flowers that will attract beneficial insects, such as wasps that eat caterpillars. Try members of the umbel family: dill, Queen-Anne’s-lace, parsley, and carrots. Sweet alyssum, all kinds of mint, and chamomile are also effective.Your local County Cooperative Extension Service, nursery, or garden association will have more information on how to attract beneficial predators.
Purchase predatory insects or microscopic pathogens such as fungi and bacteria. You can often buy them at your local garden store.
 Use spading, hoeing, and hand picking to remove weeds that provide food and shelter for pests. Set traps for insects and mice.
 They are an excellent barrier against a wide range of pests.When covering seeded beds or transplants, leave plenty of slack in the material to allow for growth, and be sure to bury the edges in the soil so that pests don't sneak in.
You can leave row covers over crops like onions and carrots all season. Other crops, such as beans or cabbage should be uncovered once they are well grown.
Plants like squash that require pollination by insects must be uncovered when they start to flower, or can be hand pollinated.
In hot weather, be sure to remove covers to prevent excessive heat.
 Pesticides like pheromones and juvenile insect hormones can protect your plants, and are harmless to humans., Particularly on edible plants, you will want to use the least toxic pesticide possible to get the job done. Read the label to be sure you have the right pesticide and are using it correctly.


Pesticides labeled “broad spectrum” kill many pests, while those labeled “selective” work only against a few. Read the directions for use to be sure the pesticide will work for you.Check the label for the “signal” word that indicates how dangerous the product is to humans.“Danger” means poisonous or corrosive.
“Warning” means moderately hazardous.
“Caution” means least hazardous.


Never dump leftover pesticides on the lawn, in the garbage or down the drain. Check with your public works department about how to dispose of them.

