 Thrush is a fungal infection caused by a particular type of yeast. If you believe you may be experiencing oral thrush, it's important to see a doctor, such as an oral pathologist or a dermatologist. Thrush will persist until you treat it with prescription-strength anti-fungal medication.Oral thrush causes a painful, burning feeling inside your mouth.
Thrush is typically accompanied by white patches in the mouth and red spots that bleed.
If you have thrush, you may also lose some sense of taste or experience an unpleasant taste in your mouth, as well as cracked skin at the corners of your lips.
 Some people going through cancer treatment experience painful mouth sores and inflammation. There is no way to treat or prevent mouth sores caused by chemotherapy; however, you can decrease the severity of your symptoms and prevent infection until the sores heal. Avoid alcohol (including mouthwash that contains alcohol), hot/spicy foods, foods with rough texture, acidic foods and drinks, foods/beverages that are very hot or cold, and tobacco.
Rinse your mouth with water every two hours during waking hours. You can also add 0.5 to 1 teaspoon of salt or baking soda per 8-ounce glass of water before rinsing.
Call your doctor right away if your symptoms get worse, if you have difficulty eating/drinking, or if you develop a high fever.
 An old, frayed toothbrush can cause a great deal of pain in your mouth, no matter what type of toothpaste you're using. You should replace your toothbrush every three to four months, and when you buy a new brush, think about choosing one that may make brushing a little less painful.Try a different bristle strength. Most people find that a soft-bristled toothbrush is the gentlest and least painful for sensitive mouths.Some dentists suggest that an electric toothbrush can make it easier to prevent over brushing or brushing too hard, but you'll have to follow the instructions to use it properly.Whatever type of toothbrush you use, make sure it comes with the American Dental Association (ADA) Seal of Approval on the packaging.

