 Heavy drinking is unhealthy for many reasons, and it can cause bone loss. Being intoxicated may also put you at a higher risk of breaking a bone.The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism states that “low-risk” or “moderate” drinking is the safest way to avoid damage to your health from alcohol. This is defined as no more than 3 drinks on a given day, and no more than 7 per week for women. For men, it’s no more than 4 drinks on a given day, and no more than 14 per week., Regular exercise is crucial for maintaining bone health, as well as your overall health. People who are bedridden or spend most of the day sitting or otherwise inactive are at a higher risk for developing osteoporosis. People who get regular weight-bearing exercise in addition to daily activity have higher bone density on average.Exercises that require you to move your body weight around help promote bone growth. Get at least 30 minutes of exercise every day.
Females reach peak bone mass earlier, and have a lower threshold, than males. Exercise is especially important for women.
The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons recommend activities like brisk walking, hiking, aerobics, tennis, and weight training to help build and maintain bone mass.While fantastic for cardiovascular health, exercises such as swimming and biking don’t require you to move your body weight, so they’re not as good for building bone. Other activities that are good for your bones include:

Jogging (but not running, which can put too much pressure on your joints)
Heavy yard work and gardening
Team sports like basketball, baseball, and soccer
Dancing
Racquet sports like squash
Skiing and skating
Karate



, Smoking is harmful to every part of your body, including your bones. Smoking is associated with a higher risk of developing osteoporosis.If you smoke, quitting quickly decreases your risk for many diseases.Don’t think that because you’ve smoked for years that you’re “too old” or the “damage is already done.” While it’s true that smoking can cause irreversible harm to your health, quitting produces immediate benefits, such as reducing your heart rate and blood pressure.Your risk of heart attack can begin to drop within just 24 hours, with full effects within 1-2 years.Your lungs can begin to return to their healthy state in just 1-9 months.It’s never too late to quit.
 In addition to consuming vitamin D in foods, you can boost your vitamin D levels by spending time in the sunshine. Ultraviolet rays trigger vitamin D synthesis in your body.Spending time outdoors getting exercise will also help promote bone health.


Use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF factor of at least 15 whenever you spend time outside.You can usually spend about 5-15 minutes outside without sunscreen to get enough vitamin D and not increase your risk of skin cancer significantly.
People with higher levels of melanin in their skin have darker skin, and have less ability to produce vitamin D from sunlight., Falls are a leading cause of bone breakage, especially among older adults.You can take some actions to reduce your risk of falling, such as:Using a cane or walker if you need it
Wearing sturdy, rubber-soled non-slip shoes
Salting icy steps and walks
Keeping your home clutter-free
Keeping your home well-lit
Using a non-slip bath mat or rubber adhesives in the bath or shower
Increased alcohol consumption is also associated with a higher risk of falling. Consume alcohol in moderation.