 Your jury notice or summons will contain information about when you've been called to jury duty as well as the steps to take to seek an exemption.


Some exemptions typically considered acceptable may be listed on the summons, as well as what documentation the court requires to prove the exemption applies to you.Carefully note any dates on your summons, including the dates you've been called to jury duty. You will have to include these dates in your jury excuse letter and may need to provide them to anyone else who you need to write a letter on your behalf as documentation.For example, if you cannot appear for work-related reasons, you may need a letter from your boss that tells the court the reason you cannot be spared at work on those days.;
, There may be some general rules in state and federal law, but each court also has its own rules regarding types of people who are generally exempt from jury duty.


In addition to any exemptions listed on your notice or summons, there may be other exemptions that particular courts or judges often accept. These exemptions may be listed on the court website, or you may be able to learn them by calling the clerk's office.
For example, the federal court exempts people from jury duty if they are public officials, employed as police officers or firemen, or serving active duty in the armed forces.Many states have additional exemptions for people over the age of 70 or 80, or people with medical or work-related issues.Write down the rule number or statute number of any exemptions that fit your situation so you can reference them in your letter.Some excuses allow you to be excused from jury duty, while others only allow you to have your service deferred for a specific time.Make sure you know whether you're eligible for a complete excuse or a deferral so you ask for the right thing.
Many states have pending or fully enacted "family friendly jury duty" laws. These laws provide exemptions from or deferrals of jury duty service if you are a breastfeeding mother or have active care and custody of young children, elderly, or disabled family members.Many states such as Massachusetts have strict legal requirements regarding disqualification from jury duty for medical reasons.If you plan on claiming you should be excused from jury duty for a medical reason, you should read these requirements carefully and talk to your doctor before writing your letter.
 Your jury notice may include a date by which you must respond if you want to request an exemption.


Keep in mind that if you don't meet this deadline, you typically won't be excused from jury duty unless you have an emergency situation that requires your presence elsewhere.
For example, the state of Texas allows you to postpone jury service at least once, but you must send a letter with your reasons for being excused at least two weeks before the date you're scheduled to serve., You may have to provide documentation of the reason you want to be excused from jury duty.


For example, if you have a medical condition, you may need a note from your doctor in addition to your letter. You must plan in advance to get the documentation you'll need.If you are asking to be excused from jury duty because it would present financial hardship, you will need to gather documents that prove the state of your finances or the fact that your income is necessary to care for dependents.If you're claiming a work-related reason you should be excused from jury duty, you should talk to your supervisor or manager about writing a letter for you to include with your own letter describing the need for you to be at work on the dates you've been summoned.
 Some courts have a form they prefer you to use rather than simply writing a letter.


If the court to which you've been summoned to jury duty has a particular exemption form, it typically will be included in the envelope with your summons.You also may be able to call the clerk's office and find out if there is a particular form that needs to be used.
For example, if you are summoned to serve on a jury in New Jersey, the court includes a questionnaire that you must complete and return. On that questionnaire, you have the ability to indicate if you are not qualified to serve on a jury or if you want your service dates to be postponed.In some jurisdictions, these forms must be completed and sent within a certain period of time after you receive your summons, regardless of whether you are asking to be excused from service., If no form is available, type your letter using business-letter format.


Date your letter with the date you intend to mail it, and include both your mailing address and the mailing address of the court.If you want, you may include other contact information such as your phone number or email address.
Address the letter to the name indicated on your jury summons, whether the clerk of court or a specific judge. This name or title also should be included in your salutation., Begin your letter by providing your full legal name and any identifying information included on your jury notice.


If your summons includes a jury number or other reference number, include that in your introduction as well as the subject line of your letter., Provide a brief explanation of why you believe you should be excused from jury duty, sticking to the facts of your situation.


Using what you've learned about the excuses the court typically accepts, explain your situation and relate it to one of those acceptable excuses.If the court states it accepts some work-related excuses, you need to explain the necessity for you to be at work or explain the hardship that would occur were you to miss work.For example, you may work at a small business that would have to close for the day if you weren't there to run the shop.
If you're requesting to be excused from jury duty because you must care for a child, you should also consider including reasons you are unable to find appropriate child care under the circumstances.Keep in mind that in some jurisdictions you are limited to one reason for your excuse. For example, in California your excuse is denied if you indicate more than one reason why you are disqualified from jury service.For this reason, rather than piling on multiple reasons you should pick the one for which you have the strongest documentation.
 Close your letter by telling the court what you want because of your reason. Define whether you want to be permanently excused or simply have the duty deferred or postponed to another time.


Your request may have a greater chance of being approved if you are willing to serve at a different time. However, if this isn't possible, you should state so clearly. For example, many courts will excuse breast-feeding mothers from jury duty.In that case, you may be willing to serve if your duty is postponed until a date in the future when your child is no longer breast feeding.
 Unless the court specifically listed the way in which you would be notified of its decision, you typically have the ability to let the court know how you would prefer to be notified.


For example, if you prefer to be called rather than wait for a written response, you should mention this at the closing of your letter and provide the phone number at which you wish to be contacted., After you've finished writing your letter, print it and sign it in blue or black ink.


Make sure you proofread your letter carefully before you print it to ensure there are no typographical or grammatical errors.
Type your name under space for your signature. You also may include your address and phone number or other contact information if you want., There should be an address listed on your jury notice for sending a jury excuse letter.


Make sure you're sending your letter to the correct court address or office so it is received and considered before the date you were summoned for jury duty.
 If you have any documents that provide proof for your excuse, you should attach these to your letter.


For example, if you will be out of town on the date you were summoned for jury duty, and you've already made reservations or purchased plane tickets, copies of your reservations or plane tickets would provide proof of your excuse.State law or court rules may require you to include a note from a doctor (for medical-related hardships) or your employer (for work-related hardships).
 You might consider using certified mail, return receipt requested, so you have notification when the court has received your letter.


You also should double-check the deadline before you mail your letter. The summons or notice may state that your letter must be mailed by that day, or it may say the court must receive it by that day. If you're unsure whether the court will receive your letter by the deadline if you use regular mail, you may need to use priority two-day or next-day mailing services.
Make copies of everything you send to the court before you mail it, so you have copies for your records.
 The court will consider your request and let you know in writing, usually within a couple of weeks, if you are excused from jury duty.


Keep in mind that courts typically consider each request on a case-by-case basis, and have the discretion to grant or deny your request. Just because someone else has been excused from jury duty for the same reason you've provided, that doesn't mean your request to be excused will be granted.