 While it can be difficult to download popular artists for free legally, many younger artists release free music online to generate buzz and find new fans. If you are willing to experiment and listen to unknown artists you will greatly expand your access to free music. And you might hear the "next big thing." Most hip-hop artists release mixtapes, which are downloadable "mini-albums" that are released for free on sites like DatPiff and HotNewHipHop.
Check out young band pages on ReverbNation, Band Camp, Myspace, or Facebook. They will often post music for free to their fans.
Run a search for "Free Music" + your favorite genre. Many popular sites and blogs will host new bands in that genre for you to sample. Famous music blogs like Pitchfork, for example, often release Indie tracks for free.
 Put a CD into your computer's disc drive and click "Import Music" on iTunes when prompted. This will transfer your songs to your computer so that you can listen to them on your iPod.


Don't be afraid to ask you friends for CD's as well, or ask them to burn you a new copy.
Your local library is also a fantastic place to find new music, and you can often check out 10 or more CD's at a time.
 Today it is easier then ever to get free songs from friends and family using cloud storage options. You can open an account with Google Drive, Dropbox, Amazon Cloud, etc, then share that folder with friends. As long as you have enough space, you can put your songs online so that friends can download copies from anywhere in the world.


To share a folder, open your cloud storage website, right click the folder, and use the "Share" option.
You can click and drag songs right from iTunes into your cloud folder, which will put a copy of the songs online without damaging your copy.
To add songs to your library, highlight your songs then right-click "Copy." Paste them into your "Automatically add to iTunes" folder as discussed in Method One.
Once your friends have the songs, delete them to make space for more.
 Click on the link to the iTunes Store in your iTunes browser and then click the small link labeled "Free on iTunes" on the right-hand side of the screen.


These songs will be automatically sorted into your iTunes library.
 While you will not be able to download the songs, you can use many apps to listen to music for free on demand if you have an iPod Touch. Look up songs on Youtube, find a playlist on Songza or Pandora, or play any song instantly on Grooveshark. To find music apps go to the App Store and click on "Categories" --> "Music."
While you can play songs here, you will not own them. You can only listen with an internet connection.

