 Your human capital refers to the things that make you the person that you are. In respect to charitable giving, this could mean the skill sets that you have, the time you have, and the gifts you have.


You can choose to donate your time in a skill specific role. For example, if you are a lawyer, you can offer pro bono legal consulting to women’s shelters, to domestic violence organizations, or to counsel troubled teenagers.You can also give your time as a volunteer. This could mean volunteering for an hour a week or establishing a long-term relationship with an organization.
Giving your gifts would allow you to use a special skill, or gift, that you have to help others. For example, if you have a compassionate heart for animals you could volunteer at an animal shelter to socialize the animals.
 Making a time commitment to an organization will make you much more likely to follow through on your commitment of giving your time.


You can start off as slowly as you’d like. You can start by giving an hour or two of your time volunteering at an organization during the month.
Ask you become more engaged with the organization and your community, you may find that you can give more of your time.
Make your volunteering a family activity with your significant other and children. This is a great way to teach children about generosity, helping others, charity, and their community., When you’ve found an organization that you care about, you should share your passion with the people you care about.


Use charitable events as a time to spend with your friends and family. For example, you could all sign up to run a 5k that supports an organization that you care about.
Encourage others to join you when you volunteer. It can be harder to ask someone to give their money to an organization, but people may be more receptive to spending time volunteering with you instead.
Sharing the great work that an organization does with others helps to grow the organization so it can benefit more people!
Since your friends and family are part of your community, you can all give back to the community together.
 Giving back to your community is rewarding for you, for your community, and for the people that you are helping. It can be tempting to associate giving with the holidays, but these organizations need help year round.


When giving becomes a habit, rather than a special event, you are more likely to think about ways that you can help others and give back.As you continue to give back to your community, you will be able to see the direct effects of your participation over time! This is a rewarding feeling and encourages you to continue to give back. like new packages of disposable razors, menstrual products, toothpaste, and more.
 Local politics exert significant influence over a community, and becoming engaged politically can allow you to make a direct impact on the services, funding, and manpower available for your area.


You can lobby for causes that you care about by reaching out to local and state politicians and telling them why you care about this cause. This can be especially important if there is a bill that is related to your interests up for vote.
Running for local office is a great way to become engaged in politics and to make a direct impact on your community.Run for an elected position within an organization. Many interest groups, community centers, charities, school boards, and non-profits elect officers to complete different tasks within their group. By running for an elected office, like President or Secretary, you can directly involve yourself in the day-to-day workings of an organization that you care about.
 Most organizations and programs receive their funding from public and private sources, including donations from individuals like you. Raising funds for a group that you care about helps that organization to continue the work that they do, expand to reach more people, and to make more of an impact.


There are a lot of different ways that you can raise money, including asking friends and family, selling items like baked goods or products related to the organization, holding a charity fundraiser, auctioning off items, or partnering with a local restaurant.