 Bluetooth requires certain hardware before it will function on a computer. Most laptops come with Bluetooth, while many desktop PCs do not. The Device Manager lists all of the hardware that your computer is comprised of, and will let you see if Bluetooth hardware is installed. Accessing the Device Manager quickly is a little different for each version of Windows:


Windows 8 - Press ⊞ Win+X and select Device Manager
Windows 7/Vista - Click the Start Menu and type Device Manager into the Search box. Select it from the results.
Windows XP - Click the Start Menu and right-click on My Computer. Select Properties and then click the Hardware tab. Click the Device Manager button.
Note: If there is a Bluetooth symbol in your System Tray, then you have Bluetooth hardware installed and active.;
, By default, the device manager should have your computer expanded, showing all the categories of devices attached, such as Disk drives, Display Adapters, Processors, etc. Look for the Bluetooth Radios category. The categories are listed alphabetically, so it should be towards the top. If you see this category, you have Bluetooth installed.


Expand the category to ensure that the hardware is functioning correctly. If there is a yellow exclamation icon over the hardware, you may need to install the proper drivers before Bluetooth will work.
 If you don't see the Bluetooth Radios category, you may find your Bluetooth adapter in the "Network adapters" category. This normally contains your network card that you use to connect to wireless or wired networks. Look for any entries that contain the words "Bluetooth".


If you do not have Bluetooth hardware installed, you can purchase Bluetooth USB dongles for just a few dollars off Amazon or a variety of other retailers. Installation is as simple as plugging it into a spare USB port.
 Once you've checked that Bluetooth is present, you can start using your Bluetooth devices. See this guide for ideas on how to get the most from your Bluetooth devices.

