 As you progress your Woodcutting level, it is highly recommended that you upgrade your hatchet as well. Depending on what you choose to do, it's best to make money while doing this to get better hatchets.

Level 1-15: Cut regular Logs. This will take a while because you have just started. Don't buy an iron hatchet as it is a waste of money and will not make much of a difference
Level 15-30: Cut Oak Logs. You earn around 1,000 gold from Oak Logs. Use a Mithril Hatchet when you get to level 21 in Woodcutting. Get ready to use the Adamant Hatchet at level 31.
Level 30-60: Cut Willow logs. Willow logs are fast exp, but their locations aren't normally quiet. You won't make much money with these trees, but enough to buy a Rune Hatchet (requires 41 Woodcutting). You can get magic seeds worth up to 150,000gp from birds nests here. Skip cutting down maples. These become available at level 45, but they are slow to cut down and not as good money per hour as willows.
Levels 60-99: You can start cutting down Yews. But it will be rather slow to get a full inventory. Instead, you should stick with Willows until 75 woodcutting, as they have fast experience.
Level 68-75: You are now at the level to chop Choking Ivy. It's not very slow; this is the best way to get experience, but not money. You can start on this at any level (68 or above). (This is a very good strategy for those that would like to get a few levels in one night).
Level 60-75: At 61 Woodcutting, you are able to use a Dragon Hatchet which costs around quite a bit of money. Begin cutting Yew Logs. The recommended place to cut being Seers' Village just south of the Flax field.
Levels 75-90: Cut Magic Logs between these levels. It is highly recommended that you use a dragon hatchet. If you can't afford it, then stick with the Rune Hatchet. Magic Logs can be very slow to cut at the required level. If you want to, stay with the yew trees until around 85-90. Magic logs have a profit of 1.3k each, and the best way for making money for members with Woodcutting. As of the 27/5/10 (DD/MM/YY), magic logs are roughly 1500 gp each on the Grand Exchange, but can increase or decrease depending on the time.
Levels 90-99: Cut Elder Logs. Not only are they a decent source of 500k+ gp per hour, but they are also extremely AFK. Just start cutting an elder tree and you will not have to pay attention to your screen for 5 minutes. Elder Logs sell for around 4000 gp each.

