 Word-attack strategies can help you figure out the meaning and pronunciation of unfamiliar words by taking on those words piece by piece and coming at them from different angles.



Look for picture clues. Check out the photos, illustrations or other visuals on the page. Explore what's in them (people, places, objects, actions) that might make sense in the sentence.

Sound out the word. Starting with the first letter, say each letter-sound out loud slowly. Then repeat the sounds, blending them together to form the word and considering if the word makes sense in the sentence.

Chunk it up. Look at the word and see if you can pick out any sound/symbols, prefixes, suffixes, endings or base words that you already know. Read each "chunk" by itself and then try blending the chunks together and sound out the word.

For example, if you know that "pre" means "before" and "view" means "to look at," you could figure out that "preview" means "to look at ahead of time" if you approached the word by breaking it up into those two chunks.



Look for connections. Consider whether the unfamiliar word bears any resemblance to a word you might already know. Ask yourself if it's a chunk or a form of the unfamiliar word.

You could also try using the known word in the sentence to see if it makes sense; it could be that the meanings of the two words are close enough for understanding.
 Go back over the sentence again. Try substituting different words for the word you don't know and see if any of your ideas make sense.
 Rather than getting stuck on a word you don't know, read past it and look for more clues. If the word is used again in the text, compare that sentence to the first and brainstorm as to what word might make sense in both.
 Take into account what you know about the topic of the book, paragraph or sentence. Based on your knowledge of the subject matter, is there a word that might make sense in the sentence?

, Look at the pictures, table of contents, chapter headings, maps, diagrams and other features of your book. Then, based on what you saw, write down what you think the book will be about, what kinds of information might be included. As you read, keep updating your predictions based on what comes up in the text.
 After reviewing the title, chapter headings, images and other information in the book, write down some questions you might have or things you're now curious about. Try to answer these questions as you read and write down the answers you find. If you're left with questions, think about whether you could find those answers from some other source.
 Think of the story you're reading as though it were a movie. Get a good mental image of the characters and the setting and try to see the story unfolding in time and space. Identify and describe what's happening by making sketches, diagrams or cartoon-style grids.
 Ask yourself if there's anything about the story you can relate to. Do any of the characters remind you of someone you know? Have you had similar experiences? Have you learned some of the concepts discussed in the book at school, home or through your own life experiences? Does the style of the story resemble a style you've read before or a movie or television show you've seen? Write down any similarities you come up with and use them to help with your understanding of the text.
 One helpful way to ensure that something you've read makes sense to you is to talk through it with someone else. Once you've finished a paragraph, article, short story or chapter, sum up in your own words what it was about. Hearing yourself say it out loud and discovering if the person on the receiving end has questions you can or can't answer can point out any gaps in your understanding and what you might need to reread for greater clarity.

