 An avian specialist has in-depth knowledge about birds. There are many types of birds, and not all birds react to toxins and foreign substances in the same way. Ask the avian specialist how to protect your pet bird. For example, if you have a parrot, ask the avian specialist, “How can I protect my parrot when spraying my house for fleas?”If you have a cockatoo, ask the avian specialist, “How can I protect my cockatoo when spraying my house for fleas?”
Listen carefully to the avian specialist. Take notes using a pen and paper.
Put your newfound knowledge about how to protect your pet birds when spraying for fleas into action.
Ask your vet to recommend an avian specialist.;
, When spraying your house for fleas, the flea spray product will have a set of instructions on its label. This label is typically on the side of the product spray bottle. Read this label for information about how to protect pet birds when spraying your house for fleas.For instance, your flea spray bottle might read, “Before spraying, vacuum your entire house.” In this case, you should vacuum your entire home before using the flea spray.
If the directions say, “Apply a light, even layer of flea spray to your carpet,” apply a light, even layer of flea spray to the carpet and avoid applying a heavy layer of flea spray.
 If the weather is nice, move your pet bird to the garage. If it is not so nice, move the bird to a neighbor’s residence. Once your pet bird arrives in its temporary residence, you can remove the cover from the bird cage.If some areas of your house are free of fleas, you could remove your pet bird to the untreated area. For instance, if you have fleas downstairs but not upstairs, you might remove the pet bird to the upstairs area. If you choose to keep your pet bird in an unaffected room in the residence, keep the window open, door closed, and central air and heat off.
Keep your pet birds out of the residence until the flea spray is completely dry. Open your windows so the spray ventilates completely.
Typically, you and your family – including your pet birds – will need to be out of the house for about three hours until the spray settles and dissipates., If your pet birds live in bird cages, you should remove the cages along with the birds. Remove all bird toys, water dishes, and food bowls, too.Replace them in the pet bird’s cage while it is staying in its temporary location outside your residence.Seal your bird’s food bag and place it in a cabinet.
If you later realize that you forgot to remove your bird’s water bowl or a similar bird-related item, wash it thoroughly before replacing it in your pet bird’s cage.

