 The key to knowing if you need to use “which” or “that” in a sentence is deciding if you need to create a restrictive or non-restrictive clause.


A restrictive clause is one that sets limits on the subject of the sentence. A restrictive clause also contributes to the meaning of the sentence – the sentence won’t make sense without the restrictive clause.
For example, the sentence “I like flowers that are purple” has a restrictive clause in it and removing it would change the meaning of the sentence. “that are purple” is the restrictive clause, because removing it would tell the reader you like flowers, but not purple ones.;
, A non-restrictive clause adds information to the sentence, but removing it doesn’t change the meaning of the sentence.


For example, in the sentence, “The car, which is red, was totaled in the accident,” has a restrictive clause in it because “which is red” can be removed without changing the sentence’s meaning. The car will still be totaled, whether we know its color or not. “Which is red” is the non-restrictive clause., When you’re trying to figure out if you’re using a restrictive or non-restrictive clause, ask yourself if the clause changes the meaning of the sentence and or if it just adds information to it.


If taking out the clause changes the meaning of the sentence, you’re using a restrictive clause. In the sentence "Jimmy likes apples that are red" taking out "that are red" changes the meaning of the sentence; we might think Jimmy likes all apples and not just the red ones. "That are red" is therefore a restrictive clause.
If taking out the clause doesn’t change the meaning of the sentence, you’re using a non-restrictive clause.In the sentence "Jimmy thinks apples, which grow on trees in his yard, are the best fruit," taking out "which grow on trees in his yard" doesn't change the meaning of the sentence. We still learn that apples are Jimmy's favorite fruit, and therefore "which grow on trees in his yard" is a non-restrictive clause.
 If you determine that omitting the clause changes the meaning of the sentence, you need to use “that” in your sentence.For example, in the sentence “I like dogs that are brown,” the clause “that are brown” is crucial to understanding the sentence; it limits what type of dogs you like.
 If omitting the clause only removes additional information from the sentence, you need to use “which” in your sentence.


For example, in the sentence “I took the firetruck, which is my niece’s favorite toy, to be fixed,” the clause “which is my niece’s favorite toy” only adds information to the sentence. You’re taking the firetruck to be fixed – the fact that the truck is your niece’s favorite doesn’t change the meaning of the sentence., If you’re creating a non-restrictive clause and therefore using “which” in your sentence, the clause should be surrounded by commas.


For example, “I love lobster, which is expensive, because it reminds me of growing up by the ocean,” would make sense without “which is expensive.” This is the phrase you should surround with commas.
If you know you have a non-restrictive clause and need to use “which,” but don’t know where to put the commas, test it. Your sentence should still make sense if you take out the words surrounded by commas.