 In order to make the milk safe to drink, you must first heat it to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (82 degrees Celsius). Pour the goat's milk into a small to medium sauce pot and heat over low to medium-low heat until it reaches the appropriate temperature, stirring often to avoid scalding it by mistake. Do not allow the milk to boil, since the proteins can be damaged at boiling temperatures.;
, Cover the pan, and allow the milk to cool at room temperature to about 105 degrees Fahrenheit (40.5 degrees Celsius).
 As the milk sits, a skin will start to develop over the top. This skin is not harmful, but it can create an unusual texture in your final product, so you would benefit from removing it. Pour the milk through a fine mesh strainer and into a separate bowl or pot.
 Use a glass measuring cup or pour it into a glass bowl.
 Stir the fiber into the milk until completely dissolved. This will allow the powdered fiber to reach a more suitable temperature for the rest of the milk.
 Whisk the milk well to ensure that the fiber spreads into the entire batch.
 Once more, use a glass measuring cup or glass bowl.
 Add the culture starter into the separated milk, stirring until dissolved. As with the powdered fiber, adding the culture starter to a smaller amount of milk gradually brings it up to temperature, ensuring that it spreads better into the larger batch.
 Whisk the milk thoroughly to spread the culture starter throughout.
 The jars need to be made of glass since chemicals from metal and plastic can bleed into the yogurt. The jars must also have lids. Leave at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of empty space in between the surface of the milk and the rim of the jar so that the yogurt has room to expand.
 The temperature should be between 80 and 90 degrees Fahrenheit (27 to 32 degrees Celsius) at minimum. You could try storing the jars on top of your refrigerator, or you could also place the jars on top of a saucer placed above a heating pad set to the lowest possible setting., Wrapping the jars in clean dish towels traps heat from the surrounding location and further insulates the jars.
 In order to form yogurt, the cultured milk needs between 6 to 12 hours to incubate in warmth.
 Since yogurt made with goat's milk tends to be thinner than yogurt made with cow's milk, you may want to drain some of the liquid out before consuming it. Place the cultured yogurt in a wire mesh strainer lined with cheesecloth. Place the strainer above a bowl so that the sides of the strainer rest on the rim of the bowl, allowing the liquid to drain out. Place the strainer and bowl in the refrigerator for an hour or until you achieve the desired thickness. If you allow the yogurt to drain too long, it will take on a cheese-like consistency.
 As is, this organic yogurt is not very sweet. You can sweeten it by adding a little bit of raw organic honey. If you prefer flavored yogurts, you can mix in some berries or granola, as well.
 It should chill for an additional 5 to 7 hours before you eat it. The yogurt itself can last up to 2 weeks when kept sealed and chilled.

