 Just like when you are pregnant, you are eating for two when you are breastfeeding. It's very important that breastfeeding moms make sure to consume enough calories — in fact, you will need to consume more calories than you did when you were pregnant. Your body will be burning extra calories when you breastfeed, so take that into account when planning your meals. Typically, women will need an additional 400 – 500 calories per day during the first six months of breastfeeding.This is useful for losing pregnancy weight, but it means you need to account for the loss of calories when planning your diet.
During the second six months of breastfeeding, you will likely burn about 400 additional calories per day.;
, When you are breastfeeding, it's not enough to just eat more calories — "empty" calories, or those that provide no nutritional value, should be avoided. You need to make sure that you are choosing nutrient-rich foods. You and your baby need specific nutrients in your diet to keep you both healthy.It is important to get enough protein. Sometimes, this can pose the greatest challenge for vegetarians. Aim to get about 89 grams per day. High protein foods include beans, nuts, and eggs (which many vegetarians don't eat).
You also need to make sure to eat plenty of Vitamin B12. You can get your daily 26 mcgs by drinking milk or fortified soy milk. You can also find it in fortified cereals and yogurt.
Breastfeeding moms need about 1,000 mgs per day of calcium.Eat vegetarian dairy products, fortified orange juice, dark leafy greens, and almonds. You can get Vitamin D from these sources, too.
Empty calories include things like cakes, cookies, pastries, soda, ice cream, bacon, hot dogs, and pizza.
 It's important to drink plenty of fluids while you are breastfeeding. Make it a habit to drink whenever you are thirsty. Water is the best choice, but you can supplement that with low-sugar juices and soups. Make sure to limit your caffeine intake while breastfeeding. Opt for caffeine free green tea instead.
Low fat milk is also a great choice to help you stay hydrated.
 It can be difficult to get the required nutrients when you are following a vegetarian diet. Continue taking your daily prenatal vitamins until you stop breastfeeding. In fact, the Mayo Clinic recommends that all women of child bearing-age take a prenatal vitamin, even if they are not planning to become pregnant.Your doctor may also suggest additional supplements.


One of the most common supplements for breastfeeding mom is Vitamin B-12. This nutrient is key to your baby's development, and is found almost exclusively in animal products.Your doctor might also recommend a Vitamin D supplement. This is especially common if you are not able to get enough natural sunlight.
Your baby needs Vitamin D to help him absorb calcium. A Vitamin D deficiency can cause rickets, which is a weakening of the bones.

