 Every day, ask your child to open up to you about his feelings, concerns and worries without any inhibitions. Reassure him constantly and repeat positive affirmations to calm him down.;
, Once your child has communicated the reason for his discomfort to you, try as much as possible to make required amends. Guide him to find possible solutions to minimize the impact of trouble makers!

, Kids can lose their morale very easily. That’s why you must constantly encourage them and praise their efforts. Teach them that failures are a part of learning and growth. Try to build on your child’s positives and avoid picking on his negatives.
 Children love a comforting embrace, especially coming from their parent. Hugging and cuddling makes children feel secure and loved. Physical touch can almost immediately bring down the degree of anxiety your child is experiencing.
 Involve your kids in physically and mentally stimulating activities like sports and crafts. Physical and mental exercises release endorphins which help fight stress and keep your kid happy.
 Parents are role models for kids. They must set an ideal example for kids to follow. Always make sure that whenever you are around your child, you are at your best behavior. Be as composed as possible and you will be surprised to see that your child will stay calm, too.
 Meditation and deep breathing will soothe your child’s senses and put him in a state of tranquility. Teach your kid the simple drill of slow, in and out breathing. Ask him to close his eyes and visualize a serene and peaceful set-up while doing so.
 Bad sleeping patterns can cause irritability and mood swings among children. Fix a bedtime for your child and keep it consistent, with very rare disruptions. Start preparing him for bedtime an hour earlier as this will help him slip into the sleep mode easily.
 There’s no need to shy from seeking assistance of a counselor or pediatrician in case your child seems to be very troubled. Experts will provide you some great insights about the do’s and don’ts to keep in mind while approaching sensitive issues with your child.

