 If you have large ankles, avoid wearing heels that have an ankle strap. An ankle strap will make your ankles look larger. Go for a sling back or pump instead. On the other hand, an ankle strap will help if you have thin ankles.Pointy-toe shoes, nude heels, and open toe heels will make your legs look longer and leaner.T-strap shoes will make your legs look shorter. Avoid these if you are trying to look long and lean.
Narrow heels and stilettos look best on people with a more slender build, and with fashions that are lean and slimming.
People with heavier builds should look at platforms or thicker heels to keep things looking balanced and proportional.
 If you do not have a lot of heels, invest in a pair of black and/or nude heels. A classic pump can be worn on any occasion and will never go out of a style. A nude shoe can be worn with most outfits. These two styles are timeless, and you can wear them for a long time..


The color of nude you choose will be different based on your skin tone.
The heels you select for an outfit will depend on the occasion and your personal style.
 Chunky heels are comfortable, but are also less dressy than thinner heels. If you wear a chunky heel, balance the rest of your outfit by wearing another chunky item. For example, if you have on a dainty dress, add a jacket.


Chunky heels also look nice with boyfriend jeans.Adding a chunky heel can also help you dress down an outfit if you need to. If you wanted to wear a dress to a casual dinner, add a chunky heel to make it less formal.
 A high heeled sandal is a versatile shoe that can be worn with casual and dressy outfits. Your shoe should not compete with your outfit. If you wear an outfit with a lot of prints or colors, choose a simple sandal with thin straps.If you are wearing a casual outfit, throwing on a pair of sandals will instantly dress up your look.
Depending on where you work, a strappy sandal may not be appropriate for work. For example, A sandal may be fine for the fashion or arts industry, but may not be fine in a corporate law office.

