 The postal service of each country has standardized abbreviations for words commonly included in street addresses. These abbreviations may vary depending on the country.For example, in the US the word "street" is commonly abbreviated "St," while the word "suite" (as in an office suite) is abbreviated "ste." If you use just the letter "S," it will be interpreted as the direction "south."
Some words may have more than one common abbreviation, but they would only have one standard abbreviation for postal purposes. For example, the word "avenue" may be abbreviated "avn," but the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) standardized abbreviation is "AVE."
Even if you know the abbreviations for your own country, you may want to double-check before you send mail to an address in another country.
 Misspelled words in an address can result in your package being undeliverable, or may even result in the package being sent to a different address than the one you intended.Pay close attention to words with more than one spelling, or words that are homophones. For example, you may have heard an address and believe the street name is "Pike's Peak Road," but it could be "Pike Speak Road" or "Pike's Peek Road."
You also want to verify whether compound road names are one word or two separate words. For example, a residence could be located on "Creek Side Drive" or on "Creekside Drive."

, Default and acceptable city names depend on the postal service regulations for the country where the address is located. For some locations, there may be more than one city name you can use.For example, if you're mailing a letter to New York City, you should use the default city and state if at all possible, which is "New York NY." If you address your envelope to "New York City NY" or "Manhattan NY," your letter will likely still reach its intended destination, but it may be delayed.If you're mailing a letter to another country, you may be able to address the letter in English or in the language of that country. In some instances, this may result in a different city name.
 If you're trying to verify or complete an address in the United States, you can enter the address on the USPS website to get the complete ZIP code for that address.From the USPS website at usps.com, click on the "quick tools" menu bar to find the "Look Up a ZIP Code" page.
You can find a ZIP Code by entering all or part of the residential address you have, or you can type in a ZIP Code to find the default city name you should use to mail letters or packages there.
 Your mail will not be delivered if the address you provide is incomplete. Each country has its own standards of completion, and if you're mailing the package internationally, you also must include the name or approved abbreviation of the country.The US postal service guidelines require the person's name to be on the top line of the address block. Below that is any information required to direct the mail internally, such as a suite number or a job title.
The next portion of the address block in a US address (and the address block of most countries) is the street address. From this point on, the address moves from the smallest point to the largest point that you need to identify.
For example, if you're mailing a package internationally from Australia to the United States, you would start with the person's name, then provide their street address on the next line. The third line of the address would provide the city, state, and ZIP code, and then you would include the country's name ("U.S.A." or "United States of America") on the last line.
If you were mailing an item domestically within the United States, you would not need to include the country's name. However, you would still need to include the city, state, and ZIP code, regardless of where you're mailing the item from.

