 They will be able to review your current plan and help you add Internet service.;
, Depending on where you live, your cable provider may be Time Warner, Comcast, Cox or another provider. Your neighbors should be able to tell you who provides the cable locally, or you can consult your local print or online directory, if you don't already know the cable provider.
 Satellite cable companies such as DirecTV, Dish Network and Verizon Fios offer Internet connections with their packages. These connections are available almost everywhere.
 You can find out the price for cable and Internet packages on any cable company's website. Many cable and satellite companies also engage in heavy marketing and advertising. Check for flyers or other sales and promotions that offer special pricing.


Take advantage of special deals and promotions, whether you are a new customer or an existing customer who wants to upgrade. Negotiate discounts and additional services, and mention more competitive prices you may have seen elsewhere.
 After you research the plans and pricing available with all of your options, decide which cable Internet plan you would prefer.
 Every cable company will have a toll-free customer service telephone number. Call the number listed in your local telephone directory, on the marketing materials you have, or on their website. The information you will need includes your name, address and anything that confirms your identity, such as a driver's license number or social security number.
 Most companies will allow you to sign up for cable Internet service online. Go to their website and look for a tab that says "order now" or "sign up now."


Use a website that searches for the best cable Internet plan for you, if you are unsure of which company to use. Sites such as Go 2 Broadband will search your local area for available plans, and allow you to sign up for the one you want. The site will ask you where you live and what you want.
 You will need to choose when you want your cable Internet service to be active. Depending on the company you choose, you may not be able to get it immediately. There will often be waiting periods of 1 to 5 days.
 Depending on the type of service you order, and what your home or apartment is set up for already, you may need a technician to come out and install your cable Internet.


Make your home and computer easy to access for any equipment that the technician will need to hook up. If you opt for wireless service, the equipment will be minimal. Digital cable will require receivers and a modem that plugs into your wall and runs wires through your television and computer.
Ask about whether you are required to purchase the equipment, or if you lease it as part of your contract. If the equipment is leased, you will see that charge as part of your monthly bill.
 Before you finish signing up for cable Internet, you will need to provide a billing address and method of payment. Some companies will require you to prepay for the first month, and others will send you a bill. You will have the option to pay online, or set up recurring payments to come out of your bank account directly.

