 Study the layout of the keyboard and the highly unfamiliar desktop screen. Do not fear that the Windows button with 'All Programs' does not exist––Mac generally has a different way of doing things. Most are simpler, but some are a lot more complicated.;
, Many of the icons on the dock may be unfamiliar, such a the finder icon and the iBooks icon.


Explore each application to get a feel of it.
Try to gauge what it does and do not forget to quit the application. You can quit an app simply by clicking its name next to the apple logo and selecting 'Quit '. You can also quit by right clicking the app in the dock (the bar at the bottom of the screen containing apps) and selecting quit.
If an application doesn't quit, press F4 on your mac. This should open the launchpad, where you can view all the apps that you have. Search for activity monitor. Open Activity Monitor and search for the app. You can force quit it from this app.
 These can accomplish quite a number of tasks, such as editing media, forging documents, and so forth. However, whenever you are in need of a program that is more technical or advanced in order to accomplish something, plenty of solutions can be found on the iTunes store, or various sites on the internet.


As a general rule, support for Mac operating systems tends to be less common than that for Windows, especially for less well-known "applications." However, you can convert documents and other forms of media into a Windows openable format. Some of the formatting may not go across due to font errors and sizing differences between Word and Pages.
 Over here is where you can properly set up and edit the settings of many areas on your mac, ranging from you dock to Time Machine.
 It is hard to break anything in the Mac software, especially for a newbie. The systems are resilient and the Mac is ideal for people who love being creative and want to get creative work done without having to find the patience for spending hours pouring over programming and internal mechanics.

