 Name it something well-chosen (not Buggy).
 Click the pause button on the bottom right-hand corner. Now click the Options button at the top-right hand corner.,, The enemies will be faster and stronger, but you will get more money. You can also click anywhere you'd like to shoot there.,,, The priest is the little guy that looks like a fire hydrant with arms. He is very small., Don't worry, the priest can't take your flag.,,, Remember-1 is normal arrow, 2 is fire, 3 is ice. Press those numbers on your keyboard to switch weapons., Shoot when the enemies are under it, so that when the boulders fall down it can knock out an extra 30 blood., Fire waves are longer than ice, but ice can slow down monsters.,, There will be a green bar on top of the catapult sign (on the bottom number 8). Click on it so it turns red. Note that this way, no catapult will come out to waste 1000 dollars., Click on its green bar (at the bottom) to disable it. Same with your catapult. Soon, you will see fire and ice flying horses. Shoot ice with fire, shoot fire with ice.,, Don't worry, he won't grab you from your castle and squeeze you to death., It deflects anything except thunder. And even more important, do not disable the catapults and horse riders.,, Your horses and catapults are dead, but not you. He will take off his mask and rub his eyes. Shoot his head with and explosive arrow. When he falls back (this will only happen if your explosive arrow hits), shoot the priests behind him so they can't give him extra health. Remember to kill the soldiers, too., Kill all the other units., Fire and ice giants will come out. They are immune to almost anything, but you can kill fire with ice and ice with fire, just as I said before. Remember to disable catapults and horse riders, Disable catapults and horse riders., Finish them off with an explosive arrow., Repeat steps 20 to 21. This boss won't grab you out of your castle and kill you either.,,, Don't panic, this is the same boss as before, so don't worry about being grabbed out of your castle by a colossal monster and being stomped until you die. You win!