 Consider whether you can leave much of the planning to someone else. If you like to control everything you do, including little details, a destination wedding may not be the best choice. If you are going to have a wedding away from your home, you need to trust the people handling your wedding arrangements at the destination you have chosen. Understand the following realities:


Destination weddings inherently involve more unknown factors and will require you to trust somebody else and their judgment in coming up with solutions for your wedding. For instance, you may have to rely on your decorator's opinion on the details for how you want your wedding to look.
Similarly, you may not be able to view the venue in person until a few days before the wedding, or the wedding itself. You must also be willing to rely on reliability of the company or hotel managing the venue.
You must be comfortable with knowing how to pick reputable vendors and know how to handle some degree of ambiguity.;
, If you're not careful, weddings, especially destination weddings, can get very expensive very quickly. Take into account all possible costs, writing down everything that will need to be paid for. Think about how much money you and your partner can afford to spend on your wedding, and talk about this with your parents or anyone else who might contribute to your wedding. Once you've figured out how much you can spend, prioritize your purchases so that you spend the most money only on the things you need most. Having a budget set from the beginning of your planning will ensure that you can follow through on all your plans., Or, opt in for an all-inclusive option which is likely to be offered by the hotel you are having the reception at. You'll need to let the experts handle all the particulars. Instead, enjoy some time with your relatives and friends and just have a hassle-free wedding.
 A destination wedding may not be suitable for couples who want a large celebration that includes many members of their families, distant relatives and friends. You will need to keep in mind that some people will not be able to afford the plane tickets, hotel stays, or even taking time off from work to fly out to the destination where you are having your wedding. If this happens, don't be disappointed.
 If you have decided that you won't have issues giving up some control of the details to somebody else and are thinking of smaller weddings, then start organizing your destination wedding. Prepare to enjoy the fun the destination wedding offers. Imagine all you can do with your loved ones while you are there.
 Talk to your partner and your families and decide on the best place to hold your wedding. Think about the cost of travel to each destination you consider, as well as accommodations for you and your guests once you arrive. Consider possible venues at whatever locations you consider before coming to your final decision.


Go online to look up reviews for your choice of destination. If only bad reviews exist, find another destination.
 Consider weather patterns at the place where you'll get married, and choose a date that will allow for the best possible weather.
 Figure out how many days you'll need for final set-up details, rehearsals, the wedding, the reception, and any other events you'll have.
, Spend some time searching for the right people to help plan your wedding by looking online or learning from others' experiences. Choose vendors carefully. When you travel overseas, you will have to deal with people who don't even speak your language. Thoroughly study the profiles of the florists, photographers, DJ's and the caterers before making any payments. If wedding planner services are available in the country, you might want to consider working with them too, to be on the safe side.


Contact a wedding planner, venue organizers, an officiator, a band or DJ, a caterer, a cake baker, photographers, and transportation and security officials if needed, and look into decorations and clothes like a wedding dress.
 Make sure you comply with all laws and regulations for your home country as well as the country where your wedding will take place.
 Encourage your guests to do the same.
