;
, To flatter this, I would recommend wide legs and boot cut, as they will follow this shape to the knee and balance it below. Flare legged jeans will actually accentuate the hips, as it narrows at the knee and makes the hips look bigger by comparison. Just make sure they're not too tight, so that the material isn't stretched and they don't make your bottom stick out (they'll also be more comfortable). When it comes to colour, I'd say dark blue is the best, along with grey and black. That way people are likely to notice your lovely shape without thinking "she's trying to draw attention to herself". Light blue and white jeans are especially bad for that, as they are bright and attract attention.
 Next, I'd say pick a t-shirt the right length -finishes two or three inches below the top of your trousers/skirt. Anything with "cape" type sleeves, or batwing sleeves, are good, as they can make your shoulders seem wider/stronger and provide balance to you hips. Make sure that it fits closer around the waist, as in pear shapes this is usually well defined and narrower than the rest of your body. Be sure to get one that's not too big - they can miss the waist out and create the impression that you are triangular. Blouses work with most shapes to be honest, but one of the best ways to wear them casually is with puffy sleeves (again, they create the illusion of wider shoulders) buttoned just up to the bust with a low necked t-shirt or vest top underneath, which creates the impression of a fuller bust. Any colour or pattern should work well. I'd also recommend tunic style tops that gather at the waist, and belted tops so you can control how much you emphasize your waist.
 This way you can show off your legs without over-emphasizing your thighs. Style wise, I'd suggest floaty/loose or straight cut, as these also don't over-emphasize your thighs and hips. Again, any style and colour that you like will work.
 This way you can avoid the possible triangle effect and flaunt your waist at the same time. Also, I'd say that long coats, finishing between mid-thighs and knees tend to look lovely.
 Similar style for day dresses but I'd advise against one made from t-shirt material as they have a habit of clinging to you.
 Try curls or beach waves to improve the volume of your hair further.

