 People often mistake having confidence with being interesting. However, the opposite is true. If you come across as too into yourself, you’re going to lose potential connections and friends.


Avoid talking about stories or ideas that make you come across as egotistical. Additionally, don’t make the conversation only about you. Instead, make sure you ask the other person questions and make them feel like they are valuable to you and your story.For example, you might relay a story about yourself and then shift the attention to someone else. Say, "Rob, I saw you nodding. It seems like you can relate to that experience. Will you share it with us?"

, Not everyone will have the same opportunities you have had. Telling others about what you’ve done shows them just how interesting you are. The more engaging your stories, the more they will want to hear them.


Practice being a good storyteller by rehearsing your stories before they make their debut. Shape them into something you’d want to hear and chances are, others will, as well.Focus on sharing "human stories" that build bridges rather than set you apart. Think about your audience and share experiences that you think they can relate to.
 You don’t want to go into a party or social scene without having some sort of game plan. Think about interesting conversation starters and stories you want to tell before you walk in. Avoid using small talk as an opening, if possible. If not, be sure to have something else to talk about in your back pocket.


Giving someone a compliment is an excellent and often effective conversation starter. The person will likely elaborate on what you’ve complimented them on, which can lead to you showing just how interesting you are. Furthermore, the person will likely feel comfortable and open to talking to you since you began the interaction with a compliment., Don’t be afraid to show the world your quirks. In fact, they could be what makes you so interesting. Interesting people rarely follow the crowd. Instead, they trail-blaze and create their own.For instance, if you are drawn to bright colors or bold patterns, wear them with pride. Your clothing choices may catch others' attention or serve as an ice-breaker to make a new friend.

