 Here are some options:


Comic
Autobiography
Stories
Knowledge facts;
, Now as a 'common man' you may have chosen comic or stories. A short book also can consist of a novel. Now you know your format or what you have to write about.
 A small book should consists of only good thoughts and can be written after too much, or too little thinking. Most people write whatever comes into their thoughts at last stage of their book. So don't be eager to complete your book too quickly. Patience is the key.
 Think of different ideas to be included in your book and sometimes ideas met in your mind automatically. Think perhaps, you just saw a bird and you got a good idea for your book. This all depends on your creativity.



A short book adheres to the same three-act structure as a full-length book. In fiction works, the sequence of events or escalation of suspense is often described as;

Chase the man to a house
Shoots bullets at the house


Set the house on fire.
In a nonfiction book, such as an instructional guide,

The first third of the text introduces the terms, tools and the amount of time a user needs to perform a task.
The second third provides him with exercises and simple projects to master the rudimentary skills.
The final third presents more challenging tasks that allow the reader to apply what he has learned.

What to do at the time of Famine.
Repair a PC at home

, It doesn't means that you copy that source! Add some of your own features, add some features from a good source and then join all things and write in that book.
 After knowing and collecting everything, create an outline.

Can be for a fiction book

Decide on the companions who will be along for the adventure.
The second thing is to decide where and when this conflict takes place.
The third thing is the task of peopling the plot with helpmates for both sides; i.e., the supportive friends and the evil accomplices.
Lastly write about how you plan to resolve the conflict in a way that will be plausible and satisfactory to your audience.
To build your working outline, refer to the three-act structure in Section 1 and make brief notes on what happens in each act to set up the conflict, throw in complications, increase the risks and move toward a resolution.


They can also be for short nonfiction texts.

Identify what your target readers already know. For example, they're brand new to building things with their hands, you'll need to explain what a hammer is, show them a picture of a hammer and show how it's used.
You can start the first third of your book with a more complex approach if your target reader already knows the basics.
Three-act outline for your nonfiction material, your challenge is to make each project a little harder than the one that preceded it.
At this time, you also need to decide whether the book will be straight text or accompanied by drawings or photographs to supplement the content.
 Output is different from time because even though you might commit to two hours of writing per day, you could still end up sitting in front of your monitor for one hour and 55 minutes and only manage to type only a couple of words. If, however, you commit to an output quota of one page per day, it doesn't matter if you write it in half an hour or take all evening. If you type only one page a day for the next 40 days --voila--you'll have finished your first draft in less than two months.
 Simply write.
 If you have a burst of enthusiasm and knock off seven pages in a single day, this is not an excuse to then do nothing for the next week.
 You still have to produce the minimum quota of a single, typed page. The good news, though, is that you're now actually ahead of schedule and will finish your book in less than the 40 days you budgeted.

