 Unfortunately, many people don't put the proper time and effort into it. Give yourself at least two minutes to brush your teeth, focusing on the molars and parts of your teeth that are otherwise hard to get to. Try dividing your mouth into four sections, and spend 30 sections on each. Be gentle but thorough with your toothbrushing.


A whitening toothpaste is recommended if you want to maximize your smile.
Flossing once a day is a good thing to consider adding on to your toothbrushing routine.;
, Dentists are trained professionals who specialize in maximizing the brightness of smiles. If you haven't seen a dentist in a while, it's a really good idea to go as soon as possible. Make a regular habit of seeing a dentist at least once every 6 months.


Dentists can be expensive. Although basic check-ups aren't too pricey all things considered, oral surgeries are best approached with some insurance at hand.
 Smoking is one of the most injurious things you can do to your smile. Your skin will pale out, and your teeth will get yellow. This damage is usually gradual, but can sometimes completely destroy a smile if left unchecked.It's never an easy thing to stop smoking, but your body will thank you in more ways than one if you do.


Ask your doctor about a smoking cessation aid if you feel you need one to go through with it. This can take the form of a skin patch, or medication designed to turn you off of smoking.
 Whitening strips effectively bleach your teeth to become a brighter shade of white. Buy a box, and apply them twice a day for a couple of weeks, or until the box runs out. Improvements should be noticeable within a few days, and will last for a few months before you have to start the process over again. It's not a total solution for teeth whitening, but it can have a significant impact on your smile if yellowness is a concern of yours.You can get your teeth whitened at a dentist's office as well. This operation can be fairly expensive however. Appointments take between 30-60 minutes, and are relatively painless., Braces are expensive and time-consuming, but they have the power to completely transform someone's smile.If your dentist recommends you for orthodontic surgery, you should seriously consider going through with it. It may be expensive, but the effect it'll have on your smile will be worth it.


If you feel self-conscious about wearing braces, there are "invisible" alternatives you can use instead. This is a good option if you feel anxiety towards wearing traditional braces.Braces can be worn at any age. Although they're commonly associated with adolescence, there are lots of adults who decide to get them later on in life.A winning smile looks great at any age.

