 Infrequent or sporadic eating can induce hypoglycemia. It is recommended that you either eat six small meals a day or eat three big meals with small snacks in between.A good schedule will keep your glucose levels consistent while helping you monitor when and what you eat.
 These are foods that have a simple molecular structure that is broken down very quickly and turned into glucose in the body, causing your blood sugar to rise. Simple carbohydrates include table sugar, high fructose corn syrup and honey. Foods with simple carbs include fruit, milk, candy, soda and confections like cakes and cookies. These sugars cause high spikes in blood sugar that can result in rebound hypoglycemia. Try to avoid these as much as possible., These foods are made up of multiple chains of simple sugars so they don't break down as quickly as simple carbs. Complex carbs include potatoes, pasta, grains and breads. Opting for whole wheat and whole grain versions of breads and pastas will help reduce hypoglycemia, since these break down slowly. High fiber carbs can help regulate your blood sugar., Each meal should include one source of complex carbs, one source of fat, and one source of protein. Complex carbs will slowly release glucose over a period of time in your body, while the protein and fat will slow your body’s processing of glucose and keep blood sugar levels stable.Meal and snack options that fit these proportions include:


Meat or cheese sandwich on whole wheat bread
Peanut butter on whole grain crackers
Salad with raw vegetables, beans, and a dairy-free dressing
Hard-boiled egg with carrot sticks or celery
Lean meat or fish served with quinoa and a vegetable

, It will be easier for you to maintain healthy eating practices if you keep your home, office, purse, and car stocked with prepared snacks and foods. It is recommended to keep 15 grams of carbohydrates on you at all times in case of emergency.If you are unable to have a proper meal at your scheduled time or if you feel the onset of a hypoglycemic episode, these snacks can stave off hypoglycemia until you are able to eat. Examples of non-perishable snacks include:


One 4-ounce glass of juice
A small box of raisins
A granola bar
One piece of hard candy

