 The wider you cut the strip the larger your rose will be. The same reasoning goes for how long you cut the strip. Use burlap ribbon or cut material around two inches wide and 45 inches long, or about two and a half centimeters by 11 and a half decimeters. Don’t follow the grain of the fabric for a slightly frayed look.





;
, Take one end of your burlap strip and wrap the entire two inches around a craft wire. You can find wire that is used to make flowers at your local craft store or order it online.
 Place a line of hot glue on the burlap next to the wire that is not yet rolled between it. Fold the wire and rolled piece of burlap over once to lay it over the line of hot glue. Press down lightly and let the glue cool down.
 Repeat the previous step about three more times, until the roll is about a half inch thick, or one and a quarter centimeters. This will be the middle of your rose.
 Hold the burlap strip about two inches from the wire roll. Fold the two inches, or 2.54 centimeters, of fabric over and away from the roll. Make sure you pinch the fold at the bottom of the flower base. This is your first rose petal.
 As you pinch the first fold with one hand, slightly turn the stem as you make another fold about a half inch, or one and a quarter centimeters, from the first with your opposite hand. Gather this second petal at the base, along with the other one.
 Place a drop or two of hot glue between the folds towards the flower base to secure them together. Be sure to hold the folds together as the glue dries and cools down.
 Repeat steps five, six and seven several more times. Remember to hold the fabric at the base of the flower, until you secure it with glue. Continue to turn the wire as you work around the entire stem.
 This length is also about one and a half to two decimeters. You should have what looks like a rose at this point, but keep some fabric loose in order to finish it. Make sure you secure the last folds with hot glue.
 To really make your rose stem look finished, wrap the rest of it around the base of the rose so that it’s just cupping it. You can wrap all the way around the base and secure it with glue, or use the end to create one last petal.








