 Never attend a holiday party hungry. This will inevitably lead to overeating. You want the bulk of your calories to come from good, healthy foods and not the unhealthy snacks you're likely to find at a party.Many people feel it makes sense to skip meals or eat very little the day of a party. That way, people feel they can indulge more as they've saved up calories; however, if you're hungry, you're more likely to go for unhealthy snacks during the party that are loaded with calories.
Instead, make healthy eating a priority leading up to the party. That way, when you're in attendance, you're unlikely to binge on cookies and chips. Eat three healthy meals prior to a party.;
, Pay attention to the proportions of your plate. Your plate should be mostly filled with healthy foods. Junk foods should only be consumed in moderation.Fill about half your plate with fruits and vegetables. A quarter of your plate should contain carbohydrates. Fill the last quarter with foods rich in protein, as these will help you feel full longer.
Consume these healthy foods first before treating yourself to holiday snacks. If your body feels full and satisfied by healthy indulgences, you're less likely to binge eat junk food.
 Baking is a fun holiday tradition for many, so you may find buffet tables are loaded with tasty desserts. It's unrealistic to expect that you'll forego desserts completely, but make wise choices when indulging.Limit portion sizes. Go for half a piece of cake, or sample-sized tastes of cookies and other treats. Remember that after the second bite, you are no longer really tasting the food — you are just piling on calories.
See if there are any lighter options at the dessert table. Light cakes, like angel food cake, fruit cake, and sponge cake, have fewer calories and sugar than other options.
Sip water or a low-calorie beverage between bites of dessert. This way, you'll feel full faster and are less likely to overeat.
 There may be holiday drinks present at the party. Alcoholic beverages are frequently served at parties, and things like eggnog and hot chocolate may also be options. Many people do not think about liquid calories, but they can add up fast, which can lead to weight gain. Be aware of how much you're drinking, and try to practice some basic self control.Set limits for yourself regarding alcohol. Try to only have one to two servings of alcohol on any one day over the holidays. Go for light alcohols, like light beer and wine, over things like spiked eggnog or mixed drinks.
See if there are any low-calorie or no-calorie options. Try having a cup of coffee, some tea, or sparkling water instead of high-calorie drinks.
 You can cut calories easily by limiting your intake of dressings and sauces. Avoid things like meat drippings, gravies, and other high-calorie sauces when making a plate. When hitting the salad bar, go for a light vinaigrette over a creamier dressing.If the salad dressing bottles are out on the table, scan the labels. Sometimes, store bought dressings are loaded with added fat and sugar.
 Remember, holiday parties are a time to catch up with friends and family members. Try to place your primary focus on socializing over eating and drinking. Staying engaged in conversation for the duration of the party can distract you from overdoing it on food.Try to plan social activities, like board games, for the party. That way, you will be engaged with people and may not feel as tempted to hit the bar or buffet.
 A lot of holiday recipes require oil, which can add a great deal of calories to a recipe. In most recipes, you can mix unsweetened applesauce with oil to cut down on the need for oil. For example, if a recipe calls for a cup of vegetable oil, use half a cup of oil and half a cup of applesauce.In cakes and breads, you need two tablespoons of fat for every cup of flour. Keep this in mind when altering recipes to cut down on oil.
 If a recipe calls for white flour, you can usually substitute whole wheat flour. Most dietary guidelines recommend half of your daily grains should be whole wheat, so avoiding white flour can help you stay healthy during the holiday season.Keep in mind, however, this alteration does not save you calories. It only adds nutrients and fiber, both of which can keep you full. You should still consume whole grain holiday treats in moderation.
 A lot of times, people do not track the small bites and tastes of food they eat throughout the day over the holidays. These small tastes can actually add up to a lot of extra calories by the end of the day.For example, say part of a cookie breaks off when you're baking. You eat that, adding 30 calories to your daily intake. You have a piece of chocolate a co-worker brought to work, adding 80 calories. If you continue taking little tastes throughout the day, it can add up fast. You can add as much as 600 calories to your daily intake via small indulgences throughout the day.
Be aware of your small tastes, and try to approximate the calories in your head. If you're aware of how much you're eating, you're less likely to continue indulging throughout the day. Stay aware of tiny tastes, and limit the amount of snacking throughout the day.
 Sometimes, simply staying away from temptation can help you avoid overindulgence. Find ways to limit your exposure to snacks and treats throughout the day.

Keep holiday goodies in your home on a high shelf instead of an easily accessible portion of the pantry. Sometimes, if something is out of sight it's also out of mind.
Avoid keeping snacks on your desk or in your office. Instead, keep the snacks in the break room so you will not indulge in mindless snacking at work.
 Just because it's the holidays does not mean nutrition should be ignored. You need to focus on staying healthy and filling up on high-fiber fruits and vegetables throughout the day.Always make sure fruits and vegetables comprise most of your daily meals. Have a salad for lunch instead of a sandwich. Have a side of steamed vegetables at dinner.
Count your servings. Seven servings of fruits and vegetables each day can help you feel full. This way, you're less likely to go for empty calories.
 Even tiny changes can add up. In order to prevent weight gain, you need to not consume more calories than you burn each day.When running errands or going to work, park in the back of the lot. You will have to walk to get to a store. Better yet, consider walking or biking instead of driving.
Take the stairs whenever you can. Avoid escalators and elevators.
When your favorite holiday movie comes on TV, try running on the treadmill when it plays instead of sitting on the couch.
 Stress can be a major cause of emotional eating, so work on managing your stress level over the holidays. Healthy stress management is vital to preventing weight gain.Reach out to others when you're feeling stressed. Participate in events like volunteering that get you out of the house and in contact with other people.
Budget for the holidays. It's easy to feel stressed or guilty if you overspend, so be careful when it comes to managing funds.
Plan ahead so you do not feel overwhelmed. Set a date by which to complete your holiday shopping. Set aside specific days to engage in activities like wrapping, decorating, baking, and so on.
 You want to make sure you get your workouts in, even during the holidays. If you go to the gym regularly, do not let your attendance slip simply because you're busy with holiday events. Exercise can help you maintain your regular weight despite the holiday season.You can try to increase your exercise schedule slightly to compensate for the extra calories consumed over the holidays. Exercise five times a week instead of three. Go for 45 minutes on the treadmill instead of 30.
Find ways to make exercise more enjoyable. For example, try listening to music or a book on tape while working out.
If you have not exercised regularly in six months, you should talk to your doctor before beginning a workout routine.

