 Before you get started creating your own logo it can be a good idea to look at what others are doing. Study some logos of other successful pet sitting businesses to see what their logos might look like. By studying these logos you can get a better idea of what you want your own to look like.Looking at other pet sitting companies and their logos can tell you what to do and what to avoid.
Think like a customer. Ask yourself “what do these other logos make me think and feel?”

, The phrase “a picture is worth a thousand words” applies to your logo. A logo is a symbol that will instantly connect the customer to all the ideas and qualities of your business. Decide what you want to say with your logo in order to quickly convey the qualities of your business to a customer.Think of the qualities you want to represent. These might include things like “dependable”, “safe”, “affordable”, or “caring”.
 When designing a logo it can be tempting to add too much. Logos work best when they are clear, simple, and clean images that convey exactly what you want them too without extra elements. Think about some of the following key design tips for your logo to keep it simple and direct:It should be easily reproducible.
You should be able to easily describe the logo with words.
The logo should be memorable, being easily recalled by those who see it.
A logo should work with or without color.
Your logo should be intelligible at any size, large or small.
 People tend to have associations that are connected to certain symbols. For example, a shield indicates defense and might be appropriate for a security company. You will need to think of symbols that represent pet sitting and any other qualities that you want to convey in your logo.A paw print can be a good symbol for a pet sitting business. However, it may not make your business stand out next to other similar logos and businesses.
You might want to include a symbol that suggests “safety” or “home” such as a dog house.
Consider the tone of your symbols and avoid anything too playful, serious, or ambiguous.
 After you have your ideas collected and ready it's time to start building your logo. Make some rough sketches of your logo first and then work to refine them. Don't be afraid of making multiple variations on the same logo as one may look more appealing than your original arrangement.Try sketching out some rough ideas using a pencil and paper.
There are also websites and software that are designed to help you make a simple logo.
You may want to learn some simple graphic design programs and make the logo yourself.
If you are unable to create your own logo, take your ideas and work with a graphic artist.
 Creating a logo from scratch can be difficult. Time, skill, software and equipment can all be serious obstacles that stand in the way of self creating a great logo. If you are unable to do so you might consider working together with a graphic artist to get a high quality and professional logo.Bring in any rough sketches you might have.
Come prepared with the ideas you want to convey.

