 It's the yellow app with a white ghost icon. If you're already signed into Snapchat, it will open to the camera screen.


If you aren't signed into Snapchat, first tap LOG IN, enter your username (or phone number) and password, and tap LOG IN again.;
, Doing so will open the user menu.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen, to the left of the "Create Bitmoji!" text.
 This option is at the bottom of the page. Tapping it will prompt you to download the Bitmoji app if you haven't yet done so.


If you have already downloaded Bitmoji, skip the next two steps.
 Doing so is similar on both iOS (iPhone/iPad) and Android devices:


iPhone/iPad: Open Bitmoji in the App Store, tap Get, and tap Install.
Android: Open Bitmoji in the Play Store, tap Install.
On iPhone, you may have to enter your Apple ID password before Bitmoji will download.
 Once Bitmoji has downloaded and installed, open the Bitmoji app.
 Doing so will log you into Bitmoji with your Snapchat credentials, thereby linking your Bitmoji to Snapchat.


You may be asked to grant Bitmoji permission to log in using Snapchat.
 As of April 2017, there are only two gender choices in Bitmoji: Female and Male.
 "Bitstrips" style is more detailed and slightly less cartoony; "Bitmoji" style is more like manga, with big heads and eyes, as well as exaggerated features.
 Use the left and right arrows in the center of the screen to navigate the options. Scroll down under each category to make a selection. Categories are:


Face shape
Skin tone
Hair color
Hair style
Eyebrows
Eyebrow color
Eye color
Nose
Mouth
Facial hair
Beard color
Eye details
Cheek details
Face lines
Glasses
Headwear
Build

, Doing so saves your avatar's settings and takes you to a screen of outfits.
 Bitmoji regularly updates and based on season, fashion, holidays, and sponsored brands.


Scroll down to view the collections.
Tap an outfit to dress your avatar.
 It's in the upper-right corner. Now your avatar is designed, dressed, and ready to Snap.


Tap the t-shirt icon in the upper right corner to change your avatar's outfit.
Tap the icon with an avatar and a pencil in the upper right corner to change your avatar's features.
 Doing so will begin linking your Bitmoji creation to Snapchat.
 This will open your newly created Bitmoji in Snapchat, which means the linking is complete. Your Bitmoji avatar is now usable as a filter for any snaps you send in the future.

