


Make sure the models you look at have 5-point harnesses, as this ensures a better fit which is safer for the child.
Check the straps to make sure they are wide and do not easily twist. Twisted straps reduce the area of strap that would restrain a child during a crash, diminishing the seat's effectiveness.
Look for convertible car seats that have front harness adjustment. If you can adjust the tightness of the harness from the front of the seat, you are more likely to adjust the harness correctly every time the child uses the seat. A snug fitting harness can reduce the chance of injury.
Read the car seat specifications to find out if the seat has additional safety features such as energy absorbing foam or side wings to protect the child's head in the event of a side-impact crash.;
, The 3 general methods include threading a seat belt through the car seat, the Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children (LATCH) system and a top tether.


Look for convertible car seats with a sea belt routing path if you will need to install the car seat through the seat belt threading method.
Choose a car seat that is LATCH compatible if your car supports the LATCH system as this can often provide a tighter, more secure fit. Most vehicles newer than model year 2002 include the LATCH system.
Check for a top tether on the car seat if you would like to use this method of installation in addition to another method to improve the fit of the car seat.



Use infant inserts if included with the convertible car seat to make sure the seat is snug enough for a small newborn.
Find a model that includes built-in recline adjustment to make it easier to recline the seat to the 45 degree angle necessary for infants who are riding rear-facing.
Compare the height of different seats and the placement of their shoulder strap slots. Shorter car seats, or seats where the shoulder strap slots are located lower on the seat will not accommodate a taller child as long. Shoulder straps must be at or above a child's shoulders when he or she rides forward-facing.
 The higher the weight limit, the longer you may be able to use the car seat. Pay attention to the rear-facing weight limit for the seat as well, as rear-facing riding is the safest option for infants.



Search for a narrower model if you need to use the vehicle's backseat for passengers or if you need to install multiple car seats into the vehicle.
Check that the dimensions of the seats you're considering will fit well in rear-facing and forward-facing positions. Sometimes a seat that fits easily forward-facing may require you to push the front seats all the way towards the front of the car in order for the car seat to fit in the rear-facing position.
Ask to try a display model of the car seat you want to buy in your car before you purchase the seat.
Purchase the convertible car seat from a vendor that has a good return policy if you buy the seat online in case there are problems with vehicle fit once you attempt to install the seat.
 Check to see if the cover is removable, and if so, if it is washable.
 Make a decision based on your budget to purchase the best convertible car seat for your situation.

