 In a perfect world, your dog wouldn't touch, let alone consume, any of your garden plants. In the event that they do experiment with some of your backyard flora, though, you want to make sure that this accidental consumption is non-toxic. Opt for flowers that are wholly and safely edible for peace of mind.In contrast, avoid flowers such as foxgloves, rhododendron, azaleas, lily of the valley, and everything from the buttercup family.
Check this list from the ASPCA about which plants are toxic to dogs: http://www.aspca.org/pet-care/animal-poison-control/dogs-plant-list
;
, Growing delicious fruits and veggies in your garden is a great way to augment your diet with fresh produce. Make sure your healthy lifestyle change is safe for your dog by using only those plants which are safe for canine consumption. Among others, broccoli, celery, blueberries, pears, peaches, and apples are all safe options.Avoid allium vegetables, such as garlic onion, and shallots, as well as grapes, mushrooms, asparagus, and cherries, as these are toxic to dogs., Culinary herbs, such as oregano, thyme, rosemary, and parsley, are safe for your dog to consume. They also emit strong tastes and smells, so your dog is unlikely to find them appealing in any case.The same goes for aromatics, such as lavender and bee balm, so feel free to fill your garden with as much fragrant flora as you like.
 Potatoes, tomatoes, and eggplants are all safe for dog consumption, but, as members of the nightshade family, their foliage contains potentially harmful chemicals, such as solanine and tomatine. While it’s unlikely your dog will sample these leafy parts, you should take special care when including these fruits and veggies in your garden.You can take special safety measures with these plants by erecting a pet-proof fence or planting them in elevated containers.
 Though particularly effective at exterminating unwanted garden pests, chemical pesticides such as metaldehyde are dangerous for dogs. Rather than using these harmful solutions, opt for natural, oil-based solutions that will help repel and control pesticide populations without presenting a hazard to your dog’s health.You can also make a non-toxic, homemade pest repellent by mixing ½ cup liquid dishwashing soap, two tablespoons ammonia, and five to seven cups of water., While fertilizers and mulches can provide essential boosts to your garden’s growth, they often contain toxic chemicals and additives. Read the labels of all products you purchase to make sure they’re pet-safe and all-natural. No matter what, though, keep your dog away from fertilizer while it’s fresh, as organic blends contain appealing ingredients, such as fish byproducts and blood meal. Ingesting small quantities won’t harm your dog, but overdoing it can cause stomach upset.Cocoa mulch is lethal to dogs when ingested, so avoid it at all costs. Instead, opt for root mulch or pine bark mulch., Due to its pungent smell and strong taste, vinegar acts as a natural, safe deterrent for dogs and other pets. Pour distilled white or apple cider vinegar from your kitchen into a spray bottle and give your plants a good dousing every couple of weeks. As an added bonus, the vinegar will also dissuade aphids, squash bugs, and other insects.If you live in an area with lots of other wildlife, be sure not to use deer or rabbit repellents which contain coyote urine. This will attract your dog rather than repelling it.
 Just like people, your dog finds sharp, bitter, or spicy flavors distasteful. If he associates these unpleasant tastes with your garden vegetation, he will avoid your plants without the assistance of an external barrier or chemical solution.Some gardeners also recommend using a mixture of coffee grounds and orange peels as a natural dog deterrent., If your dog still expresses interest in rooting around your garden, you need to install a durable physical barrier around your vulnerable vegetation. You can use a wooden or metal garden fence from a home improvement supply store, or you can plant a row of prickly plants, such as rose bushes or holly branches, to keep curious canine snouts and paws away.Even a relatively low fence can be sufficient to dissuade dogs, as it creates a visual barrier between them and the off-limits flora.
If your dog seems to get through any fence or thorny shrub, plant your sensitive items in raised beds or elevated containers.
 Perhaps the most surefire way to keep your dog from rooting around in undesirable areas is to avoid leaving him to his own devices. Keep a watchful eye on your dog whenever you’re out in the yard together, and never let him out to rove around without someone to monitor., If you construct special paths so that people and pets alike can meander throughout the garden, you’ll encourage your dog to restrict its traffic to specific areas. Pave pathways with gravel or brick, or use a safe mulch., If you want to keep your dog entertained and well-exercised, you should keep a supply of chew toys in the garden or on your deck. This way, you’re showing your dog what positive behaviors and activities he can do while in the garden, rather than just showing him what he can’t do and where he can’t go. Tennis balls, Kong cones filled with peanut butter, and hard rubber bones are all good options.Just be sure not to leave your dog alone with tennis balls, as they can break and get lodged in your dog’s throat.
 Due to its high concentration of nitrogen and salts, dog urine can cause unsightly brown spots in your lawn and damage your garden plants. You can minimize this damage by creating a prescribed area in the garden where your dog can relieve itself.Use a driftwood stump or artificial post you’ve purchased from a pet supply retailer. Surround this area with an easily cleaned material, such as brick, flagstone, or cedar chips., Dogs love to dig for many reasons: they could be overheated and seeking cooler soil, searching for ground-dwelling critters or other edible attractions, trying to relieve anxiety, or tunneling as a method of escape.If your dog loves to dig, give him a good place to indulge in this activity rather than simply discouraging him from digging everywhere in the garden.In order to protect your dog from heat stress, make sure the sandbox is out of direct sunlight, and periodically sprinkle the sand with water in order to cool it down., Studies have shown that certain herbs and plants can significantly improve a dog's health and stress levels, and also that dogs can find and select these helpful plants for consumption. For example, hops can calm a hyperactive dog, while St. John's wort acts as a sedative and pain reliever.