 There are two choices when deciding on a superfood powder. You can take a single ingredient powder, like maca, spirulina, or flax seed powder. You may also choose a powder that combines multiple vitamins, minerals, and superfoods together into one powder.Multi-ingredient powders often contain vegetables, like spinach, broccoli, and wheatgrass. Additionally, they may contain algae like spirulina and chlorella, probiotics, enzymes like Co-Q10, vitamins, minerals, and herbs.;
, Moringa powder is made from the leaves of the moringa tree. This powder contains a lot of antioxidants, and may help lower cholesterol and regulate blood sugar.This powder has a slightly nutty flavor.
 Maca powder is made from the maca root. This powder claims to increase energy and help regulate hormones. It also may lower your blood pressure. Some people use it to boost fertility.This powder tastes sweet and malty.
 Chlorella comes from algae. This powder contains high amounts of carotenoids, a substance that may help reduce cholesterol levels and improve the skin.Because this powder comes from algae, it may have a slight pond-like or seaweed flavor. It might be better mixed with other things.
 Baobab is a fruit that is rich in antioxidants, fiber, and vitamin C. This fruit improves digestive health, and may help prevent heart disease.Baobab has ten times the amount of vitamin C found in fresh oranges!

, Spirulina is a common superfood powder. It is a blue-green algae. The powder contains many vitamins and minerals, including calcium, magnesium, iron, and B12. It also contains high amounts of protein and omega fatty acids.Spirulina may help prevent cancer, improve sinus problems, lower blood pressure, lower cholesterol, and lower the chance of a stroke. It also may boost your energy., Flax seeds are another superfood that you can get in powder form. They are rich in omega fatty acids and fiber. It helps support your cardiovascular and immune system. Flax seed also helps with brain and joint function, along with improving skin condition., Camu powder is made from berries that form on the camu camu shrub. The powder helps support your immune system, along with promoting healthy skin.Camu powder tastes tart and works well paired with sweet things.
 Acai berries are similar to blueberries and are considered a superfruit. You can get dried acai berries to put into foods in addition to acai powder. Acai berries are full of antioxidants and can boost your immunity.