 You can find celery at most grocery stores and farmers markets, and you may also encounter it in some gardens.


For the freshest celery, consider buying a locally-grown product. You can find pre-packaged celery, but it may have been shipped from who-knows-where, stored for who-knows-how-long, and sprayed with who-knows-how-many pesticides.
Buy a whole stalk of celery. Make sure that the stalk is light green, firm, and unblemished. If the stalk is whitish, soft, or cracked it may be going bad; if the leaves are wilted, choose a fresher stalk.
If you're looking for a quick and convenient snack, consider buying a package of pre-cut celery sticks. Again, pre-packaged sticks may not be as fresh as whole-stalk, locally-grown celery, but they take less work to prepare if you're in a hurry.;
, Celery is a Mediterranean plant, and it grows best in temperate climates with temperatures between 59 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit.


Celery is a long-season crop, and it may be difficult to grow in areas with brief summers. The seeds sprout best when they are sprouted indoors.
You should be able to find a package of celery seeds at a local nursery or garden-supply store. You may be able to harvest wild celery seeds; refer to botanical field guides, or ask a friend who grows celery in her garden.
If you grow your own celery, you can collect the seeds and use them as seasoning. With care and planning, you can ensure that you will have a consistent supply of celery from year to year.
 Use fresh, running water, but don't use soap or detergent. There's a chance that commercially-grown celery has been sprayed with pesticides and other chemicals, and a thorough rinsing can remove many potential contaminants. Washing can also reduce the risk of contracting any number of food-borne illnesses., You may store celery in the crisper drawer, in a well-sealed plastic bag, or in a bowl or jar with the end of the stalk submerged in a bit of water to keep it fresh.


When properly stored, fresh (whole) celery should last 3-4 weeks past the printed sell-by date; pre-packaged celery should last 2-3 days past the printed date; and cooked celery should last up to one week after it is cooked.Celery is not always sold with an expiration date. Use your intuition: if the stalk is whitish, soft, cracked, or wilted, it may be going bad.
If you won't use your celery before four weeks have passed, consider freezing it and thawing it out when you need it.
 If you buy a whole, fresh stalk of celery, cut off the leaves at the top; compost the leaves or put them out with the trash.


If you will be dipping the celery into a sauce or condiment, chop the stalk into pieces ranging from 3-4 inches in length.
If you are cooking with celery or mixing it into a salad, chop it into smaller, bite-sized pieces, or dice it finely.

