 There is an art to posing with a perfect smile and most good models know how to do this naturally. It is a smile that is halfway between the biggest smile you can make and no smile at all. The lips are slightly parted and only the upper teeth are showing. The smile is considered a "gentle smile." The result should look pleasant and relaxed.


Generally, smiling will lift the cheeks and narrow the eyes. So, try to relax your eyes so that they are opened and the whites are showing. This may take some practice in front of a mirror to isolate the different muscle groups; however, it will be worth the effort. Whether you are a model or someone just looking to improve your portraits, mastering the perfect smile can make major improvements to your shots.
 Being a deer in headlights or just plain looking bored as hell is not an interesting statement on non-conformity, a new take on the materialism of the fashion industry, or at all endearing. It's just awkward. When your image is captured, you have to feel something the camera can catch. It'll depend on the shoot, but whatever it is, create it. Feel it. Reek of emotion.


The only non-abstract way to put this is to use your eyes. It's super easy to smile with only your mouth or do a pose with your body and forget that your face doesn't match. If you're unsure what you should be feeling, how is your body cuing you? Are you strong and confident? Are you happy and carefree? As Tyra says, "Smize!"Translation: smile with your eyes.
 In some of the clothes you'll be put in, it's gonna be easy to feel like, well, a French whore. Regardless of what you're wearing (in most circumstances), it's best not to look...what's the polite way to put it...skank-o-riffic.


A good model should be about sophistication and class. Even if you're in a teeny bikini, unless you're doing that kind of shoot, think casually. Your body will emphasize your sexiness enough -- your face and pose don't have to, also.
 You should be changing poses roughly every three seconds. A photographer will not want to waste time taking the same photo over and over and over. Even if you're unsure that you look good, go for it! You'll get a jillion options to choose from when you're done -- some of them are bound to look great.


Feel free to go a little crazy. If your poses are unique, you'll be memorable. Keep the techniques you know (working in angles, etc.), but switch them up with minute variations. And a little can go a long way.
 Everybody has 'em. Even size 000, 7 ft tall Dutch models have 'em. Odds are you're aware of them, too! The good news is that there is surely a way to hide them (not that they're not wonderful -- just not ideal for the camera).If you put your hands on your hips, it'll create the illusion of a smaller waist. The holes between your arms and body create a background that removes emphasis from that area. Do this in real life, too!
Keep your chin up to reduce your forehead. (The opposite goes for big chins!) Not only will keeping your chin appear strong and hide your forehead, but it'll also elongate your neck.
Turn a knee in to get slimmer hips. Oh, that elusive thigh gap that most women don't have. But if you turn your knee in, it'll help you get there. And your hips will look smaller!
If you turn your body to the side, but square your shoulders, your hips will look a lot smaller. It's like you're facing forward, but you only get the majority of your hips.
 Get a digital camera, set up a tripod, and take thousands of shots. Since viewing the shots on your computer screen costs nothing, there's really no excuse not to practice. You should know which poses work for you and which don't. .


Learn which poses flatter which parts of your body. Become familiar with which poses work with various types of clothing; some poses emphasize the clean lines of a power suit, while others emphasize the flow of a gown. Practice with props like a chair, or holding objects (a vase, a rope, a beach ball, whatever - be creative!). You never know what you'll be asked to do!

, Look at magazines and brochures with a critical eye. Make note of how the model is posing: What is she doing with her hands, limbs, head, eyes, lips? What emotion does the pose convey?


Find your favorite model and analyze her. How does she walk? How does she hold herself in general? What are her go-to poses? While you don't want to be a mimicry, do pay attention to her habits to get you started.

