 As you start planning for a project or work, you'll likely be gathering scraps of inspiration and test sketches. While everyone has a strategy, there is nothing more maddening than digging through a book or the internet to re-find the cool idea you saw three months ago. Try out:


Dedicating 1 notebook, preferably with insert folders, to each project.
Making a bookmark folder for each project on your internet browser to easily compile online inspiration.
Tacking up physical inspiration on a wall or cork board near your workspace., Very few artists simply dive right into large projects. Almost 100% of the time they instead work on related, smaller projects called "studies" to prepare for the larger work. You might practice the face of the portrait you're making, sketch our different composition ideas, or practice a vulnerable or difficult part of a sculpture. Keep these organized as a way to prepare both the skills, ideas, and supplies needed for the final project.
 At the end of the day, artists are visual people, and tucking everything away neatly and cleanly may not be conducive to the artistic process. Of course, neither is losing or misplacing essential supplies. Find a compromise by packing away any supplies not currently in use, and leaving a little bit of "essential" clutter. It's okay to have inspiration scattered around the studio -- just make sure it's the inspiration you need for the current project.


Just because you "aren't organized" is no excuse not to make an attempt. Don't feel like the only options are perfect cleanliness or an utter mess-- there is a middle ground.
 Nothing is worse than spending a long night on a painting only to realize you've run out of white paint halfway through a section. Once a week, or more frequently if possible, check in on the quantities of your supplies so that you can refill them before it becomes a problem.


A simple spreadsheet or notebook, marked at the end of each artistic session, is a quick and easy way to keep tabs on your stuff.
 Deciding to paint a mural is a huge undertaking. But sketching the idea, transposing the image onto the wall, painting the basic colors, then adding shading/detail are four separate and more manageable projects. Organization is key to big projects, even if it feels "constraining" to your creativity. In reality, organizing your work and progress frees your mind to actually be creative, instead of worrying about logistics.


Figure out the building blocks of each part of the project, tackling each at once. Don't jump around across all parts of the project haphazardly.

