 Whether that be current events in Europe or effective fishing techniques, try to find something that truly intrigues you. You can't start a successful blog without first being fascinated by what you're blogging about.;
, Once you've chosen a topic, research it. Go online, find many different websites to get information from, or go to your local library to search for books, preferably nonfiction pieces on that topic. Books and websites aren't your limited source of knowledge either, you can look through magazine articles, newspapers, and personal sources too. Maybe one of your friends or family members knows about what you're trying to write about. Ask them if they can sit down for an interview some time and get information that way.
 The best blog hosts to begin from are Wordpress, Blogger, and Tumblr. Choose a good blog hosting site and make sure you start with a good account username. If you don't want your own name being shown and don't want it looking anonymous for whatever reason, you might want to sign up with a fake pen name. If you're using Blogger, for example, create a fake Google account first (since Google is linked with Blogger) with a fake name and profile picture. If you don't mind your real name being shown, stick with an account you already have or use your own name and photo.
 It's best not to use numbers in your blog address, so if you find your first choice isn't available, try varying the way you write your URL until you find that it isn't taken. Example: first you try "baileysrestaurant.blogspot.com" and it's already taken. Try doing "baileys_familyrestaurant.blogspot.com instead.
 "Krista's Guide to a Vegan Lifestyle" will look much better than "Krista E. Stewart's Guide to Organic, Healthy Living Without Meat, Dairy, Eggs, or Artificial Additives."

, Chances are you'll be able to change it later. When you go back, look through all the available templates and choose one that best illustrates your topic. If not, find a simple, inviting template that is aesthetically pleasing. Go for colors that set the mood for your topic. If you have an exciting topic, choose something eccentric like firehouse red or lime green. For more calm or serious topics, choose lighthearted colors like sky blue, beige, or midnight black.
 Add gadgets or widgets in places that look nice, try to keep similar widgets grouped together, and don't overcrowd. Add a good amount of entertaining widgets as well as basic widgets like hit counters and list of followers. Add recommendations of other blog links to show that you're interested in the blog community and throw in a fun poll to entertain your guests.
 Start off with a friendly introduction to your blog, explaining what is to be expected and when your upcoming posts are arriving.
 Explain your thoughts on your topic, elaborate on a news event, post interesting pictures, or whatever you think will be entertaining to read and will attract followers.
 Find a blog forum and offer to share links. Link your blog and offer to read and follow other blogs.
 Even if it is indexed it probably won't be on the first few page results for general keywords until it has gained significant popularity. To test if it is indexed, just type the blog address in the search engine and see if it comes up. If not, submit your URL to be indexed. This is especially easy to do on Google.
 If you have a Facebook, Twitter, Google + Friendster, etc. where people know you and will be interested in your blog, post up a link on your wall or profile.
 When commenting, link your blog for others to find. Comment thoughtfully, be courteous, and make sure the blogger knows you are genuinely interested.
 Don't take your blog too seriously, just stay on topic and keep things upbeat. Remember, this is mainly for you.

