 Go to www.soundcloud.com and click the orange “Sign-up” button on the top right corner of your screen. A pop-up screen will appear. You’ll have three options for creating an account: you can sign up using Facebook, Google+, or email.


If you want to use Facebook, click that option, and you’ll be redirected to an authorization screen, where you’ll choose whether you want to receive email updates from Soundcloud and agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. Fill out the form, then click “Sign up.”
If you want to use Google+, click that option, and you’ll be prompted to authorize Soundcloud to access your Google+ account. As with the Facebook option, you’ll also have to agree to Soundcloud’s terms of use and privacy policy. Fill out the form, then click “Sign up.”
If you want to use email, click that option, and you’ll be prompted to type your email. Choose a password, confirm it in the next box, and then agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. Click “Sign up.” If you choose this option, you’ll also need to choose a username.;
, Once you’re signed up, Soundcloud’s welcome screen will ask you to choose genres you want to hear from the categories available. If you don’t want to bother with this task right now, you can choose “skip and finish” to bypass it.
 Check your email for a message from Soundcloud regarding the verification process. Click the link provided in the message. Your account is now created!

, Go to your settings and choose to modify your basic profile – it’s the first page available. On this page, you can add a profile picture, enter your real name and location, and note your occupation or occupations (there’s a maximum of three).
 Go to your profile and choose “edit” under your profile picture. You can add a description of yourself or a link to a website or alternative profile.
 To add music to your stream, click “Upload.” You’ll have two options:


You can choose the files of your existing recordings.
You can record a sound directly on your Soundcloud account.
 Once you’ve uploaded some of your music, make sure you use tags, add artwork, and interact with as many other people as possible. This will increase your visibility on Soundcloud.

