 If you know that you've used a latex-based paint, and the paint has already dried significantly, then you definitely want to use hairspray to remove the stain.You should still wipe off any excess paint that you can, but your stain is probably more deeply set if you're using hairspray. Use a knife or other sharp object to scrape off more deeply set paint.









While latex paint comes out of fabrics much more easily than oil-based paint, it will dry more quickly. Within one or two hours, the paint will dry completely. This is when you should resort to using hairspray. If you catch a latex paint stain before it dries, scrub it with soap and water. After a few rinses and a trip through the washing machine, it will probably be removed.
 If you don't have hairspray, then you can use a pure isopropyl alcohol, otherwise known as rubbing alcohol. This is the active compound in the hairspray that will break down the stain, meaning that either method will work in the same fashion. You can give the hairspray a couple of minutes to set in. Make sure that you've really doused the problem area in hairspray. It should feel quite moist, as you'll need quite a bit to break down the stain if it's already set.
 If you rub too harshly, you'll damage your fabric permanently. You should see the paint starting to loosen or liquify from the affected area. If the hairspray isn't changing color at all, then you may have not applied enough, or the alcohol base may not be strong enough. Continue scrubbing until you notice a reduction of the stain's size or pigmentation.









If you're not seeing immediate results with the use of hairspray, then you may have to purchase some proper rubbing alcohol to fully get rid of the stain. You can repeat this process in the exact same fashion that you would with hairspray.
 After you've successfully removed some of the paint by scrubbing, you can run a normal wash on your damaged article of clothing. Even if the stain hasn't disappeared completely, you've definitely loosened it, and more of the stain should wash out with a rinse.


You also can apply a bit of detergent and water to the stain after applying the hairspray. Because latex paint does not react negatively to water, you won't run into the same "gumming" problems that you would with oil-based paint.

