 This is helpful for realizing how much time is needed for all of your morning tasks and creating a schedule.


List the most essential tasks to prioritize (e.g. shower, coffee/breakfast, waking others, preparing lunches, packing bags).
Add on more tasks if you can fit them in (e.g. read email or newspaper, walk the dog, wash dishes, do laundry, make the bed).
Consider your own unique rhythm and design accordingly—are you a slow mover (needing extra time) or really efficient in the morning (needing less time or fitting more tasks into less time)?
Aim high, then delete the lower priority tasks if necessary.;
, Try this sometime before you really need to start following a regular morning routine, perhaps a few weeks ahead of time. A simple framework is a good way to start planning your routine. (Note: Substitute your own tasks for those on this list that are not relevant.)


6:00–6:30: Wake up, shower, make your bed, and prepare coffee/tea/etc.
6:30–6:45: Wake children or others and make sure they get up.
6:45–7:15: Fix children’s breakfast, pack everyone’s lunches.
7:15–7:30: Eat your breakfast while children dress and get ready.
7:30–7:45: Pack the children in the car or put them on the bus.
7:45–8:15: Take children to school.
8:15–9:00: Drive yourself/others to work.
 Sticking with a regular schedule for going to bed and waking up is key to establishing a morning routine.


Decide on how many hours of sleep you need.
Schedule enough time in the morning so you don’t have to rush to get ready.
Stick with this sleep schedule, even on weekends—this will help you stay on track.
Don’t sleep with music or other noise (TV, radio, etc.) on, as they can disrupt a sound sleep.Avoid electronic devices at least 30 minutes before bed—the light can negatively affect your sleep and the brain stimulation from the devices make it hard to “power down” your brain. , Going from no routine to a strict one can be a difficult transition, so start slowly for a few weeks until it becomes your new normal.


Begin your routine a few days a week and then start adding days, including weekends.
Keep track of what works and what doesn’t—and adjust your tasks accordingly.
Find distractions or other obstacles to your routine and avoid them.

