 There are three types of learners: Visual, Auditory and Kinesthetic.


Visual learners learn by looking at charts or graphs. Using colorful posters that are full of information, mind maps or flashcards tends to work best for visual learners. Try using flashcards and write your notes in a colorful way.
Auditory learners learn by listening to things. They learn better by listening to an audio story, listening to a teacher or debating with a friend. It also helps to read the information aloud, record yourself and then listen to it later.
Kinesthetic learners learn by doing things. They learn better re-acting a scene, making signs, or playing active learning games. Walk around while reciting your notes loudly, or make posters or signs which can help you to understand things better.;
, Make sure you understand it. Where possible, make sure you have formatted it in your preferred learning style. Also, most importantly, focus in class so you understand everything you need to know. If you don't know any terms, phrases or information, ask your teacher or a friend.
 Then, place the cards around your home. Whenever you see a card, you have to answer its question. A good place to put one of these cards is right below or above a light switch, so every time you turn a light on or off you see the card. Even if you get the question right, turn it over to help implant it into your brain.
 For example, for French class, watch a movie in French. For a History assignment, watch a relevant documentary. You should be able to find some videos about your topic, whether online or on television. If you are learning a foreign language, it is best suggested to watch animes is dubbed language with subtitles. Write down every new word and you would be surprised at the rapid growth in your vocabulary.
 You'd be surprised how much you learn, and how much you want to learn about the subject. There is so much information on the internet! Use it for your benefit! However, some websites may be unreliable, or the authors may have skewed the facts to match their biases. Look through the editing of the websites and make sure that they look legitimate. Always double check your sources.


Any website that ends with ".gov" or ".edu" is generally reliable for use, as it is created by a Government source or an education center. ".org" is also dependable since it is created by specialists on that particular subject or topic, but you must check your sources on ".com" since their authenticity may be doubtful.
 Call up a friend and study with them over the phone, or using computer-linked social media. Remember to avoid distractions and concentrate on the issues related to this study topic. Make a brief study guide, or quiz each other on important vocabulary that you must know.


Debate the topic with your friend. Share your opinions. You never truly learn something until you test it in debate!
Watch an informational TV show or program. There are many wonderful programs on the computer and television. It may be a lot easier than the alternatives, because there's always something for you to watch, no matter what subject. Try Discovery Channel, PBS, or a series like Supernova or The Magic School Bus.
 It helps if you have an e-reader like a kindle or a nook.


Try to recall what you have learnt so far. Replay everything in your mind. This shows what you really have committed to memory. Quiz yourself in your mind! This can sometimes -- surprisingly -- keep you interested, especially when you are lost in thought trying to remember something. You're completely engaged then!


, This can be done by writing those terms in bold on top of the pages of your notebook. This would help you to revise everything related to that term every time you go through your notebook!

, The idea is that the mind, in moving to a more relaxed alpha state, learns better and retains more.

