 Rags that have patterns or have been dyed may transfer the color to your carpet, compounding the problem. Paper towels that do not have patterns may also be an adequate solution.


Be sure to first blot fresh stains dry with a clean white cloth. Use an additional clean white cloth when removing the stain left behind after you blot.
Do not use bristles or brushes as these can damage the fibers of the carpet leaving frayed carpet.Spot cleaning is for recent spills on a small part of your carpet. It is not part of regular carpet maintenance.
 There are a variety of commercial carpet detergents available. They typically come in spray bottles or cans to make spot cleaning easier. While there are many "all purpose" removers to choose from, read the label to determine if a particular cleaner is right for your stain and carpet type. Keep in mind that stains caused by bodily fluids will often need special attention.


If you're dealing with a fresh blood stain, blot it with cold water or hydrogen peroxide. Do not use warm water, as this will set the stain. For a dry stain, first blot with hydrogen peroxide and follow up with an enzyme-based detergent.
For pet urine, use an enzyme-based cleaner specifically designed for this type of stain. If you are unable to find such a cleaner, blot fresh stains with an ammonia solution followed by a detergent and warm water. Set stains can be lifted with a 1/3 vinegar in water solution. Like fresh stains, follow up with a detergent and finish with water., Following the directions on the bottle, try it out in a discreet place. Some products may be inappropriate for your carpet, so it is best to test it first. A scrap of carpet or a rarely seen place such as the interior of a closet are good places for testing cleaners.









Do not do this test on the stain itself. Its purpose is to check for the carpet's colorfastness. If any dye comes off of your carpet or the cleaner itself leaves behind a stain, try a different one.
 Apply a small amount of product to a clean white cloth and gently blot the stain. Use only enough product to treat the stain.









When it comes to carpets, more product is not better. If soap is left in the carpet it will attract dirt and leave a larger stain than before.
Avoid scrubbing the carpet. Pressing hard or rubbing vigorously can drive the stain deeper into the fibers., Using a fresh clean white cloth and water, soak up any remaining soap by blotting the treated area. Do not soak the carpet with water as it may be absorbed into the pad beneath, leading to problems with mold and mildew.


Allow the area to air dry completely. If it is a large stain or you used a large amount of water, run a fan or specialty carpet dryer next to the carpet to make it dry more quickly.