 It is good to know what questions you have about babies so that you understand how to properly care for them. No matter if you are a new parent or an anxious babysitter, you should write down a list of what you want to know about babies. Some good questions include:


How do I make a bottle?
How do I get the baby to sleep?
How do I get the baby to stop crying?
How do I change a diaper?
How often does a baby need to be fed?
What do I do if the baby is sick?
Should I breastfeed my baby?
How do we decide whether or not to circumcise our son?
How do I take my baby’s temperature?;
, There are many websites on the internet that offer advice on babies. To make sure that the information is credible, look for websites that are hosted by a government, research foundation, or university. These can give you information about babies backed by research. Some good guides include:


”Newborn Care and Safety” from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.”Tips for New Parents” from the NHS.”Babyproofing Your Home” from the National Safety Council.”Babysitter Safety” from the University of Michigan.”A Guide to the Business of Babysitting: Infants” from the University of Illinois.”Changing Diapers” from the Nemours Foundation., Blogs and magazines can offer practical, relatable advice about babies. In addition to useful articles, many of these websites offer forums and social networking options with parents to help you find out more information about babies. Some good blogs and magazines include:


Parents Magazine.Parenting Magazine.Baby Center.Cafe Mom., There is a whole publishing industry devoted to books about childcare. You should either check out these books from the library or buy a copy yourself. Many books are written by doctors to help you figure out the best way to care for a baby. However, keep in mind that these books are not appropriate for every situation, but they are a good starting point to help you understand the complex task of childcare and parenting. Some famous books include:



What to Expect When You’re Expecting by Heidi Murkoff and Sharon Mazel.

The Baby Book by William and Martha Sears.

Gentle Baby Care by Elizabeth Pantley.
 The best way to learn about babies is to speak to the experts themselves. Parents of babies and newborns can offer great insight and information about babies. You can ask your own parents, your partner’s parents, or anybody else in your social circle who has had a baby in the past. Some questions you can ask include:


What kinds of mistakes did you make when you first had a baby?
What should I avoid doing with the baby?
Have you ever had a baby emergency before? How did you handle it?
What is your best advice to deal with a crying baby?

