 Using lemons is a natural way to add highlights to your hair, and natural products are a better choice than bleach or dye because the key to beachy hair is looking like you were really out in the sun.


Just wash your hair, cut a lemon in half, and then rub the inner part of the lemon up and down your hair. Make sure you cover all your hair. Then, sit in the sun.Be careful that you don’t dry out your hair. Make sure you use a good conditioner. It could take up to a week to see any difference. You could add a little bit of lemon juice to a sea salt spray bottle too and apply it that way. Again, put a little coconut oil in there too for shine.
 If you are at the beach or ocean a lot, you’re going to naturally get beach hair. The sun will naturally lighten your hair color, too, giving you beautiful summer highlights.


Lay on the sand for awhile. Go near the ocean. You want the breeze and salty mist to settle into your hair.
You need to stay at the beach for awhile to get this look. Don't go underwater and submerge your hair. It won't look like beach hair when it dries that way; it will look messy probably.
 Another way to get beachy hair is to not wash your hair for at least a day. It will help your hair have more of a texturized look. Freshly washed and conditioned hair looks silky, which is not the look you are going for.


When you do wash your hair, don’t use conditioner. Alternatively, you could put a dry shampoo on your hair. This will give it a voluminous, almost dirty look.
A good rule of thumb is to only wash your hair three times a week. You damage your hair each time you wash it because it produces natural oils that are essential to hair growth.
 If you want loose, natural looking waves, choose a curling iron with a large barrel. Using a curling iron to create beach hair isn't the best approach though because the curls often look too uniform. The key to beachy hair is a tousled, natural look. Start with dry hair for this method, since applying a curling iron to wet hair can damage it. Separate your hair into pieces. Wrap a piece at a time around the curling iron at a 45-degree angle. Hold it in place for a minute, then gently loosen your hair and let it slip off the curling iron. Repeat with the rest of your hair.
For more control over your waves, curl each piece a section at a time. Start near your roots, wrapping the top of your hair around the curling iron and holding it in place for a minute. Wrap the middle part of the same piece of hair and hold that in place for a minute. Wrap the end of the same piece of hair and hold that in place for a minute. Repeat with the rest of your hair.
For a quicker curling session and looser waves, wrap large sections of your hair around the curling iron and hold them in place for two minutes before releasing. Tousle your hair. When you're finished curling your hair, use your fingers to tousle it so that the curls loosen a bit and become waves. Don't overdo it, or the waves may fall out.

