 Keep yourself healthy by eating properly as often as possible. Seek medical help and take the day off when you’re sick. Don’t push your body beyond its limits all the time. Take a break when you need one.But, if you end up eating nothing but junk food one day, don’t beat yourself up. Sometimes ice cream for dinner is necessary!
We’re human, not super heroes. Showing up for work when you feel like you’re on your deathbed isn’t going to help anyone, including you. You cannot possibly be productive when you’re sick, so stay home, get better, and go back to work when you feel up to it.
 Sleep is absolutely vital to a healthy life. Sleep allows us to pay attention throughout the day, and increases the amount of things we can remember. A lack of sleep can cause all sorts of problems, including depression and anxiety.Adults, in general, need between seven to nine hours of sleep every night. But everyone is different, and your ideal amount of sleep may differ from other adults.Getting a good night’s sleep also includes having a regular bedtime and wake-up time, and having a nightly routine that helps you relax right before bed.
Put your electronic devices away about an hour before you go to bed and don’t look at them again until the morning. The screens on our electronic devices actually prevent our brains from being able to relax. Instead, read a book, write in a journal, or cuddle with your cat.
 In an ideal situation, as an adult, you should try to get 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical (aerobic) activity every week.

Activity should be completed in intervals of at least 10 minutes.If, for some reason, you aren’t able to do this weekly, don’t beat yourself up over it. The point of these goals isn’t to make you feel guilty when you don’t meet them. The point of these goals is to help guide you in the right direction.

If you’re coming from a sedentary lifestyle, going from no activity to 150 minutes of vigorous activity may be too difficult. Instead, work yourself up to the 150 minutes over time.
If you’re already an active person, there’s no reason to limit yourself to 150 minutes of activity every week. If you’re able to do more than 150 minutes, no one is going to complain!

, This can include being comfortable in our own skin, but it’s also as simple as being comfortable in your clothes. If you hate wearing high-heels, then don’t wear high-heels. If you want to lounge around all day in sweatpants, then do so. Don’t worry about what other people will think, or what the current fashion trends are. As long as you’re comfortable, that’s what’s important.
 Your physical energy is the energy that physically gets you through the day, not just the energy you use when exercising. You only have so much physical energy every day, so use it wisely. Take note of all the physical activities that occupy your day and assess how important they really are to you. Drop activities that are unimportant and do not bring your any joy. Keep or increase activities that are important and make you happy.
 If you gut is telling you something, listen. Your gut, or intuition, are often more right than wrong. Your gut can also help you understand where you need a draw a line — when you’re no longer comfortable with something you’re doing. There are a couple of gut-instincts that you should always try to listen to, as they’re probably telling you something important. They include:Thinking something isn’t right physically — That you may be sick, or something is wrong with how your feel, or something is different than it usually is. In all of these situations, listen to your gut. All you may need to do is make an appointment to see your family doctor and double-check that everything is okay. And if it’s not okay, you can get help ASAP.Thinking you’re in danger — Your instincts are designed to keep you out of danger. If you feel like you’re in danger, listen to yourself. Get yourself out of whatever situation makes you feel like you’re in danger.
Thinking you’ve found something perfect for you — Your gut will likely be able to tell you when you’ve found the perfect shoes, or the perfect dress, or the perfect house. You could spend time evaluating all the pros and cons about your options, but if you’re gut is leaning one way, it’s okay to listen.

