 Some partial vision loss due to stroke may be reversed by retraining the brain through vigorous eye exercises. These exercises are now becoming a routine part of physical therapy. The following exercise may be helpful in improving vision after stroke.


Hold a pencil or anything similar in front of the patient’s eyes at a distance of 18 inches (45.7 cm).
Then, move the pencil up and down and side to side, and ask the patient not to move his head while tracking the pencil by moving only the eyes.
Place a pencil in front of the patient’s face and move it towards and away from the nose and ask the patient to watch it carefully. The patients eyes should move inward.
Hold pencils in each hand, one in the left hand and the other in the right hand. Move the hands so that one hand is closer to the eyes and the other hand is further from eyes. Let the patients guess which pen is closer to the eyes and which is not.;
, Try drawing some common objects and shapes and ask the patient to complete the shapes. Also, the patient should play word finding or word completing games and also puzzle games. These games will improve vision by retraining the brain to identify objects using vision.
 Strengthening your eye muscles will improve muscle memory and aid in the tracking of objects. This will improve muscle tone that may have been lost due to your stroke.


Try keeping three of your fingers on your upper eyelid, and try to close your eye. This exercise will make your ocular muscle stronger.
This exercise will improve your vision, prevent eye strain, and provide relief from stress.
However, the permanent structural damage in the vision area of brain is not getting any recovery during these exercises.
 Massage your eyes with a cold and hot compress. This will promote relaxation and have a soothing effect because warmth promotes relaxation and improves blood circulation.


Soak one towel in cold water and one in warm water. Alternate them for a minute a piece, for 5 to 10 minutes.
Massaging the eyelids can also be useful.
 Try tossing a balloon back and forth with the assistance of a partner, making sure that the balloon moves to and from the affected side of the body. This exercise facilitates the retraining of the brain, to synchronize movement with vision. It can also help to stimulate the eye and body movement of the affected side to remedy visual problems.
 A special type of computerized eye exercise can be utilized by stroke victims to help regain vision. Each day, the patient is instructed to stare at a black square on a computer screen. During specified intervals, a cluster of 100 small dots are flashed on the side of the screen corresponding to the affected eye. These exercises help retrain the brain in order to help stroke patients see again.


The procedure may last 15 to 30 minutes per day over several months.
 The benchmark exercise is used to verify the scope of visual focus damage caused by a stroke. Performing the exercise will allow a medical professional to better determine the extent of therapy needed.


The procedure starts by asking the patient to close their eyes.
They are then instructed to look toward the side of the body affected by stroke.
Once the patient deems that his eyes are pointed toward the proper direction, they are advised to open their eyes.
The specialist will then determine how close the patient's stare is to the proper direction.
The gathered information is used to develop an accurate visual therapy exercise for the stroke patient.

