 The Georgia CDL Manual is available onlineor at any Georgia Department of Driver Services (DDS) office.


To find the nearest DDS office, visit the DDS website at www.dds.ga.gov and use the search feature to “Find a DDS Location Near You.” If you do not have Internet access, call the DDS Contact Center at (678) 413-8400.;
, The DDS will require you to present original forms of documents to show your identification and proof of residence.current driver’s license, identification card, or commercial drivers license from another state
Social Security Card or a document from the Social Security Administration that states you are not eligible to receive an SSN due to alien status
two items that show proof of residence in the state of Georgia. Acceptable documents include a lease or rental contract, utility bills or bank statements issued within the last 60 days, or a pay stub that displays your name and address.
proof of identity such as your birth certificate, passport, military identification card, marriage license, immigration identification card, or other proof of United States citizenship

, During your visit, you will be required to complete the commercial drivers license application and pay required fees., The application fee is $35, and the permit fee is an additional $10. If you pass the exams, the $10 pays for the instructional permit. If not, the $10 is retained as a testing fee, and an additional $10 will have to be paid the next time that you attempt the test., The written knowledge test is a requirement for obtaining a CDL, except for those drivers who are transferring a CDL from another state.


The written knowledge test is available at every DDS office location. Examination stations are open Tuesday through Saturday, from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The latest time to begin a written knowledge test is 5:15 p.m.After passing the written knowledge test, you will receive your CDL permit.
 Visit any DDS office to make an appointment in person or call the Customer Contact Center at 678-413-8400, between 7:00 a.m. and 5:15 p.m., Monday through Friday. You can schedule appointments up to 90 days in advance. The Customer Contact Center can schedule road tests for any of the available stations in the state. The latest test of the day will be schedule about 90 minutes before the closing time for the office.The commercial road tests are offered only at the service centers at Albany, Between, Cumming, Dalton, Gainesville, Jackson, Milledgeville and Thomson.
You will be required to pay the road test fee of 50 dollars when you make the appointment. Fees for appointments made over the telephone can be paid with a credit card; however, for all other payment methods, you must visit an office in person., The skills test will test your knowledge regarding inspection of your commercial vehicle, your knowledge regarding use of the controls on your vehicle, and will test your ability to drive and manage your vehicle on the road., You will be issued your Georgia commercial drivers license after you have passed the driving skills test.

