 To create your own black nail polish, all you will need is a pan of black eyeshadow and some clear nail polish. Make sure that you choose a black color that you will like on your nails.If you want a matte black look, then go for a matte black nail polish. If you want something shimmery, then go for a shimmery black nail polish.
Choose a clear or matte top coat for the nail polish. If you use a clear coat, then your black nail polish will be slightly shiny. If you choose a matte top coat, then your nail polish will be matte.
You will also need a small container to mix your ingredients together and a stick to mix them with. Try using a Popsicle stick or a cuticle stick.;
, When you are ready to start mixing, begin scraping the eyeshadow into your dish. You will need about one to two teaspoons. Use the Popsicle stick to scrape off the top layer of the eyeshadow.








You may want to get a special black eye shadow for the purpose of making your black nail polish, or at least use one that you will not mind breaking into pieces.
 If you want to create a matte polish and you did not use a matte clear coat polish, then you can add a couple of teaspoons of corn flour. The corn flour will give the nail polish a matte effect.








If you want to add corn flour then add it to the dish now.
Keep in mind that the corn flour might lighten the black color a bit. If you want a true black nail polish, then you may want to skip the corn flour.
 Next, pour in the clear coat nail polish and begin mixing the nail polish in with the eyeshadow. Stir the mixture until there are no lumps and the color looks even. This might take a few minutes.
 After you have combined the nail polish and eye shadow, it is ready to use! Transfer it into an empty nail polish bottle and try it out. You can use the clear coat nail polish bottle that you emptied to make the black nail polish.








You can use a small funnel or just pour slowly.
Make sure that you leave a little space in the bottle for shaking the nail polish.
You may not be able to fit all of the nail polish into the container. If there is any nail polish that will not fit, then you can sue it right away or just dispose of it.

