 Help your children find the words to express their feelings instead of yelling at one another or calling each other names. To help them express their feelings, you can set up an emotion board.Whenever a conflict is erupting, have them go to the emotion board and point out which face reflects how they are feeling.
Teach them to explain why they feel that way, for example, “I feel angry because he took my toy without asking first.”

, Unless the conflict becomes physically or emotionally violent, try not to intervene. However, you should monitor the conflict to see if they can work it out on their own. If they try to involve you, remind them that because they are responsible for creating the conflict, they are also responsible for resolving the conflict. Praise and reward your children if they resolve the conflict on their own.If you see that one of your children is afraid of or avoiding the other sibling, and always the victim, then you may need to intervene to prevent the conflict from becoming emotionally violent.
Try to encourage win-win situations where each child gains something.
If your children are young, for example toddlers, then you will probably need to intervene to help resolve the conflict.
 If a conflict becomes violent, you must stop the fight immediately and separate the children. Once your children have calmed down, bring them back together to talk about what happened. Let them know that violence is not a valid solution and will not be tolerated under any circumstances.For example, “Conflicts are inevitable and natural, but I will not tolerate physical or emotional violence as a solution. There are better ways to resolve a conflict, and both of you will be punished if violence occurs.”

, If fights become violent on a regular basis, and you cannot find a way to stop them, then you might need to seek professional help from a child or behavioral therapist. Also, contact a professional if one sibling is frightened by the other sibling, won’t fight back, and is always the victim. These are signs of sibling abuse.