 The pitcher will need to be able to hold about 10 cups (2.37 liters) of liquid.
 Take six to eight lemons, cut them in half, and squeeze the juice from them using a citrus squeezer, a hand juicer, or a wooden reamer.









To get the most juice out of the lemons, roll the lemons across the counter, while pressing down on them, before cutting and juicing them. This loosens the flesh inside and helps the lemons release more juice when you squeeze them., If you'd like a thicker lemonade, then include the pulp. If you do not want the pulp in your lemonade, then place a sieve over the pitcher and pour the lemon juice through that. The mesh will catch any unwanted pulp. Once all the juice is in the pitcher, remove the sieve and discard the pulp and seeds.
 In this version, you will be making a simple syrup first. This will allow the sugar to dissolve more completely and prevent any sugar granules from sinking to the bottom of the pitcher.
 You will need 1 cup (225 grams) of sugar and 1 cup (225 milliliters) of water. Stir the sugar and water to combine.









Consider adding extra ingredients. You can make your lemonade even more flavorful by adding some herbs, such as lavender and thyme. If you choose to do this, you will need to pour the sugar-water through a sieve in order to catch the herbs. Refer to the section in this article on adding garnishes and extra ingredients for more ideas.
 Turn the stove on and bring the sugar and water to a simmer. Keep stirring until all of the sugar has dissolved and there are no grains.
 Once the sugar has dissolved, turn the stove off and take the saucepan off the burner. Slowly pour the sugar-water into the pitcher. If you added any extra ingredients to the sugar-water, such as herbs, put a sieve over the pitcher before pouring in the sugar-water. The sieve will catch any loose herbs.
 If you like your lemonade sweet, then use a little less water. If you like your lemonade less sweet, then use more water. You can also use sparkling water for a carbonated lemonade.
 Once you have everything in the pitcher, stir the lemonade using a long spoon or a whisk. At this point, you can taste the lemonade to see if it needs to be more sweet or less sweet. Here are some guidelines:








If the lemonade needs to be sweeter, add a few more tablespoons of sugar.
If the lemonade is too sweet, add the juice of half a lemon.
 Leave the lemonade in the fridge for 30 to 40 minutes.
 Once the lemonade has cooled down, take it out of the fridge. Drop a few ice cubes into a tall glass, and pour the lemonade over the ice. You may garnish it with some mint leaves or lemon slices.








