 Acknowledge that you have PTSD and that the disorder is affecting your life. Accepting the problem will help you commit to the hard work of recovery.You don’t have to feel okay about having PTSD, but recognizing the disorder is a key first step in the healing process.
Know that having PTSD doesn’t mean anything is wrong with you. PTSD is the brain’s natural response to extremely frightening situations.;
, Recovery can be an intimidating prospect if you don’t know what to expect. Gain confidence by arming yourself with knowledge. Look for websites, articles, and books about PTSD on the internet and at your local library. Gaining knowledge can help you feel more motivated and proactive as you go through your recovery. Be sure to turn to credible sources like national research organizations and associations. A few good ones are the National Institute of Mental Health and the Anxiety and Depression Association of America.You might also get helpful and current information about this disorder from your doctor's office or local mental health clinic.
One good book resource to look into is Waking the Tiger: Healing Trauma by Peter A. Levine.
 Therapy is an essential part of recovering from PTSD. A good therapist can help you process your memories and change the way you think about your trauma. In time, this can help you move on from the event and experience fewer flashbacks.It’s important to find a therapist you connect with. If one therapist isn’t a good fit for you, keep looking until you find a good match.
Types of therapy commonly used to treat PTSD include cognitive behavioral therapy, exposure therapy, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). Many of these therapies can be combined for a more rigorous, intensive treatment process.In addition to individual therapy, you may also benefit from group therapy or family therapy.
 A great way to recover from a traumatic experience is by using your circumstances to take action and regain a sense of control. Surviving a traumatic event can leave you feeling helpless and scared. Instead of feeling powerless, do something to take back your agency. Volunteer to help other people affected by trauma, donate to the Red Cross, or create art to express your feelings.When you feel empowered, you’ll make better progress towards recovery because you’ll feel more prepared to handle the negative symptoms of PTSD., A support group for people with PTSD gives you a safe haven to talk about your trauma, which is a necessary part of overcoming it. Support from other people who understand what you’re going through can also be an invaluable source of comfort when you’re feeling overwhelmed.You can find local support groups by talking to your doctor or mental health therapist. You can also research both local and web-based support groups online through the Veteran's Administration or the Anxiety and Depression Association of America., To heal from PTSD, you’ve got to believe that it’s possible and commit to doing the necessary work. The brain is surprisingly adaptable, and with enough time and therapy, it’s possible to undo the damage caused by trauma. Be patient, and don’t expect yourself to get better overnight.