 Use scissors to cut out a half-moon shape from the folded bottom of a pillowcase. The cut should be large enough to fit the intended wearer's head through.


Lay the pillowcase flat and trace the desired shape with a pencil before cutting. Center the half-moon along the edge.
For a young child, the half-moon should be about 6 inches (15 cm) long by 3 inches (7.5 cm) tall. For an adult or older child, measure the width of the wearer's neck to determine how long the neckline needs to be.
You can use a flat, round object, such as a plate, to trace the half-moon or half-circle.
Ask the intended wearer to slip the pillowcase on over his or her head. If the wearer's head cannot fit through the neckline, make it a little larger and try again.
If you want to save time, use a tan or brown t-shirt instead of a pillowcase. This will save you the effort of creating necklines and armholes, but you will need to cut the sleeves off of the shirt before proceeding.;
, Cut two more half-moon shapes along both sides of your pillowcase, near the folded top of the material. Make sure that the holes are large enough for the intended wearer to fit his or her arms through.


The armholes should be evenly positioned and approximately 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) down from the top of the pillowcase.
For a young child, the half-moon shapes should be about 3 inches (7.5 cm) long and 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) wide. For an adult or older child, measure the thickest part of the upper arm to determine how long the hole needs to be.
Instruct the intended wearer to slip the pillowcase on. If his or her arms do not fit through the holes, make the holes bigger.
 Make 1.5-inch (3.8-cm) slits along both armholes to create fringe. For the best results, space the slits about 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) apart. Continue around both armholes so that the fringe goes all the way around.


You can also glue small strips of store-bought fringe around the arm holes.
 A pillowcase tunic should be short enough to fit older kids and adults, but it might be too long for younger children. Have the child try the costume on, so you can decide if it’s the right length.


If the pillowcase extends below the mid-calf, trim it with scissors. Otherwise, your child may trip over it.
 Make 3-inch (7.5-cm) slits along the entire open bottom of the pillowcase to create fringe. It helps to lay the pillowcase flat rather than to hold it as you cut. Make sure to use sharp scissors, and space the slits about 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) apart.


Be sure to make slits around the entire open bottom of the pillowcase so the fringe spans the entire hem of the tunic.
 Use fabric glue to attach store-bought or homemade fringe around the neckline.You can make your own fringe by using a 2-inch (5-cm) wide strip of extra pillowcase fabric or brown felt. Cut the store-bought fringe or homemade strip into a half-moon shape the same length as the neckline. For homemade fringe, cut 1.5-inch (3.8-cm) slits along the length of the strip, spacing them 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) apart from one another.


Attach the fringe by applying the fabric glue to the non-fringed portion of the fabric strip. The fringes should face down and away from the neck rather than up and over it.
 One of the simplest ways to decorate the tunic is with colorful triangles along the open base. Cut some craft sponges into 2-inch (5-cm) tall triangles, leaving the edges fairly rough or jagged. Dip the triangles into fabric paint in shades such as red, orange, yellow, and green, and apply it to the tunic in a pattern of your choosing.


For a simple look, decorate the open bottom of the pillowcase with a row of upside-down triangles. Place the row about 4 inches (10 cm) from the open end, and space the triangles about 1-inch (2.5 cm) apart from one another.
Give your tunic more color by adding a row of right-side-up triangles above your first row of upside-down triangles. Use a second triangle-shaped sponge and a different paint color. Make sure to position each right-side-up triangle between two upside-down triangles.
Whatever pattern you choose, repeat it on both sides of the pillowcase. Be sure that the first side is dry before decorating the second, though.

