 Because competition and performance leotards are usually adorned with foil, sequins, rhinestones, and other delicate decorations, these are not fit for use in a washing machine. Instead, wash only your basic leotards in a machine.


If your practice leotards are prone to bleeding, washing one at a time, or washing with similar colors will prevent discoloration.
 If you use your washer, you must use the delicate cycle, as the delicate cycle will not agitate the wash as drastically, and will not pull or yank on the delicate fibers of your leotard. “Permanent Press,” while a more delicate cycle, is still too harsh a setting.Use the shortest delicate cycle possible. The longer your leotards are in the machine, the higher the risk of damage is, so use the shortest cycle possible for your machine, including a single rinse.
 Because you can use your hands to gauge the water’s temperature, hand-washing is fine in lukewarm water. A washer’s “warm” cycle, on the other hand, might be a bit too warm for delicate fabrics.Note that some powdered detergents do not dissolve well in cold water, and some liquid soaps do not disperse. Check your detergent to make sure it is formulated for cold water.
 Place your leotards into the basin, gently layering around the agitation spindle, if your washer has one. Do not overload the washer’s chamber, instead washing only 3-5 leotards at one time.


Overloading your washer can cause your leotard to get caught on the machine’s spindle, or caught in the door.
Overloading can also make the rinse cycle less effective, leaving behind dirt and detergent.
 Do not place your leotard in the dryer; although a washer can be placed on a delicate mode to protect your leotard, the heat and tumbling of a dryer can damage your leotard.


Excess heat will damage the elastic properties of the fabric, dramatically increase wear on metallic or other effects, and may even shrink the leotard.
If you must use a dryer, use a no-heat setting and make sure the leotard is inside-out.

