 You can find this in the lower-left corner of the desktop. It may say "Start," or it may simply be a Windows logo.


You can also press ⊞ Win from any screen to open the Start menu or screen.
If you're using Windows 8 and don't see a Start button, move your mouse cursor to the bottom-left corner of the screen and click the "Start" pop-up that appears.;
, This will search for Internet Explorer, and should show it as the first result.


Internet Explorer comes installed on all versions of Windows and can't be removed, so you should always be able to find it by searching this way.
 This will start the web browser.
 Right-click the "Internet Explorer" icon that appears in your taskbar at the bottom of the screen and select "Pin to taskbar." This will keep the Internet Explorer icon in your Windows taskbar even when it's closed so that you can quickly open it.
 If Internet Explorer does not open, or closes immediately after opening, try the following:Open the Control Panel from the Start menu. In Windows 8.1 and 10, right-click the Start button and select "Control Panel."
Click "Network and Internet" and then "Internet Options."
Click the "Advanced" tab and then click "Reset..."
Check the "Delete personal settings" box and then click "Reset." Reboot your computer and then try launching Internet Explorer again.
 This may just look like a gear on the left side of the Start menu.
 This will display the apps that are set to open certain files and services.
 Windows 10 comes installed with both Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer. You may also see any other browsers you've installed, such Chrome or Firefox.
 This will set Internet Explorer as the default browser for all web links and HTML files.
 If Internet Explorer is not staying set as your default browser, you may need to make the changes in the Control Panel instead. Follow the steps in the next section, as they apply to Windows 10 as well. You can open the Control Panel by right-clicking the Start button and selecting it from the menu.
 In Windows 7 and earlier, you can find this in the Start menu on the right side. In Windows 8.1, right-click the Start button and select "Control Panel." In Windows 8, press ⊞ Win+X and select "Control Panel" from the menu.


, A new window will appear with a list of all of the file types and programs on your computer. It may take a few moments to load.
 You may have to scroll to find it.
 This will immediately set Internet Explorer as the default program for links and HTML files. You can close the Control Panel windows.
 You'll find this in the upper-right corner. In older versions, click the "Tools" menu instead in the menubar. If you don't see either, press Alt to reveal the menubar.
 If this is grayed out, just try again in a moment.


You can also select the "Internet options" item from the Control Panel to open this without starting Internet Explorer.
 Each website address you enter will open in a separate tab when Internet Explorer is started. Make sure each address is on a separate line. You can copy and paste addresses directly from your browser's address bar.
 This will ensure that Internet Explorer always loads your home pages when you start it up.
 Your new home page settings will take effect the next time you start Internet Explorer, or when you click the Home button.

