 Open the Window menu, then select “Layers.”

, The Layers panel shows a list of all layers in the image, as well as thumbnails that show exactly what each layer contains. To select an individual layer to flip or rotate, simply click it once.


You can select multiple layers by holding down Ctrl (Win) or ⌘ Command (Mac) as you click each layer.
To hide other layers while working with the one(s) you’ve selected, click the icon that looks like an eye (visibility icon) next to the layer thumbnail. You can make it visible again later.
If a layer you want to rotate/flip has a padlock icon to the right of its name, the layer is locked and cannot be modified. Click the padlock icon to unlock the layer before attempting to move forward.



“Rotate”: This option allows you to enter an angle (in degrees) by which you’d like to rotate the layer.
“Rotate 180 degrees”: Rotates the layers halfway around a circle.
“Rotate 90 degrees CW”: Rotates the layers to the right, ¼ of the way around a circle.
“Rotate 90 degrees CCW”: Rotates the layers to the left, ¼ of the way around a circle.
“Flip horizontal”: Flips layer horizontally as though looking at it in a mirror.
“Flip vertical”: Flips layer upside-down.
 It may be helpful for you to have more visual control over the rotation process, especially if you have a hard time visualizing angles and/or direction.


Press Ctrl+T (Win) or ⌘ Command+T (Mac) to draw a bounding box around the layer to be rotated.
Hover the mouse cursor outside of the top right corner of the bounding box until a “rotating arrow” (curved arrow with heads on each end) appears.
When the cursor becomes a rotating arrow, click and drag up or down to rotate the image. Don’t drag the cursor unless you see that rotating arrow or you may accidentally change the size of or warp the layer.
 Press Ctrl+Z (Win) or ⌘ Command+Z (Mac) to undo mistakes.
 If you made another layer invisible while making transformations, click the empty box to the left of the hidden layer’s thumbnail until the eye icon appears.
 To save the changes you’ve made to your image, click “File,” then “Save As” and choose a save location.

