 Gather at all the crates first, and build a house to support the villagers that will pop out. Then focus on hunting or gathering berries. You absolutely do not want to build mills until you've exhausted all the natural resources. You should also start creating villagers from the very beginning, and you should have continuous production of them until you choose to age up to the Colonial Age. So make sure you have enough food.;
, You want to locate the enemy base as soon as possible. He will probably be as far away from the edge as you are, so circle the entire map at that distance from the edge. Discovering the enemy's location is not too difficult. It's also useful to assign your explorer a number. To do this, select him and press control + (number).
 Wood is very precious at this stage of the game, and building a market won't benefit you immediately. You will, however, have a stronger economy later in the game. If you don't build a market you will have your barracks up sooner.


One thing to keep in mind while gathering resources is to spread your villagers around, thus reducing risk. As an example, you can mine from two goldmines instead of one. This does require some more attention to detail, though, and it can be harder to protect your villagers in case you're being attacked.
 This way your economy will have some protection while your troops won't be obstructed by buildings. Build close to the town center and build towers for protection.
 While hunting you'll gradually scare animals away from your town center, but you can avoid this by hunting from the outside and towards your town center. By using a couple of villagers you can scare groups of animals towards your home base for more security. You can also consider building a tower/outpost/blockhouse later in the game to support your hunting if it's a long way from your home base. If attacked, simply hide your villagers inside and if the enemy persists, bring in your troops. Doing this also increases your map control and can help you notice enemy advancements.
 For more skilled players 15 villagers is more advisable but beware for you must know what you are doing economy wise if you chose this strategy.

