 In most regions, the ideal time to plant perennials is mid- to late-spring so plants have the opportunity to become established before the heat of summer. Do not plant perennials while there is a chance of hard frosts or temperatures dip below 25 degrees F (-3.89 degrees C).


Plant perennials in the summer, but do not allow the plants to dry out. If you choose to plant perennials in the summer, water the plants daily for 2 to 3 weeks.
Plant perennials in the fall before the first frost. Perennials planted after the first frost typically do not survive because their root systems do not have time to get established before the ground freezes.
Research a specific perennial to determine when its ideal planting time is. The best time to plant perennials varies depending on the species. Consult a gardening guide or ask a professional at a local garden center about the best time to plant a specific perennial plant.





;
, Perennials can be grown in almost any location in the yard or garden. For visual impact, consider planting perennials along a fence, around a tree or in a grouping in the middle of a yard.


Determine how much sunlight the area receives. This will be an important factor in selecting the perennials to be grown in the location. If the planting site is in full sun (6 or more hours of direct sunlight), select sun-loving perennials. If the planting site is shaded, select perennials that thrive in shaded conditions. Because perennials vary in growing condition requirements, it is possible to find perennials for almost any location.



Remove grass from the planting area as applicable. The most effective way to remove grass is to dig it up using a spade or shovel. After removing the grass, consider spraying the area with an herbicide that will kill any remaining grass. Till the garden area once the grass has died.






Eliminate all weeds prior to planting because they can compromise the root systems of perennials. Local garden experts can recommend products for controlling weeds common in your area. Alternatively, hand pick weeds from the area to be planted, or cover the ground with layers of newspaper or black plastic for several weeks to smother the weeds.
 The most important step in planting healthy perennials is preparing the soil. Most perennials prefer rich, deep, well-drained soil.


Evaluate your garden soil to determine how to amend it for perennials. If your soil has high concentrations of clay, add peat, compost and sand. If your soil has high concentrations of sand, add compost to add nutrients and create a richer soil. Organic matter like manure, compost, perlite and peat moss are beneficial to most types of garden soils.






Dig the planting area to a minimum depth of about 8 inches (20.3 cm) using a spade or pitchfork.






Spread organic matter directly on top of the existing soil and work it into the ground using a shovel or pitchfork. Insert the shovel or pitchfork into the ground, pull out the shovel filled with dirt and flip the shovel over, dumping garden soil on top of the organic matter. Repeat throughout the garden area until the organic matter is thoroughly mixed into the garden soil.

