 Any type of medical appointment can be stressful. Although most Botox appointments are over quickly, getting an injection can scare or cause anxiety in some people.Make your Botox appointment at a time that is convenient for you and won’t cause stress. Give yourself a nice cushion of time both before and after the injection so that you aren’t rushed or stressed.


Consider scheduling your appointment in the morning. You may be less stressed and can go to the appointment when you’re relaxed after a shower or bath.;
, If you haven’t done so already, take some time to gather some information about Botox. You might want to know about the drug itself, potential risks, and review the results of others who have had Botox. Some of the most common reasons for getting Botox are:Smoothing facial wrinkles
Improving the appearance of your skin
Controlling severe underarm sweating
Calming cervical dystonia, a neurological condition that causes severe muscle contraction in the neck and shoulders
Reducing uncontrollable blinking
Relieving strabismus, which causes misaligned eyes
Preventing chronic migraines
Controlling an overactive bladder.
Preventing esophageal spasms., Different types of medications, such as blood thinners, NSAIDsand muscle relaxants, can cause bleeding or bruising when used in conjunction with Botox. You may need to avoid taking prescription medication or other drugs a few days before your Botox treatment. Ask your doctors before the procedure what is safe or if you should avoid the medication or supplement for a certain time period before the injection. If you use the following medication or supplements, ask your doctor if it is safe for you to get Botox:Blood thinners such as warfarin
Muscle relaxants
Sleeping aids
Allergy medications
AspirinIbuprofen
St. John’s WortVitamin E
Fish or Omega-3 oils
Ginkgo biloba
Ginseng

, Smoking before a Botox appointment can increase your risk of bruising from the injection and slow healing time.Avoid or limit smoking at least a few days before your treatment and consult with your doctor about how long is appropriate. , If you are especially prone to bruising, use Arnica cream before your appointment. This can reduce the risk of bruises developing at the Botox injection sites.However, do not rub the injection site itself after the procedure and ask your doctor before using it.


Don't apply arnica cream on an open wound.
Do not take arnica orally. While homeopathic arnica preparations are available and safe to consume, they are no better than placebo in trial and the actual herb is toxic when consumed in high amounts., Using an ice pack on the area being injected with Botox can minimize possible signs of bruising from the injection. You can use the ice pack before, during, and after your procedure.Apply an ice pack wrapped with a towel or cloth to your skin for 20 minutes at a time. Consider icing a day before your Botox treatment. You can use a professional ice pack or make one yourself with a bag of frozen fruits or vegetables. Place a towel between the ice pack and your skin, which can prevent frostbite. Remove the pack if your skin gets too cold or feels numb.
 Many doctors suggest waiting at least 4 hours to exercise or exert yourself after your treatment. If you work out every day, do it before your appointment. A little physical activity can relax you before the appointment and ensure that you get in your daily workout without any stress., Your doctor needs your skin to be free of any dirt, moisturizers, or cosmetics before your treatment. Make sure that you cleanse your skin thoroughly before your appointment and don’t apply anything until after the treatment.Wash your face with a mild soap or cleanser and warm water. Make sure to rinse it thoroughly to prevent any residue on your skin. Pat dry with a soft towel so you don’t irritate your skin.Recognize that your doctor may clean your skin again with rubbing alcohol or an antiseptic cleanser before the injection to remove anything you weren’t able to wash off., Even if you exercised to help relax yourself, you may still be nervous or have anxiety before your Botox treatment. You can help relieve your nerves and anxiety by trying some of the following techniques:Distracting yourself by talking to your doctor or a nurse
Breathing slowly and deeply
Listening to music
Thinking of yourself in a calm and relaxing place such as the beach
Trying aromatherapy
Taking a sedative prescribed by your doctor.
 Before your doctor injects you with Botox, he or she should consult with you. Letting him or her know about your medications, allergies, or other illnesses can help the doctor assess that it’s safe to inject you with Botox.You should also ask your doctor any questions you have about Botox or the treatment. Your doctor should know if:


You are taking medications, supplements, and herbs
You have allergies
You have medical conditions, illnesses, or disease
You have had or will have surgery, recent Botox, or other medical treatments
You are pregnant, may be pregnant, or breastfeeding, Botox is injected into one specific site and the toxin stays in that area. Rubbing or massaging the treated area can cause the toxin to migrate, making it less effective where you need it. Keeping your fingers and hands away from the site can help your Botox treatment be more effective.Be careful touching the skin where you had the injection.
 Avoid lying down or getting physical activity for a minimum of four hours after your Botox treatment. This can help the Botox settle in the treated area and not spread to other sites., You should avoid drinking alcohol or limit your consumption after having a Botox treatment.Drinking alcohol can lead to fluid retention, which may cause more bruising., If you were using Arnica Montana before your Botox treatment, continue your regimen after the injection, but avoid applying it to the injected site itself.
 If you want to get a facial, chemical peel, or microdermabrasion for your skin, make sure you schedule it at least 24 hours after your Botox treatment. This can prevent bruising and the Botox from moving to other areas of your skin.Make sure your doctor or aesthetician knows that you had a Botox treatment recently. He or she may suggest waiting longer than 24 hours to get your next cosmetic skin procedure.
 In the hours following a Botox treatment, you can develop bruising. Taking blood thinners such as warfarin and aspirin (and any other NSAIDs) after the treatment can encourage bruising or make it worse. If you are on blood thinners, ask your doctor when you may continue your regimen again. Make sure to follow his or her directions closely to minimize your risk for potential health problems., If you get your Botox treatment from an experienced doctor, it is relatively safe. You may experience some side effects that you should watch closely. Let your doctor know if they don’t go away within a few days. Potential side effects you may notice are:Pain, swelling, or bruising at the injection site
Headache
Flu-like symptoms
Droopy eyelid
Uneven eyebrows
Crooked smile
Drooling
Eye dryness
Excessive tearing
Muscle weakness in your entire body
Vision problems
Trouble speaking or swallowing
Loss of bladder control

