 If you have been diagnosed with a serious illness, understand that it is not necessarily your responsibility to share this news with everyone you know. If you are ready to talk about it, one option is to discuss it with one close family member or friend, and then ask them to pass the news on to others. The benefit of this method is that it allows the news to spread somewhat passively, which may be easier for you.You may begin by sitting that person down someplace private.
You can start by saying, "I have something I need to tell you. I haven't shared this with anyone else. In fact, after I tell you, I'd like it if you could pass this information along.";
, Another option for sharing the news of your illness is to call a meeting with your family and close friends. This offers the benefit of telling many people at once, which may be easier on you. Furthermore, it allows your family and friends to support one another, and to offer a circle of support for you.You can call your friends and family together in your home, or in the home of another family member.
Sit everyone down in a circle.
Start by saying, "There is something important I need to share with all of you."
If you struggle with the words, you can be honest. Just explain, "This is difficult for me to talk about."
If it helps you, you may want to prepare note cards or a script.
 Your third option is to tell your friends and family members individually, as you see them. This offers the most intimate conversations, which may offer you a deeper sense of support.In this instance, you may not want the people you tell to share this information with others.
If that is the case, be sure to explain, "I'd rather if you didn't share this with anyone. I'd like to opportunity to tell people myself."

, No matter which route to sharing this news you select, it may be helpful to ask your doctor or social worker to be present. Your doctor and/or social worker may be able to answer questions about your health, your finances, and what you can expect moving forward. (Of course, how much of this information you choose you share is up to you). A doctor or social worker will also be skilled in navigating these types of discussions, and as such, can offer support.Talk to your doctor or social worker ahead of time to determine what their role will be in this meeting.
When you have these discussions, you can inform your loved ones of the role your doctor or social worker will play.
For instance, you might say, "Dr. Williams is here to answer any questions you may have," or "Ms. Clancy is here as a kind of mediator, and to offer emotional support."

, Before you move into these conversations, try to understand that people will react to this news in all kinds of ways. As best as you can, try not to take these initial reactions personally. This news will likely come as quite a shock.Some people may burst into tears.
Others may laugh from nervousness.
Some people will launch into “helpfulness mode.”
Others may say nothing at all.
If you give your friends and loved ones some time, you will likely see a wide range of emotional reactions from each of them, including sadness, anger, and fear.
 Many people will want to help you in some way, but they likely will not know how. Be honest about what you need and be forthright in asking for assistance.You may need:


Someone to pick up groceries for you
Someone to drive you to an appointment.
Help straightening up your home.
Someone to talk to.
You might say, "I need someone to pick up my groceries on Wednesdays. Do you think you could help me with that?"

