 There are a number of things involved with winning the right way, and much of it has to do with fairness and honesty. To win the right way, you must:


Refuse to cheat
Play by the rules
Be honest about your actions and the actions of other players
Listen to the guidance and rulings of your coach and the referee;
, One of the most important things about being a good winner is not gloating or bragging when you do win. The other team is aware that you won! You don’t have to rub it in.Avoid saying things like:


“Haha we won and you lost!”
“You're terrible players, and that’s why we won”
“We kicked your butts”

, Remember that the other team just lost, and they need some encouragement right now. They don’t need you being rude, because they already feel bad for losing.


Being kind and polite to your opponents applies at all times, including before, during, and after the game. Even if you think you'll beat them, are winning in the middle of the game, or just won, you still have to be nice.
This means no trash talking the other team, no making fun, and no telling rude or mean jokes., Part of being a good winner means appreciating your opponents’ efforts and skills, and you can show this by complimenting them.Imagine how you'd feel if you just lost. Wouldn’t you like to hear the other team say how well you played?


For instance, you can say something like, “You guys played a great game, and I really like how well you work as a team.”
At the end of the game, whether you won or lost, you can tell your opponents “good game!”
You can also do this in the middle of the game. If one of your opponents makes a great move or play, say something nice about it., Even though the other team lost, it doesn’t mean that they're bad players, and you shouldn’t make them feel like they are. And even if they lost by a lot, you should never make fun, laugh at, or make jokes about the other team or any of the players.


Instead of poking fun, you can try offering tips or suggestions that might help them improve their game.