 Make sure that the disk is inserted before you go looking for it on your computer. Ensure that the disk is inserted rightside-up.


Make sure that the disk lock is not engaged before inserting the disk.
When formatting a disk, all the information contained on it will be erased, so make sure you've backed up anything you need to save.;
, The label for this window will be different depending on the version of Windows you are running. In Windows XP, it is called My Computer and can be accessed from the Start menu. In Windows Vista and 7, it is called Computer and can be accessed from the Start menu. In Windows 8 it is called This PC and can be accessed from the taskbar.


All Windows users can open this window by pressing ⊞ Win+E.
 You should see the disk in your list of drives. It should have a floppy disk icon, though not all Windows versions show the same thing. Floppy drives are usually B: or A:.
 This will open the Format window. You can use this window to choose your format settings before beginning.


Capacity - This should be set to 3.5", 1.44 MB. Most users can leave this as is.
File system - This should be set to FAT. Most users can leave this as is, unless you are formatting the disk for use with a specific file system. FAT is supported on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Allocation unit size - This should be set to Default allocation size. Most users can leave this at default.
Volume label - Choose a name for the disk that will appear when it is inserted. Try to keep it to 16 characters or less.
Format options. You can select "Quick Format" to format the disk quicker, but the data will not be securely deleted. The speed gains for quick formatting a floppy disk are negligible, so you're probably best leaving this unchecked. You can also choose to create an MS-DOS startup disk, which is useful if you're troubleshooting an older machine, but you won't be able to use the disk for storage.
 Once you've selected your options, click Start to begin the format process. Click OK to confirm. You monitor the progress by looking at the bar at the bottom of the window.

