 Today, core training for javelin throwing can improve how far a javelin thrower throws like in a big way no matter what their age! Javelin is heavily dependent on the core musculature for optimal performance and having a proper core program in place can guarantee just that for any and all javelin throwers.;
,, It can help the athlete attain a bigger, longer more powerful position under much more load. It strengthens the stomach muscles and surrounding musculature so that it can hang on no matter how hard the javelin thrower drives their hips forward allowing a bigger stretch to be created without jeopardizing the lower back via the abs giving way under pressure. Engaging in a core program also helps the athlete move their hips and lower body faster.
 Hip power and speed play a big part in big javelin throws. Having fast, powerful hips can create a ton of power and allow the body to uncoil much more rapidly during a javelin throw. Core training plays a pivotal role in speeding up the hips of a javelin thrower. Almost any athletic motion must first be initiated by your core and the stronger you core is, the quicker this initial motion can and will be. So if you want fast hips, let alone a fast arm and fast feet, start your javelin core training program right away.
 When you start your core training program for javelin, you’ll notice that it will speed up your javelin run-up as well. A strong core helps you avoid losing energy each time you take a step during your run-up. This allows all of your energy to be transferred into your run-up and eventually into your javelin throw. A well trained core will also help you take bigger, more powerful strides during your run-up and allow you to go faster on the runway with better control.
 If anything, make sure it’s your strongest link because it’s your foundation and your foundation should always be very, very strong-especially if you’re a javelin thrower. If your core is weak, it doesn’t matter how strong your arms or legs are because they depend on your core musculature for support.
 In the case of the standing forward press, it doesn’t matter if your upper body is strong enough to press 200 lbs because your core can only support 105 lbs. Thus, you just gave away a total of 95 lbs of pressing power because your core is only strong enough to support the 105 lbs of load.


You want to be able to have a strong enough foundation or core to use all of the power you’ve got in both your upper and lower body. Start training your core regularly and you’ll be able to put all 200 lbs of power into the javelin for colossal javelin throws!

