 You can either use one of your own quarters or ask your audience for one. Though because this trick is fast, it’s often easier to use your own quarter.


This is a great street magic trick, party trick, or quick opening trick to get your audience warmed up.
 It doesn’t matter which hand you place the quarter in. Put the quarter in your hand and position it so that it rests on the pad of your middle finger closest to your palm.


Placing the quarter where your middle finger and palm meet is an ideal place because you can easily hold the quarter in place with your thumb from this position.
 Hold both of your hands out to show your audience the quarter resting in one hand with the other hand empty.


At this point you want to be talking to the audience. This trick moves fast and the more you can do to distract your audience, the easier time you will have misdirecting as you make the quarter disappear.
You can grab the quarter and show it to the audience, explaining that it is an ordinary quarter. Just make sure to place it back in that spot on your middle finger before you move into the next part of the trick. You can continue to explain that the magic lies in your hands, not the object.
 This part will take some practice to make it look convincing and smooth. You will bring your empty hand under the hand holding your quarter. As you move your empty hand in, you will turn the quarter hand over as if to drop the quarter into your empty hand. However, you will keep the quarter in your original hand by holding it in place with your thumb. As you turn over the hand with the quarter, start to make a fist with your empty hand, as if you’re catching the quarter. To make it look more convincing, close your hand so your fingers extended to the bottom of your palm. Don’t make a small, tight fist, this won’t look as realistic.
Move your hands in opposite directions from one another after you “transfer” the coin. The coin is still in your original hand, but the audience will think it’s in your other hand. To keep the focus on your hand, bring it up toward your face or about eye level with the audience. Simultaneously palm the quarter in your original hand and move it down to your side. , As you bring up the hand that the audience thinks the quarter is in, you can do a number of little flourishes to show that you have disappeared the coin.


You can tap your knuckles a few times with a magic wand, or even a pen.
You can also squeeze your fist really tight. Rub your fingers together as you slowly open your hand, as if you dissolved the coin.
Another option is to blow into your fist and open your hand quickly.
As you are doing this, you can either hide the quarter in a pocket or palm it. If you palm it, you can pull it out of someone’s ear as a second part to the trick.
If you aren't going to make the quarter reappear, put it in your pocket. Then you can show that it's not in your other hand.

