 If your daughter sees you laughing at them, feeling disgusted by them, or treating them with pity, then she will learn that fat is something to be reviled and avoided. This will prevent her from having a healthy attitude towards her weight.Teach her that the goal of exercise is to be healthy, not to lose weight., Even if you think you're saying something positive, it's likely to make her feel more self-conscious, or start self-monitoring more carefully. Only talk to her about it if she brings it up, and if then, be honest and supportive. For example...


"I hear you. What are your ideas for how you can gain a little weight?"
"Yes, I think it might be a good idea for you to gain some weight. I think you're cute the way you are, but it's good to have some extra body fat as insurance in case you ever get sick and your weight drops."
"Sweetie, I think you're beautiful, and it surprises me to hear you ask if you look fat. Why are you asking this?"

, Don't go on fad diets—live a healthy lifestyle without shaming yourself.Teach her that the goal of eating and exercise is health and feeling good, not weighing less. When you love yourself, you teach her to do the same.Focus on what your body can do, not what it looks like or how much it weighs. Encourage her to do the same., Listen to her, respect her, and make her feel like she matters to you. Be supportive, and offer advice when asked, but let her make her own decisions. She will come to trust you with her problems, so she'll talk to you if she thinks something is wrong.
 How is she feeling? What problems is she struggling with? Sometimes people may lose weight if they're feeling stressed about something, or if they have a mental illness. This is one reason why communicating with her is so important.
 Taking control of your daughter's life, or constantly pushing ideas at her, will only make her resent the pressure. Let her come to the idea on her own, and recognize that you can't control what she does with her body. Support her, respect her, and let her come to a decision in her own time.


Studies show that body satisfaction is an important component in health; if people feel badly about their bodies, they are less likely to take good care of them.Thus, it's important to help her feel good about her body.
 Mild intervention only works if her life and health are not at risk. You should contact a doctor if she...


Is being secretive about her eating
Often disappears into the bathroom after eating
Plays with her food and doesn't eat much of it, or practices strange eating rituals
Feels cold, lightheaded, or sore often
Expresses concern about her weight and/or symptoms, and asks to see a doctor

