 Although there are books on the subject, they can quickly become outdated. Your best chance of finding current, active contests is to search online or to read current issues of magazines that sponsor writing contests. Don’t be discouraged if you are not computer savvy, many writing contest sponsors accept manual submissions.;
, If you plan to submit a poem, make sure the contest includes poetry submissions. Some writing contests accept submissions in only one genre. Contest details should include the following information:


The name of the sponsor
The contest fee, if any
The genre
The deadline for submissions
The minimum and maximum words allowed
The cash prize or other reward recognition

, Select a contest that interests you, and then research the contest’s sponsor. Make sure the organization or company is legitimate. Some trusted sponsors include:


Magazines, especially literary magazines
Publishers
Established businesses (some may sponsor a contest for a new jingle, for example)
Universities

, Don’t rely on spell check. Print it out (even if you plan on submitting your entry online) and read your words out loud, you will often catch mistakes that way. Give your proposed submission to a family member or friend to read. Ask them to look for spelling and grammatical errors, and ask them for any other constructive feedback they may have. Play it safe and use standard, approved writing rules. When in doubt, consult a style book.
 It’s not advisable to submit your writing to a contest sponsor that insists on retaining all the rights to your manuscript.
 Try to enter contests that have a track record. Most sponsors provide links to the entries that have won in the past. Read at least 4 winning entries so that you have a feel for what judges are looking for. If the majority of past winning manuscripts are lighthearted and funny, you may not want to submit your dark horror story. If you are entering a contest sponsored by a magazine, read all the stories in the previous 6 issues of that magazine. There are some periodicals that publish a wide range of fiction, but most magazines want articles that are geared towards their primary target audience. A short story about a sea monster won’t be acceptable to a magazine that focuses on mountain climbing.

