 You may think your mother is being selfish but be sure this judgment is not being driven by the fact that you just aren’t getting your own way. Think about whether what you are after or expecting from your mother is justified and reasonable.This is not to undermine or take lightly your opinion on thinking your mother is selfish. However, when we get upset we can view others in a way that we later decide is inaccurate or irrational. A relationship between parent and child is very significant, so it should not be taken lightly; extra caution is needed to evaluate the situation and decide how to move forward.
For example, you may feel that your mother is selfish because she keeps pressuring you to choose a particular major in college that she enjoys, but isn’t something you’re interested in. It’s possible that this is selfish, motivated by her desire to feel accomplished through you at any cost. It’s also possible that she believes she is doing the best for you by encouraging you to do something she thinks you will succeed at.
Think about your role in the situation. Have you expressed that you respect her opinion but will make your own choice? Or have you just been quiet and nodded your way through the 87th suggestion? She may not understand that she’s harassing you if you haven’t communicated your own ideas.
 If your mother is self-absorbed and does not give you the attention or emotional support that you feel you need, turn to others for that social support instead. Although no one can replace your mother, you do not need a replacement to feel better about yourself.Reach out to friends and other family members to counteract the stress that can result from having a selfish mother. Having social support can protect against stress and can make you feel better in general and about yourself in particular. Reach out online or through friends who have also have selfish mothers. It can help knowing that you are not alone in your struggle and it may be fruitful, too; you can put your heads together to figure out solutions to your shared problems., If your mother does not care when you achieve something, care that much more yourself about your achievements. If your mother makes you feel bad about yourself because she needs you to be “perfect” in order to feel good about herself, remind yourself that this is her problem, not yours.Do not let other people, even your mother, define how you feel about your own sense of worth. How you feel about yourself ultimately matters most as you are the one ultimately in charge of your life and your future.No one will care more about yourself than you, and so your opinion of you should matter most. Focus on achieving goals larger than yourself and not worrying about your situation with your mother, as much as possible. There are a couple of types of self-esteem. Global self-esteem is your attitude toward your whole self, who you are as a complete person. Specific self-esteem is your attitude about elements of yourself, such performance in school or at work, or your appearance.Both of these are important to feeling good about yourself.
Adaptive self-esteem is about being true to yourself; with this type, you feel authentic, and that makes you feel good about yourself. Maladaptive self-esteem is external: it comes from meeting standards that aren’t your own, or by comparing yourself to others.If you have a selfish mother, you may have low self-esteem because you have been taught to compare yourself to others or to external standards that aren’t meaningful to you. Try to reorient your focus on achieving goals and building traits that are meaningful to you and haven’t been dictated to anyone else. This will help you care less about what others, including your mother, think about you.
For example, if your mother has always told you that you need to lose weight and look more attractive, you may have low self-esteem about yourself. Try to find what is meaningful to you instead. If you decide you want to lose weight to feel more fit and healthy, go for it. If you decide that you like just where you are, be proud of that. The goal is to accept yourself and set your own standards for yourself, not allow anyone else to do it for you.
As another example, if you told your mother that you got a job promotion and work and she fires back with an envious response saying that what you do for a living is nothing to be proud of, think about her motives for saying something so nasty. Also think about what doing well at your job means for you, and you alone! Your mother does not have nearly as close to an idea, compared to you, about what goes on at your job and the impact you have. Keep in mind that you are the expert on your life, not her!

, You will be less influenced by, and thus better able to deal with, your mother's selfishness if you support yourself more instead of relying on her for things. You may even find that your relationship becomes more adult-like as you develop a better sense of autonomy and maturity; her selfishness may come to bother you less and this may help you deal with your relationship with her.


You can support yourself in multiple ways. Start by working toward making your own decisions more often. You may find that you can make decisions fine on your own but just never gave yourself the chance.
Another way to support yourself is to work toward meeting your own needs. In particular, learning how to comfort yourself will make you less reliant on your mother. Think hard about what comforts you and makes you happy. For example, you may find that you really calm down by listening to a specific song. If you feel yourself getting upset, acknowledge those feelings and address them by engaging in what calms you down. Treat yourself when you need it. If you have a selfish mother who does not show you enough love, show some love to yourself. Take yourself to the movies or a nice dinner. Pamper yourself with a manicure, or go shopping. Just make sure you don’t allow material “stuff” to take the place of affection -- then it’s an unhelpful crutch, rather than the occasional treat. , If your mother won't listen to you or change the things that are causing you pain and upset, do what you can to remove yourself from her sphere of influence as much as possible. Try to become less dependent on your mother; if she is self-absorbed she is not someone you want to be depending on, after all. Although it may be difficult at first, in the long run you will likely feel better for it.If you no longer live with your mother, try limiting your contact with her to special occasions or family gatherings.
Do not give into guilty feelings for distancing yourself from your mother if you truly believe she is selfish, self-absorbed, or narcissistic and cannot or is not willing to change. Although guilt motivates us to repair relationships, keep in mind that some relationships, even sometimes with your mother, are not worth repairing.That said, it is key that you have honestly assessed and accurately assessed your situation and have little reservation about the idea that your mother’s selfishness is corrosive to your well-being.

