 Here's a trick you may not know:


Put the tomatoes, a few at a time in a large pot of boiling water for no more than 1 minute (30 - 45 seconds is usually enough)
Plunge them into a waiting bowl of ice water. This makes the skins slide right off of the tomatoes! If you leave the skins in, they become tough and chewy in the sauce, not very pleasant.;
, Wash your hands, then squeeze each tomato and use your finger or a spoon to scoop and shake out most of the seeds. You don't need to get fanatical about it; removing just most will do.
 Toss the squeezed tomatoes into a colander or drainer. This helps more of the water to drain off. You may want to save the liquid: if you then pass it through a sieve, screen or cheesecloth, you have fresh tomato juice; great to drink cold or use in cooking!

, Cook the tomatoes for about 20 - 30 minutes over medium heat to make them mushy enough to go through your food mill or sieve.
 Some of the seasonings will straight into the pot with the tomatoes, the rest will go into a spice bag you make from a piece of cheesecloth. Into the pot of simmering tomatoes, put: chopped onions, salt, garlic, black pepper, cayenne pepper and sugar.
 Tie the corners of the cloth together to make a little bag (you can use a plastic twist tie)

, Let it simmer for 30 minutes, while the tomatoes cook. You may need to add more vinegar, so you finish with 3 cups of liquid.
 Discard the seeds and skins that remain in the sieve.
 Stir frequently. You want it to get as thick as you like your ketchup, remembering that it will also thicken a little bit after you cool it.
 The dishwasher is fine for the jars; especially if it has a "sterilize" cycle. Be sure to let it go through the rinse cycle to get rid of any soap!

,,, Fill them to within ¼-inch of the top, seat the lid and hand-tighten the ring around them. Be sure the contact surfaces (top of the jar and underside of the ring) are clean to get a good seal!

, Put them in the canner and keep them covered with at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water. Keep the water boiling. Process the jars in a boiling-water bath for 35 minutes for pints and 40 minutes for quarts. Remember to adjust the time if you are at a different altitude other than sea level!


If you have a pressure canner, be sure to follow their directions. Process the sauce for 30 minutes for pint jars and 35 minutes for quarts, at a pressure of 10 to 11 pounds.
 You can then remove the rings if you like. Once the jars are cool, you can check that they are sealed verifying that the lid has been sucked down. Just press in the center, gently, with your finger. If it pops up and down (often making a popping sound), it is not sealed. If you put the jar in the refrigerator right away, you can still use it. Some people replace the lid and reprocess the jar, then that's a bit iffy. If you heat the contents back up, re-jar them (with a new lid) and the full time in the canner, it's usually ok.
