 Your family member may ask you not to tell anyone else what is going on. But, to help them, you need to let someone close to both of you know what is going on. Having a support team will make it less stressful for everyone involved and will make it easier to make sure the person isn’t suicidal any more.Let your suicidal family member know that you want to tell someone else can help you all with the situation.
You might say, “I’m not trying to tell everyone what is going on, but we do need to let someone else know so that they can help us with this.”
Try to avoid going behind their back, but if the suicidal person is a child, is being abused, or if you’re under 18, you should definitely tell an adult you trust as soon as possible.
If you have to, you can tell someone else without specifically mentioning suicide. For example, “My cousin is dealing with emotional stuff we need help with.”
Recruit the help of a doctor or therapist as soon as possible, because they have the necessary training to deal with these situations.
Support groups can also help with specific problems. Try looking online for support groups in your area, or ask your loved one’s doctor or therapist for support group recommendations.
 This plan helps your suicidal family member in a lot of ways. It lets you and the support team know what to do and who to call if your family member shows signs that they may be considering suicide again.Download or print a copy of Suicide Prevention Lifeline’s Suicide Prevention Safety Plan. Share it with the people on the support team
Ask your family member to take part in creating their safety plan. This can help them know that people care about them.
For example, you could say, “I’d like to put together a plan so that if you are feeling really bad again we’ll know how to handle it in advance.”
If possible, get a therapist or doctor to help you create the plan. They will have great suggestions for how to make the plan the most effective.
 Sometimes people will stop checking on their suicidal family member after the immediate threat is over. But your family member still needs support and still needs to know that you care.Checking on your suicidal family member also helps them by letting you know if something is wrong before the situation gets really bad again.


Tell your family member, “I’m just checking in to see how things are going with you.”
Spending time with them on a regular basis is a way to check on them without it seeming weird. Make sure that your loved one is not left alone for long periods of time because this may cause them to ruminate. Encourage them to keep a regular schedule and to see friends and family often.
You don’t even have to mention suicide when you are checking on your family member. Just observe them and see if things seem okay.
If you have a doctor or therapist on the support team, ask them if they can check-in with your suicidal family member on a regular basis.
 Emotional stress, like considering suicide, can cause physical problems. At the same time, some physical problems can cause a person to become so emotionally stressed that they consider suicide. You can help a suicidal family member by encouraging them to take care of their emotional and physical health.


Talk to your family member about getting the right amount of sleep. You could say, “Make sure you’re getting six to eight hours of sleep, but don’t overdue it.”
Promote physical activity by inviting your family member to go for a hike, a game of racquetball, or a quick tennis match.
Encourage them to avoid drugs and alcohol as a way to cope with their feelings. Substance abuse can increase the chances that your family member will attempt suicide.
Help your loved one come up with proactive solutions to their problems. For example, if their financial situation is driving their decision to commit suicide, then helping your loved one develop a plan to get out of debt, then this may help them to feel better about the situation.

