 Depression can lessen your ability to feel empathy by making you feel numb and disconnected from other people. However, being empathetic is an important part of becoming compassionate. To strengthen your empathy muscle, imagine someone you love feeling sad or in pain, and try to capture that emotion in yourself.For a more advanced empathy exercise, imagine the pain of a stranger instead of someone you already care about.;
, Compassion comes from the sense that we’re all alike. No two lives are the same, but people all have similar experiences, fears, and emotions. Finding your similarities with other people can help you tap into an unexpected well of compassion. Depression itself can be a commonality that brings people together. People of all ages, races, genders, and walks of life experience depression. Understanding what these people are going through can generate feelings of compassion in you.
Instead of focusing on differences, pay attention to similarities and start from there. If you notice a stranger humming a song you like, comment on it. You might say, "Wow, that's one of my favorite songs. Seems like we might have similar taste in music. What other artists do you listen to?"

, When others talk to you, don’t interrupt or judge them. Instead, just focus on what they are saying. Be receptive to their tone, body language, and emotions, not just their words. Try to understand where they are coming from.Active listening involves using strategies like paraphrasing or summarizing (e.g. "Sounds like you're saying...") to make sure you understood the other person's message. You can also ask clarifying questions about the message to show you're listening.
 Reaching out to help others isn’t just a good way to demonstrate compassion – it can also alleviate your depression. Consider whether your friends, family, or coworkers could use a helping hand with anything, and let them know you’re available.Helping strangers can also boost your mood and compassion levels. Buy a homeless person a coffee, leave a big tip for the waitress at a restaurant, or help someone shovel snow from their driveway.
Volunteering for a good cause is another way to practice compassion, make a difference in the world, and lift your own mood at the same time.
 Sometimes you may not know what to say or do to help someone feel better. If the situation is appropriate for touch and the person seems receptive, a hug can be more comforting and meaningful than words., Practicing self-compassion means treating yourself with the same kindness and understanding as you would a friend. It is not the same as being self-centered or indulgent.Being compassionate with yourself means acknowledging your own humanity and forgiving yourself for your normal, human imperfections.
When you are depressed, being kind and forgiving with yourself is the key to re-learning how to be compassionate with other people.
 Do you mentally beat yourself up when you do something wrong? Rethink your harsh self-talk – it isn’t a productive way to deal with mistakes. Critical mental chatter erodes your sense of self-worth and makes you feel demoralized. Instead, talk to yourself the way you’d talk to a loved one after they experience a setback.When you are able to learn how to improve your own self-talk, your thoughts and interactions with others will improve also.


Negative self-talk sounds like "You're a loser" or "You never get things done." On the contrary, positive self-talk may sound like "You are doing the best you can." Noticing when your thoughts are negative and modifying them can help you feel better about yourself and others.
You can have standards for yourself and still talk to yourself kindly. Being encouraging and gentle to yourself is a more effective strategy than tearing yourself down.
 Depression often involves painful emotions. Don’t try to shut them out. Instead, experience them without judging or shaming yourself for it.Accepting your emotions is a good way to practice mindfulness. Mindfulness – experiencing the present moment without judgment – is a crucial part of developing compassion, both for yourself and for others.
If you have the belief that you should suppress your emotions, you will wrongly judge others when they express their emotions. Learning to be more accepting about your own emotional state allows you to extend that acceptance to others.
 Your needs matter just as much as anyone else’s. Try to get enough sleep, eat nutritious foods, and exercise for a few minutes every day.Doing these things gives you a more positive outlook about life, and you'll feel more capable to be a better friend, partner, or family member.


Depression can make it hard to keep up with a self-care routine, but you will feel better if you take care of your health and hygiene.
 Meditation is a powerful way to rebuild the habit of compassion in your brain. Incorporate a short meditation session into your daily routine, and focus on generating kind thoughts towards yourself and others. This simple practice can help you feel more compassionate, even when you’re not meditating.Many guided meditations for developing compassion are available on YouTube.
 Compassion is more than just a sentimental feeling. It involves recognizing another person’s suffering and wanting to help relieve their pain. A compassionate mindset requires empathy and the recognition of every person’s common humanity.Depression can be an obstacle to compassion because it isolates sufferers emotionally. However, intentionally cultivating a compassionate mindset can help you break free from depression.
 Empathy involves feeling another person’s emotions as though they were your own. Compassion, on the other hand, involves caring about another’s emotions, but doesn’t necessarily mean you feel those emotions yourself.For instance, if you feel intensely sad watching another person cry, you’re experiencing empathy. If you understand how the person is feeling and you feel driven to help them, you’re experiencing compassion.
Empathy and compassion are linked. Compassion almost always involves an element of empathy.
 Altruism is behavior that helps other people in some way. It is often motivated by empathy or compassion, but doesn’t have to be.For instance, someone might behave in an altruistic way because of social pressure, not because they really want to help others.
 Having compassion for yourself and others is one of the most effective ways to reconnect with the world when you are suffering from depression. A compassionate mindset can lower your stress levels, boost your happiness, and improve your relationships.