 Before you begin making the tart set the oven to 180ยบ C / 360ยบ F.;
, Take the ready-made dough and very carefully fit it onto the tart mould, being careful not to rip it. Make sure it is fitted along the whole bottom of the pan. To ensure this, lift up on the sides and gently press the dough against the pan.
 Use a fork and make pricks into the tart crust, covering the entire bottom just as the photo shows. This will keep the dough from rising.
 Place some aluminium paper on top of the dough and then fill the mould with the beans. This is done to stop the dough from rising during baking. Place it into the oven and bake for 20-25 minutes. This process is known as "blind baking."

, Since the tart has no actual cooking time, the crust has to be brown on top before it is filled with the chocolate. If it is not yet brown, return the empty shell to the oven for about 5 minutes.
 Place a stainless steel mixing bowl over a pot of simmering water, making sure that the bottom of the bowl does not come into contact with the water. Now introduce the chocolate into the bowl and wait for it to melt. You can give it a quick stir to help it along. When thoroughly melted, leave the bowl over the hot water and remove it from the heat.
 Add the cream, the milk, the brandy, and the salt to a saucepan and warm them up over a medium heat. Take special care not to let it boil.
 Next, whisk the eggs in a small bowl and combine them with the milk. Now strain the hot milk mixture into the melted chocolate, whisking gently to combine it thoroughly but taking special care not to add any excess air into the mixture. The filling needs to be dense, not fluffy.
 You are now ready to put the tart together. Carefully pour the chocolate filling into the shell. Your chocolate tart is ready for the oven.
 Let it cook for five minutes and then turn off the heat. Now leave it inside the oven for about 40 minutes more. When that time has passed, take it out and place it in the refrigerator to chill for at least 3 hours.
 Once the tart is cooled, carefully remove it from the mould and serve it. It goes well with whipped cream or any type of ice cream.

