 Sprinkle the yeast over the water and stir until it dissolves.


Use a large metal bowl that can contain all of the ingredients.
The yeast should start to foam as it reacts with the water. If it doesn't, you may need a new packet of yeast.
 Stir the mixture as you add flour, always in the same direction. Continue stirring for one minute to activate the gluten in the flour. Let the mixture rest for at least 15 minutes.
 Turn the dough out onto a floured surface and knead it for 10 minutes. Place it in an oiled bowl, cover it with plastic wrap, and let it rise until it has doubled in size.


The bread should be elastic and smooth when you are finished kneading it. If it's still sticky, keep kneading.






Place the bowl in a warm spot in your kitchen to let it rise. It will rise much more slowly if it's kept too cool.
 Divide the dough into 14 equal parts. Form the dough pieces into balls and place them on a floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll them into flat pita shapes.


If you want larger or smaller pitas, divide the dough into either more or fewer parts.
If you don't want to make so many pitas at once, you can store the unused dough in the refrigerator for up to a week, and use it whenever you want fresh pitas.
 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius). Place a two stacked baking sheets on the bottom rack of the oven and allow it to heat completely.


You can also use a baking stone to make pitas. Place the stone on the bottom rack and allow it to heat.
If you don't have two baking sheets to stack, you can use one. The pitas won't cook quite as evenly but they will still taste delicious.
 Open the oven and place two to four pitas on the baking sheet, depending on the size you made them. Close the oven and allow them to bake for about four minutes, until they puff up. Remove them from the oven and allow them to cool.


If your pitas don't puff, that's okay. They'll still make great pita chips.






Baking too many pitas at once will prevent them from cooking quickly enough, so don't overfill the oven.
Take care to remove the pitas after four minutes, or they will burn.
 Now that you have fresh pita, make pita chips with the bread you don't use for wraps. Follow these steps for making pita chips:

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius).






Slice the fresh pitas into chip-sized triangles.






Place them on a baking sheet, brush them with olive oil, and season them with the spices of your choice.






Bake the pita slices for five or so minutes, until they crisp up into chips.






Serve hot or store in airtight food storage containers for later use.







