 For this project you will need your loom, different colored rubber bands, a hook, a keychain ring, and some letters with rings to attach to your bracelet. Use the same amount of letters as you do the colors of your rubber bands. For a simplified version, choose three letters and three colors.


You can usually find letters like these in the jewelry section of a craft store or craft department. The rings are usually what go on the chain of a necklace or bracelet, but you will be inserting the rubber bands into the rings.You could do your initials, or spell out "mom" or "bff." Get creative with it and do whatever letters you want.
 To do this particular project, position your loom so that it is long vertically. Turn it so that the arrow on the loom points toward you and then pop out the middle row of pegs. Take the pieces underneath your pegs that are holding them together and pop them out. Then position them so that they are three pegs away from the end of your loom. You will be working with the bottom four pegs.At this point you should see two rows of pegs with a wide gap between them. The pegs are shaped like a horseshoe, and the opening of the horseshoe should be facing you.
 Take your rubber band and slide it through the ring of your first letter. Your letter should be in the middle of your rubber band and two loops of your rubber band will be on each side of your letter.If you don't want to use letters, simply twist your rubber band to a figure eight shape and place the bottom of the eight on the bottom left peg, and the top of the eight on the top left peg. You can continue to do this with the other bands, twisting your rubber bands into figure eights instead of adding the letters. You basically just need something in the middle of the band to hold it together.
 Take the left side of your rubber band and place it on the bottom left peg. Then, stretch it across, with the letter still in the middle of it, until you reach the top left peg. Then, place your next letter through another one of your rubber bands, using the same color rubber band., Take the left side of your second rubber band and place it on the top left peg, on top of your previous rubber band. Then, stretch it over to the top right peg and place the right side of your rubber band on that peg, leaving the letter in the middle.At this point the only peg you should have left is the bottom right peg. You should have a rubber band stretching from the bottom left up to the top left, and then, from the top left over to the top right. You should then have your first letter between the left pegs, and your second letter between the top left and right peg. Your final letter will be between the two right pegs.
 Using the same color rubber band, place it through your last letter. Then, place the left side of the rubber band on the top right peg, over the previous rubber band. Finally, take the right side of your rubber band and stretch it down to the bottom right peg, keeping the letter in the middle.Push your rubber bands down once you have added all three so that you can begin your next set of rubber bands. The letter charms should be pointing towards the middle.
 Take a rubber band of the same color and twist it into a figure eight shape. Then, place the bottom of the figure eight on the bottom right peg. Stretch the top of the figure eight across to the bottom left peg. At this point you should have created a square around your four pegs., Take your next color of bands and place them across the pegs. Stretch your first band from the bottom left peg to the top left peg. Stretch the second band from the top left peg to the top right peg. Then, stretch the third band from the top right peg to the bottom right peg. And finally, stretch your last peg from the bottom right peg to the bottom left peg.As you are placing your rubber bands, simply add them on top of the bands you have already placed. Each band that you place should be placed above the previous band you just placed.
 Repeat the same step, but with your third color. Stretch a band from the bottom left to top left peg. Then, stretch one from the top left to the top right peg. Stretch your third band from the top right to the bottom right peg. Finally, stretch your fourth band from the bottom right to the bottom left peg., Taking the very bottom band of your bottom left peg, bring it up and over all of your other rubber bands and over your peg using your hook. Then, take the bottom band on your top left peg and move it up and over all of the rubber bands and the peg., Staying on that same top left peg, take the next bottom band (it should be the same color as the first bottom band) and bring it up and over the top rubber bands and the top of your peg. Repeat this step on the top right peg and the bottom right peg, bringing the bottom rubber band up and over and then the remaining bottom band up and over., On your bottom left peg you should still have one remaining band of the first color your used. Bring that band up and over the top rubber bands and then over the top of your peg. At this point you should have four loops of rubber bands left on each one of your pegs.Once you do these steps, push your rubber bands down so that you can create more space to continue working.
 Use the same color you used for your very first set of rubber bands, and add a layer above the rest of your bands. Place the first band on your bottom left peg and then stretch it to your top left peg. Place another on your top left peg and stretch it to your top right peg. Place a third on your top right peg and stretch it to the bottom right peg. Finally, place a forth from your bottom right peg to your bottom left peg.
 Repeat the same step as before, bringing the first bottom rubber band on your bottom left peg over all of your rubber bands and over the peg. Then, on the top left peg bring the bottom rubber band up and over and then bring the next bottom rubber band up and over. On the top right and bottom right peg you will do the same thing. Then, finally on the bottom left peg bring the last bottom band up and over.On this step you should be bringing the second color you originally added up and over the rest of your colors. If you get confused as to what rubber bands to bring up and over, just pay attention to the colors. Make sure you are just working on one color. You shouldn't be messing with any of the other colors until the next step.
Once again, push your rubber bands down to continue working.
 You will now do this same process until you have your desired length. Add your next layer of rubber bands, using the same color as the color you just brought up and over the rubber bands. Then, bring the bottom rubber bands up and over and add the next color. Continue to repeat the steps to create a long chain.You will always add a layer of rubber bands that matches the previous layer of rubber bands you just used. If color three was just on the bottom and you brought it up and over the pegs, you will then add a layer of color three rubber bands, stretching them from the bottom left pegs all the way around and back to the bottom left peg.
Remember when you start to bring the bottom rubber bands over the pegs to move only one on the first bottom left peg. You will move both of the bottom bands on the next three pegs. Then you will move the final bottom band on the left peg up and over. Make sure to do this throughout.
 Once you have your desired length, bring the bottom row of bands up and over the top as you normally would. Then, instead of adding another layer of rubber bands, take the next bottom rubber bands and bring them up and over, repeating the same up and over process as you normally would.After you have completed this step you should only have one color of rubber bands left on your pegs. This set of rubber bands is what you will use to connect your key ring.
 Take your hook and stick it under the rubber bands on the bottom left peg, moving the hook upwards. Then, once the rubber bands are secure around the hook, gently bring them up over the peg, keeping them on the hook. Then, place your hook under the rubber bands on the top left peg and bring them up and over the peg, keeping them on the hook. Repeat this step on the last two pegs.Once you have finished this step you should have eight loops of rubber bands around your hook, with no bands left on the pegs.
 Open up your key ring, as if you are about to put it on another key ring, and place the open end through the bands on your hook. Make sure you get all of the bands on the ring, because if you don't your chain could begin to fall apart. Once they are on the ring, slide them around and then pull your hook off. Now you have a cute keychain!