 Set down the details while they are fresh in your mind, and leave the note in a place where you'll see it again. Put notes on your fridge, or tape them to your mirror, or use a bulletin board in a prominent part of your home or office. Consider using a note-saving app on your phone or computer.If you need to remember an event, write the details on a small piece of paper or post-it note. Then, stick it on your fridge with a magnet. Include the date, the time, and the place.
In a pinch, try texting or emailing yourself. Send a quick text to your own number: "Meeting with Peter: Wednesday at 2pm." Later, when you check your messages, you can move the note to a more visible location.
Write in on your hand or your arm. If the note is particularly urgent, place it somewhere that you cannot ignore it.
 If you need to remember a whole range of things, group them all together into a progression or a flowchart. Organize the items in an order and scheme that makes logical sense to you. Try listing things in order of when they need to be done. Try ranking tasks by their importance, or by their relevance to your goals for a given day. Check off items on the list as you complete them.


Make day-to-day lists to keep yourself accountable. Write a shopping list before you go to the grocery store, or write a list of your goals at the beginning of each work day. Try making a list before you go to sleep each night: set your goals and intentions for the next day, and chart out when you'll complete each task.
 Try writing addresses, phone numbers, birthdays, and other information into a physical or digital book so that you can recall them easily. You can even save much of this information to a person's "Contact" page in your phone or email account. Most apps and devices will automatically save your contact information for you. However, it might help you to store all of these various things in one place.
 If you have trouble remember appointments, plans, and important days, you can mark them ahead of time on a calendar. For day-to-day tasks, there are pre-made planners—essentially, productivity journals—with dates and times marked out on each page. You can chart your days, your tasks, your appointments, your assignments out in these pages. If you're diligent, you might dramatically reduce the amount of things that you miss.


Try using a planner or task-setting app. There are various applications and websites that help you chart out your days, weeks, and months. Consider automating parts of your memory so that your devices remind you of important things.Don't worry if the planner-or-calendar strategy doesn't appeal to you. This sort of rigorous planning isn't for everyone, and it certainly isn't the only way to remember things.
You can buy a planner in most paper and office-supply stores. Consider using a planning app to integrate your intentions with your devices.

