 Pricing on hunting rifles can vary greatly depending on the region you shop in and the store you choose to purchase the rifle from. Arm yourself with as much information about the rifle you want as you can before walking into a store to make a purchase. It can be easy to overpay for a rifle if you aren’t aware of its fair market price.Some firearms stores operate similarly to car dealerships in that the prices are set a bit high, but you may be able to talk them down. This is particularly true for used firearms.
Being knowledgeable about the purchase beforehand will help ensure you get a good price.;
, You may have your heart set on a specific rifle on paper, but when you seat it in your shoulder you realize that it feels all wrong. Being able to hold and maneuver your rifle comfortably is imperative to hunting. Not only do you need to be able to establish a comfortable natural point of aim, but the weight must be something you can easily carry and manage while aiming. If the weapon is not comfortable or too heavy, you may need to reassess your choices.Always check to make sure the weapon is not loaded before pointing it in any direction.
Seat the rifle in your shoulder and raise it so you can see where you cheek falls on the stock and if you are able to support the weight of the rifle comfortably. Make sure you do so in a direction where no one is standing.
 Some firearm dealers have on site shooting ranges that you can use to test fire weapons. While you likely will not be able to fire the specific rifle you intend to purchase (if it’s new) you may be able to fire the same make and model rifle to get a feel for the weight, ease of use, and recoil.You can also ask for a demonstration on how to properly load and unload the rifle.
Pay close attention to the recoil of the rifle. If it hurts to fire, you may want to choose a lower caliber weapon.
 When you’ve chosen the right rifle for you, you will need to complete a Form 4473. Depending on the location you purchase your hunting rifle, you may need to complete it on paper or using a computer. The Form 4473 contains sixteen questions relating to your background, history of drug use and criminal history. You will also need to provide proof of identification, contact information and your Social Security number. The result may come back approved, delayed or denied. The information you provide will be run through the federal database by NCIS to assess if you are legally permitted to purchase a firearm.
In some states, you can take a hunting rifle home the day of purchase with an approved background check.
If your background check is delayed, you will not be able to pick up your weapon until it has come back approved.
 If the hunting rifle you choose does not come with a scope, you may want to consider purchasing one. While some hunters prefer to hunt using “iron sights,” or the metal front sight tip and rear sight aperture on the barrel, most prefer using optics that provide some degree of magnification. Choose a rifle scope based on the distances you intend to hunt from and the type of rifle you purchased.Rifle scopes rated at 3x9 are the most common choices for beginner and experienced hunters alike.
The numbers in a rifle scope magnification rating represent the range it can magnify. 3X9 scopes can be set to three times or up to nine times magnification.
 Depending on where you live and the background check process, you may need to wait anywhere from one to ten days before picking up your rifle. Upon the purchase of the rifle, the firearm store will notify you of how long you will need to wait before returning. After the prescribed period of time, you may come back with the receipt and take ownership of the weapon.Hawaii requires a wait of fourteen days, but all other states in the U.S. require ten days or fewer.
In some states, having a license to carry a concealed weapon precludes you from the waiting period.
 If you purchased your firearm from another person rather than a business, you should ensure you are adhering to the laws in the area you live in. Eight states in the United States require background checks and other documentation to be submitted for private sales of firearms.While the responsibility is on the seller to ensure they adhere to state and federal laws when selling you a firearm, you should be aware of the legal requirements as well.

