 To start a book you need to be out. Being out and about stimulates your mind and creates ideas you wouldn't be able to think about if you were sat at a desk. Whether you're on the train, on a walk or even talking to a friend. You might want to take a notebook with you wherever you go - take a very small one, as you never know when any phrases or titles may come up.;
, A great many people start a book and think of the title later. Although this may work for some people, some think of a good title - purely randomly, and then know what the story is going to be about. For example if you think up the title 'Sophie's Life' or 'Fly Fishing' you're not going to write a book about a man called Steve who works at a garage. Titles tend to crop up at unusual times but keeping a note can be extremely helpful when it comes to getting a book started.
 A lot of people make this mistake. By rushing to a computer as soon as you've thought of one thing will just end in disappointment when the idea doesn't get off the ground. Instead, write a plan down in a book, gathering ideas, characters and settings before you sit in front of a computer and type. Some of these are irrelevant if your book is non-fiction. Research is more important than thinking of characters if you intend to start, and stick to, writing a non-fiction book.
 When you get to this step you should have a good idea about what you're going to write about. A lot of people say that the start is the most difficult part. Well if you follow the steps above, you should only be sitting in front of your computer when you've got notes, characters and general plot ideas. By this time you'll have so much to write about you won't fall at the first hurdle.
 By this step you should be in full swing. The best way to stick to a book is again to go out! When you're out seeing sights and having fun - even if you're just going to work, it counts as being out - ideas will crop up in the most unusual places! Note down the ideas, and put them into the text you've already written when you are back by your computer. The best way to stick to a book is to keep an open eye out for ideas in general life. The best books contain people's thoughts, emotions and lifestyles, which you are seeing everyday.
 You can wake up each morning with the choice of who you want to be today - and that is one of the best feelings in the world!

