 A USB port can usually be identified by its icon, which looks like a trident with an arrow, a circle, and a square.;
, A microphone input will likely have a tiny microphone etched icon next to it and/or have a light red ring around it.
 Usually, you'll plug either the light red connector or the one labeled as the microphone into your computer's microphone jack.


The other connector may be plugged in to your computer's speaker output if you wish, but you may not want to if you already have speakers connected to your computer and do not wish for all your audio to come out of your headset.
 Your computer must have a special input that is labeled with either a headset or both a microphone and headphones in order to receive this connector. Adapters that convert these plugs to USB or two separate jacks do exist, but are usually purchased separately.
 If you are using a Bluetooth microphone, make sure that your computer has a working Bluetooth receiver, then follow the directions that came with your microphone or headset to connect it to your computer's Bluetooth receiver.
, Click on “Manage audio devices” in the results to open the Sound control panel., On the Sound control panel, click on the Recording tab. If you have correctly connected your microphone to your computer, your microphone will be listed here with a green check mark on the bottom right of its icon. If you see multiple connected devices, blow into the microphone you want to use and watch for green bars to react, indicating that mic is picking up the noise. Once you can confirm your microphone is listed here and picking up sound, you are ready to use your microphone.
 If you are sure that you have your microphone correctly connected to your computer, but you do not see it listed, right click anywhere on the list and select Show Disabled Devices. Right click and Enable any disabled Microphone or Line In, and test your mic again by blowing into it., After using your microphone for a while, you may want to increase or decrease the volume it picks up your voice with. This can be done within individual programs that use your mic, but if you find yourself consistently loud or quiet, you can adjust your microphone levels from the Sound control panel. On the Start screen, click the Search button and enter manage audio devices. Click on “Manage audio devices” in the results to open the Sound control panel.
 On the Sound control panel, click on the Recording tab, select your microphone and click Properties.
 In Microphone Properties, click on the Levels tab and move the slider to adjust your levels. Move it to the right to make your mic louder and move it to the left to make your mic quieter.

