 You can play Minecraft offline, but you cannot download an update unless your computer has an internet connection.
 Close Minecraft and open the launcher again. You should see a "Choose Profile" option on the bottom left. Select your default profile, and your update should download automatically. If it does not, click New Profile. In the options that appear, look for "use version," and select "Use Latest Version" from the drop-down menu next to it., If you are using an unofficial method to connect to a Minecraft server, it may not work following an update.Instead, download the official Minecraft launcher directly from minecraft.net, then open that launcher. This should always update automatically, as long as you are connected to the internet.
 If you are connected to the internet but cannot get the update to start, a firewall may be blocking the download. Read the instructions here to find out how to disable your firewall for your operating system. Once the update is complete, you can enable it again.


If you have antivirus software installed, you may need to temporarily disable that as well.
 Click on Options directly above the Login button. Click on Force Update!, then Done to redownload every single game file.This can take much longer than an ordinary update.


This may remove any mods you have updated, but it should keep your saves and texture packs., If there is an update or a specific feature you expected that you do not see, it's possible you heard about an update for a different version of the game (such as Minecraft for Xbox), or that the feature was teased by the Minecraft creators but isn't actually available yet.


For the official list of updates, follow the Mojang blog, or read the community-written wiki page.
For features that have been announced but haven't yet been released, see here.
 If you still are unable to update to the latest version of Minecraft, there are several ways to contact someone for advice. Check out these links to ask other players for help through chat or forums, or to report a bug.

