 It's in Skyrim's south-east corner. You can fast-travel there by opening your map and selecting Riften.

If you haven't yet visited Riften, you can instead pay a horse-drawn carriage outside of Whiterun or one of the other major cities to take you there.
You may already have an Amulet of Mara if you've explored a few of Skyrim's dungeons. Be sure to check for it in your inventory before proceeding.;
, It's located toward the far end of Riften., He's usually located in the Temple of Mara; if you arrive late at night, you may have to wait until noon or so the following day before he'll appear.If you still can't find him in the temple, he's most likely at the Bee and Bard pub, which is across the minor bridge in the middle of Riften.
 Maramal will respond by elaborating on Mara's lore.

You can skip his dialogue by clicking the mouse button (or by pressing the A or X button on consoles).
 option. This will prompt Maramal to ask whether or not you're familiar with marriage in Skyrim., Maramal will explain how marriage works in Skyrim., This will require you to have at least 200 gold on you. As long as you can afford the amulet, Maramal will add it to your inventory., After doing so, you're ready to begin searching for a spouse., People whom you can marry will express delight when you pass them or speak with them, but you can find a full list of marriage-eligible NPCs here: http://elderscrolls.wikia.com/wiki/Marriage.In some cases, you'll need to carry out a quest for your selected person before you can continue.
If the person is a hireable follower, you'll likely just need to purchase their services.
 option. The NPC will respond affirmatively., I am." option. This will solidify the marriage agreement between you and the NPC., You'll be able to fast-travel there., He'll be in either the Bee and Bard pub or the Temple of Mara., Maramal will respond by letting you know that the wedding will take place between dawn and dusk the following day., You can expedite the waiting period by pressing the "Wait" button (T on PC and "Back" on a controller) and selecting the appropriate number of hours from the current time until around 8:00 AM the following day.

If you miss your wedding window, you must find your spouse and apologize to them, then set up a new wedding time with Maramal.
 This will trigger a third-person cutscene in which Maramal marries you and the NPC., Now and forever." option. Doing so will complete the marriage.