 If you have been volunteering or shadowing, ask whether that organization has any available positions. Even if they don’t, they may be glad to put you in touch with friends, business partners, or colleagues with an opening who will be glad to have a personal referral.


In addition, let friends, family members, neighbors, fellow students, and pretty much everyone you meet know that you are looking for work as a mental health technician.
Use online professional networking sites like LinkedIn to post your resume and see whether people you know may be able to point you toward your next job.
 Online job search engines, the newspaper, and even billboards at local mental health facilities can be excellent ways to find out what a wide variety of local companies have announced as job openings.


Consider multiple ways to phrase the type of mental health technician position you are hoping to get, and scan anything you are even remotely qualified for to decide whether to apply.
Set up automatic searches and email notifications with keywords like “mental health tech,” “behavioral tech,” “psychiatric,” “counselor,” or any other terms that will locate new jobs in your field – most websites can send them to you daily or weekly according to your preferences.
 Psychiatric wards, rehabilitation centers, local and state public health agencies, community clinics, charitable organizations, private psychiatric offices, alternative therapy clinics, and hospitals may all have relevant mental health technician positions.


If you cannot find information about job openings on their website, consider calling and asking politely if they are hiring.
You may wish to visit in person with a copy of your resume and a general cover letter explaining your wish to work as a mental health technician, describing your passion for the field and your most pertinent experience or education.
 Be vocal about your education, experience, and excitement for working as a mental health technician.


Find ways to describe past work experience as relevant mental health technician experience; for instance, customer service experience can translate to comfort working with a wide variety of people (good for working with patients), bartending can be billed as experience listening to people’s concerns and intimate problems, and being a college resident assistant can count as experience counseling homesick students and identifying alcohol abuse.

