 This a good neutral stance and is perfect for getting you going once the music comes on. Make sure the "Stanky Legg" is about to start playing. Now, you can choose whether you want to have a "something in here stanks" look on your face or not; some people think it adds something to the dance, while others think it's just not sexy.;
, Plant it on the ground. You can alternately start with your right foot if you want -- what's important is that you keep switching legs.
 That means you should lean towards your right foot with your body and arms.
 For now, your right leg is the "stanky" leg -- the leg that just doesn't work right. While you should have planted your left foot down, you should be standing on the inner side of your right foot. Move that foot in a circle, so that your knee almost turns to face your left planted foot. Yeah, this will feel a little weird, and it should.
 You can do whatever you want with your arms, as long as you move them to the beat of the music, leaning them toward the non-stanky leg along with the rest of your body. The most common thing to do, and what is done in the video, is to move your arms up a bit, like you're flapping your wings, and then move them in and cross them. Repeat this one more time before you switch legs, making sure to move your whole body to the beat.


So: move your stanky leg in a circular motion, move your arms up and down twice, and keep your normal leg planted before you switch.
 Now, your left leg will become the stanky leg and your right leg will become your planted leg, so make sure to plant that leg firmly. You can switch legs simply by leaning your body over to your other side, by stepping your stanky leg behind you and stepping your non-stanky leg out before you switch, so your legs are in line with your shoulders, or you can even make it a more subtle motion, by keeping your torso more upright when you switch.
 Once you've moved on the other leg for at least two beats, you can switch right back to the first leg being the stanky leg. You don't have to switch after you've moved your arms up and down twice; you can stick to one leg for a few extra beats if you want, as long as you do what feels good. The Stanky Leg isn't like the Electric Slide, where every little move is coordinated. It's all about having fun; as long as you have one stanky leg, you can do whatever you want with your body.
 Guys can lean forward toward the non-stanky leg in an exaggerated manner, and even move the non-stanky leg forward in front of the stanky leg instead of to the side of it. Girls can shake their booties a bit more, working their hands above their heads and down below their necks to make the dance a little more sexy. And anyone can even drop by squatting down for a second and then popping back up before you switch legs. Once you've got the leg work down, the rest is up to you. You can also add elements of the Dougie dance while you do the stanky leg. Now go out on the dance floor and show off what you've got!

