 Endometriosis is when endometrial tissue grows outside of the uterus. The tissue may grow around the uterus or even spread to other parts of your abdomen. Painful periods and cramps that last for several days are the main symptom of this condition, but symptoms can also include:Pain when you have sex.
Pain when you have a bowel movement or urinate, especially during your period.
Excessive bleeding during your period or between periods.
Infertility.
Other less serious symptoms, such as bloating, diarrhea or constipation, nausea, and fatigue.
 Adenomyosis is a condition that causes endometrial glands to grow too deeply within the uterine muscular wall. This can lead to an enlarged uterus, painful periods, and other symptoms as well. Some women with adenomyosis have no symptoms, but symptoms may include:Periods that are heavy or that last a long time.
Stabbing pain in your pelvis or severe cramps.
Cramps that worsen as you get older.
Pain during sex.
Blood clots that you pass during your period.
Swelling in your abdomen due to an enlarged uterus.
 Pelvic inflammatory disease often results from a sexually transmitted disease and it causes an infection of a woman’s reproductive organs. This condition can cause painful cramps. Other symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease may include:Pelvic pain.
Fever.
Foul smelling discharge coming from your vagina.
Pain and/or bleeding during sex.
A burning sensation during urination.
Bleeding between your periods.
 Cervical stenosis is when the opening of the cervix is narrower than is normal. Some women who are past menopause may have cervical stenosis without any symptoms. However, symptoms of cervical stenosis may include:Not having a period.
Having painful periods.
Having abnormal bleeding, such as between periods.
Infertility.
A lump in the pelvic area caused by a bulge in the uterus.
 Uterine fibroids are muscular tumors that grow in the uterine walls. They are often benign and cause no symptoms. However, tumors, cysts, and malformations can also cause secondary dysmenorrhea, which is why it is important to talk to your gynecologist if you have a sudden onset of severe or ongoing menstrual cramps..If you do have symptoms of uterine fibroids, then some of the symptoms may include:Bleeding heavily during your period.
Having an enlarged abdomen and/or a feeling of fullness in your lower abdomen.
Urinating frequently.
Experiencing pain during sex.
Having pain in your lower back.
Having difficulty giving birth or requiring a cesarean section.
Being infertile (rare).
 Intrauterine devices, also known as IUDs can also cause secondary dysmenorrhea.If you have one of these birth control devices and it is causing you severe pain, then talk to your gynecologist.


Copper IUDs are more likely to cause severe pain than other types of IUDs.