 Abstinence is a method used by many people to prevent pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases.It can be practiced in a variety of ways for many reasons. No one definition is the right one, but the overarching theme and purpose for abstinence is to prevent pregnancies and STDs.


Outercourse is a form of abstinence where people abstain or avoid vaginal sexual intercourse. This means all other forms of sexual intercourse or play can be practiced.
Abstinence can also be defined by not engaging in any sexual activities with a partner.;
, Keeping sperm from reaching the vagina is an effective way to prevent pregnancies. Instead of engaging in sexual intercourse that includes vaginal penetration by the penis, try:Kissing
Masturbating
Fondling
Rubbing
Acting out sexual fantasies
Using sex toys
Oral sex
Anal sex

, Many people find it difficult, but when it comes to preventing pregnancy it is the cheapest and most effective way not to have a baby. It also has no medical or hormonal side effects compared to other methods that help prevent pregnancies.


The benefits of practicing abstinence can go beyond preventing unintended pregnancies. Abstinence can be practiced until you're ready to have sex or until you have found the right partner to have sex with. It can be a way for you to be in a romantic relationship without being sexually active. Or it can serve to symbolize a moral or religious choice.
The disadvantages to abstinence come from people who find it hard to abstain from sex and who jump into sex without properly educating themselves or protecting themselves against pregnancies and STDs.
 It can be difficult to be in or continue to be in a relationship with someone who does not believe in being abstinent. It's best to speak to your partner about your choice and explain to them what abstinence is and why you have chosen to practice it.


Talk to your partner before things get sexual. It's always helpful and important to communicate with your partner what you expect from a relationship and what boundaries you may or may not have. Determining what is allowed or appropriate within your relationship can help clarify and prevent misunderstandings when you engage in any sexual activity.
Being abstinent is not forever unless you want it to be. Your relationship and beliefs can change with time or experience.

