 If you haven’t tried already, ignore your dog completely when it barks. Chances are, you give it some form of attention when it starts barking at neighbors or passersby. Your dog interprets this attention as a form of reward, which reinforces the noisy behavior.Don’t look at, touch, talk to, or otherwise give it any attention whatsoever while it barks.
Have a small food treat handy. As soon as it stops barking, give it the treat and some verbal praise. If you reward it as soon as it becomes quiet, it will associate calming down with the reward.;
, Clicker training is a positive reinforcement training method that has proven to be very successful for training dogs and other animals. Rewarding your dog for what they do right is much more effective than punishing them for what they do wrong. By clicking the clicker right when the dog does what they’re supposed to and then giving them a treat, you can clearly communicate to the dog what they’re being rewarded for., You can also train your dog to follow a command word such as “Quiet” or “Enough.” When it barks, say “Quiet” or “Enough” clearly and calmly, and use the same tone of voice every time you give the command.Reward quiet behavior with pea-sized treats, and keep offering a constant stream of treats for as long as the dog remains quiet.
Proceed with this sequence each time it barks, and keep track of its progress over the course of 10 or 20 repetitions.
 If significant time goes by and command word training isn’t successful, make a startling noise to get your dog’s attention. Shake a set of keys or rattle an empty can filled with pennies.If you succeed at getting its attention, tell it to come, then give it a treat if it remains quiet.
Don’t substitute the noise of metal for shouting, or the noise training won’t be effective.
 If your dog routinely barks excessively, it might have a case of canine boredom or need more exercise. Increase the length of its walks, or add another walk to its daily routine.Most dogs require at least a combined hour of exercise per day. For example, you can combine a half hour-long brisk walk with a couple shorter walks to total an hour for that day. Larger, more active breeds, like working dogs or sporting breeds, need more. Consult your vet to put together an exercise plan that accounts for your dog's specific health and breed requirements.
Try playing more games that offer both physical and mental stimulation, like fetch and hiding a toy or treat.
When it barks, try distracting it with a toy, having it perform a trick, or follow some other command word such as sit or come.

