 The technical degree is not specific, but emphasis is placed on the field of engineering. The skills highly sought are advance:


Physics
Math
Physiology
Computers
Orbital mechanics
Power generation;
, All applicants must:


Be a United States citizen or legal resident.
Pass a criminal history background check.
Meet age requirements for employment.
 To apply for a position with the space program:


Create an on-line profile account to receive job notices.
Upload or create a new resume on line or mail to the service center.
After selecting a vacant position, click apply on line button.
Review and submit your resume to begin the application process.
Respond to questions to continue with the application process.
Use the web site help button if you need assistance.
Provide information regarding technical qualifications.
Download an application and follow instructions if applying by mail.
Forward your transcripts for review and verification.
Give veteran preference information to earn points.
 Flight controllers gain experience by using simulators that replicate plane or space shuttle movements. The controller gains valuable knowledge from the computer-generated program.
 The flight controller is not only responsible for payload operations and the overall planned mission success from start to finish, but must ensure the safety of the astronauts.


A flight controller assists the flight director and must be prepared to take charge in emergency situations.
An emergency plan must be in place and available to authorized personnel.
Simulated emergency and disaster drills are scheduled regularly to ensure compliance.
 The flight controller creed endorses discipline, competence, confidence, responsibility and toughness.
 Several factors must be met to meet the required job demands. These factors include:


Training extensively on the job to achieve understanding of new technology and equipment.
Developing excellent communication skills.
Acquiring and maintaining excellent organizational skills.
