 What kind of web show do you want to do on YouTube? There are a lot to choose from. Here is a list of categories you can choose from if you're stuck.


Comedy
Talk show
News/Journalism
Music shows
Reality
Soap opera
Live action
How-to's
Random
Drama
Animated series
Anime;
, It should be something memorable, and relevant. Don't copy any other show's name; Make the name of your YouTube web show unique.
 An animation series needs a well-running computer and software, whilst a cameras will be better for talk shows.
 When you are coming up with ideas, make sure each episode has a point to make, and has an interesting plot line so people will want to watch.
 You could do your web show alone or have a crew.


If possible, having a crew is highly recommended. You will need:
Tech-producer(s)
co-Host(s)
The main host, which is you.
, Gather your web show stars and have a meeting. At the meeting, discuss the following:


Is it a daily, weekly or a monthly web show?
What days is your web show airing?
What kind of web show is it?
When does rehearsal begin?
Do we have the proper things we'll need (See the "Things You'll Need" section)
What will our YouTube account be named?
Create a script.
Proofread the script.
Organize any props needed.
 Don't just sit there with white walls in the background. Create an awesome set like in the popular Nickelodeon show iCarly. Make your set unique.
 No one is going to watch your show if they don't know about it. Advertise it in your school, work and on the internet!

, Start planning out unique segments for your web show.
 Rehearse at least two times before you shoot your web show. You might want to use cue cards.
 Have a great time shooting your first webisode. Relax and have fun. If you or any of the stars make a mistake, start over. You can't do a live web show on YouTube so shoot your web show at least one week before you're uploading it on YouTube.
, Make sure it's under 15 minutes if your account hasn't been verified yet. That's a YouTube rule.
 Shoot more of your web show webisodes and upload it into YouTube every day, week, month and so on. Just make sure to keep an upload schedule so that you aren't early or late.
