 Men who are serious about a relationship talk about the future and your role in it. Men who aren’t avoid the subject like the plague. He’s likely not planning on spending too much time with you if he doesn’t include you in the time ahead.


For instance, if he refuses to talk about if he wants children or believes in marriage, he’s probably not in it for the long haul. He’s probably only planning to stick around for the time being, despite what he may tell you.;
, He may tell you he wants a serious relationship, but his actions could prove otherwise. People who consider themselves to be a couple generally check in with the other person before making plans. Or, at least, they let the other person know. Your man may not be as serious as he claims if he doesn’t consider your plans when he’s making his.


A red flag your significant other is full of it is if he goes away for the weekend and doesn’t tell you about it. Or, if he makes significant plans that could potentially affect you and doesn’t inform you of them. You’re not a factor in his mind if he doesn’t consider you when making these plans., Are you his “go-to” when it comes to bringing a date somewhere? If not, there’s a chance he’s not into the relationship as much as you may want. There shouldn’t be any question, particularly in a date situation, that you are his tag along. He’s probably full of it if there is.


You may want to reconsider your relationship if he is taking other romantic interests to functions, especially if you think you are exclusive., People who have nothing to hide are pretty transparent. Those who constantly seem secretive, however, are probably full of it. He shouldn’t have to hide anything, unless he is lying about how he feels towards you.


For instance, if he doesn’t want to tell you where he’s been or what he’s doing when you’re not together, doesn’t want to talk about his friends or social circle, or you find out things he’s done after the fact, he may not be the person you hoped he was., A man who isn’t afraid to bring his romantic interests in front of his friends is someone who is serious about them. On the flip side, if you never hang out or aren’t even introduced to them, you may not be someone the guy wants to be seen with in front of them.


Not meeting his friends could be a sign that he is seeing other people, isn’t serious about you, or is embarrassed of you. You may want to reconsider your relationship if this is the case.This is only true if you have agreed on an exclusive relationship and have been seeing each other for a decent span of time. Your partner may not be interested in introducing you to friends and family if he hasn't known you long enough.
 You may have introduced him to everyone you know, including your family members. He, on the other hand, may have only introduced you to his pet fish. He may not be as serious as you or may not think you are important enough to introduce to his family if he hasn’t already.


Ask him if you are going to meet his family. If he agrees, then he may be the right person for you. If not and if he avoids the subject entirely, it may be time to move on if you are looking for something more serious.Again, keep in mind that meeting the parents (and other family) early on in a relationship is rare. If you and your beau have just started dating, give it a few months before pressuring him to meet the family.
 Everyone has a favorite restaurant, bar, or hangout. In fact, that may be where you first met. He may not want to be seen with you in public or take you to a place he commonly frequents if he doesn’t take you there.


Ask him why he doesn’t want to share his favorite places with you. You could say, “I know you love going to that bar down the street. Why don’t we go there sometime soon?” There’s likely a good chance he’s not looking for a commitment with you if he consistently declines.