 Often times, milestones are reminders of societal, familial, or individually-set expectations that you must, should, or want to comply with, and thus can seem imposing. Instead, you can choose to think of life not as milestones or easily divisible moments but as a broader continuum of experiences that you get to decide about.


There is also a lot of pressure embedded in the concept of “age:” how you should act, what you should be capable of doing, at what stage of your personal life or career you should be, and so forth.These guidelines can be helpful to a certain point, but if more than anything they are stressing you out, bid them adieu: age really is just a number.
Remember that you are the main driving force behind the decision of what you want to do and when you want to do it by.
 Meditation is known to reduce stress and anxiety and to quiet down mind-wandering and self-referential thoughts.If you’re worried about reaching a new milestone age, meditation could be a good temporary solution to your concerns, since it will draw you out of your preoccupation so that you can be in the moment.


As you meditate, reflect on the series of events and occurrences that has led you to where you are. Remember that you’re right where you’re supposed to be. The right journey for you is the one that you are on at the moment, the one you have the power to shift and mold however you desire. Adopting a meditation strategy can help you see that only you can take ownership and charge of what lies ahead.
There are many different kinds of meditation strategies; it is not one size fits all. Read a book, watch a tutorial video, or consult with a meditation practitioner to find the strategy that works for you.
 The past is already behind you, and you can plan, but not predict, the future. Seize today as your milestone: the day, the hour, this very instant which you can make your own.


Love what you do. Living in the present is most satisfying when you enjoy your work, your studies, and your free time.
Don't dwell on past accomplishments or failures. Spend your time thinking about the now and setting goals for the future instead.

