 Pinworms have a lifespan of about six weeks, so to clear up pinworm infection without medication and prevent re-infection, you and your family will have to take great care with personal hygiene and cleanliness for at least this long.Pinworms are highly contagious, so everyone in the household should participate.
Even if you passed the parasite to someone else, it is possible to become re-infected.;
, Wash your hands frequently with soap and warm water to help prevent the spread of pinworms.


Be especially diligent about washing your hands thoroughly after using the bathroom or changing diapers.
It’s also essential that you teach your children about the importance of washing their hands, and make sure they follow through because children often unknowingly spread the infection.
 Pinworm eggs can get lodged under fingernails when you scratch, so cut nails short and scrub them to reduce the likelihood that this will occur.Cutting nails might also keep you from engaging in bad habits such as nail biting, which increase the risk of pinworm infection.
 Pinworm eggs can get on your clothes and bedding, especially as you sleep, which makes it vital that you wash these items daily in hot water and laundry detergent. Underwear, pajamas, pants, towels, and washcloths should be washed daily for the duration of the infestation.
Bedding should also be washed daily unless an anti-parasite medication is taken, at which point it only needs to be washed on the first day of treatment and every three days or so after that.
Dry all items in a heated dryer. Heat is more effective at killing pinworms than other methods of drying.
Be careful not to share towels or washcloths so you do not spread the infection.
 Take a hot shower at least once a day while the infestation continues. Use body wash or soap as you wash as opposed to merely rinsing yourself with water.Pay special attention to the skin around the anus so that you scrub away any pinworm eggs.
Shower in the morning so you can wash away more pinworm eggs left behind during the night.
Showers are better than baths because they reduce the risk of spreading pinworm eggs to other parts of your body. Pinworm eggs that are washed off into bathwater can find their way to your mouth or other areas of the body.
 Cleaning potentially contaminated surfaces is important because pinworm eggs can stick to things you touch such as clothing, toys, dishes, and furniture. The eggs can also survive two to three weeks outside the body.Toilet seats should be cleaned daily.
Clean and disinfect counters and other surfaces regularly.
Clean and disinfect your child’s toys.
Store toothbrushes in a cabinet and rinse them with warm water before use.
 Even though pinworms usually cause an irritating itch, you should avoid scratching around the anus because you might get the pinworm eggs on your hands or fingers and transmit the infection to other people.Scratching affected areas may cause the pinworm eggs to get trapped under your nails.
Wear gloves or socks over your hands at night to prevent yourself from scratching in your sleep.
Cut your nails short. This way, even if you do scratch by accident, it is less likely that the pinworm eggs will get lodged beneath the nail.

