 This is the most common type of headache and it tends to be on both sides of the head, most often starting at the back of the head. The headache may “move” forward and affect the eyes. The pain is most often described as dull or feeling like a tight band is around your head.Tension headaches are often caused by tightened or strained muscles in the head and neck. These headaches can be related to stress, depression and mood disorders, injuries and the position that the head is held at for long periods of time.;
, They tend to be on one side of the head, but may spread to both sides. The pain tends to be worse with movement, light, sounds, and can be triggered by a variety of things including food, drug withdrawal, alcohol, coffee, or a lack of sleep. Migraine pain tends to be pounding or throbbing.Migraine headaches are often associated with nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to sound, light and smells. Migraines may also be associated with “auras” or warning signs that a migraine is on its way. These auras are visual (flashes of light, blind spots), sensory (tingling in the face, hand) or associated with smells. Migraines with or without auras are treated in similar ways., These are very painful, with the pain usually described as sharp, piercing or stabbing.Cluster headaches occur in groups or clusters over several times a day, lasting days, weeks or months. They tend to occur at the same times during the day but last for an hour or less. Cluster headaches usually go away for days, weeks or months.Cluster headaches should not be treated at home. While some herbal or aromatherapy treatments can be used in addition to professional treatment, they should not be used on their own.
 Other types of headaches include sinus headaches, associated with pain at the front of the head, often around the cheeks, eyes and forehead. A sinus headache is associated with infections and allergies.Headaches can also be associated with stopping the use of pain medications (rebound headaches), fevers, or be a part of pre-menstrual syndrome (PMS).
 If you have headaches that don’t seem to have an explanation in increased stress, lack of sleep or just seem “different” to you, don’t hesitate to see a healthcare professional soon. Rarely, a headache can be a symptom of more serious condition. These conditions include:


Brain hemorrhages (bleeding in the brain)
Brain tumors
High blood pressure
Brain infections or abscesses
An increase in intracranial pressure
Lack of oxygen while sleeping (sleep apnea)
Stroke
Brain aneurysm (a defect in a brain blood vessel)

