 Jumpsuits are an unexpected blend of function and style. Your bridesmaids will appreciate the opportunity to wear pants on the bottom but with the ease of one garment. You can opt for a jumpsuit with wider cut legs for the effect of a dress when standing, too. Your look will be much more cutting edge and fun to dance in than your average dress.Jumpsuits allow a lot of versatility and come in any number of lengths and sleeves, so you can pick a style that suits any season.
If your wedding is retro, jumpsuits can call to mind the swinging 1970s, an era in which they enjoyed a lot of popularity.;
, Steer clear of typical long dresses, and opt for a skirt and top set. This allows you to do one color or pattern on the top and another on the bottom, adding some unusual interest to your look. If your bridesmaids are adventurous, you could try a trendy crop top for an unique wedding look.A lace top with an A-line silk skirt, for example, would be a refined alternative to a dress for a backyard wedding.
A skirt with pockets would be a neat alternative for a casual affair with a picnic reception.
 Much like skirts and tops, opting for pants allows you to do one pattern or texture on the bottom of your look and another on the top. Pants allow your bridesmaids to cut a rug comfortably, too. They also come in a variety of styles to match your aesthetic, whether you choose harem pants for a bohemian affair or pleated slacks for a formal ceremony., Dresses are the standard uniform for bridesmaids, but that doesn’t mean you can’t put your own spin on things. Take your wedding theme to a cool and unexpected place with your dresses.


For a nautical wedding, try sashes with a rope effect to call sailing knots to mind.
For a steampunk wedding, embrace corseting and buckled accents for a unique look.
 The typical bridesmaid dress is long to match that of the bride. That said, a different length dress can provide a fresh take on the normal bridesmaid uniform. You can use the length of your dress to drive home the theme or use it to show off a cool accessory that’s unique to your look.


Try short fringed dresses for a roaring ‘20s bash.
For a farmhouse wedding, high-low hemmed dresses could show off tall cowboy boots.
 For an unexpected twist on the traditional monotone bridesmaid garb, choose a color palette. This can mean you pick clothes in a mix of your wedding colors or multiple shades of one color for an ombre effect. This strategy breaks the mold from the standard bridesmaid apparel where everyone looks exactly the same.For a beach wedding, you could try bridesmaid attire in shades of blue to call the ocean to mind.
For a fall wedding, you could choose rich jewel tones in burgundy, gold, forest green, and navy.
 If you want traditional dresses, mix up the look by choosing an unusual pattern. Floral prints could accent a romantic wedding; chevrons could enhance a modern affair; and stripes could add some panache to a nautical wedding. Look for a pattern that reinforces the theme of your wedding but is still subtle enough not to distract from the greater effect.For a ‘50s wedding, try polka dots or other retro prints.
For a tropical wedding, embrace the scenery with a palm leaf print, for example.
 Whether you opt for lace, linen, or even a sequined fabric, choose pieces with different fabrics and textures to add visual interest to your bridesmaids’ apparel. This is an especially easy strategy if you choose separates. You can do a some beading on the top, for example, and a more muted solid on the bottom for a balanced look that still seems fresh.Rather than selecting bridesmaid dresses that all look the same, you could dress half the bridesmaids in a solid color and half the bridesmaids in a sequined version of that same color for more visual interest.
A casual look on top, like a button up, with a more formal look on the bottom, like a silk skirt, can add some cool chic to your look.
 If you’re a go-with-the-flow bride who wants to leave things open to your bridesmaids, select a theme for their apparel rather than a particular outfit. Your bridesmaids various takes on bohemian, romantic, and modern, for example, are sure to be full of different colors, patterns, and textures that are all different but adhere to the same idea. Be sure to outline any necklines or sleeves that aren’t okay with you beforehand.


For a New Years Eve wedding, you could give your bridesmaids free rein to choose from long dresses in metallic shades.
For a bohemian wedding, you could let your bridesmaids chose from lacy looks in their favorite colors.
If your bridesmaids are selecting their own outfits, it can be helpful to send them ideas of unmatched looks online that you’d like to emulate.
 If you want a look that stands out without going too nontraditional, bold shoes can be an understated but unique way to express yourself. Try a vibrant color, such as blue or red, or a fun style, like an espadrille for a beach wedding, to tie your wedding together. Patterned shoes are also a fun way to jazz up an outfit in a way that is unique but not strange. Since shoes are relatively small accessories, even if their pattern is bold, the overall effect is still wearable., If standard pearls feel overdone, why not give your bridesmaids a piece of statement jewelry to wear on the big day? Whether the item is a chunky necklace in a contrasting color or earrings with a funny slogan, use accessories as a way to personalize your wedding.Turquoise could provide a welcome and pretty contrast to a red or coral colored outfit.
Layering multiple necklaces could add some eclectic interest to a hippie wedding.
 Layering clothes tends to add visual interest to an outfit, and bridesmaid apparel is no exception. To add some depth to the look, incorporate a patterned or colorful scarf to differentiate your bridesmaids from the rest of the pack. Your bridesmaids can use it to keep warm during a chilly ceremony or simply wear with another outfit after the big day.


If you’re getting married in the winter, luxurious fur or faux-fur stoles can impart an opulent, nontraditional look.
 For a bride who is really looking for something different, a hat, whether a fascinator, cowboy hat or top hat, can really drive home a theme and add some unexpected fun to your outfit. Choose something that complements the style of your bridesmaid clothes rather than contrasts with them, since hats are unusual at weddings already.


Fedoras could add an authentic edge to a ‘40s gangster wedding.
Straw hats could provide some shade and fun to a mid-summer affair in the tropics.

