 As you continue in your career as professional dancer, you'll need to learn how to audition. Auditions can help you lead roles in dance companies as well as individual performances. If you want to make money as a professional ballerina, you'll need to move to a bigger city like New York in order to succeed.Be Happy After Losing a Competition.


Make sure to enjoy yourself as your audition. Love of the craft is necessary to succeed in ballet and a panel will want to hire a dancer that conveys passion on stage. Even though the event will be stressful, try to enjoy dancing.Find ways to show your personality. Being yourself can help set you apart from other dancers. If you're allowed to select your own routine, pick moves that capture your unique personality.Try your best not to panic on stage. If you make a minor mistake or misstep, how you recover from that in audition speaks volumes to your skills as a dancer. Try to stay calm and keep going even if you screw up during a routine.Even low-stakes local performances have an audition process. Even if you just want to perform for fun, you'll likely have to audition at some point.
 If you're dancing professionally, you may be asked to tour with a dance company at some point in your career. This means moving from place to place for months on end with a group of other dancer. Make sure you're prepared for this commitment.


Camaraderie is important to ballet. You'll be living with, touring with, eating with, and performing with a core group of dancers. You need to learn to get along with others. Try to form solid bonds with anyone in your dance company., Being a professional ballerina takes an incredible amount of work. Schedules are long and the physical and emotional demands are intense. If you want to become a professional ballerina, prepare for a tough schedule.


Oftentimes, ballerinas end up enduring 10 hours of physical exercise each day. You may take class at 9 am and spend the remainder of the day rehearsing for shows. You'll need to work on maintaining a good sleep schedule to have the energy required to be a professional ballet dancer.On performance days, your schedule will be even longer. You'll need to get up earlier to rehearse and then go to bed later. A dancer's life can be somewhat lonely at times because there's little room for socialization. However, many dancers from close-knit bonds with other professionals.