 We make prejudice statements looking from the inside out. Can you imagine things from an alternative point of view, from the outside in?


Think about how others see your in-group(s). Are you ever unfairly judged? Are your friends or relatives treated with prejudice? How does that feel to you? What would you say to someone who made an unfair assessment of you based on a stereotype?

, Cracking open a book - either fiction or nonfiction - can ultimately help you counteract misinformation and ignorance of various out-groups, and lead to less personal prejudice. Challenge yourself to choose something that opens your eyes to a new group of people.


Research shows that people who read and identify with Harry Potter's character in the book series were less likely to demonstrate prejudice against minority groups.
Fictional books may have a greater advantage over nonfiction choices for this purpose. The researchers believe that tackling discrimination issues in a fictional world can provoke readers to truly ponder them without defensiveness and self-righteousness getting in the way., If your worldview consists of a single culture, it can be difficult to see beyond it. For that reason, travel is essential in overcoming personal prejudice.Be warned, however, that travel does not require going across the globe. Yes, going to a different country or continent can help shift your worldview, but you can also learn about different groups of people by visiting other areas in your city, other cities in your state, or other states.
 Once you have made progress in shifting your worldview, it can be helpful to open up to other groups in terms of your friendships. One researcher proposed the idea of a contact hypothesis, meaning contact with a member of an out-group can reduce prejudice.The next time you see an opportunity to strike up a conversation with a person from a different group than your own, take it. Keeping everything you have learned about prejudice in mind, aim to get to know this person. Drop your pre-judgments and allow this person to show you who he truly is.

