 Maine Coon's need a lot of exercise for their health due to their big size. Some Maine Coons may have a tendency to stay on the couch during the day, so take steps to make your Maine Coon cat healthy and happy.You should provide cat perches and trees in your home so your Maine Coon can get exercise when you're not there.
Maine Coons also enjoy interactive play. You should buy toys, like string or fishing pole toys, and play with your Maine Coon each day. Maine Coons are very friendly animals and will be eager to play with any household member.;
, Both wet or dry food can be a healthy option for a Maine Coon or any other cat. However, there are benefits and drawbacks to each to consider before selecting a food for your cat.If you're on a budget, dry food is generally a more economical option. It also does not spoil as easily. However, it's more calorie dense than wet food and may not be great for a cat with a weight issue.
Canned food is generally more expensive, but has more protein and less carbohydrates. This could be helpful for a cat with a weight issue.
If your Maine Coon has any specific health concerns, talk to a vet before selecting a cat food.
 Maine Coons do have a tendency to overeat if free fed.A male Maine Coon should weigh between 15 and 25 pounds while a female should weigh between 10 and 15.It's a good idea to establish a feeding schedule for your Maine Coon cat.A feeding schedule can involve portion controlled feeding. This means giving your cat a specific amount of food once or twice a day. If your Maine Coon tends to overeat, this is the best option.
Some people also use timed eating. You make food available for a set amount of time and then remove it. If your Maine Coon does not tend to overeat, timed feeding may work.
One pound equals roughly 0.45 kilograms.
 Like all breeds, Maine Coons need regular vet visits. However, they are prone to breed specific health problems. Watch for signs and symptoms of such problems and have them promptly treated by a vet.Maine Coons are prone to hip dysplasia, which can cause lameness.
Maine Coons are prone to kidney disease, which can include symptoms such as bloody urine or stools, a lack of appetite, and a lack of energy.You also may want to have Maine Coons tested for genetic diseases, such as certain heart conditions, that are difficult to detect based on symptoms. Talk to your vet about whether your Maine Coon is at risk for inheritable disorders.

