 Follow the instructions and use a 9x11 baking pan, unless otherwise indicated on the box. You might consider a clear baking dish as well. The Jello mousse cake is much prettier from the side than the Jello “poke” cake because it has distinguishable layers. A clear dish will allow your family or guests to see this.


Most cake mixes take around 30 minutes to make. Allow your cake to cool for at least 15 minutes. To avoid burning yourself and to help the Jello-mousse layer settle without becoming runny, your cake should be at room temperature., Take 6 oz of Jello with 2 cups of boiling water. Stir until completely dissolved. If you do not dissolve the Jello mix entirely, it will clump and not congeal properly.Then add 1 cup cold water and stir. The cold water will activate the mix and the Jello will start to form., If you need your Jello to set more quickly, place it in the refrigerator for 10-15 minutes., Once the Jello starts to thicken, take your cool whip and mix it completely with your Jello. This will give it a mousse-like texture., Make it an even layer. If using a 9x11 pan, your mousse layer should be about 3/4' thick., This will allow the mousse to fully set. If you don't refrigerate the mousse, it will stay runny and won't support the next layer of the cake., Add 3 oz of Jello mix to 1 cup of boiling water and stir. When the gelatin is dissolved (like before), add 1/2 cup of cold water and let cool at room temperature.You can combine flavors at this point, if you'd like. For instance, use cherry Jello for the mousse and strawberry Jello for the top layer. Then you'll have a berry Jello mousse cake.
 This layer of Jello should be even as well., A lot of people like to add fruits to this final Jello layer. Pick fruits that compliment your Jello flavors like cherries, strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, or apple slices.Add candy sprinkles. They can add a fun touch to your cake.


If you are celebrating a specific occasion, like someone’s birthday, spell out a message with your fruits or sprinkles.
If you decide to make a several layer Jello mousse cake, make sure to use a deep container as it will tend to slide or sag.
