 A violin bridge is a small piece of wood. The bottom of the bridge is usually a straight line, while the top is arched slightly. When you're examining your bridge, you'll notice one side of the arch is slightly higher than the other. The lower side is the e-string side, and the taller side is the g-string side. When you put the bridge in place, make sure the e-string comes over the e-string side, and the g-string comes over the g-string side.If you don't know which strings are which, when the violin's head is facing your body, the g-string will be the string farthest to the left. The e-string will be the string farthest to the right.;
, To avoid snapping a string while placing the bridge, loosen the strings slightly. You loosen violin strings by turning the tuning knobs on the end of the violin. Strings should be loose enough that you can easily pull them up and down, allowing them to be lifted up enough to slip the bridge under the strings., The F-holes are two f-shaped holes found near the end of the violin's head. When you slide the bridge under the strings, make sure it's between the two F-holes. The bridge should be placed at roughly the midway point of the f-holes. Imagine you're drawing a line from one f-hole to the next, starting at the small horizontal line running through one f-hole and stretching out to meet the small horizontal line running through the other f-hole. This imaginary line should run through the violin bridge., The violin bridge has four small knobs running across the top. The four violin strings fit into these knobs, keeping the bridge and the strings in place. Gently feed one violin string at a time into the knobs on the bridge., Now you can retighten your strings to keep the knob in place. Gently turn each knob on the bottom of the violin. It's a good idea to use one hand to hold the bridge in place while tightening the strings, to prevent it from falling over. Tighten the strings until they are secure enough to keep the bridge in place while still having a very slight amount of slack.