 Sometimes getting even is a way to release negative emotions like anger which can be unhealthy.Don’t show your hand, or your anger right away and say you're going to get even. Instead react honestly, and make your target think he's won. This way he'll be less likely to expect payback.


Say your coworker didn’t tell you about an important meeting or used your work as his own. Don’t call him out and make a scene at work, that will only make you look worse. Let him think he's won and wait for your chance to get even.
Is your friend taking advantage of your relationship? Tired of trying to talk to him and not getting through? Don't blow up at him, wait for your chance to get even.
Or perhaps your significant other is taking advantage of the relationship. Freaking out may exacerbate the situation, so stay calm and try not to say something you might regret like "This is why..." or "You always...".;
, There are plenty of inventive ways to get even.Now it’s time to channel your frustration into creative thinking. Either come up with your own plan or try giving him a taste of own medicine. Plan the what, when, and where. Get to work early before anyone else so you have time to set up. Make plans to hang out with your friend at his place, or plan a date with your significant other.


Remember that coworker who wronged you? Think of what he did to you and use what you have at your disposal to get even.
Maybe your friend is always borrowing your stuff without asking. Why not get even by returning the favor?
Maybe your significant other is always late, or never offers to pay for anything.
 Now it’s time to get your “just desserts”. With your plan all set up, you’re going to have to do some acting to keep him from thinking anything is up.


If you use something like a shared calendar at work you can set up a private event that won’t show up on your coworker’s calendar so he won’t know about it. If you’re looking to have a bit more fun, you can also go into a shared folder and move his files around, hide them in subfolders, or even remove them completely. Just make sure that what you're doing won't get you fired.Borrow your friend’s phone charger and hide it so that when his phone runs out of battery he can’t charge it. It may sound kind of silly, but hey, we're getting even here. Or, if you’re really feeling creative, use his phone or computer to get on his social media account and post on his behalf apologizing for all of his transgressions.
Get even with your significant other by making him wait for once, or “forget” your wallet when you go out.
 This way you can enjoy it over and over again. This part is just as fun as getting even. Snap a couple of photos or shoot a video, you can even have a friend help you out with this. There’s no better way to make someone remember what he's done than to provide proof, after all.


And if you’re feeling a little vindictive, you can always upload it to social media.
 Remember here that you’re getting even, not ruining his life or destroying a relationship. Reveal why you did what you did and show him that you’re even now by helping him with anything you may have done.

