 If you smoke, you should quit. If you don’t smoke, continue to stay away from cigarettes. This is an important step. Avoiding cigarettes is crucial, not only to prevent liver cancer, but smoking cigarettes negatively affects your whole body as well.Try to quit smoking by reducing your cigarette consumption a little bit every day or by using cessation aids like nicotine patches.
If you have trouble quitting smoking, contact your doctor for more support.
If you don't smoke, stay away from people who do. Second-hand smoke is bad for you and can lead to increased risk of liver cancer as well.;
, Over time, drinking large quantities of alcohol can lead to cirrhosis, or scarring, of the liver which can contribute to liver cancer. Try to avoid drinking too much, specifically over long periods of time. Binge drinking (having more than five drinks in one sitting) is especially damaging to your liver. Consider completely eliminating alcohol to minimize the impact it may have on your liver.To maintain your health, women can drink up to one drink per day and men can drink up to two drinks per day.One drink is considered 12 fluid ounces of beer, 5 fluid ounces of wine, or 1.5 fluid ounces of distilled spirits.
Don't get drunk just because your peers persuade you into drinking. And don’t drink if you are underage.
 Certain drugs can increase your risk of liver cancer. Your liver metabolizes any drug you ingest, so exposing your liver to potentially harmful drugs over long periods of time could lead to developing liver cancer.One such risk factor is taking anabolic steroids like Anadrol, Oxandrin, or Winstrol.
This also includes male hormones like testosterone.
 Exposure to certain chemicals greatly increases your risk of cancer, especially in the liver. One of the main functions of the liver is to metabolize drugs and detoxify chemicals. So if you are exposed to cancer-causing chemicals, they will go straight to your liver.Things to avoid include arsenic and aflatoxin (a rare type of mold).
Some research has indicated that exposure to triclosan (an ingredient in many detergents and soaps) may cause liver fibrosis and liver cancer.If you have reason to believe that you’ve been exposed to any of these elements, contact your doctor immediately.
 A big risk factor for liver cancer is having a fatty liver, which is caused by being overweight or obese – especially if you carry most of your weight around your midsection. Obesity can also lead to type 2 diabetes, which is associated with an increased risk of liver cancer.If you are overweight, try putting yourself on a diet and exercise plan that will allow you to shed some of the extra weight.Focus on eating healthy and aim for 30 minutes of exercise every day, even if it is just taking your dog for a walk.
Talk to your doctor about what kind of diet and exercise plan is right for your body.
 In order to promote liver health, you need to maintain a well-balanced diet on a regular basis. You should avoid fatty, fried foods and be sure to get plenty of fresh veggies. To protect your liver, your diet should include the following:Raw plant food, especially raw vegetables
Fresh fruit, but in small quantities
Cooked vegetables (excluding starchy potatoes)
Protein from seafood, poultry, lean red meat, eggs, and/or legumes

, In July 1992, blood and organs began to be screened for infections and contamination. But if you received a blood transfusion or an organ donation before this date, you are at risk for disease – including liver cancer.Contact your doctor for health screening immediately if you had such an operation before 1992.
 Since about 80% of people around the world who suffer from liver cancer also have either hepatitis B or hepatitis C, it is important to understand this correlation and what you can do to prevent infection.Chronic hepatitis infections can result in cirrhosis of the liver, which may lead to liver cancer over time.
 The best way to protect yourself from contracting hepatitis B is by getting yourself vaccinated against this infection. The vaccine usually takes several months, as you have to get several injections spaced out weeks apart. You should be able to get a hepatitis B vaccination at any general practitioner or health clinic.Unfortunately, there is no vaccination for hepatitis C so you need to be cautious and use preventative measures.
 People that have Hepatitis C are at high risk of liver disease including liver cancer. Testing for Hepatitis C is recommended if you were born between 1945 and 1965, or ever used injectable drugs.It is likewise recommended if you used medication for a blood clotting disorder before 1987 or had a blood transfusion or an organ transplant before July 1992.
Those who are on long-term hemodialysis or you are infected with HIV may be especially susceptible, and should also be tested.
 Hepatitis B and C can both be spread through sexual intercourse, so you should always practice safe sex. This means using a condom unless you are certain about your partner’s sexual health. If you have multiple sex partners, you should always use a condom.Remember that sexually transmitted infections are incredibly common these days. Every time you have sex without a condom, you put yourself at risk for contracting something.
 Hepatitis B and C can also be spread through sharing needles. These diseases are transmitted through the blood, and a shared needle means shared blood. Make sure you steer clear of intravenous drug use as this is a huge risk factor for hepatitis, liver cancer, and multitudes of other ailments. If you must use needles (for example, if you are a diabetic who must take daily injections of insulin), make sure you use a new needle each time and never share them with another person.
 Getting tattooed or pierced can be very exciting, but make sure you choose a clean, professional setting with properly trained staff. Infections and diseases can be spread through improper hygiene of the shop or unclean equipment. The needles used for piercing and the needles that go inside the tattoo machine should always be brand new, opened in front of you, from sterile packaging.

