 Usually, when toddlers and small children refuse to eat it is part of a “power play.” They want to be in control, and want to push the boundaries to see just how much control they have. If you provide an element of choice when mealtime arrives, you can give them a measure of independent control while making sure they eat something healthy.No matter how your parents (or their parents) did things, don’t plop down a big scoop of broccoli and tell the child that he can’t get up until the plate is empty. Try offering small amounts of several nutritious options — a little bit of broccoli, some corn, a few carrots — and let the child decide which one (or more) he wants to eat more of.
Ask for input on the daily menu, while subtly steering your children toward healthier alternatives — grilled chicken strips instead of fried chicken nuggets, for instance.;
, Mealtime is important, and eating needs to be the focus, but that doesn't mean it has to feel like a chore or even a punishment. If you can make preparing, presenting, and consuming nutritious foods more enjoyable, your kids might just become eager participants in mealtime.Let kids help prepare the meals. Most kids don't like cleaning dishes, but they sure love getting them messy. Let them help with the mixing, stirring, tossing, etc. Accept the mess that is sure to occur as part of the process.
Make creative or silly shapes out of the foods you serve. A simple cookie cutter can do wonders for a kid's sandwich. Make up silly names to go with the silly shapes. Search for healthy, quick, fun-shaped kids' recipes online.Play games during mealtime. Between courses, or after your child has eaten a certain portion of the food on his or her plate, have a quick game of "I spy" or "What's missing?" Or, have a sing-along or make up a silly story together.
 Some kids don’t seem to ever want to eat, while others will snack all day if you let them. Small children need to learn to identify and respond to their own hunger cues, and at the same time grow accustomed to the framework of regular meal times.It is important that kids not skip meals, but it isn’t the end of the world if a toddler or small child refuses to eat anything at the occasional meal time. Simply wait until the next regular snack or meal time and offer new options again. Don’t try to make up for a missed meal or snack by letting the child “graze” on whatever she wants in between normal times for eating.
 Every parent has at some point resorted to saying something like “If you eat the rest of your asparagus, you can have some ice cream.” It feels like a fair and worthwhile trade at the time, but it actually turns dessert into the more valuable food group and an expectation, rather than an occasional indulgence. Resist the temptation to make lopsided deals for the sake of harmony and an empty plate.Try never to make dessert dependent upon the rest of the meal. Have cake because it’s grandma’s birthday or because you got a promotion, not because your child finished a pork chop.
Although you should teach your child the importance of not wasting food, it is better to have some food wasted than to make sweet treats the regular trade-off for cleaning the plate. Rely on small portion sizes and frequent plate refills to limit wastage.
 If you are regularly too busy, too distracted, or simply lack the interest to stop and have a meal, a small child will interpret this as meaning meals are not all that important. Alternatively, if you prioritize having regular, nutritious meals, a child will interpret mealtime as being more important. “Do as I say, not as I do” doesn’t work when it comes to mealtime.You shouldn’t force a child to eat something, but you do control what foods are in the house in the first place. Shop healthy, and the meal options you provide will be better for everyone’s health.
It may be more challenging today to get everyone together for mealtimes, but do what you can to make eating meals a regular, shared, important experience.

