 You can try to remove the splinter using natural products found in your kitchen, such as warm milk and bread.Start by placing the milk in a small kettle and put it on the stove. Heat the milk until it is warm but still cool enough to be applied to the skin. Pour the milk into a heat-proof bowl.
Place a few pieces of bread in the bowl and let them sit for a few minutes, soaking up the milk. Apply the moistened bread pieces to the splinter area and put it under a band-aid or piece of gauze.
Leave the pieces on your skin for as long as possible and then remove them. Hopefully the splinter is drawn out by the warm milk and bread mixture.
 Vinegar is acidic and can shrink the skin around the splinter. This may help the splinter to come to the surface. You can use white vinegar or apple cider vinegar for this method.Pour a half cup of vinegar in a bowl and soak the area with the splinter in the vinegar. Check to see if the splinter emerges after 10 to 15 minutes. The vinegar will need a little while to work, sometimes as long as 30 minutes. If this method does not work the first time, soak the area in some warm water and then try again.
Keep in mind vinegar can sting if there are any open wounds around the splinter. Be careful when using vinegar around any cuts or wounds on your skin.
 This method uses the inside of a banana peel. The moisture in the peel will help to work the splinter up and out.Cut out a small square from a banana peel. Place the banana peel on the affected area and cover it with a band-aid.
Let the banana peel sit on the affected area overnight. The peel should cause the splinter to rise to the surface of your skin. In many cases the splinter will stick to the actual peel itself.
 You can use an egg to help get rid of a splinter, using the paper-like membrane in the shell of the egg.Start by cracking open an egg. Then, remove the yolk. Inside the shell, you should notice a paper-like membrane.
Place a piece of the inside of the shell on your splinter and then secure it with a band aid. Leave the band aid on overnight. The membrane in the shell will go inside your splinter and encourage it to emerge from your skin. In the morning, you can remove the band aid. The splinter should come up and out on its own.
 This method uses the moisture of the inside of a white potato to encourage the splinter to come out on its own. Make sure the potato is fresh and free of mold, as you will be applying it directly to your skin.Cut the potato into small pieces or slices. Apply the slices to the area with the splinter using gauze or a band-aid to keep the slices in place.
Let the potato piece sit for an hour at first, checking it regularly. For deeper and larger splinters it may take as long as overnight to fully remove the splinter. In the morning, remove the potato, and the splinter should come out easily.

