 Your best smile will stem partly from feeling confident in your appearance. If your teeth aren't clean, you're not going to want to reveal them to the world. Make sure you brush and floss your teeth and get regular dental cleanings to keep them looking as bright and pretty as can be., If your teeth are yellowed or discolored, you might feel more confident in your smile if you whiten them. There's no need to get an expensive whitening treatment done. You can brighten your smile in just a few minutes using a natural whitening technique. Here's what to do:


Rinse your teeth with hydrogen peroxide. It's a safe, natural bleaching agent that will brighten them a few shades.
Brush your teeth with baking soda. Add a little to your toothpaste or make a simple paste of baking soda and water, then brush away. Don't do this too often, though, or it could wear away your enamel.
 Certain lipstick shades downplay the yellow in your teeth and make them look brighter and whiter. You can give your smile a boost by applying one of these shades before you get your picture taken:


Rich berry reds. These contrast highly with your teeth to make them stand out.
Shades with blue undertones. They downplay the yellow in your teeth.
Steer clear of orange and yellow-toned lipstick. These bring out the yellow and make your smile look duller., Smiling with flaky or chapped lips can make you feel self-conscious and result in an unflattering picture. Exfoliate your lips with a facial scrub and apply lip balm or gloss to keep them in good shape. When it's time to smile, you won't worry about how your lips might look.
 Applying foundation, blush, and bronzer can provide contrast to your smile and make it stand out even more. Choose shades that work well with your skin tone. Your teeth will look whiter if you err on the side of using darker makeup that helps you look like you have a tan.
 Smiling isn't about looking perfect - it's about looking happy and confident. Your smile will look more beautiful if you face exudes confidence and relaxation. Worrying too much about your appearance will come through in your face, and you'll end up looking tense or disturbed in your photos. Just remember to be relaxed and think happy thoughts, and you'll be rewarded with a photo that captures you at your best.

