 The law in Arkansas requires that you be the child's parent or legal guardian of a minor (under 18) to change his or her name.It can be tricky to change a child's name in Arkansas, so consider talking to a family law attorney to make sure everything is done properly.
 If you only wish to correct a minor error in your child's name, such as a misspelling, you can apply directly to the Arkansas Office of Vital Records for the change. In most other cases, you will need a court order to issue a name change, including in the following situations:Creating a new birth certificate after adopting a child
Changing the child's surname
Changes to the name other than typographical errors

, The state of Arkansas does not require a specific form for a name change process.You must simply provide a document that provides all the required information. You can find a sample form from Arkansas Legal Services here and here for single parents. You can fill out the appropriate form and bring it to court. In your document, you must provide the following information:Your name
The child's current name and the name that you wish to change it to
The county in which the child lives
Your relationship to the child
The reasons for changing the child's name
A statement that the other parent or parents of the child consent to the change
A statement that you are not seeking name change for fraudulent purposes
Your local contact information, including address and phone number
Whether you are represented by an attorney or pro se (representing yourself)

, If you are a parent of the child, you must show that the other parent consents to the name change. If you are the child's legal guardian, you must show that both parents consent, if possible.You can obtain a sample consent form from Arkansas Legal Services here.


If the parent(s) consent, ask them to sign the Waiver of Notice, Entry of Appearance, and Consent to Name Change form provided by ALS. This acknowledges that the other person has been notified of the name change process and consents to the change without needing to appear in court.
This statement must be notarized, meaning the other parent must sign the document in the presence of a notary.
If you cannot get the other person to consent, consider hiring an experienced legal mediator or family law attorney to help you.
 If you do not know where the other parent or parents live, you must still make every effort to notify them of the name change.This can usually be done through "publication," in which you publish a notice about the pending name change in a publically circulated newspaper for a certain number of weeks. Please contact your county courthouse for the requirements where you live.


If you know where the other parent lives but it is too far to personally appear, you may send notification via certified mail. You can find the form for this type of notification here.
 You will need to bring this with you when you petition for your child's name change. You can find a sample order here. Do not sign it until you are in the presence of the judge at your hearing.


The judge will sign the Order if s/he approves your petition. The order will take legal effect after it is signed.
 The application to change your child's name should be filed in the county where the child lives. Make several copies of the filled-out forms. Go to your Clerk of Court at your county courthouse with the forms you have filled out.


You will need to pay a filing fee. If you cannot afford this fee, there are sometimes payment plans or waivers available for low-income parties. Ask your Clerk if this is an option for you.
Make sure the Clerk stamps the copies you have made and returns them to you. Retain these for your records.
 Because the name change is for a minor, you are likely to be required to attend a court hearing. Get the date and time of your court hearing from the Clerk of Court. Make sure you are on time to the hearing.
 You will need to change the child's name on legal records, such as the birth certificate, the child's passport, and the child's driver license if the child is of driving age (but under 18).


You may wish to retain an attorney for this process, as it can be complicated and official resources in Arkansas are scarce.