 When compression fractures occur suddenly, this will cause severe, “knife-like” pain in the middle or lower half of your back. At first, you’ll feel the pain suddenly when you put minor stress on your back. You’ll most likely feel pain at the location of the fracture, but it can also spread across your back and around your trunk.Compression fractures caused by osteoporosis, however, may cause no symptoms at first. Instead, over time, you may notice:


Back pain that gets worse while walking (but may not be felt while resting)
Pain when bending or twisting
Loss of height (as much as 6 inches)
Stooped posture or hump (also called kyphosis)
Worsening of existing spinal curves;
, If you are experiencing pain or other symptoms, make a plan to speak to your doctor. Come prepared to answer a series of questions, which will help the doctor diagnose your condition.


You should know when you first noticed symptoms.
You should be able to describe the instances when you feel pain.
You may be asked where your pain is located and whether or not it radiates.
You may be asked about any activities or accidents that could have contributed.
You should know how tall you were prior to this injury.
Prepare a list of any medications you are currently taking.
Be ready to inform your doctor of any other conditions you have.
 In addition to listening to your answers, your doctor will perform a series of tests to help diagnose your problem.These tests may include:


Physical examination (to look for kyphosis and tenderness around the affected bones)
Spinal X-ray
Bone density test (to evaluate for osteoporosis)
CT or MRI scan (if the fracture may have been caused by an accident or injury)

, Most compression fractures due to injury heal in 8-10 weeks by taking proper dosages of pain relieving medication such as analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), taking muscle relaxants, and getting plenty of rest. Surgery may be recommended after all of these more conservative treatments have been exhausted. There are several different surgical procedures that treat compression fractures, so make sure to discuss options with your surgeon in order to decide which one is best for you.