 Having a position in the Student Government can be stressing. There is a lot of work and responsibilities that you can't just forget about. There are other things that have to be done to like homework, chores, etc. Just make sure you have the time and you will be committed to it.;
, It is important to get permission from your parents or guardians before you run. Being class president is a huge deal and you may need their help.
 If you don't follow every detail of the rules, you may be not be able to run.
 You'll need items such as poster board, markers, glue, etc.
 Some Student Governments require someone to nominate another for a certain position. Sometimes, you can even nominate yourself. If you can't, get known so people think you will be good for a certain position or ask a good friend to do it for you.
 Think about talents you have and how you can use them to benefit your campaign. If you're crafty, make buttons with your photo on it, or even tee-shirts with your slogan.
 For example: "This isn't a game; you can't dodge the fact I'm the best choice for president!" or "Vote for Kate! She is Great!" Look online for ideas.
 Make yourself known. Sometimes, these elections can turn into a popularity competition but if you really want the position, become well known in your school.
 Use the materials to make an epic poster. Make sure there is a picture of you on it. That way everyone will know who you are at first glance. To make awesome posters, you have to make them attractive and stand out. Add glitter or a funny picture which goes along with the quote you use on it.
 The best way to win is to give out free things, such as pencils, buttons, jewelry, cupcakes, cookies, etc.


If you make a motto to put on your products, people will think you are creative and want to vote for you even more. Quotes like "Don't be silly, vote for Lilly!". You can even make a quote to go along with a product.
If you get small cartons of milk, you can tape a quote saying "Got (Your Name Here)?, she/he's good for the Student Body!".
 These should state why you want to be voted into that position and why you would do a great job. You could even set up a table at lunch or in the morning so you can talk to the students one on one and let them ask questions!

, Make it funny, serious, and make sure you tell the crowd who you are and why you are running for that position. Most of all, be confident.


Have some back up jokes if you think the crowd is getting bored.
It will be easier to do it if you look above their heads so it looks like you're looking directly at them and you're confident.
 If you're really into it, you'll have a ton of fun doing this. And if you lose, you will be happy that you at least had fun and that you tried. Nothing is worse than regret.

