 Once you have selected the grants that you wish to apply for, it is time to start organizing the information that you will include in the application. One of the most important steps is to make sure that you have clearly defined goals. Defining your goals will make it much easier to describe how you are going to go about accomplishing them.If you have a mission statement, you can use that to help you reflect on your goals. If you do not have a mission statement, consider writing one. It will be a useful exercise to help you flesh out your plans.
A mission statement is a written explanation of your organization's goals, values, and reason for being. It can be one paragraph or a couple of pages. It is a useful way to define company priorities.
Include financial goals. Remember, this is a business. Include specific and tangible goals for how quickly you want this business to become profitable.
If you have a business partner or staff, ask for input. Take an informal poll about how other people view the organization's goals.
 Almost all entrepreneurial grants will require a detailed business plan as part of the application. This is probably the part of the application that you should spend the most time on. A business plan is a written document that describes what sort of business you plan to operate, how you will operate it, and what you hope to achieve.Your business plan should include a title page, table of contents, and an executive summary. An executive summary should include your goals, vision, and a brief summary of your financial plan. You should clearly state the amount of grant money you are requesting.
After the executive summary, include a description of your organization. Include all relevant information, such as where your company is located, who it employs, and what it does.
This is a good place to explain why your business is distinct from its competitors. Explain what sets it apart from similar organizations.
 If you are the person applying for a grant, you are likely either the business owner or in a management position. Your business plan should include information about your particular skills and why you are qualified to run this business. This is known as a management statement, and is essentially a narrative resume.This section should be approximately 1-2 paragraphs. Discuss your business background and highlight your strengths as a business leader.
For example, if you excel at communication strategies, take a few sentences to explain a prior success. You could say, "One of the reasons I am a successful manager is that I clearly outline all strategies for employee success and increased revenue."
Discuss your educational background. This is also the ideal place to mention any prior professional experience related to your current business venture.
 Your business plan should include several sections that provide the reader with detailed information about your organization. Provide information about your product or service. For example, if you are going to be running a fitness studio, give a detailed description about the classes you will offer, the equipment that will be used, etc.If you will be producing a physical product, try to include pictures of the prototype or model. This will help your reader better understand what it is that you are actually producing.
Offer information about your market. Your business plan should demonstrate that you understand who you customer is, where they are located, and how similar companies have fared in the market.
 A good business plan will clearly explain how much money you need, how much you will make, and how you will spend it. This is a section that requires a lot of detail. You want to clearly illustrate how your business will succeed financially.Include information about how much you will spend on labor, materials, and real estate. Provide a detailed budget for your first six months or first year in business.
Include projected sales, supported by historical information that illustrates your understanding of the market. Graphs are very helpful in illustrating your financial plans.
State how much cash you have on hand and any other assets that you have. Explain why you need additional cash flow, and how you will utilize it.
 When you have a working draft of your business plan, ask someone to look it over. It is a good idea to get feedback from peers. Ask a current or former colleague to look at your plan and offer ideas for improvement.Don't take criticism personally. Remember that someone else might have a good idea about how to improve your plan. Consider all feedback with an open mind.
Get feedback from more than one person. You can combine the comments to help you decide where your plan can most use improvement.

