 The most important thing is to pick heels a minimum of 3 inches, preferably 6. These will be the most flattering for your legs and stomach. If you really plan to wear these for stripping, look for shoes with plastic 1-piece soles and heels, as these will be most durable and forgiving. Sticking no-slip pads on the bottom is also a good idea.Don’t overstep yourself. If you’re not comfortable walking in heels, work your way up to them, rather than going straight to 6-inch heels.
Use a blow drier to mold plastic shoes to the shape of your feet. Soften the plastic with the warm air, and slip the shoe on when it is pliable but not hot. Use your hands to gently mold it to your foot, and let it cool.Look for the most comfortable heels you can find. Heels are by nature not the most comfortable shoes in the world, but your feet will thank you if you keep comfort in mind as you shop.;
, Many strippers purchase dancing bottoms designed specifically for that purpose, instead of normal underwear or bikini bottoms.If you are just dressing up for fun or fashion, though, a thong will work just fine.


Neon colors and lace are always good choices.
Not many real strippers wear G-strings, because many state laws require a certain amount of skin to be covered. Of course, no one is going to call you on that if you’re just dressing up for fun.Erotic dancewear, which is more durable and flexible than underwear or bathing suit bottoms, can be purchased from websites like Spurst, BodyKandi, or Yandy.
Incorporate your personal taste—wear what makes you feel sexy!

, There are lots of ways you can go with this, and as always, the most important part is to pick something that makes you feel hot. There are a number of other factors to consider, however.



Fit: The biggest priority is to pic something flattering. Tight-fitting things are great, as are low-cut tops, and short bottoms.

Color: Neon colors are always popular, and black or red can be very dramatic. You should of course take into consideration which colors look best with your skin tone and hair color. If you really plan on stripping in a club, avoid white. Most strip clubs have black lights, and white clothing can be problematic.Fabric: Distressed denim is a classic, whether you’re wearing Daisy Dukes or a denim miniskirt. Jersey, lycra, or other fabrics that allow you to move without restriction will make dancing easier. You might also consider wearing something see-through.

Style: Dresses are the most natural choice, as they are easiest to remove quickly. You might also consider wearing a low-cut shirt with a miniskirt, leggings and a crop top, shorts and a bikini top, or a leotard with a garter belt and garters, if you’re looking for a more burlesque look., Many genuine strippers don’t wear much in the way of jewelry, as it tends to get in the way or create a distraction. There are some options to consider, however.


Piercings can be fun, as long as they don’t get in the way. Consider getting one in your navel or nose. Studs or very small hoops will be the least likely to get caught on things.
Glitter adds sparkle to you look without adding clunky jewelry.Hair extensions will let you flip your hair around in a sexy way.A garter belt can give you that old-school pinup girl look.
A collar or leather choker could be a good choice if you are going for a kinky, bondage vibe.
Fishnet stockings are a sexy classic.
 Of course, there is no one way strippers make themselves up, and the most important thing is to find a style that makes you feel sexy. There are thousands of makeup tutorial videos available to watch online if you want to improve your makeup game.If you’re already a makeup pro, there are some simple ideas to consider.Dark, smoky eyeshadow
Cat eyes
Thick mascara, or fake eyelashesThin, highly arched, penciled eyebrows
Glossy lips
Liberal layers of foundation and concealer to hide any flaws in your skin (consider applying these to your body as well as your face—one thing that sets strippers’ beauty routine apart from that of other women is the extent to which they apply makeup to their bodies)