 Get to know what your boyfriend likes and dislikes so that you can be more attentive to his needs. You can do this in little ways that will show him you are thinking of him.


For example, you might ask him about how a big meeting went at work and have a bottle of his favorite wine ready when he gets home. Or, if you know that he does not like birthday parties, then you might plan something low key to do on his birthday, like going to see a movie or checking out a new restaurant together.
Try to think about what would be the best way to anticipate your boyfriend’s needs in everyday situations and for special occasions.
 Everyone likes to feel attractive and special. Tell your boyfriend about the things you like about him. Comment on his physique, his skills, or his intelligence.


Make your compliments sincere. If he’s wearing a shirt that looks great on him, for example, touch his shoulder and say, “You look so hot in that shirt.”, Show your boyfriend that you want to look good for him. Wear something that you know he likes.


Wear a cute pair of jeans you when you go out for dinner, or spend a little extra time grooming before you meet up with him., You don’t need to spend a lot of money to show that you care about someone. A small gift simply shows that you were thinking of him. Don’t go over the top, but look out for ways to give him things that he likes.For example, if you happen to be on a trip, bring him back a souvenir. If you go to the store, bring him his favorite bag of chips.
Give things that don’t cost money. If you know that he is interested in a certain type of music, for example, make him a playlist or send him a music video. Thoughtful gifts will show him that you really know and care for him as a person.
 A busy work or school life can be overwhelming and stressful. Offer to help your boyfriend with the little things he may not have time to do during the day, or simply help him do something just for the fun of it. Offering to help shows that you support him and his goals.


Help him finish an assignment for a subject you happen to be good at.
If he's working, try packing his lunch for the next work day or give him a massage when he comes home.

