 Whenever you quote from or paraphrase a source in your writing, you should include an in-text citation. The basic format recommends putting the last name of the author of the source, followed by the page number, in parentheses.For example, if you are quoting from page 28 of John Francis’ book Planetwalker, you would reference this as (Francis 28).
If the work has multiple authors, list them. For example: (Ohlin and Upson 127)
If the source has more than three authors, just use the first one and the abbreviation “et al.”: (Ohlin et al. 127);
, Many digital, visual, and auditory formats do not have page numbers or other information that corresponds to that used when citing traditional print sources. The MLA recommends using the most relevant information you can find (like an author’s name or title) when citing such sources. For instance:If you are citing an article by Frank Miller from CNN.com called “Midnight in Gotham City” that does not have page numbers, your parenthetical citation can be simply (Miller).
Since page numbers for ebooks will vary from device to device, include the chapter number or other section heading instead, if possible: (Miller ch. 2).
 Position the parenthetical citation at the end of the sentence where you include the quote or reference. Normally, the parenthetical citation should come before the period at the end of the sentence. If you are including a long, indented block quote, however, place the parenthetical citation after the final period., If a source does not have a named author, just put a shortened version of the title followed by the page number in the parenthetical citation. If you are citing multiple works by the same author, include a brief title of the source. For example, you may have parenthetical citations that look like:(“Report on International Banking Regulations”), for a website with this title but no listed author or page numbers.
(Franken “Wake Up!” 99) and (Franken “Dawn in America” 87), if you are citing two works by Franken.
 You don’t have to make your writing cluttered with repeated information. If your text makes clear the source/author you are citing, just include the page number in parentheses.For instance, you may have a sentence that looks something like: “Jasmine Whitaker discusses the concept of ‘hyperspeed reading’ in her second book, Read ‘til You Drop (45).”

, If you reference the same work several times in row, you can use a short form parenthetical citation. Your reader will assume the subsequent citations reference the same source. Give a full citation when you reference a new work. For instance:

”The concept of ‘hyperspeed reading’ describes a method for reading far more quickly than normal (Whitaker 45). It asks that readers ‘guess what a text will say before they actually read each line’ (47). Other scholars doubt that readers can make substantial use of this technique, citing concerns like ‘the lack of attention given to things one hasn’t seen yet’ (Jackson 128).”

, The basic format of in-text citations is useful and acceptable for many forms of writing. However, if you are doing specialized research or writing for a specific audience, you may be expected to include additional information in your citations, such as edition or chapter numbers.The MLA Handbook contains official guidelines on more specialized citation needs.
If you are a student, check with your teacher about what kind of citation requirements you may need to follow.

