 Without treatment, gonorrhea will cause serious health problems. Both males and females can experience a condition known as disseminated gonorrhea. The bacteria has entered the bloodstream and spread to the skin and joints. This leads to fevers, maculopapular skin rash (tiny raised painful circular lesions from the neck down), and severe joint pains.


Complications of gonorrhea for women include inflammation of the fallopian tubes leading to pelvic inflammatory disease (sever lower abdominal pain). This can lead to severe scars within the area causing future pregnancy complications and infertility. In addition, a untreated inflamed pelvis can increase the risk of an ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy outside of the uterus).
In males, a condition called epididymitis can develop leading to pain behind the testes and eventually infertility.
 Gonorrhea contains proteins that allow HIV to replicate itself quicker, increasing the likelihood of passing along HIV. Those who are negative for HIV but have gonorrhea are five times more likely to acquire the virus.


Do not engage in sexual activity till the you are cured of the symptoms, as you may pass it along to someone else. Advise your sexual partners for evaluation and treatment since gonorrhea can go undetected without symptoms at first.
 Explain your history and complaints. Your doctor or nurse may ask the following questions: When did you have sex last? Did you perform oral, anal, or vaginal sex? How many partners do you have? Do you use protection? Gonorrhea is a sexual transmitted disease that can spread through sexual activity. The more sexual active partners the higher the risk.


Drink some water before going to the office. Your doctor will take a urine sample to see any white blood cells (immune cells), blood, or hints of infection in the urine.
If you are female, a urine pregnancy test may be performed.
Confirmatory testing will always be performed. This is an infection that is required by law to be reported to the health department and the CDC.
 When gonorrhea is diagnosed, doctors also normally treat as if chlamydia is there as well, as there is a high rate of co-infection These two bacteria are very common sexually transmitted diseases and can lead to similar symptoms. Your doctor will provide treatment for both.


The healthcare provider will clean the area (usually shoulder muscle) with an alcohol swab and Inject a 250mg dose intramuscularly of ceftriaxone to treat the gonorrhea. This medication is part of the cephalosporin class of antibiotics and prevents growth of the gonorrhea cell wall.
In addition your doctor will prescribe you, or give you, a one time dose of 1 gram Azithromycin. A 7 day course of 100mg Doxycycline twice a day can be substituted for the azithromycin to treat for chlamydia. Both these drugs prevent important enzymes and structural components of gonorrhea from being formed by interrupting protein synthesis.

