 When an Italian goes shopping for ingredients he/she picks the best. The most fresh. An Italian never settles for poor quality. If produce at all the grocery stores or markets in his/ hers area is bad or poor than he/she goes somewhere else. Never settle for poor quality ingredients, herbs, and produce. Generally a produce stand has or will have fresher produce and the produce will last longer. Do not place produce such as tomatoes and lettuce etc. in the fridge. The produce will last longer if placed on the counter and used within a few days. A good Italian cook ALWAYS uses fresh garlic.;
, Pasta is the or one of the most important parts of Italian cooking. There are nearly 120 different types and kinds of pastas, but It is a good idea to become familiar with the more common pastas, and, if you use dry pasta, it is a good idea to know how to make fresh pasta when you are caught without dry pasta. In general, the smaller or thinner the pasta, the less sauce you want to use. consequently the larger or more rigid the pasta (such as penne rigate which has ridges) the more sauce or heavier sauce you can use. But any sauce can go with spaghetti. Risotto and Gnocchi are classified as a type of pasta and may be used as such.
 Italians are very flexible with their cooking. Knowing how and when to substitute something for something else, in the occasion that the grocery store does not have something or a certain ingredient or a certain ingredient that a recipe calls for is very expensive and not within your budget, the good Italian cook knows how to substitute or use something else. A recipe calls for squash and you don't have it; why not use zucchini? If a recipe calls for mozzarella cheese and you are out; use fresh asiago.
 Italians waste nothing. Some may call this frugality, others may call this smart, and some may call this good economics. I would call it all three. If there is leftover bread (not, "puffed up 90% air" bread; real, delicious, and hot bread) it is left out to dry, seasoned or left plain, and made into croutons. If there is leftover pasta it is saved and use latter. I love to top left over pasta with a little olive oil, sun dried tomatoes, olives, and a pinch of salt and pepper.
 Coffee is a major part of Italians life. Italians usually enjoy a very dark, roasted, robust coffee as well as cappuccinos, caffe latte, and caffe macchiato. It is very likely if not customary to serve coffee to any guests an Italian has in his/her house.
 Italian cooking does not stop at the food, coffee, or ingredients. Italian cooking usually if not always starts and stops with hospitality. Italians always make their guests feel at home and there is nobody else in the world they would have over than you (The guest). The good Italian cook knows how to add more ingredients or add an extra side dish to make enough if he/she has unexpected guests. The good Italian cook always has enough food, coffee, and joy for everyone.

