 Before you begin writing your daily posts, you will need to find some time to write down a list of 30 things that you appreciate. Set aside a few hours to think about things that you are thankful for and develop your list. Try to respect the time that you have set aside for your list by not interrupting it with distractions like social media or television., Once you find the time, sit down and contemplate the things in your life that you are thankful for and want to recognize. Think about your friends and family. Consider the small things that make your life easier or happier.Ask yourself questions like “Who are the people in my life that make me smile every day?” or “What things could I absolutely not live without?”
Remember that there are no wrong answers to this exercise.
 While you are brainstorming, try to think of categories in which the things that you appreciate belong. You can list things that you are thankful for right now and things in your past that you appreciate. You can also do simple categories like listing the people, places, and things that you appreciate. Think of things in terms of categories will help your mind draw connections to other items and help fill out your list.This is also helpful if you decide to list your posts by theme.
 Another easy way to get ideas is by talking to your friends and family. Chat with your loved ones about things that you all appreciate. You may find that they list things that you had not thought of. You may also find that they inspire you to think of things by helping you draw parallels between their life and yours.At the very least, it is a great exercise to share with the people that you love.
 Take a few days or even a week to think about things that you appreciate. Mull it over and evaluate the things on your list. Unless you want to wing it, try not to rush brainstorming for the challenge. The thankfulness challenge is an exercise in thoughtfulness, which requires time and patience.Ask yourself questions like “Do I really appreciate this thing?” or “Should this be higher on my list?”

, As you are brainstorming ideas, be sure to write them down in a notebook or a word processor. This will help you remember the things that you appreciate. Try to think of more than thirty things, that way you have options if you end up not feeling a certain item.As you write down your items, you can order them however you would like. The important thing is to get them down.
 Once you have your list, you may want to give it some order and arrange it a certain way. If you have any important dates during the challenge, you may want to make sure that you have a related thankfulness post for that day. For example, if a family member’s birthday falls during your thankfulness challenge, you may want to save expressing your gratitude towards them until that day.