 Go to https://www.investor.gov/tools/calculators/compound-interest-calculator to access the compound interest calculator. This calculator is provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission's website Investor.gov.
 On the page, you will be asked to input several variables. These should be entered as follows:

Current principal: this is how much you initially invested or the original amount on your loan. An investment should be entered as a positive number while a loan amount should be entered as a negative number (using a "-" sign). 

Monthly addition. If you regularly add an amount to your investment or pay down your loan at regular intervals, input the amount paid each time as a positive number.  

Years to grow. This is the time period you are looking at in years. This can also be the life of your loan.

Interest rate. Input the interest rate your investment earns or the amount you pay on your loans. This is the annual rate. 

Compound interest __ times per year. Input 1 for annual compounding, 2 for semiannual, 4 for quarterly, or 12 for monthly, depending on how your investment or loan compounds. This information should be available on an investment prospectus or loan document. 


, To calculate interest earned on investments, start by inputting the amount that you initially invested. Be sure to include any payments you make on a monthly basis in the "monthly addition" box. Then, enter the number of years you want to track investment growth over. Next, input your interest rate. This can be an expected interest rate if you are unsure. Finally, input how many times your investment interest is compounded each year.

You can play around with these variables and use them to compare different investment opportunities or different interest rates and compounding frequencies. 


, Because this is technically an investment calculator, finding interest on loans is a bit different. First, you'll have to enter the principal on the loan as a negative number. This lets the calculator know that you owe the money instead of owning it. For monthly addition, input how much you are able to pay down the loan each month. This can be a minimum payment, a budgeted amount, or any other amount that you can pay each month. Input the rest of the variables as normal.

If your result is negative, you will still owe money at the end of the timeframe. However, a positive number reflect that you can pay off the loan in this way by the end of the period. 


, You can also use this calculator and some guesswork to determine the right monthly payments for you. Say, for example, you owe $20,000 on a credit card that charges 20% interest compound monthly. You want to pay off the card in two years, but don't know how much to pay each month to do.

Start by guessing a proper monthly payment. For example, $800. By inputting this data, you'll see that you'll still owe $6,336.39 at the end of the two years if you pay $800 each month. 

Increase your guess. For example, $1000. This one is much closer and leaves you with only about $523 to pay at the end of the two years. 

Continue this process until you arrive at an approximate monthly payment that suits your needs. 


