 Though he is a brilliant doctor, Dr. House needs his team around him to help him solve tough problems. Even if he eventually solves the problem himself, he often arrives to his conclusion only after having a problem-solving session with his team of doctors, in which they talk about possible diagnoses of the patient and what could be done to improve their condition.Even if your work environment isn’t naturally structured with departments or teams, still try to get the input of your coworkers when working to solve a problem.
Assemble a group of people with different skills and expertise so that everyone has something useful to contribute.
 Dr. House has a whiteboard he uses in many episodes to write out all the suggestions and ideas of himself and his team. He uses the whiteboard to make connections between different ideas and come up with creative solutions. Start planning out projects or plans on a whiteboard to help you make connections and visualize your solution.List out all aspects of a project or a problem on one side, and all solutions on the other. Then try to branch out or connect both sides.
 Dr. House approaches problem solving using a concept called Occam's Razor, which states that simplest theory is the best starting place for solving a problem. Once you come up with a list of potential solutions, use the one that is most likely to fix the problem. Dr. House always uses a practical approach and acts on the most likely diagnosis.Don't forget about human error. As Dr. House said, "Occam's Razor. The simplest explanation is almost always that somebody screwed up.", Dr. House is incredibly stubborn, almost to a fault. If you have a possible solution to a problem that you are sure of, stick to it and don’t let others talk you down. Still be open to the ideas and suggestions of others, but always keep your original idea in mind and don’t compromise without first trying to win others over to your side.


In season three, Dr. House says to his colleague only somewhat jokingly, "I thought I'd get your theories, mock them, then embrace my own. The usual.", Move on to a different solution if the first one doesn’t work. Because Dr. House is always given the most difficult cases at the hospital, he often has to test out several solutions before finding the most successful one. Don’t be afraid to change your approach and try out different ways of tackling a problem.