 It is essential to get a checkup at your vet before your travel in order to receive a health certificate, often required for airline travel, and proof of vaccination. Many transportation services open to the public (trains, planes, boats) require a health certificate and proof of vaccination before agreeing to transport your dog.


Carry all of your dog’s documentation with you while you are travelling to avoid any issues with veterinary border control or emergency illnesses.
Be sure to plan ahead in order to avoid cancellations or unavailability. Get a checkup at least a few weeks in advance of your trip.
While you're at the vet, be sure to stock up on all necessary medications.;
, If you are flying or driving to another country, be sure to check for their immigration and veterinary border control policies. Contact the airline you are travelling with as well as the border control for the country you will be arriving in to find out what restrictions and laws you need to abide by.Consult the airline you are travelling with to be put in touch with veterinary border control.
Some airlines will not transport dogs in extreme heat or cold.
 Crating your dog is recommended for both their and your safety. Before crating, be sure to exercise your dog so that they are more comfortable resting.Go for an extra long walk or run before putting your dog in the car or arriving at the airport.
 Whether you are driving or flying you’ll eventually need to find a dog-friendly hotel. Ask your hotel what they’re pet policies are when you are booking.


Find out if your accommodation is near a park, lake, trail, or field that you and your dog can walk to for exercise and bathroom breaks.
 It comes in handy for cuts, ticks and the like. It will give you peace of mind if nothing else! Make sure your kit also includes any medications that your dog might need.


Emergency kits should contain all of your dog’s relevant paperwork, a nylon leash, muzzle, and various medical supplies like hydrogen peroxide, gauze, bandages, tweezers, and adhesive tape., Sedating your dog can often cause unwanted complications as most sedatives will reduce your dog’s response to pressure and climate changes. Instead of sedating your dog, be sure to give them plenty of exercise before crating and have drinking water close by.Consult your vet if you are concerned that your dog may be in need of a sedative or tranquilizer while travelling.

