 If you've filed a complaint with an ICANN-approved provider under the UDRP, the same information you used to complete your complaint form can be used to initiate a lawsuit against the domain holder in federal court.Keep in mind that the UDRP is not exclusive, and you don't have to attempt to resolve your dispute under the UDRP before you pursue traditional litigation.
However, if you've already submitted a UDRP complaint, it's best to let it run its course before you file a lawsuit, as the entire process will be completed in less than two months. The arbitration panel can suspend or terminate proceedings if you file a new lawsuit before it has reached a decision.
Generally, you cannot sue over a domain name dispute unless the domain infringes on a registered trademark that you own.
You may have additional recourse under the federal Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, but you must be able to show that the current domain holder acted in bad faith when he or she registered the domain. You also must have a trademark that predates the registration of the domain name by the current domain holder.
 Because domain dispute law and federal court rules and procedures are complex, if you get to the point where you've decided to file a lawsuit, hiring an attorney with experience litigating domain dispute cases is essential.Larger intellectual property law firms typically have a department that handles internet issues and domain name disputes.
If you've already consulted an attorney at other points regarding your situation, you may want to go ahead and retain the same attorney, since he or she already has at least a passing familiarity with your case.
If you've not already consulted an attorney, look for someone who specializes in domain name disputes and also has experience in trademark litigation – since a domain name dispute lawsuit essentially is a trademark infringement lawsuit.
 Your attorney will work with you to build the allegations that will form the basis of your lawsuit, then file it with the federal district court that has jurisdiction over your domain name dispute.All complaints must be accompanied by a $400 filing fee. Typically, you will be responsible for paying this, unless your attorney has agreed to work under a contingency fee agreement (which is rare in intellectual property cases).
Once the complaint is filed, the clerk assigns it to a judge at random and gives it a case number, which will be used on all other documents filed with the court in your case.
You must have the other party served with a complaint and summons so he or she has legal notice of the lawsuit. This typically is done either by having the documents hand-delivered by a U.S. Marshal, or by sending them using certified mail with return receipt requested.
After the other party has been served, he or she has 21 days to file an answer or other response to your lawsuit. If the domain holder misses this deadline, you may be eligible to win your lawsuit by default – but don't expect this to happen.
 Assuming the domain holder has filed an answer, the discovery phase of pretrial litigation begins. You and the domain holder will exchange evidence and information related to the domain name dispute.The first form of discovery you likely will use or encounter typically will be written discovery in the form of interrogatories (written questions) and requests for production. These documents will be delivered to your attorney and must be answered in writing under oath.
You also will have the opportunity to participate in depositions, which are interviews conducted under oath in the presence of a court reporter. The court reporter then produces a transcript of the proceedings. Both parties likely will want to depose each other.
Keep in mind that the discovery process can take months, if not years. The court likely will hold a number of scheduling conferences for the purpose of keeping the litigation on track and setting deadlines for the completion of certain tasks.
 Because lawsuits can take years to even reach trial, working with a mediator may help you settle the domain name dispute in a quicker and more cost-efficient way.Many district courts have their own mediation programs available to civil litigants for free or at a substantially reduced cost.
Through mediation, a neutral, third-party individual trained in dispute resolution works with you and the other party to facilitate a settlement to the dispute.
The mediation proceedings are confidential and non-binding. There is no requirement that you resolve your domain name dispute.
However, if you and the other party do reach a settlement, the terms of that agreement can be put in writing and signed by both parties to create a legally binding contract.

