 Choose your favorite character from your favorite anime, or choose someone more interesting. Pick a character with an awesome weapon or a cool outfit for the most fun cosplay experience. Get together with a group of friends and dress as the characters from a specific anime or manga, and act out scenes from the story while in character. Whatever you choose, do so well in advance, as you'll need plenty of time to plan and create your costume.;
, Many anime characters have long, dramatic hair, but there are also plenty of characters with shorter or mid-length hair. Some have perfectly straight hair, while others' hair is voluminous and curly. Think about your hairstyle. Decide whether you want to use your own hair or get a wig, and cut or dye your hair if necessary. Be creative and don't be afraid to go a little wild - in cosplay, hair comes in all colors, shapes, and sizes.
 It can be tempting to go all-out with style when designing your costume. However, while eight-inch heels may look awesome, they're not going to be that much fun to walk around in all day. Compromise on style if it allows you to be more comfortable. This way, you can enjoy wearing your costume and stay in it for longer. Make sure everything fits well, and break in shoes or other items that might give you blisters well before the day of your cosplay.
 This part is optional, but having appropriate accessories will give you an extra special look. You can carry LARP weapons like swords or even a replica gun. Decorate your weapon, staff, or other accessory to perfectly match your character's own. Make sure not to carry any real weapons, as these could be dangerous to yourself or others.
 Always go for a light makeup because too heavy will give you a fake, raunchy look that will detract from your cosplay. In fact, a good simple makeup will flaunt your beauty even if the costume or hairstyle is not that appealing. Mimic your character's makeup and use it to look more like your character, but remember not to go overboard with it.

