 Many people center their Tumblr page around a particular topic or theme, such as cooking, photography, fashion etc. When picking a topic you should choose something that genuinely interests and engages you. Otherwise you will get bored with it quickly or run out of ideas. Centering your Tumblr around a certain topic will give your blogs purpose and direction.


Choose carefully. If you pick a topic that's too specific, like "The Habitats of the Tiger Salamander," you will run out of new and interesting things to say pretty quickly. On the other hand, if you make it too broad, by deciding to write about the history of Europe for example, you can easily become overwhelmed.
Think about your potential readers. Who are they? What type of content will appeal to them? How will you sustain their interest?
Write about a hobby. Love fishing? How about knitting? Are you a black belt in karate? Writing about a favorite hobby can be a great place to start when it comes to picking a blog topic, as it is something you enjoy doing and chances are you already know a lot about it.
Write about your kids. Blogs can be a great place to document your children's growth and achievements. You can also interact with other parents and discuss everything from school lunch ideas to innovative ways to get your baby to sleep.
Post photographs. A pictures says a thousand words, right? So if you're a talented photographer why not skip the blather and let your beautiful pics do the talking.
 This simple step cannot be overlooked; if you want to become popular on Tumblr, you need to have a blog with relevant, compelling posts that appeal to a wide audience.


Be sure to check for misspellings and bad grammar. Use paragraphs.
Use all the different types of posts to have a variety of content.
 Posting original, insightful content will attract more followers to a Tumblr than continuously posting recycled content. Aim to be unique. This doesn't mean coming up with an idea that nobody has ever thought of before. It means that your blog should have an authentic voice which reflects your personality.
 No matter what, don't post things that you don't believe in just because you think it will make you more popular. Keep it real!, If you've built up a group of loyal followers by posting your favorite vegetarian recipes, don't suddenly decide to start writing steakhouse reviews instead. It's ok to vary your posts from time to time, but be wary of completely alienating your audience. It's important to continue to interest and engage the followers you currently have, or you risk losing them. If you have decided on a particular topic, stick to it. You can always create a second Tumblr page if you want to explore other interests.
 Tagging your posts in a strategic, yet appropriate way is one of the best opportunities to get more followers on Tumblr. A tag is essentially a keyword that makes it easier for readers to find posts about a specific topic on your blog. For example, you can tag your photographs with the word "photography" or your trip posts with the word "travel."To get the most out of every post you make, make sure to tag it appropriately.


When choosing tags, avoid picking words that are too specific. Go for broad tags, such as "Animals", "Sports" or "Television" which are certain to have a huge number of existing followers. By tagging your posts with such broad terms, you are maximizing the number of people who'll see your posts and your number of followers will skyrocket!
When you create a post, enter your tags in the last field of the form. You don't need to put a tag in quotes or start with a hashtag. Hit enter after each tag.
To search for tags, enter the tag (or keyword) in the "Search Tags" box at the top of your Dashboard.

