 This design of beaded ring is ideal for displaying a lovely centerpiece, like a lampwork bead, tablet or tube bead, or other kinds of glass bead. Choose your elastic so that it fits your centerpiece, and along with the centerpiece and elastic, also be sure you have:


Bead stringing elastic (6-8 in (15 - 20 cm))
Centerpiece bead
Scissors
Sterling silver "daisy" spacers (about 40)
Sterling silver bead caps (2)
Sterling silver round beads (3; size 4 mm)
Wire needle, Having your beads separated into containers can decrease the time you spend hunting for your next bead and prevent irritating spills. Take a moment and, depending on your supplies, use a small container to hold and divide your beads by type.


If you bought in bulk, a tupperware container is a great option for bead storage.
Ramekins and smaller sized, wide mouthed cups work well for smaller amounts of beads.
 Using a wire needle will make it easier for you to thread your beads onto your elastic, and will also give you something to hold on to, making dropped thread and beads less likely. To thread your needle:


Hold your thread firmly between your forefinger and thumb as close to its end as possible.
Take your needle with your free hand and push its eye onto the thread until it is threaded., Bead caps on either side of your centerpiece will create a lovely, professional looking setting. Your first "bead," after your centerpiece, should be your cap followed immediately by a silver bead. Then add daisy spacers until you have reached about half way around the band of your ring.


You can check to see if you've reached the halfway point by holding your centerpiece on the top of your finger and drawing the band around your finger.
If the band reaches halfway around your finger, you're ready to move on.
Be sure you have a firm hold of the end of your string when measuring. Beads can easily fall off.
 Mark the halfway point with a silver bead and then continue threading your daisy spacers onto your line. The number of daisy spacers you use should be the same to create a symmetrical, polished appearance.As you add more spacers, periodically check the length of the band. Hold the centerpiece to the top of your finger and use your free hand to wrap it around.
Be careful to keep the end of your line firmly gripped to prevent beads from falling off.
Your ring should feel snug on your finger when you have threaded your last spacer.
 Now that the spacers are finished, your ring is almost complete. All you need to do is thread your needle through the final silver round bead to reflect the bead on the outside of your first bead cap. Then:


Follow your bead with the ending bead cap to complete the a setting around your centerpiece.
Thread your needle through your centerpiece bead.
 Hold your band firmly so there is no wasted excess in the band. Extra band will translate to a loose ring in the end. Secure both ends with a surgeons knot and then hide it by:


Crossing your needle over the opposite end to form a loop.
Taking your needle through the loop twice.
Pulling the knot tight to make it as small as possible.
Wiggling the band until the knot is covered by your centerpiece.,