 Foods you love that aren't very healthy shouldn't be eaten daily. Rather, try limiting them to a certain number of times a week. One or two times a week is usually a good place to start. That way, you can still have the foods you love, but they won't ruin your healthy diet., Often, people do not have a good idea of what a serving size of a particular food is. That can lead to overindulgence. Make it your mission to learn portion sizes for various foods that you eat, so that you can still eat them without going overboard. One way to learn portion sizes is to read labels and then measure out your food, but you can also learn some basic rules for portion size.For example, a typical serving of meat is about 3 ounces, which is about the size of the palm of your hand. A serving of peanut butter is about the size of your thumb.
For cheese, use your pointer finger to measure; the serving should be about the same size. A serving of milk or yogurt is about one fist.
For pasta, think a handful, while a slice of bread should be the size of your hand and a serving of cereal should be about one fist.
A serving of fruits or vegetables is generally one fist, with the exception of salad greens, which can be two fists., Instead of snacking from a huge bag or bowl, try putting a single serving in a smaller container. Then, put the food away so you're not as tempted to take more. Similarly, you can use a smaller plate at meals to keep you from overeating (and to trick your brain into thinking you're eating more than you actually are). Doing so is a simple way to enjoy a food you like while making sure you don't mindlessly overindulge., To make servings easier on yourself, try taking a large bag or container and portioning out several small containers. That way, it's ready to go when you want to eat some, and you don't have to think about portion size.For instance, if you buy a big bag of pretzels, try portioning it out into small plastic bowls or bags so they're ready to go when you need a snack.
This advice works well for healthy snacks, too. Try cleaning and chopping portions of vegetables, so you can easily grab them when you're hungry.
 If your favorite food is something you eat out, consider only eating half of it. You could split it with a friend, for instance. You could also ask to have half of it boxed up to take home before you even start eating. Either way, you'll be eating a more reasonable portion., The first task in losing weight is figuring out how many calories you need to just sustain your weight. Then, you can figure out how many you need to eat to lose weight over time. Your needed caloric intake is based on your weight and your activity level.If you are mostly inactive, you should multiply your current weight (in pounds) by 11. That will give you the number of calories you need to sustain your weight. So if you weigh 200 pounds, you need 2,200 calories a day to sustain your weight.
If you have a moderate activity level, you should multiply your weight by 13. So if you weigh 200 pounds, you need 2,600 calories a day to sustain your weight.
If you're very active, multiple your weight by 15. If you weigh 200 pounds, you'll need 3,000 calories a day to sustain your weight.
 One pound is equal to 3,500 calories. To lose a single pound, you need to reduce your caloric intake by 3,500 calories each week through diet and exercise. Aim to lose about 1 or 2 pounds a week by reducing your daily intake by 500 to 1,000 calories.Always consult a doctor or dietitian about your caloric intake, as you don't want to go too low or miss out on essential vitamins and nutrients. For women, the lowest you should go is 1,200, while for men, the lowest you should go is 1,500.
 Once you know how many calories you need in a day to lose weight, you can figure your favorite foods into that calculation. For instance, if you decide you want to eat a brownie one day, subtract that from your overall caloric intake. You'll need to eat fewer calories elsewhere to compensate.For instance, if you're supposed to eat 1,500 calories a day and the brownie is 300 calories, that means you only have 1,200 calories left for other foods.
 While counting calories can be beneficial, it's also helpful to focus on healthy calories. If your favorite foods are high calorie, you're going to find it harder to stay full on fewer calories. Make sure the main part of your diet consists of low-fat proteins (fish, chicken, low-fat dairy, egg whites, legumes), whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and low-fat dairy. Emphasizing vegetables and fruits especially will help you keep your diet healthy and low-calorie., Counting calories isn't everything. In fact, exercise is equally important in your quest to lose weight. Each week, you should do a combination of aerobic exercise and strength-training exercises to build muscle and burn off calories.You should either do 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity per week or 75 minutes of intense activity. However, you may need to do up to 300 minutes of moderate activity for weight loss.
For moderate activities, you can try walking or swimming. Even housework can be considered a moderate aerobic activity if it is strenuous. For something more intense, try things like running, using an elliptical machine, cycling, or dancing.
For strength training, you can lift weights, use resistance machines, and carry groceries, just to name a few.
 Some foods you love are likely in-between meal snacks, which is fine. However, make sure you're eating when you're actually hungry, rather than just when you're bored. Also, stop when you're full, even if it's before you finish the portion you've laid out.Savor what you're eating. It can be tempting to just gobble down your favorite food. However, then you'll be tempted to get a second helping. Instead, take time to really slow down and enjoy it. You'll feel more satisfied, and you won't be as tempted to get more.Try not to eat with the television on or while you're playing on your phone. Pay attention to your food so you can truly enjoy it.
Take the time to really chew your food, so that the flavor lasts. Plus, taking longer to eat gives your stomach a chance to catch up and single that you're full.
 Drinking water can give you a feeling of fullness that helps you cut down on calories. Try drinking a glass of water before you sit down for a meal, particularly a meal where you're indulging in some less healthy options. Doing so can help you keep your portions under control.
 One option to still eat things you love is to make simple switches to make them healthier. These small changes likely won't make a big difference to the flavor, and you'll still get the enjoyment of eating the food.For example, if you enjoy eating macaroni and cheese, try making simple switches like choosing whole-wheat pasta, swapping one percent milk for whole milk, using a lower-fat margarine instead of butter, and using a lower-fat cheese.
Similarly, if you love burritos, try making burrito bowls instead. Load up on fiber-rich options like black beans, brown rice, sautéed onions, cilantro, and salsa, then go light on toppings like cheese. You can also use chicken instead of beef and choose fat-free sour cream instead of full-fat.
 Even if you don't want to make some of your favorite foods healthier, you can add other healthier foods to go with them. For instance, if you want pizza, don't just fill up a huge plate with slice after slice. Add a side of broccoli and a small salad, so you fill up on those foods while still enjoying your pizza., That is, rather than eating when you're stressed, try other activities, such as exercising. Exercising will help you de-stress and lose weight. You could also try other stress-relieving activities, such as meditation or yoga.If you're feeling very stressed, try some deep breathing. Take a moment to close your eyes, and then breathe in for four counts. Hold your breath for four counts, then breathe out for four counts. Repeat until you feel yourself calming down.
 Fiber is a great way to fill yourself up and eat healthier. When eating your favorite foods, try including fiber in them so you feel fuller faster, keeping you from eating too much. Fiber is mostly found in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and beans.For example, if you love chicken and gravy over rice, try using brown rice instead of white rice, as brown rice is a whole grain and has more fiber. Also, you could sneak in some riced cauliflower into your brown rice, adding some vegetables.
 Another way to fill up on your favorite savory foods and stay healthier is to include some lean proteins. Lean proteins are foods like skinless chicken, fish, legumes (peas, beans, and lentils), low-fat dairy, and egg whites.Protein doesn't digest as quickly as carbs, keeping you fuller for longer.
For example, if you want to eat quesadillas, try using less cheese and adding a lean protein to make it healthier.

