 Almost any kind of vegetable can be used to make a soup. So long as you enjoy the flavor of the veggie you choose, it should make a tasty soup. You’ll need at least 1 lb (.45 kg) of veggies cut into chunks, but you can use as much as 2 lbs (.91 kg). Be sure to rinse and clean your veggies under cool water before cutting them. Feel free to mix and match veggies, too.In some cases, like with turnips or cabbage, you may need to soften the natural bitterness of the vegetable or its aroma. This can be done by adding cream, yogurt, white beans, or lemon to the soup.
Some common veggies used in soups include things like sweet potatoes, zucchini, squash, turnips, tomatoes, celery, mushrooms, leeks, cabbage, and kale.
Veggies that are a little firmer in consistency, like butternut squash, will take much longer to cook down than tender greens.;
, In a Dutch oven or soup pot with a lid, heat your olive oil on your stove top over medium heat. Cook aromatic and tender vegetables, like leeks, garlic, onions, and so on in the oil for about 5 minutes. Stir these regularly with a wooden spoon or similar utensil.


The time it takes to cook these veggies may vary. Generally, you should cook them until they become soft and emit a fragrant smell., At this point, add starchier, firmer consistency vegetables, like carrots, cauliflower, butternut squash, and so on. Cook these in the oil with your aromatic and tender veggies until they begin to brown at the edges., Add salt, pepper, cumin, chili powder, and smoked paprika to the mix. This is especially important if you use a low sodium broth. Failing to season enough could result in a bland outcome for your soup. Stir in the seasonings thoroughly.Adjust the seasonings to suit your personal taste. If you like a lighter flavored soup, you may want to halve amount of salt, pepper, and herbs and spices you use to season the vegetables.
 Once you’ve seasoned your veggies, you’re ready to add the broth. Increase the heat after doing so to bring the liquid to a simmer. At this point, feel free to add some fresh herbs to enhance the flavor of your soup., Once the mixture reaches a simmer, decrease the heat to the low setting. Put the lid on your Dutch oven or soup pot, and allow this to cook for roughly 30 minutes. To maintain the consistency of the veggies, remove the soup from the heat after 30 minutes of cooking.


When using a soup pot, allow a small gap between the lid and the pot so steam can escape.
If you prefer your soup to have very soft veggies, or if you like your soup to be more of a puree, allow the mixture to cook until the veggies begin to disintegrate., Take your wooden spoon, or a similar kitchen utensil, and try some of your soup. Be careful when doing so, as it’ll likely be hot. If your soup tastes a little bland, add a little vinegar or lemon juice.


Especially if this is your first time making a vegetable soup, you may find that it needs more salt or pepper. At this point, freely add these seasonings until you achieve your preferred taste.
In some cases, you may have added too much salt. When this happens, thin out mixture by adding more broth or dairy, like milk or cream.