 Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Get out a baking sheet and tear off a sheet of parchment paper. Lay the parchment paper on the baking sheet and set it aside., Get out a medium mixing bowl and measure all of the dry ingredients into it. Use a whisk to combine the ingredients . Set the bowl aside. For dry seasonings, you'll need:½ cup (64 g) arrowroot powder
2 teaspoons paprika
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 1/2 teaspoons sugar (optional)

, Set a shallow bowl or pie plate on your work surface. Crack 1 egg into the dish and add ½ cup (120 ml) of coconut milk from a can. Whisk the egg and coconut milk until the egg is incorporated. Set the wet mixture aside.Try to use regular coconut milk (not light, since it can be too watery). Avoid using creamed coconut which is very thick and sweet.
 Take 1 large sweet onion (like Vidalia or Walla Walla) and remove the peel. Take a sharp knife and carefully slice the onion into 3/4-inch (19-mm) thick slices. Separate the individual rings, so you have lots of rings in different sizes., Take one onion at a time and dip it in the wet mixture. Turn each ring over, so it's completely coated in the coconut milk/egg mixture. Hold the coated ring up, so the excess mixture drips back into the pan.It may be easier to dip and coat the onion rings in small batches.
 Transfer the onion rings that are coated in the wet mixture into the bowl with the dry seasoning mixture. Turn each ring over, so they're coated with the dry mix. Hold up each ring and tap any of the excess dry mixture back into the mixing bowl.Removing excess dry mixture from each onion ring will help them crisp up. Too much coating will make the onion rings too soggy.
 Set each prepared onion ring on the baking sheet and spray all of them lightly with cooking spray. Turn them over and spray the other side. The cooking spray will help the onion rings brown and will prevent them from sticking to the baking sheet., Put the baking sheet in the oven and bake the onion rings for 10 minutes. Turn the rings over and bake them for another 4 minutes.The onion rings should become completely crispy and golden brown once they've finished baking.
Serve the onion rings with your favorite dipping sauces. Avoid storing the leftovers.

