 Using a warm moist towel on your face and neck before you start shaving may help to prevent acne. A warm moist towel can moisturize your skin and may help to open up your pores as well.


To give yourself a hot towel treatment, hold a clean washcloth or hand towel under warm to hot running water until it is saturated.
Then, wring out the excess water and place the towel over your face and neck. If desired, you can also add a drop of an essential oil of your choice to the towel to give it a nice scent.Keep the towel on your face for three to four minutes.;
, Look for a product that is made for sensitive skin and that will lubricate your face for shaving. Products labeled for “sensitive skin” or that claim to be “non-irritating” are good options.


If you are having problems with frequent acne, then you may also consider asking your doctor about a prescription shaving cream that contains benzoyl peroxide or an antibiotic that you can apply to your skin., Taking time to massage the shaving cream into your skin will help to ensure that your skin and facial hair are well-moisturized when you shave. Use circular motions to massage the cream into the areas of your face and neck that you will be shaving.


Allow the shaving cream to stay on your skin for about five to 10 minutes.This will help make shaving easier by softening up your facial hair and skin.
 Shave with the grain of your hair rather than against it. Shaving with the grain will help to reduce irritation and make acne less likely.Do not pull your skin taut as you shave.Use a new sharp, single blade razor every time. Using a new razor every time that you shave will reduce the chances that you will nick yourself or irritate your skin.
Rinse the razor after each stroke to keep the blade free of shaving cream and hair that may interfere with a close shave., You can adjust the closeness setting on an electric razor, which may help to prevent ingrown hairs. If you use an electric razor, then make sure that the razor is not set on the closest shave setting and do not press too hard on your skin as you shave., Depilatory creams can help to reduce ingrown hairs, so you may also consider these as an alternative to shaving. Make sure that you test the product on a small patch of your skin before applying it to a large area., After you finish shaving and rinse away the shaving cream, apply a gentle moisturizer. Do not use aftershave or any other products that contain alcohol as this may irritate your skin.


Try using aloe or baby oil after shaving to moisturize your skin.

