 There are many tinted lip balms on the market. You may want to focus your search on tinted lip balms that are advertised as moisturizing, especially if you plan to wear the product for most of the day and do not want your lips to dry out. Look for tinted lip balm that contains moisturizing ingredients like mango butter, coconut butter, almond oil, and shea butter.You may also opt for a product that also contains vitamin E and rice wax, as these ingredients will keep your lips looking soft and moisturized.
You should also make sure the lip balm contains SPF 15 or higher so your lips are protected from the sun.;
, Go for a tinted lip balm in a shade that will flatter your skin tone so you always look good with it on. There are four main skin tones: light, olive, medium, and dark. You may fall within one skin tone or be between two skin tones. You may need to try a few shades to find the right one for you.If you have a light skin tone, you may go for a tinted lip balm in a pink and orange undertones, such as a peach or a rose color. These undertones will add warmth to your light complexion.
If you have an olive skin tone, you can choose from a variety of shades, such as warm browns and warm pinks. Go for a coral tinted lip balm and avoid dark purple shades.
If you have a medium skin tone, you may opt for a burnt orange or brick red shade. You could also try shades with orange or pink undertones.
If you have a dark skin tone, try shades that have warm undertones, such as a caramel or peach shade. Deep plum, wine, and chocolate brown colors also look good against a dark skin tone.
 When you are shopping for tinted lip balm, you should avoid any products that contain chemicals that may be harmful to your health. Ingredients like paraben, propylene glycol, quaternium 15, and triethanolamine should be avoided as they can be harmful when swallowed.Avoid tinted lip balms that have a scent or are advertised as “matte”. They likely contain products like silicone and fragrances that can be irritating for your lips.
 Before you put on the tinted lip balm, you may try using lip primer to keep the balm on all day. Lip primer can help color stay on your lips with an even, smooth finish. It can also help to prevent your lips from drying out due to the lip balm.If you are going for a lightweight look on your lips, you may skip the lip primer. However, lip primer is a good option if you are planning to go to an all day or night event and do not want to have to touch up your lips too much.
 If the tinted lip balm comes in a tube, you can apply it straight onto your lips. Start at the corner of your bottom lip and apply the lip balm on your bottom lip. Then, apply the lip balm on your top lip, starting at the center of your lip and moving outward to each corner.You can press your lips together to distribute the color evenly. You can also press your lips on a piece of tissue to ensure the color locks onto your lips.
Check your lips in a mirror once you are done to make sure you do not have an lip balm your face and that your lips are properly coated by the lip balm.
 If you want to get a bit more precise with your tinted lip balm application, you can use a thin makeup brush. This may be ideal if the tinted lip balm comes in a pot rather than a stick. Never apply lip balm with your fingers, as your fingers contain bacteria that can spread onto your lips.Make sure the brush is clean and dry. Then, dip it into the tinted lip balm and get a small amount of the lip balm on the brush. Apply the lip balm to your bottom lip. Then, dip the brush in the balm again and apply the lip balm to your top lip.
Clean your makeup brush after you are done using it with brush cleaner or a dry, clean tissue. You may try to use the same makeup brush to apply the balm so you do not mix products on your lips.
 To add something extra to your tinted lip balm look, you may go for full makeup coverage on the rest of your face. Try wearing foundation or a tinted moisturizer on your face to go with the tinted lip balm. You can apply the foundation with a makeup brush or with clean fingers.


You may also wear bronzer on your face to create a nice glow. Opt for a bronzer that compliments your skin tone and your foundation.
You can apply bronzer with a makeup brush, making sure you apply it subtly to key areas of your face.
 For some added color to your face, you can also apply blush over the foundation. Use a makeup brush to apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks. You may choose a blush that will compliment your tinted lip balm. For example, if the lip balm is a rose tint, you may choose a blush that has a rose or pink undertone to complement the lip balm.You may also opt for very subtle blush if you are wearing a bold tinted lip balm, such as a wine or bright pink shade.
 To complete your look, you may decide to do your eye makeup. Go for an eye makeup style that will complement your tinted lip balm so your makeup look is put together. Go for a color combination for your eyes that will work well with your tinted lip balm so your makeup pops.For example, if you are wearing a dark red tinted lip balm, you may go for a taupe eye shadow. Or if you are wearing a peach tinted lip balm, you may go for an emerald eye shadow.
Another fun option is pairing a pink tinted lip balm with a violet eye shadow or a bright red tinted lip balm with a gold eye shadow.

