 Your picture is surrounded by a set of white dot-shaped sizing handles. The "Picture Tools Format" ribbon appears over the work area.
 There are 6 available border styles for each of 4 frame shapes: rectangle, oval, rounded rectangle, and wave-bottomed rectangle. Click the frame style you want to display your picture in.


You can edit the appearance of the frame by clicking the down arrow button to display the "Format Shape" dialog box. Select the options you want and click "OK" to apply them and close the dialog box.
 The sizing handle dots change to dashed blank lines, which are the cropping handles.
 Your cursor will change from a 4-headed arrow to the shape of the cropping handle it is over.
 Which handle you drag depends on how you wish to crop the picture.


To crop a single side, drag the center cropping handle on the side you wish to crop toward the center of the picture.
To crop adjacent sides, drag the corner cropping handle touching the sides you wish to crop toward the center of the picture.
To crop opposite sides evenly at the same time, drag the center handle on either of the opposite sides while holding down the CTRL key.
To crop all 4 sides of the picture at once, drag any of the corner handles toward the center while holding down both the CTRL and SHIFT keys.
 Click 1 of the 3 small buttons to the right of the larger "Crop" button in the "Crop" group to determine how your picture will be cropped.


Click the "Fit" button at the upper right to make the entire picture display in the cropping area while retaining the proportion of the picture's height to its width. This essentially resizes the picture.
Click the "Fill" button at right center to make the picture fill the entire area bounded by the cropping handles while retaining the proportion of its height to its width. Areas of the picture that fall outside this area will be cropped.
Click the "Clear Crop" button at the lower right to cancel the effects of the other 2 buttons. Any cropping you gave the picture with the "Fill" button will be removed, and any space around the picture created as a result of using the "Fit" button will also be removed. The picture will be restored to its original appearance, but not necessarily to its original size.
 The cropping handles will revert to sizing handles.


You can also turn off cropping by clicking somewhere in the work area other than the picture. The cropping handles will disappear altogether, as will the "Picture Tools Format" ribbon.

