 A big reason people cheat is that they feel like their partner can't or won't meet their needs, so they look for someone else to do it for them. To head this off from either partner, you need to be open about your needs, including:


How often you'd like to have sex.
You comfort level and desire for adventure in your sex life.
The breakdown of household and/or child-raising duties.
Long-term goals and plans for your life and career., When you discuss your wants and needs, be sure to ask about your partners. This is not a one-time idea, this is the key to all healthy relationships. You must take your partner's thoughts and concerns seriously, and you should always make time to shut up and listen to them. Furthermore, listening isn't a passive effort -- you should be asking follow-up questions if you're confused, nodding along, and following through on any requests or promises.


Not all people are good at opening up, especially about sensitive topics. Make things easier by offering your own honest thoughts first, then asking theirs.
 If you drunkenly kiss a college friend, does your partner want to know about it? Is flirting or buying a drink for someone at a conference over the line, or do you trust each other to limit flirting to harmless banter? Just because this conversation isn't easy to start doesn't mean it isn't important to have, and you'd always rather have this talk before someone has done something they regret.

[

The more openly and often you talk about sex together, the easier and more productive these talks will be.
 A great relationship is between two individuals, and that individuality is important for feeling free and fulfilled. Tend your own garden while still keeping the relationship alive, because your own personal happiness is the best defense against infidelity.


You should feel comfortable venting or sharing difficult emotions or feelings with your partner instead of balling them up inside.
Spending time alone or with other people of either gender is healthy and recommended. Light flirting and talking to others isn't cheating, it is being a sociable, free human being.
 The after party at a work conference away from home may sound like fun, but it's a recipe for disaster if you know you're prone to cheating. If you've committed to stop cheating, then you can prevent most slip-ups by simply avoiding common situations for cheating:


Parties without your partner, especially where alcohol is involved.
Solo trips, such as business conferences or trade shows.
Hanging out with single friends who are constantly looking for dates.
People you actively feel attracted to or tempted by, especially if there is romantic history., Once you move in together, tie the knot, or otherwise enter a serious, committed relationship, the work is not over. Even couples that have been married for 50 years understand that a relationship takes constant work and reexamination to succeed. How can you best support your partner? How can they support you? What are the little things in a day that make them happy, and how can you make them possible?


Shared sex lives don't have to go stale if you share and indulge in each other's desires and fantasies.
Tough times are not places to get more distant, but to come closer together. How can you help each other handle tough situations?
How can you share the work of chores, children, and cooking in a way that neither person feels taken advantage of?