 Novices can make critical, rocking-out-impairing mistakes. Before you have the time of your life, you must be fashionably prepared.


Opt for the metal t-shirt. This DOES NOT MEAN the t-shirt you bought at the merch stand. Oh, no, no. Find your Pink Floyd: A Momentary Lapse of Reason Tour tee (even if there are armpit stains) and mount the floor section with pride. You'll be the guy in the sweet t-shirt with cred and mystique.

The louder the better, generally. Stick to the same genre as the artist you're seeing. If that's not an option, bands such as Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Pantera, Guns and Roses, Ac/Dc, The Doors, Motorhead, etc. are a safe bet.


Don shorts or pants. If you'll be in the pit, you'll get sweaty, sticky, and hot very quickly. Keep this in mind.
Wear sturdy shoes. Let me repeat: WEAR STURDY SHOES. Do you want a bloody toe? Because your feet will get stepped on. Tennis shoes are okay, but leather boots are better.
Keep your hair out of your face. You'll be glad you did when the sweat is pouring down your brow. What's more, don't use dyes. Being one of 1,000 people with pink running down their faces at a Gwen Stefani concert is not what you're aiming for.

Girls: the same things apply. DO NOT wear a skirt. It may get torn.
 This means a bit of money, chapstick, keys, ID, and, of course, the ticket. That last part is pretty important.


You'll be in a crowd of a zillion people. Make sure your belongings are secure. If they're not, they may get lost or stolen. If your front pockets aren't big or safe enough, get a small bag to put under your t-shirt.

A camera may or may not be allowed. Check the ticket for details. If it's not, leave your phone in the car or at home.
 It's rocking out time. The time we've all been waiting for. Take cues from the crowd if you're unsure or rock out to the beat of your own drummer, so long as he's keeping time with the one onstage.


Master the head-bang and surging rock hand-gesture (metal horns). Along with jumping (which you can presumably already do), these are the fallbacks in any mosh pit.

Place your index and ring finger in toward your palm. Raise your hands in the air like you just don't care accordingly.


Keep an eye out for crowd-surfers. They're probably not concerned about keeping their elbows tucked. It's best to only become one of them if you're in a big group of people who literally have your back. Otherwise, you may get dropped, lose a contact, and get your wallet stolen.
Get close to the stage! The closer you are, the more hypnotizing the feel. Don't shove your way forward inciting irritated looks from those around you--but if you see a path, go for it.

