 To bedazzle your sneakers with crystals or rhinestones you will need:









A packet of flatback crystals or rhinestones. How many you need will depend on how much of the surface of the shoes you intend to cover.
A tube of e6000 adhesive. This is a very strong craft adhesive which will prevent your rhinestones or crystals from coming loose. It should only be used in a well-ventilated room.
A jewel setter. This is a small plastic stick which has a ball of wax on one end. It is used to easily pick up and set small jewels during craft projects. If you you don't have a jewel setter, you can use a pair of tweezers.
You will also need a piece of sandpaper (or an emery board), some rubbing alcohol, a clean cloth and a pair of sneakers.
 Although you can apply crystals or rhinestones to any part of the sneaker you like, only applying them to the rubber toe of Converse-like tennis shoes creates a very cool, designer-style effect. However, in order to do this, you will first need to prepare the rubber:









Take the piece of sandpaper or emery board and rub the toe of your sneaker for a minute or two. This roughs up the surface of the rubber, creating a better surface for the adhesive to bond to.
Take the clean cloth and dip it in the rubbing alcohol. Rub the cloth over the sanded rubber toe to remove any rubber residue or dust. The alcohol will dry very quickly, so you can proceed with your crafting immediately!

, Take the tube of e6000 and apply a thin line of adhesive around the toe of the sneakers, in a semi-circle from one edge of the fabric to the other. You should only work with a single line of adhesive at a time, as it dries very quickly.









Open the pack of crystals and lay them out on the table beside you, shiny side up. Take the jewel setter and press it gently into a single crystal to pick it up (don't press too hard or it will become embedded in the wax).
Press the crystal gently onto the prepared line of glue. Use the opposite (pointed) end of the jewel setter to press the crystal firmly onto the shoe. Continue adding more crystals along the line of glue, using the same technique.
 Add a second semicircle of glue just inside the first row of crystals, then add a second row. Continue in this fashion until the entire toe of the sneaker is covered in crystals.









Once you have finished with the first sneaker, repeat the process with the second one. Then leave the adhesive to set for 15 to 20 minutes.
You can use the same technique to add crystals or rhinestones to any part of the sneaker you like -- you bedazzle the entire shoe, or use carefully placed crystals to create stars, hearts and other patterns.
 If you used the jewel setter, your crystals or rhinestones may look dull rather than shiny.









This is because they are covered in a layer of wax. Take a clean, dry cloth and use it to buff the crystals until they are clean and shiny.
Don't worry if any of the crystals come loose -- just apply another dot of adhesive and stick on a new crystal.