 Friendships are the foundation of good relationships. The first step to being a good friend is paying attention to what her and her friends say.Avoid talking only about yourself and your interests. Give her your fill attention by not looking bored or distracted. Put your phone away and make eye-contact when you talk. While being a good friend can backfired and get you “friend zoned”, more often it is a way to show you are kind, caring, and committed., When done affectionately, light teasing is a subtle way to show you are interested.For example, make-up a funny story about travelling to a different country or pretend your house is haunted. Lightheartedly tease her about her taste in music, or a weird food she likes, and then follow it up with a compliment.Other examples of teasing include light tickling, placing your hands over someone eyes and saying “guess who”, or giving them a light shove or nudge on the back or arm.
Show you are teasing by using an exaggerated tone of voice, facial expressions, or a smile., When flirting, you want to start with something subtle, such as making eye contact, smiling, and then quickly looking away.You can also compliment her or act like an old-fashioned gentleman by holding doors, offering to buy her coffee, or carrying her books. If you know one another and are comfortable around each other, try brushing a strand of hair off her face, give her a hug, or sit next to her. If she is interested in you, she will start flirting back.
 One way to get a girl not to like you is to come off as too needy, clingy, or desperate. If your relationship has stalled, consider giving her some space. Start talking to other girls, and playing hard to get. By creating a challenge, you make yourself look more desirable.Hold back some of your feelings in the beginning of the relationship. Maintaining a sense of mystery and uncertainty helps keeps things interesting – and perhaps kindle romantic feelings.For example, don't tell her how much you like her and talk about your "future" together the first time you hang out.
Give her some space. While you do not want to stand her up if you’ve made plans, don’t text or call her every day. Your absence may lead her to realize how much she actually cares for you.
 If you like her and she likes you, but is afraid or nervous of commitment, you can always decide to maintain a casual relationship.Casual relationships are non-exclusive romantic relationships. While you might see each other on a semi-regular basis, you are open to flirt with or go out with others. Especially if you are between the ages of 18 to 24, having an open, casual relationship can help you grow emotionally and become more comfortable interacting with the opposite sex.In a casual relationship, it is important to establish ground rules to minimize the risk of someone getting hurt:Is it okay to go out in public?
Is it okay if others know, or should the relationship be kept secret?
What happens when one person becomes romantic with someone else? Will you tell each other if this happens?
How often do you want to see each other? When is it okay to call or text?
Do not ask questions that are condescending or accusing, such as: how many people are you seeing? Where were you last night? Why didn't you return my calls? Can I add you on Facebook?
If you cannot agree to these terms, than you probably should not pursue a casual relationship. Tell her your feelings and let her know you’re interested, but that you should remain friends if she feels she can't commit to something more serious.

