 The flying side kick is an advanced technique that is often used for demonstration purposes. If they are done correctly in a fight, they can also be very effective.


This is a longer range technique than a regular side kick.
The run-up to the kick provides a lot of momentum, making this a very powerful kick.
 A common fighting position is to stand with your left foot in front and right foot in back with your body turned almost all the way to the side. Your right fist will be by your chin with your left 12-16 inches (30-40 cm) from your left shoulder.
 If you are kicking a target then you can take one or two steps only but if you are trying to jump over a target then you may need to get a running start for more speed and power.
 Plant your non-kicking foot (the front foot) solidly on the ground and push off of it to get into the air. As you push off turn your body to the side to swing your kicking foot into the front.


You should also bring your non-kicking foot up so that your opponent cannot sweep it away from you.
 While swinging your kicking foot into place be sure to bend your knee up the same as you would do for a normal side kick. This bend of your knee creates a lot of extra power when it is straightened, so keeping your leg straight will lead to a much weaker kick.


The farther you bring your knee to your chest, the stronger your kick will be.
Keep your heel pointing towards your target.
 Straighten at the very end of the strike. Timing is very important here so you must practice often to learn how to time your kick properly.


A lot of your power comes from straightening your knee at the correct time. Be sure you are the right distance from your target to straighten fully but not so far that the kick barely touches the target.
 The blade of your foot and heel are the strongest parts of your foot. Your heel is especially strong so if you are going for a knock-out kick then you should strike with the heel for maximum power.


Striking with the blade (or outside edge) of the foot is also effective and helps your ankle to absorb the impact of the kick.
 Bring your knee back to your chest and land. You may find it helps to keep turning in the direction of your rotation and go a full circle to get back into the proper fighting stance.


Thus if you are kicking with your right foot, then after the strike you can keep turning counterclockwise to complete a full circle and face the target once more.
Make sure you land on your feet and stay balanced.

