 When you delete an Apple ID, you will lose access to all services and purchases that were associated with it. For example, you'll lose access to your iCloud Mail and iCloud Drive storage. Any purchases you've made with the account will be lost, including iTunes, the App Store, or any other Apple online storefront. You'll lose access to iMessage as well.


You may not need to delete your account completely if you want to retain access to your account and purchases. You can change your account information so that all payment and personal information is removed, which will allow you to leave the account dormant without fear of someone accessing your data. See the next section for details.
If you've recently switched from an iPhone to another type of phone and are no longer receiving texts, see the "Disabling iMessage" section.;
, When you permanently delete an Apple ID, you won't be able to create a new one using that email address again. What many people don't realize, though, is that you also won't be able to use any other email addresses that you have associated with your account. Make sure to remove these additional email addresses from your account before deleting it, in case you want to create a new account with one of them later.


Visit appleid.apple.com and sign in with your Apple ID.
Click "Edit" next to the Account section.
Click the "X" next to each of the email addresses you want to remove from the account. This will allow you to use them later if you decide to make an account again.
 You'll need this PIN while on the phone with Support to delete your account. You can do this by clicking "Generate PIN" in the "Security" section of appleid.apple.com.
 You're going to lose access to your iCloud Mail and your iCloud Drive storage, so make sure that you back up any important messages or files before deleting the account.


You can back up your iCloud mail by moving messages from your iCloud inbox into an inbox stored on your computer. You can't back up mail using an iOS device.
Make copies of any documents saved in iCloud Drive. It is easiest to access these files using a Mac computer running Yosemite or later, as you can quickly find the files by clicking "iCloud" in the Finder. If you're using an iOS device, you'll need to open the documents in their respective apps and then share copies to your computer.
Back up your pictures. Any images stored in iCloud will be lost when you delete your account. Make sure that you have your important pictures backed up to your computer before your account is deleted.
 You'll need to find the direct number for your region. You can find the number for your region here.
 You will need to verify your identity, which is what the PIN you created is for. Deleting an Apple ID is not a standard procedure, so you may get some pushback. Apple doesn't want to delete your Apple ID because it costs them a customer. If the support representative cannot help you, politely ask to speak to a supervisor and explain your situation again.You will likely be told several times that you will lose access to all of your purchases. You'll need to confirm that you are OK losing access to your purchases and data.
All of the email addresses associated with your account can no longer be used to create an Apple ID in the future.

