 Click the icon of three blue sparks to open your Powers menu, or press F4. Click the Combat Settings tab and select Revolution combat mode. Now your character will choose combat abilities automatically. You'll probably be killing thousands of enemies. Making it automatic will save a ton of time.;
, In the same menu, look for the Melee Combat Experience section. Choose one of the following:Choose "Balance" to split between XP between Strength, Attack, and Defence. This is the easiest approach.
Choose "Strength" to train Strength three times faster, while ignoring Attack and Defence. This will make combat more difficult.
Note that no matter what you choose, ¼ of your combat XP will go toward Constitution. There is no way to change this.
 The faster you can kill enemies, the faster you gain XP. Strength and Attack potions are excellent, cheap options to speed up your training. Defence potions and plenty of food will save time as well, since you'll need to go back to town less often.


Swordfish and anchovy pizza are two excellent, cheap options for free-to-play players who need healing.
 There are several skills that can help you take on tougher enemies. If you're training Strength past level 60 or 70, these can make training much faster and more survivable:


Train Prayer to get access to powerful abilities. You can do this by burying monster bones or scattering demon ashes. Members can train faster through several other methods, notably the Bonecrusher and Ectofuntus., If you're a member and can afford familiar pouches, train your Summoning skill as you fight by summoning familiars. Certain familiars give Strength XP as they fight. The amount of XP depends on how you chose to divide your Melee Combat Experience, and the level of the monster. Here are the best lower-level options that focus on Strength:Desert wyrm (Summoning level 18)
Compost mound (level 28)
Honey badger (level 32)
Pyrelord (level 46)

, Head northwest of Falador to reach Burthorpe, and north of Burthorpe to reach the Abandoned Mines. These are filled with Trolls that are easy to kill and respawn quickly. After a little training, you should be able to kill these in one hit each. This is easily the best spot to train until level 20, and remains a great, easy option for many characters until level 40.


Players with other good combat-relevant skills may want to move on to more difficult enemies after level 20 or 30, such as Minotaurs or Barbarians.
 Visit the Stronghold of Security to kill Flesh Crawlers and Giant Spiders. After level 45 or 50, move on to Moss Giants in the Varrock Sewers., These enemies are the best XP-farming monsters available to free players. Hellhounds in Forinthry Dungeon are weak to slashing weapons, while deadly red spiders are weak to crushing weapons.You can continue to train with these enemies up to level 99 and beyond, but it will get extremely slow at higher levels.


For more variety, fight in the Clan Wars free for all in World 3.This requires high Combat stats and moderate skill to make it a more effective training method, but it's certainly more fun than your ten thousandth hellhound.
 Members can talk to Slayer Masters and accept requests to kill certain monsters, earning Slayer XP in addition to Combat XP. This is less efficient at raising your Strength, but at high levels (especially Combat and Slayer 80+), you'll have access to Slayer-only monsters with very profitable drops.To double Slayer points, complete the Smoking Kills quest. This is the sixth quest in the Desert series, which you can begin by talking to Ozan in Draynor Village.
Get quick, easy assignments from Mazchna in northeast Canifis.Every 10th and 50th Slayer task gets you bonus points. Maximize this by accepting harder tasks from higher-level Slayers, like Duradel in Shilo Village.
If you get assigned a monster that's too hard or resistant to melee (and therefore bad for Strength training), talk to Turael in Taverly to replace it with an easy assignment. This assignment will not award any points, and will reset your tasks completed back to zero.
 Members and free-to-play players alike love the sights of the Burthorpe mines. One hit kills, constantly respawning enemies, and plentiful experience: what's not to love?

, Visit Rellekka and talk to Brundt the Chieftain in his longhall. This will start the Fremennik Trials quest. This can take a while, but you'll be rewarded with 2,800 Strength XP, and will unlock a new area perfect for the next round of training.


This should be doable with Combat level 40+. If your Attack and Defence are much lower than your Strength, you may need to buff them with potions for portions of this quest.
 Walk to the west pier of Rellekka and talk to Jorvald. Ask to visit Waterbirth Island. There are many rock crabs in this area. They do not show up on the minimap and look like ordinary rocks, but they will attack once you approach.


The nearest banks are a ways away, in Camelot or Keldagrim.Bring plenty of food, and supplement it with the edible seaweed found in the area., This is a good, risk-free training method for anyone with a Combat level 50 or higher. On world 53 or 69 (or anywhere if you can find other players), visit Port Sarim, south of Falador, and go to the second boat from the south. Talk to the Squire, and agree to visit the Void Knight's Outpost. Once the minigame starts, try to destroy all enemy portals, or keep your Void Knight alive for twenty minutes.


While you only get half XP from enemies in this game, each success grants commendations which can be traded in for additional XP. Trade in 100 at a time for a 10% bonus.
You do not lose any items for dying in this minigame. You'll still want to protect yourself with the best armor you can wear, since you'll be under constant assault.
Intermediate and Advanced versions of the minigame open up at Combat level 100 and 150, allowing you to train more quickly.
 Paid members have many high-level options available, and often choose to train past level 80 and 90 by completing other, combat-based goals. For example, complete Slayer challenges, fight through dungeons, or kill Dust Devils and Frost Dragons to make money.