 Regardless of what kind of skin you have, washing your face will remove any makeup, dirt, or dead skin cells on the surface of your skin, which will help to prevent or reduce breakouts.If you have a favorite face wash, stick with that. Otherwise, head to your local pharmacy and find a face wash for acne-prone skin.;
, Scrub the face wash into your skin with your fingertips, using circular motions. Hot water can be too harsh and drying to your skin, so keep the water a comfortable lukewarm temperature.After you’ve scrubbed every inch of your face, particularly your most acne-prone areas, rinse your face thoroughly.
 Towels are often covered in bacteria, which is exactly what you don’t want on your freshly cleaned face. Try to let the excess water drip into the sink, and then let your damp face air-dry. It takes longer, but sensitive skin that’s vulnerable to acne breakouts will thank you.If you’re crunched for time and air drying is just really not an option, pat your face dry with a clean towel. Rubbing your face with a towel can irritate your skin, so patting is the proper technique.
 It's incredibly important to buy pure aloe vera gel, so look for a bottle that states it is pure.With clean hands, dab a dot of the aloe vera gel directly onto your pimple. If you have a broken out area, you can rub the gel over a whole section of your face. Make sure not to touch your face as it dries.


Aloe vera gel helps to treat existing pimples and breakouts, but won't prevent breakouts. Use it to treat blemishes that pop up, but wash your face regularly to prevent them from occurring in the first place!Because aloe vera gel is calming and decrease redness and inflammation, it's effective on cystic acne or any acne that is particularly swollen and red.If you are prone to acne scarring, aloe vera gel is also a great option. It can expedite the healing process while blocking bacteria, which can help reduce the chance of acne scars., This is a perfect thing to do right before bed, so that the aloe vera gel can soak into your skin overnight. However, aloe vera gel is clear so you can certainly apply it during the day. Just make sure that you let the aloe vera gel sit on your skin for at least five minutes, or until completely dry, before washing it off. Do not apply makeup or other moisturizers over the gel.


The aloe vera has anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties, so it can help protect your skin while you sleep., Again, use lukewarm water to rinse your skin, and let air dry. The aloe vera gel should have decreased the inflammation and redness of your pimple, and it should be less noticeable. If your pimple was previously punctured or bleeding, the aloe vera gel will have helped skin regenerate and heal.Apply aloe vera gel to your pimples as often as you like. It’s most beneficial if you apply directly after a face wash or a shower.

