 When complimenting your girlfriend, “keeping it short and sweet” is a good policy to follow. For example, say, “You did a great job on your presentation,” and be done with it. You don’t want to distract her with additional commentary that will make her forget the compliment. Remember that a small but insightful compliment is to the point and memorable., Be sincere and try not exaggerate when you compliment your girlfriend. For example, do not say, “You are the most beautiful girl in the world.” Your girlfriend knows she is not the most beautiful girl in the world. By overdoing it, you seem dishonest. If you want your girlfriend to believe your compliments, then you need to believe them, as well., Don't use generic compliments, like “You’re smart" or "You're beautiful.” When you use generic compliments, it makes it seem as though you haven’t put in the time to get to know her. However, when you use more specific compliments, you show that you pay attention to her and care about who she is and what she does.Instead, tailor your comments and say something more specific like, “The outfit you chose for the wedding really reflects your great taste. Have you considered going into fashion?”
You can also compliment your girlfriend’s efforts, regardless of the outcome. For example, if she studied really hard for a big test, compliment her on this hard work, even if she didn’t get the grade she wanted.
 Your compliments will lose their impact if you inundate her with compliments. In other words, if you compliment her too much, she will become desensitized to your compliments, and maybe even wonder if you really mean them. It can also seem desperate.Try to limit your compliments to one or two per interaction. Every time you see her, you don’t need to give her a new compliment. Maybe even a week will go by without you complimenting her. Remember that less is more.
You may also want to try alternating the types of compliments you give. For example, don’t always compliment her appearance. This may allow you to compliment her more with it seeming authentic.
 When complimenting your girlfriend, always remember to have good intentions. In other words, do not compliment her in return for a favor.Ask yourself, “Are you complimenting her because you want to share genuine praise, or because you are trying to get a response out of her?” If it is the former, then go ahead with the compliment, if it is the latter, then re-think the situation.

