 Making a basic scarf is easy to do, but you will need to have some special materials handy. You will need:Medium worsted weight yarn in the color(s) of your choice. You will need at least one ball of yarn, and possible three or four depending on how big the yarn balls are and long you want to make your scarf.
Size H crochet hook. This is a good size for working with medium worsted weight yarn. If you end up choosing a different type of yarn, then be sure to check the label for recommendations about what hook size works best with that kind of yarn.
Scissors
Crochet needle (optional, for weaving in tail and embellishing);
, To make a medium width scarf with medium worsted weight yarn and a size H crochet hook, begin by chaining 34 stitches.Make a slipknot first by looping the yarn around your fingers twice and then pulling the second loop through the first. Then, slide the slipknot onto the hook and tighten it. Make the first chain by looping the yarn over the hook and pulling it through the slipknot.Continue to loop the yarn over and pull through until you have a chain of 34.
Keep in mind that you can chain more or less stitches if you want the chain to be wider or narrower.
 Chain two stitches to begin the first row of single crochet stitches. This will be your turning chain. Always start your rows with a chain of two and then turn your work around before you begin working the single crochet stitch.


To single crochet, insert the hook into the third stitch from the hook and yarn over. Pull this yarn through the first stitch on the hook to create a new loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through both loops to complete your first single crochet stitch.Continue to single crochet all stitches to the end of the row.
 To add a bit of simple variation to your scarf, you can work the next row in the double crochet stitch. Remember to chain two before each new row, and then turn your work around.


To make your first double crochet stitch, loop the yarn over the hook, and then insert the hook into the third stitch from the hook and yarn over again. Pull this yarn through the first stitch on the hook, and then yarn over again. Pull through the next two stitches, and then yarn over again. Pull through the last two stitches to complete your first double crochet stitch.Continue to double crochet all stitches to the end of the row.
 Switch back and for the between single and double crochet stitches to complete your scarf. Keep crocheting until the scarf is as long as you want it to be. In general, scarves should be fairly long, around five feet so that you can wrap them around your neck several times and still have some scarf hanging on either side.
 Once your scarf is the desired length, cut the tail a few inches away from the end and then tie it off to secure it. You may want to tie it a few times to be sure that it is secure. You can cut the excess or weave the tail into the edge of the scarf using a crochet needle.
 There are many different types of scarves that you can make by following a pattern. Consider what type of scarf you would like to make and then use a pattern to create it.


Swirl scarf
V-stitch scarf
Chevron scarf
Hooded scarf
Granny Rectangle Scarf

, There are many different decorative stitches that you can choose from to create a unique scarf. Some stitches you might consider include:


Popcorn stitch
Box stitch
Textured shell stitch
Cluster stitch

, An infinity scarf is one that connects to form a circle. You can turn a standard scarf into an infinity scarf by connecting the ends. If you would like to turn your scarf into an infinity scarf, then thread a crochet needle with the same color yarn you used to make your scarf and then weave the ends together.


Then, tie the end of the yarn through a stitch to secure it and snip the excess to complete your infinity scarf!

, Fringe is a common decorative feature of scarves. To add fringe, you will need to cut many pieces of yarn to the same length and tie them in knots at the ends of the scarf. Try using a color that complements the scarf or that matches it.For example, if your scarf is red and gold, then you can use red and gold yarn to match. Or, if your scarf is black, then try adding white fringe for some contrast.
 Topstitching is just what it sounds like. It is the process of stitching on the surface layer of a crocheted project rather than stitching through it. You can thread a crochet needle with some contrasting yarn and stitch polka dots, stripes, or even initials into your scarf to embellish it.


You can also try single or double crocheting around the edges of your scarf to add an interesting accent, or if you want to get advanced, then you could try a triple picot border.

