 Place the title in the "Title" box. The selected title must be 75 characters or fewer.;
, That is where your attendees will go to purchase tickets. The first field (subdomain) will pre-populate with the Default Event Address you have set in your account settings. If you are a new user, type in your organization name in this field. The second field (event URL) will auto-populate with your Event Title.

It's a good idea to simply enter your organization name in the first field. DO NOT type in https://, www, or a link to your web page. You want your event page's web address to be as simple as possible so that your attendees can easily type it into their web browser.
 After naming your event and determining your event website, you will be taken to the Interactive Event Page Editor. The Interactive Editor allows you to edit anything within your event page with the click of a button. Even better, you will see all of the changes you make as they happen. This allows for quick editing and the ability to immediately see how your event page appears to your attendees., It is located at the top right. The monitor shows you how far you are in completing the required steps to activate your event. As you continue to fill in your event information, this monitor will update you in real-time and you will receive a check mark for each item that is completed.


The Event Completion Tips are the required information needed to activate your event.
The Optional items are not required to activate but allow for further customization. Also, notice the footer bar at the bottom of the page.
The "footer bar follows you wherever you navigate within your account.
: This button allows you to view your live event page at any time. Feel free to click this button whenever you want to see an updated view of your event page.

Edit: This button will take you to the Interactive Editor. This page allows you to edit and update anything within your event page.
Manage: This button takes you to your Manage page. From here, you can utilize Ticketbud's powerful feature set to promote and manage your event.
 Here are the required items that need to be completed before activating your event:


Event Title:Enter the title of your event. Title must be 75 characters or less.
Venue Name:If your event has a venue, add it in the venue name here so it will appear on your event page.







Event location:Type in the street address for which your event is located. Google Maps will provide suggestions as you type the address. Simply select the address when it appears. If your location does not appear, manually enter your address. Google Maps will then generate a map of the address and its surrounding area. You can disable the map from appearing on your event page by clicking The map Will be displayed towards the bottom.







Event Start and Event End: Enter the start and end time for your event. An end time is required to help Ticketbud's system recognize when an event is over.





Event Time Zone. Select the time zone your event occurs in from the drop down box.
, You are limited to 200 characters.,, Factor in your credit card processing fees into the total ticket price if needed.
 Example: Free drink included with VIP access to the event., Leave this blank if you have no minimum., Leave this blank if you have no maximum., Choose no if you want this ticket to be hidden and unavailable for purchase.,,, The contact button will appear under your tickets on the event page.,, Unchecking this box will make your event private. It will not be searchable on ticketbud.com and will not appear on external search results.
 Ticketbud offers Credit Card Processing, Stripe, PayPal, and Auth.net. Credit Card Processing is highly recommended as it is the most seamless experience for both you and your attendees and allows for the quickest setup to start selling tickets. You can find more information about payment methods here., Drag and drop or upload an image from your computer. The Banner Image gives your event page a unique identity to attract attendees. Click here for a sample event explaining how to use the Banner Image.
 The Share Image is what will appear on event listings and when an attendee shares your event page via social media.
 Make sure to include all event details that will convince your attendees to purchase tickets. Click here for a sample event that provides a checklist of questions you should have answered in the event description.
 You can set as many custom questions as needed along with making these questions required. Click here for a walkthrough on how to use this feature., Click here for a walkthrough on how to use this feature., Click here for a walkthrough on how to use this feature., Click here for a walkthrough on how to use this feature,: Check this box if you want your event to be public and listed on Ticketbud., Check this box to only allow invited attendees to purchase tickets to your event.,: Check this box to display a list of your attendees on your event page. Click here for more information regarding this setting., Check this box to enable a forum that allows your attendees to publicly ask and answer questions about your event.

