 Set aside at least 20 but no more than 40 minutes a day for exercising your adult English Bulldog. This may mean letting your dog into the backyard or bringing them to a park to move around — either way, the physical activity should be restricted to a half hour total. For the rest of the day your English Bulldog should be kept indoors and relatively inactive, which tends to be typical of the breed anyway., Despite the limits an English Bulldog owner should be placing on exercise, this breed tends to be prone to behavioural issues if not taken for a walk everyday. Walking meets the dog's primal canine need to migrate and change scenery, however briefly. To limit physical exertion but keep up the daily ritual, take your English Bulldog for a brief trip around the block at least once a day to keep them happy.For a real change of scenery that doesn't exert your pet, try driving your dog to a park or different neighborhood to walk and explore.
 Like other breeds of dog, English Bulldogs enjoy playing fetch — but in shorter intervals and within a smaller space. Once you have your dog's attention, throw a familiar object (i.e. a favorite toy)for them to retrieve. Make sure to toss it only a short distance away so that your dog can retrieve it without strain., While English Bulldogs may have a host of joint problems, they also have very strong jaws, making tug of war an ideal game to play with them. The breed is also laid back enough that there is little threat of the game getting out of hand, or of your dog getting aggressive about it. Make sure to choose a sturdy rope to play with, and be careful that your dog does not overexert themselves.Tug of war can be played indoors or outdoors, making it perfect for any occasion.
 While English Bulldogs may not be a very active breed, they love to socialize and explore. Look for activities that allow your dog can get outside and be around people (or other pets) without exerting too much energy. For instance, bring your dog to a park and spend time sitting with them or walking at a mellow pace, people watching and enjoying nature.