 Prior to training for a half marathon, you should ask your doctor to perform an exercise test to determine your fitness level.Based on this exercise test, your doctor will be able to give you a sense of what type of exercise you should be doing and whether you should sign up for the half marathon.;
, If you are thinking about doing a half marathon, it may be wise to talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of various exercise plans. Then, if your doctor approves, you can go ahead and sign up for a half marathon event. You might consider asking the following questions:


Is there an exercise plan you would recommend for me?What types of physical activity do you recommend?Do you run? What are your thoughts on running in races after a heart attack?

, It is good to figure out your doctor’s level of interest in running as a sport and related health concerns. Your doctor may know a lot about heart health but not a lot about running or a lot about both heart health and running. To determine your doctor’s experience and knowledge of sport, running, and health, ask the following questions:


Are you interested in fitness and cardiovascular health?
Are you certified by the American Board of Cardiology?
Are you a member of the American College of Sports Medicine?, You should understand the risks of cardiac arrest and fatality before participating in a half marathon. In particular, you should know that participating in a half marathon will increase your risk of cardiac arrest and fatality relative to being sedentary during those same hours.Research suggest that half marathons are associated with a low level of risk of cardiac arrest and fatality, but the risk is greater among male participants.There has been an increase of cardiac arrest among male participants at marathons and half marathons over the past decade.In a study of marathon deaths between 2000 and 2009, the median age of deaths was 41.5 years of age.Risk of exercise-related death in people who run distances between 10K and half-marathon are 3.1 deaths per million finishers., Although daily exercise helps to decrease the risk of death from cardiovascular disease, you can overdo it. The benefits of exercise for cardiovascular health are weakened if you run more than 7.1 kilometers (4.4 miles) a day or walk more than 10.1 kilometers (6.2 miles) a day.In a typical half marathon training program, you will be running 12.5 kilometers (7.7 miles) in the first week and 21.1 kilometers (13.5 miles) at the actual half-marathon. These distances are in excess of what is recommended if you want to reduce your risk of death from cardiovascular disease.Consider running less than 7.1 kilometers (4.4 miles) per day.Consider walking less than 10.1 kilometers (6.2 miles) a day., The first step is to decide whether you want to walk or run the half marathon. Although running is a popular way of doing a half marathon, most events have a walking category.
 The most important step in planning for your half marathon is to set a realistic goal. A realistic goal will include some consideration of your heart condition, physiological profile, experience level, and time for training.If you set a goal that is realistic, you will be much more likely to have a positive experience.
 There are a wide variety of half marathon training plans available, including training plans for walking and running. Typically, a half marathon training program lasts sixteen weeks and includes weekly long runs that gradually increase in distance until you are able to complete the full half marathon distance of 21.1 kilometers (13.5 miles).Depending on the plan, you will have to complete other weekly runs or walks that focus on other aspects of training such as speed and maintaining a regular pace.The three plus two training program for the half marathon includes three runs per week as well as two cross training workouts. The key runs include weekly track repeats, a tempo run, and a long run that gradually increases to build endurance. The two weekly cross training workouts are individualized and may include swimming, cycling, rowing, or other workouts. A half marathon walking plan may include three short walks and one endurance walk per week, alongside one cross training session and two days of rest.