 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out a baking sheet and line the sheet with a silicone baking mat. If you don't have a mat, you can line it with a sheet of parchment paper. Set the pan aside while you make the cookie dough., Get out a large mixing bowl and measure all of the dry ingredients into it. Use a spoon or whisk to stir the dry ingredients together for about 30 seconds. You'll need:1 1/4 cups (112 g) rolled oats (not quick-cooking)
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 cup (48 g) almond flour
1/2 cup (83 g) brown rice flour

, Peel 1 large banana and place it into a food processor. Add the remaining wet ingredients and put the lid on the food processor. Blend the wet ingredients on high speed until the mixture is completely smooth. You'll need to blend:1/2 cup (125 g) stirred, smooth almond butter
3 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 tablespoons ground flax seed
3 tablespoons liquid virgin-coconut oil
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

, Remove the lid from the food processor and scoop the wet mixture into the bowl with the dry ingredients. Use a sturdy spoon or rubber spatula to stir the mixtures together to form cookie batter., If you'd like to add extra crunch or sweetness to the oatmeal breakfast cookies, add in 1 cup (125 g) of chopped nuts or dried fruit. Gently stir the batter until the nuts or fruit are incorporated. The cookie dough will be very stiff at this point.For example, try a mix of dried blueberries, pumpkin seeds, or chopped walnuts.
 You can use two spoons to scoop the cookie dough onto the prepared baking sheet. Or use a cookie scoop that measures about 2 tablespoons to scoop the dough onto the sheet. Set the cookies about 2-inches (5-cm) apart on the sheet. Gently flatten each of the cookies a little., Put the baking sheet in the oven and bake the cookies for 15 to 17 minutes. The cookies will puff a little and become slightly brown once they've finished baking. Let the cookies cool on a wire rack.Store the leftover oatmeal raisin cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days.

