 Before you apply the highlighter, you want to make sure that your skin looks as flawless as possible. Use your favorite foundation to even out your skin tone so the highlighter doesn’t accentuate any imperfections. You’ll get the best coverage if you use a sponge or brush to apply the makeup.








For oily skin, choose an oil-free liquid or powder foundation to help control the shine.If you have dry skin, opt for an anti-aging formula that contains moisturizing ingredients, such as glycerin.
Sensitive skin does best with a mineral-based foundation that doesn’t contain synthetic chemicals.
If you have normal skin, any type of foundation will work well.
If you have clear, even skin that doesn’t have much discoloration, you may prefer to use a lighter product, such as a tinted moisturizer or BB cream.;
, While concealer is usually used to hide imperfections, it can also serve as an ideal base for your highlighter by brightening up the skin. Choose a concealer that’s one or two shades lighter than your skin tone, and apply it in a triangle shape beneath your eye, down the bridge of your nose, above your eyebrows, and above your upper lip.








When you apply the highlighting concealer, dot it on so you don’t apply too much. Use a sponge to gently blend the dots into your skin.
When you apply the concealer in a triangle beneath your eye, make sure to blend it out across your cheekbone where you’ll apply the highlighter.
If you have imperfections that you want to cover, you’ll need a second concealer that matches your skin tone exactly.
 Because the pumpkin spice highlight is a powder, it’s important to set your foundation and concealer before you apply it or it may go on unevenly. Choose a translucent powder that won’t add any color or coverage to your face, and apply it with a large, fluffy powder brush all over.








You can use either a pressed or loose translucent powder. A pressed formula is easier to carry around for touch-ups, but a loose powder usually has a lighter texture so it’s less likely to look cakey.
 Once your foundation and concealer are set with powder, you can apply the pumpkin spice highlighter. The cheekbones are the most common spot for highlighting, so use a fan brush to lightly dust the powder over the tops of your cheekbones.








When you’re applying the highlighter to your cheekbones, sweep it up onto the temples, creating a “C” shape to illuminate that area as well.
Using a fan brush helps diffuse the color so you achieve a more natural glow with the highlighter. If you want a more concentrated highlight, you can use a smaller, denser brush, such as a fluffy eyeshadow blending brush.
Because the pumpkin spice highlighter is a loose powder, it’s important to tap the brush on the side of the container before applying it to knock off any excess. That way, you won’t wind up with pumpkin spice highlighter all over your face.  

, The bridge of the nose is another high point of the face that is usually highlighted. Use the fan brush to lightly sweep the pumpkin spice down the center of your nose, taking care not to apply it all over the nose.








Be careful not to apply the highlighter all the way down to the tip of your nose. That area tends to get oily so you don’t want to make it look any shinier.
Highlighting your nose is going to draw attention to it, so if it’s not one of your favorite features, you can skip it.
 The final area of the face where you should apply the highlight is just above the center of your upper lip. This area is commonly known as the Cupid’s bow, and by adding highlight there, you’ll make your lips appear fuller. Use a small brush to dab the pumpkin spice powder to the groove above your lip.








You can use a fan brush to apply the highlighter above your lip, but if you find that it’s not precise enough, try using a small pencil brush with just a small amount of the pumpkin spice highlighter on it. Make sure to blend well, though, so the highlighter doesn’t look like a mustache.
 Before using the pumpkin spice highlighter to accent your eyes, you should do the rest of your eye makeup. Use a light, shimmery shade on your lid, and a matte deeper tone in the crease to contour. Next, apply your favorite type of eyeliner in a corresponding shade and use your favorite mascara to thicken and lengthen your lashes.While you can use whatever eyeshadow shades you like, keep in mind that the pumpkin spice highlighter is a golden peachy color, so it works best with other warm-toned makeup shades. For example, you might use a peach, gold, or copper shade on the lids and a matte reddish brown in the crease.
You don’t necessarily have to apply eyeshadow and/or liner if you don’t want to. You can just use mascara and the pumpkin spice highlighter on and around your eyes for a subtle look.
 Because the highlighter will draw attention to your eyes, it’s important to make sure that your brows frame them nicely. Use a powder, pencil, or wax brow product to fill in any gaps in your brows, and a brow comb to make sure that they look neat.It’s a good idea to apply a clear brow gel over the colored product that you use to fill them in. That will keep your brows in place all day.  

, Start highlighting your eye by applying the pumpkin spice powder below your eyebrow. Use a fluffy shadow brush to sweep the highlighter across your brow bone to help diffuse the color for a natural look.








Make sure to blend the highlighter and your crease shade together if you’re wearing eyeshadow to get rid of any harsh lines between the two colors. Use a clean blending brush so the colors don’t become muddy.
 You can brighten up your eyes and make them appear larger by applying the pumpkin spice highlighter to the inner corners of your eyes. Use a pencil brush or other small detail brush to press a little of the powder around the tear duct at the inner corner of the eye.Make sure to tap off any excess highlighter powder from your brush before applying it to your inner corner so you don’t get any of the product in your eye.
 You can give your eyes an instant lift by applying a little of the pumpkin spice highlighter above your eyebrows. Use a fan brush to lightly sweep some of the powder directly over each brow.








Make sure to apply the highlighter over your brows with a light hand to keep the effect subtle.
 Because the pumpkin spice highlighter has such a lovely golden peach color, it can double as an eyeshadow. Use a flat shader brush to press the highlighter across your eyelids for a pretty brightening effect.If the highlighter isn’t as opaque on your lid as you’d like, considering using it wet. Lightly mist your shadow brush with water or a makeup setting spray and then press it into the highlighter powder. It will intensify the color so it has a foiled look on the lid.
 If the pumpkin spice highlighter is too dark for your skintone or you want to get more use out of your makeup, use the powder as a blush topper. Apply a matte blush in a peach, orange, or coral shade to your cheeks, and dust the highlighter over the apples of your cheeks with a fluffy brush for a pretty glow.You may want to use a duo-fiber brush to apply the pumpkin spice highlighter as a blush topper. It helps diffuse the product so your cheeks don’t look too shiny or metallic.
 If you want your lips to appear fuller, you can use your pumpkin spice highlighter with your favorite lip products. Apply a peachy nude, peach, orange, coral, or other warm-toned lipstick or gloss, and then pat a small amount of the highlighter to the center of your bottom lip to make it look fuller.