 Wash your silk sheets in lukewarm or cold water because silk does not do well with hot temperatures. The water should be 30° Celsius/85° Fahrenheit or lower.Do not wash your silk sheets with any other items (e.g. towels, clothing, etc.)


If you have hard water, add a spoonful of Borax to the water before you begin washing.Hand washing silk is the safest method for cleaning your sheets and preserving the quality.;
, Add about two teaspoons of detergent to the water before you put your sheets in. Gentle detergents such as Woolite orIvory Liquid are best for your sheets.Harsh detergents can weaken the silk fabric and cause it to tear.If you do not have a gentle detergent, you can wash your sheets with baby shampoo or a gentle adult shampoo. There are also detergents that are formulated for washing silk available as well.


You can also ask the manufacturer or store where you purchased sheets to recommend a detergent for washing your sheets.Never use bleach or detergents containing bleach to wash your sheets. Bleach will turn your sheets yellow., Once the detergent has been added to the water, put your sheets in the tub. Your sheets should be completely soaked with the water. Gently swish the sheets around in the tub. Avoid scrubbing and twisting the sheets as you wash. You do not want to damage them.Only soak your sheets for a few minutes.Your sheets will actually become softer after a few washes., Drain your tub and refill it with cool water. Move your garment around in the water to remove the soap. Smell your sheets to make sure you have gotten all of the soap out. You may have to rinse your sheets a few times.Add a few drops of distilled, white vinegar to remove soap residueRinse your sheets again after you add the vinegar to remove the scent of the vinegar from your sheets.You can also add a few drops of hair conditioner to make your sheets feel nice and silky.
 Gently squeeze out any excess water. Avoid twisting or wringing out your sheets. Hanging your sheets to dry is best, but avoid drying them in direct sunlight.Direct sunlight will damage the silk fiber and cause discoloration.


You can also roll your sheets in a towel to remove excess water.You may have to use multiple towels to get all the water out.
If you are unable to hang dry your sheets, lay them flat on a clean towel or bed to dry.
Do not hang your sheets on a wooden rack to dry. Dyes and finishes used on the wood can stain your sheets.