 Many of the most common customer service requests at Equifax can actually be answered via the official FAQ (frequently-asked questions) page. For personal customers, this is available here. At this page, you will find answers to many important questions, like:"How does credit reporting work?"
"How do I correct or dispute inaccuracies on my credit file?"
"How do I get a free copy of my credit file?"
...and more.
 If you have forgotten your username or password, you can get them back here.


You will need to verify basic personal information as well as your SSN to get your log-in information back.
 You can request many important functions for your account via Equifax's online infrastructure. See below for specific links:


Dispute claims online via the online dispute form available here. You will need to have the document you want to dispute ready.
Request a 90-day fraud alert online here.
Place a security freeze on your account online here.
 Equifax operates numerous different help lines for various requests and issues. See below for more information:


Dial 1-866-640-2273 for general customer service inquiries.
Dial 1-888-766-0008 to place a fraud alert.
Call 1-800-685-1111 to order special reports via telephone. This number will connect you to the Equifax automated ordering system. Note that this number should not be used to request the free annual credit report you are entitled to as a consumer. Use the number in the section above instead.
To dispute part of your credit report, check the report itself for the correct contact number. You'll be asked to provide the confirmation number from your Equifax credit report.
 Box 740241, Atlanta, GA, 30374 for snail mail. If time is not a factor, Equifax will gladly respond to most inquiries by mail. Please include copies of any supporting documentation needed for your request and allow plenty of time to a receive a response.


For best results, address your letter to "Equifax Credit Information Services, Inc." like this:Equifax Credit Information Services, Inc.
P.O. Box 740241
Atlanta, GA, 30374





