 to find out when the person will return. This is a question that might frequently follow the statement that you miss someone. After saying that you miss them, it's only natural to inquire when they will be back.Cuándo is a Spanish adverb meaning "when."

Vuelves is a conjugated form of the Spanish verb volver, which means "to return" or "to come back." It is the "you" familiar conjugation, so only use it when speaking to someone with whom you're on familiar terms.If you are speaking to someone with whom you're less familiar, you might want to use the more formal conjugation vuelve.
Pronounce cuándo vuelves as "KWAN-doh voo-EHL-vays."

, If you've told someone you miss them, you probably want them to come back. Rather than ask when they're returning, you may want to simply tell them to come back. "¡Regresa ya!" means "come back already!"Regresa comes from the Spanish verb "regresar," meaning "to return" or "come back." In this phrase, you must use the imperative conjugation for "tú," the familiar "you." The imperative is used for commands like this.Ya is an adverb meaning "already."
Pronounce the entire command as "ray-GRE-sah jah."

, Particularly in a romantic context, when you miss someone you may feel as though you cannot live without them. This exclamatory Spanish phrase means "I cannot be without you."Puedo is the "I" or "yo" conjugation for the Spanish verb "poder," meaning "can" or "to be able to." When no is placed before it, the meaning becomes negative, turning the phrase into "I cannot."

Estar is a Spanish verb meaning "to be." Since it follows a conjugated verb, do not conjugate estar.

Sin means "without."

Ti is another object pronoun used for the familiar form of "you."
Pronounce the entire declaration as "no poo-AY-doh EHS-tar seen tee."

, When you miss someone, you want them to be with you rather than for the two of you to be apart. This is especially true in a romantic relationship, where you can use the phrase "desearia que estuvieras aqui conmigo" to mean "I wish you were here with me."Deseria is a conjugation of the Spanish verb desear, which means "to want."Que is a Spanish conjunction or pronoun meaning "that," "who," or "which."

Estuvieras is a conjugation of the Spanish verb estar, which means "to be."Aquí is a Spanish adverb meaning "here." The word has both a place and time component, so it can be interpreted as meaning "here and now."Conmigo is a Spanish pronoun that means "with me."
Pronounce this phrase as "DAY-say-uh-REE-uh kuh ess-too-bee-AIR-us ah-KEY cone-MEE-go."

