 You shouldn't even attempt to teach until you have several years' playing experience, and have a good understanding of music theory.


You'll also need a college degree if you plan to become a band director at a school, but this isn't as important if you're just teaching your little sibling, the kid down the street, or the freshman saxophone player who just switched to clarinet.;
, Chances are, your first teaching experience will just "happen" somewhat informally, when someone comes to you interested in playing.


You might want to get a start by talking to junior members of your band who are having trouble or offering to help out at a local elementary or middle school (if you went there yourself, the director will probably be thrilled to have your help).
If you plan to give private lessons for money, try putting an ad in the newspaper.
 If you've been playing for a good while, you've probably owned at least two clarinets in that time.


If you're teaching someone who doesn't yet have their own clarinet, you may offer to start them on your old beginner model, so that you're not held responsible by any parents if it doesn't work out and they've just spent several hundred dollars on a new clarinet. #*They'll also need, at the very least, a couple of reeds (2 - 3 strength, for a brand new beginner), and at least the bare minimum of supplies to keep the clarinet clean - a swab.
If you're teaching a student who already plays in a school band and owns this stuff, you're in good shape.
 Get an idea of how much your pupil already knows about music and ask if they've ever played an instrument before.


Young clarinet players have often played an instrument such as the recorder in elementary school, and it has many similarities to the clarinet.
If they've already been doing some playing by themselves or are in a band, have them play for you to get an idea of how much they've learned and what they might need to work on.
For a complete beginner, this will be your opportunity to teach them the basics, such as how to assemble the clarinet, how to produce a sound and form a good embouchure, and their first few notes.
Bottom line E and the D and C below that are good first notes, as they're in an easy playing range, and they're fingered the same way as G, A, and B on the recorder, meaning that the student will probably make the connection and realize that they can already play a few songs.
 With every lesson, introduce more notes and new rhythms. Begin teaching basic dynamics and articulations.


You may wish to find a good series of method books to use to help the student move ahead. #*Encourage them to practice and stay involved with music, and progress through middle and high school bands.
You may want to see if you can get the student involved with an event such as Solo and Ensemble when they're ready, or have them audition for an honor band.
Keep in mind that if they're a part of a school program, you may want to mention all this to their band director before you start sending in entry forms.
 Teaching music isn't a science. Every student will be different - some will learn very quickly, and some may take a little more effort.


There's no set time in which a clarinet player must become great. Just continue helping them along.

