 Many times, you will submit a pitch or abstract before you actually submit an article. Check the submission guidelines to see if that is the process for the magazine or journal you are interested in. The editor will often approve your pitch and tell you to write and submit the article.If your pitch is accepted, the editor will often request the article within a specific time frame. Make sure that you submit your article on time.
If you are an academic, your first submission may receive what is called a "revise and resubmit". This means that your article shows promise, but needs some revisions.
Submit your revised article in a timely manner. Ask the editor for a clear timeline, and then deliver the article by that deadline.
 Getting an article accepted for publication can be a lengthy process. You will likely have to submit your piece to more than one publication. Make sure to keep track of where you send your work.Write down where you send which article. If you are working on multiple pieces at once, it is helpful to keep track of where you have sent various pieces.
Make note of the date you send each submission. That way, you can have an idea of when you can expect to receive a response.
Maintain records of any communication with the publication. For example, if the editor e-mails you with suggestions for future pieces, you will want to retain that organization.
 As a writer, you have to deal with rejection. Finding an outlet for publication can be difficult, and often takes several attempts. Make sure that you are prepared to handle a "no".Do not take it personally. Understand that editors receive more submissions than can be published. Just because your article was not the best fit for that journal does not mean that your work is not good.
Move on. Be ready to send the article on to the next publication on your list. And you should definitely have a list of publications that you would like to submit your work to.
Do not respond. There is no need to follow up on a rejection note. While it might be tempting to express your frustrations, it is better to accept it gracefully and move on.
 If you get an acceptance notification, congratulations! You can immediately reach out to the editor and acknowledge that you have received their notification. E-mail is usually the preferred method of communication.Provide the editor with any information that is requested. You may be asked for contact info., for example.
If your article is being considered at another publication, you should immediately withdraw it from consideration. Send a notification explaining that your article will be published elsewhere.
Celebrate. Having a piece of writing accepted for publication is a great accomplishment. Congratulate yourself and share your good news with friends and family.

