 Not only is this healthier, but if you feel good about yourself, you will be better disposed toward making difficult decisions in view of long-term payoffs.
 This is better if the segregation is like hair, face, hands, legs and body., group all like things such as skin, structure, posture, hair, odor, dress, etiquette and so on.,, If your living space is to your liking, you will lead a more stress-free life. When choosing to let go of items, consider donating to a thrift store or charity. As another option, some of your friends may appreciate if you offer them a look through your donations. Also remember beautiful things motivate you to be as beautiful too. Thus choose the decorative or colors to match your personality and what you choose to be.
 If you are comfortable with it, ask for assistance assessing your traits from a reliable friend or family member. See what flaws are easiest for you to correct, and try to make a habit out of fixing them. If there are qualities you would like to have as a person, consider the ways you can obtain these. Remember, you have more power over yourself than you probably think you do.,, Consider how your choices will affect yourself, someone else, or a situation. If you get a nagging feeling that you should be doing something, even though the choice does not appeal to you, trust your intuition. Be considerate and responsible in all your actions.
 People like interacting with those they understand; take the time to explain your actions or reasons for doing something to someone, if they ask. Do not yell or become violent, but if you feel you are about to lose your temper, remove yourself from the situation, and reexamine it at a later time.
 Examine reluctance if you have any, and consider that procrastination means you may otherwise never try something you would like to. You can always drop something you are uninterested in, but it is more difficult to take something up. Following your passions may offer you more satisfying choices in life and garner you more friends you can relate to.
,