 Albums come in a few different forms, so you want to think about what will work for you in terms on where you'll store your album and how you want the interior to flow.



Three-ring style. You can use a regular three-ring photo album as a scrapbook. They easily hold 8.5”x11” pages/paper, which are inexpensive, and they also stand up nicely on a bookshelf so they're easy to store. You can add pages to a three-ring binder anytime and in any place within the album. You can slip your pages easily into standard-size, acid-free photo-safe protective sheets to prevent wear and tear. The biggest downside is that there will be a gap in your two-page layouts where the rings are, so the look won't be seamless.

Post-bound style. Post-bound scrapbooks are held together by small metal posts that you screw and unscrew in order to add new pages to your album. Just like a three-ring style, you can add pages anywhere within the album; it just takes a little more effort to unscrew and screw again the posts to do so. That being said, this styles does offer an almost seamless two-page spread because when the album is open, the pages lay closer to each other. You can easily insert (top-load) your finished pages into the album's protective sheets.

Bound with non-removable pages style. You can buy a scrapbook album with a fixed number of pages -- meaning you cannot add or remove pages from this type of album. That means you have to plan and execute your pages well since you can't simply pull out a page if you make a mistake. These albums don't come with sheet protectors, which can be good or bad. It's an advantage if you like to use bulkier embellishments or want to glue envelopes to the page and fill them with photos. Of course the downside is that without the sheet protectors, you sacrifice some level of protection and must be sure to treat your pages with care.;
, There are two standard sizes for scrapbooks: 8.5"x11" and 12”x12” as well as a number of specialty sizes. The style of album you want may dictate what size you choose.



8.5"x11". 8.5”x11” albums are the most economical choice. The background papers are less expensive than 12"x12" because they're smaller. You can also save money by buying your photo-safe sheet protectors from office supply stores since they're a standard size. Finally, you can use an inexpensive three-ring photo album to hold your 8.5”x11” pages or purchase a three-ring notebook from the discount office supply store to serve as an album.

12'x12". This size album has become increasingly popular, and as a result, there are more decorative background papers in this size than in the 8.5”x11”. Another advantage of the 12"x12": you can also fit more photos on a page.

Specialty sizes. You can find scrapbooks in a whole range of sizes from pocket-sized to those that look like oversize coffee-table books. These styles are typically bound with non-removable pages. They can be good choices if you want to devote an album to a single event such as the birth of a baby or a family reunion celebration.
 This is one of the most fun and potentially most overwhelming steps in your scrapbook-making process. There are hundreds and hundreds of papers to choose from. There are papers with holiday themes, sports themes, hobby themes, floral patterns, geometric patterns--the list goes on and on. Make your choices based on what appeals to you or what you have in mind as the themes for some of your page layouts.


You can buy your scrapbook paper in packs or by the sheet.
You don't have to purchase your paper from a craft or art supply store. If you see something you like anywhere, pick it up. Just be sure the paper is marked "archival quality" or "acid free" because the acids in many types of paper can damage photos and other mementos over time.
Buy a bit more than you need -- especially of a particular design you like so that you'll have a back-up in case you ruin a page.
You might want to think in terms of multiples so that you have at least two of the same design. Some people prefer to use two sheets of the same paper when they create the spreads in their albums. Or pick up the same design paper in two different complimentary colors. For example, the same snowflake pattern in red and in green.
 Technically, a scrapbook can take on any form you can envision. Will yours be made from newspaper and macaroni? Regardless of what you see in your scrapbooking future, there are a few basic things you need: scissors, glue, and cardstock.



Scissors. Plan to spend between $5 to $15 on a pair of good quality, sharp, straight-edge scissors. You'll be using your scissors a lot, so it makes sense to put a little bit of money into this important tool.

You can invest in a paper trimmer or paper cutter if you prefer. Depending on size and quality, they could run from $10 to $70.
There are tons of decorative-edge scissors you can buy to add some interest to the edges of your paper or photos when you cut them. They can be a lot of fun, but they are a nice-to-have rather than a must-have item.



Adhesive. There are a variety of ways to stick your images and embellishments to the page, but you're likely to need nothing more than a good glue stick. It's easy to use and comes in an acid-free, photo-safe formula.

If you want to be able to remove photos from your scrapbook pages, purchase photo corners. You insert the corners of your photograph into the paper corners and glue them to the page. Then you can remove the picture by gently pulling its edges out from inside the corners, which stay in place on the page.



Cardstock. Pick up a pack of multi-colored 8.5"x11" Cardstock. You can use it to mat your photos, create tags and blocks where you can write text to add to your pages.

If you're using an 8.5"x11" scrapbook album, you can use the Cardstock as solid background pages for your album.
 You'll probably want a few other basic supplies to get started scrapbooking. Scrapbooking can become an expensive hobby--there are lots and lots of supplies out there, and you can have a ton of fun adding to your collection. But the truth is, you only need a few basic items to make a truly beautiful scrapbook.



Plastic stencils. Get one plastic stencil with multiple, standard shapes (circles, ovals, squares, rectangles, diamonds, etc.). Use this to "crop" your photos and create shapes out of Cardstock for adding titles and creating text boxes on your pages.

Markers. You need at least one good black marker for journaling and titling your pages. If you can, pick up a few different colors (stay away from hard-to-read shades like yellow or light pink) in a couple of different tip thicknesses.

Embellishments. You could spend a small fortune on embellishments. Charms, decorative tags, die-cuts, jewels, studs--they're all out there and then some. You absolutely do not need store-bought embellishments to make a beautiful and creative scrapbook. Browse through the selection at your local craft store, but don't feel as though your pages won't be complete without them.

Look around your house for items you can use to embellish a page. Pictures cut out from greeting cards, old costume jewelry pieces and pieces of ribbon are all things you may have lying around that you could incorporate into your page designs.



