 The cats should have natural colours, no pink or purple or the like. Grey, white, black, brown, blue-grey, peach, and orange are good colours. Blue, green, amber, black, or grey may be used for the cat's eyes. The pattern should be something that looks natural like fire or lightning. Red lightning can look like bloody scars if you want.;
, For clothing, use items like fox hats, raccoon hats, spikes, moon/sun necklaces, elf bracelets, leg armour, swords, bow and arrows, and tail armour. Do not use items like tiaras or fairy wings, as they don't match the Warrior spirit.


Spiked or studded collars are great, but leaf necklaces are perfect for any cat. Leaf leg armour looks great too.
Wear other things like gazelle horns, swords, bow and arrows, or for a medicine cat wear a worn blanket, head flower, and leaf armour again.
 Your animal should be a tiger or wolf. Wear a bow and arrow if you are a non-member and a sword, black necklace and a ninja mask or elf helmet. Your colours depend on the clan you will lead. See the picture above for some examples.


If you plan to lead an ice clan/wind clan, wear white and light blue, as well as bluish-white flames if you have them.
If you plan to lead a fire clan, wear all kinds of reds, oranges and blacks, including red, orange, or black flames.
If you want to lead a river clan, wear all kinds of blues.
If you want to lead a shadow clan, wear all kinds of grays, blacks and dark purples.
 Buy a normal den if you are a non-member, and if you are a member, perhaps choose a castle or bunny burrow. You can also get the Sky Kingdom, and if you do, skip this entire method. You shouldn't decorate this den.
 For your clan, the best dens are small houses, tree house, castles (not the princess one!) and a cosmos den at the very least.
 You could put trees, hamsters, a pond, or some Return of the Phantom prizes (any of them would work!) in the empty spaces that you think should add to the style. If you got the Sky Kingdom, you should have skipped these steps.



Queens are female members of the clan who are pregnant or are still caring for the kits. It is important to look after the queens, especially the pregnant ones because they get sick when birth comes around the corner. Put out some couches, flowers, torches, and toys. Newborn kits stay with their mothers until after they are weaned.
Weaned kits are babies in the clan who have stopped drinking their mother's milk. They need a room with couches, toys, flowers and anything else babyish but tough, so they can grow up to be warriors that the clan will never forget.
Warriors can get a room with beds and torches, but nothing too fancy.
Apprentices are the newest members of the clan in training. They can get the same things as warriors.
Cats need to eat. Use plushies for the fresh-kill pile.
Elders can get a room with plants and a place to sleep, rest and relax. Remember they were once a warrior or medicine cat or even deputy! So, treat them with respect.
 The nursery should be friendly with a large carpet. you can decorate it with at least one plant or two bunny plushies. In the non-member den, it should be inside. If you are in a bunny burrow, make it inside in whichever burrow you want. In the castle, it should be all the way at the top filled with pillows for the kits and queens.
 In the non-member den, it should be located at the beginning when you enter the den. It should have couches that look like a rectangle for the warriors to sleep on. The apprentices should sleep on the pillows. Don't make it too big, because you still have to make the elder area! In the castle, the warrior's den should be all the way at the bottom room near all the water. In the bunny burrow, make it in any burrow you want.
 The elders' area should have fresh-kill in the corner and soft pillows, couches, and rugs. For the non-member den, it could be anywhere inside. In the castle, it should be at the entrance inside. For the bunny burrow, it could be the last burrow you have. If no one wants to be an elder, you can make this the apprentice area.
 The non-member den could have the leader's den in the back, where the small stone square is. Don't make it too comfortable. Make it only have some fresh-kill, a rug, a hammock, (you can get one in Meet Cosmo or by watching Brady's Expedition in the Lost Temple of the Zios.) You can also have couches or pillows. In the castle, make this the small area, the top next to the entrance to the nursery. (the small narrow area should be empty, I'm talking about the square area) In the bunny burrow, it should be next to the Medicine Cat area.
 This should just be a small corner or just in one of the rooms in your castle. It should also have plants, mushrooms, berries, etc. You should also have a small drinking fountain, (you can get one by finding all the items in Bahari Bay.


For the non-member den, you might want to out this area at the small top grassy area when you enter your den. Don't make it to big or too small; if you want, you can put a fence. In the bunny burrow den, put this on the left or right corner outside the den. For the castle put it outside in the top small area. Again, skip these steps if you got the Sky Kingdom.
 To complete your clan, you'll need a name for it. The regular clan names are RiverClan, ThunderClan, WindClan, and ShadowClan. You can choose one of these or make up your own! Name it after something natural (such as DarkClan, FireClan, BlizzardClan, or MistClan)and you're ready to move on!

