 Because renegade rows are extremely challenging, and different from other exercises you may have done, start with a lighter weight and make sure you can do several repetitions with good form.Generally it's best to start out with 5- or 10-pound dumbbells. Choose dumbbells with hexagon rather than round ends, so they'll be stable on the ground and won't roll around.
If the exercise feels "easy" to you, go ahead and use a heavier dumbbell. But don't increase your weight until you feel confident about your form.;
, You want to start renegade rows in a high plank position, with your hands gripping the handles of your dumbbells. Your body should be a straight line from the crown of your head to your heels.Make sure your wrists are directly under and in line with your shoulders, and that your shoulder blades are tucked down alongside your spine. You don't want to crunch your shoulders. Your arms should be completely straight.
If you're just starting, you may want to come to a half-plank on your knees, at least until you get used to the rowing movement and can do it with good form.
 Shift your weight to your left side and lift your right arm, keeping your elbow in and raising the weight along your side. Your elbow should go up past your back, which should remain flat.Raise and lower your arm in a slow, controlled movement. Once you've rowed up, don't simply drop the weight to the ground. Resist gravity and control the movement on the way down.
 Once your right arm is back to the start position, raise your left arm in the same movement. A brief pause between rowing with your right arm and rowing with your left arm will help you maintain control and position.The movement should be in your arms only. Don't rotate or rock your body as you switch from side to side.
 If you rotate your hips away from the ground as you row, the exercise becomes easier. However, the point of this exercise is to stabilize your hips and engage your core to keep your body from moving.Decreasing the weight of the dumbbells can help if you find you have the tendency to rotate your hips. Focus on doing the exercise with correct form before you increase the weight.
Over-rotating twists your spine and can lead to back pain or injury. Focus on engaging and squeezing your glutes, quads, and core to stay square above the ground as you row, moving only your arms.
 Renegade rows are a challenging whole body exercise that require significant core strength to stabilize your body. Keeping your entire body tense and rigid enables you to do a full repetition rather than a half repetition of the exercise.Keep in mind that your elbow should be raising well past your back. If it's not, you're not doing a full repetition of the exercise. Lower the weight you're using until you get to the point that you can do a full repetition.
Aim to do 4 or 5 full repetitions with each arm to start. You can rest between repetitions if necessary.

