 Many people who need writers for wiki pages or articles will search for freelance writers to create them. There are many websites that post jobs for freelancers and these can be a great place to start your search. Try looking for postings that need wiki editors or creators to get started. https://www.upwork.com/o/jobs/browse/skill/wikipedia/ can be a good place to look.
Search for any positions that require you to edit or create a wiki page or pages.
Carefully review any jobs you find to make sure you are qualified and capable of doing them.
 Once you've found a position you believe you are qualified for, you can apply for it. You'll need to create a profile on the site you are using to look for gigs, filling in your contact information and qualifications. Keep in mind, others will be applying for the job as well, so you'll want to present yourself as best you can.Make sure you are qualified and feel capable of fulfilling the tasks required by the position.
You'll need to fill out your profile with personal contact information and your qualifications.
Apply fast. There will be many other people looking to secure the position.
You'll need to compete with others when stating your rate of pay.
 If you won the bid for the position, you can begin working with your client to learn more about their needs. The job listing will have provided the basics. However, now is the time to ask your client for more detailed information about the job. Make sure you learn exactly what they want before getting to work.Make sure you understand the details of the job.
It's a good idea to stay in regular contact with your client during the project.
Always ask if you have a question about something.
Sending regular updates to your client can be a good idea.
 After you feel you have a good understanding of the client's needs, you can begin writing their content. Stick to the client's guidelines as you work to build the content that they have requested. Try to work efficiently to meet the deadlines and schedules that your client will have provided. When you are finished with the task, submit the work for final approval with your client., After you have submitted the wiki work to your client and they have approved it, you can collect your payment. Make sure you are paid the correct amount you agreed to before accepting the job. If everything is in order, you can collect your payment and begin looking for your next wiki building job.Make sure you know how your client plans on paying you and provide them with any information necessary.
Ask your client if you can use your work as part of your portfolio.

