 As tough as it can be to remove stains from ordinary fabric, carpet can can be even more difficult. The tight interwoven fibers of most carpets can make it especially tricky for cleaning agents to penetrate to the oil, so you'll want to do as much as you can to remove the stain on your carpet before it sets. If the stain has just occurred, press a folded-up paper towel or rag into the stain into absorb as much of the oil as you can.


As noted above, you won't want to scrub with your towel or rag, as this can spread the oil over a larger area.
Blot continuously until you're not picking up any more oil. Because it's extra-tricky to remove oil from carpet once it's set, you'll want to concentrate especially hard on removing oil from the carpet before a stain even has a chance to form.
 Next, as with fabric, you'll want to gently rub a neutral, absorbent powder like baking soda, corn starch, or talc into the stain to absorb extra oil from the carpet. You should notice solid clumps begin to form as the powder absorbs the oil. Unlike with fabric, however, it's difficult to simply brush these clumps out of the carpet, so you'll want to use a vacuum cleaner to remove them.
 Next, pour a small amount (no more than a few cupfuls) of rubbing alcohol (also called isopropyl alcohol) onto the stain. Allow the alcohol to soak into the stain and begin to dissolve the oil for about ten minutes. Blot the alcohol out of the carpet with a clean cloth.
 With a few common household materials, it's easy to make an effective carpet cleaner. Mix 2 cups (473ml) of warm water with 1 tbsp. (14.7ml) of white vinegar and 1 tbsp. (14.7ml) of liquid dish soap. Soak a sponge in the solution. Blot your stain repeatedly, scrubbing gently. Do this for about 5 to 10 minutes or until you notice your stain begin to dissolve.


When done, blot your stain with a rag or towel to remove excess moisture.
 At this point, if you have any commercial carpet cleaner handy, feel free to use it. Because you've already pre-treated your stain with the methods above, the cleaner should be extra-effective. Follow the instructions included with your cleaner to apply it to the stain. Most carpet cleaners will direct you to spray or pour the solution on the stain, let it set, then blot or vacuum the solution out of the carpet.
 When you're done treating your carpet, wash it with a small amount of cool, clear water. This water works as a "rinse" cycle, helping to dissolve any leftover cleaning materials soaked into the carpet. Some cleaning materials, if left to sit in carpet, can discolor or damage the fibers of the carpet. Others, like the vinegar and soap solution above, aren't necessarily harmful to the carpet, but leave a noticeable odor that shouldn't be allowed to take hold in the carpet. In any case, a little water can help remove leftover substances from the area of the stain.


After rinsing with water, immediately blot with a rag or towel. Don't let water soak through the carpet onto the floor, where it can cause damage if allowed to sit.
 Repeat the steps above as needed to work the stain out of the carpeting. When you're finished and the stain has been reduced or removed entirely, give the affected area one final vacuuming. This removes any leftover cleaning materials in the carpet and helps to dry to carpet out, preventing damage than can result from moisture left to sit in the carpet.

