 It's fun being in charge, but you shouldn't get to be in charge all the time. Make sure that each time you play you take plenty of different turns, switching back and forth between being teacher and student. Even if you're really good at it.


Have lots of different roles at your school that you can switch between. Have one person be a student, one person be a teacher, and one person be a principal, or detention person. Take turns between all of them.
 Pick a regular type of name, like Mr. Smithson or Mrs. Black, or pick a totally silly teacher name like Miss Serious or Mr. Stinkypits. Pick whatever name you like, or make one up on your own. Insist that all the students call you by the right name.
 Teachers definitely have a style. Dress up in some of your nicer clothes, and wear glasses if you can to pretend to be the teacher. Pull up your pants too high and comb your hair really well. Walk like an old person.


If your mom has a funny old dress that she wouldn't mind you playing with, that could be perfect for a teacher costume. Ask if you can get one at a second-hand store, if you don't have one, for a costume.
Male teachers should wear ties and glasses. Suspenders if possible.
 Lower your voice and talk very seriously when you're pretending to be the teacher. Don't laugh at anything and call everyone "Mr. Josh" or "Miss Angela." Be very stern, like a teacher would be.


If you all have the same teacher, you could always just do an impression of the things that your teacher says.
try to learn some big words to use when you're playing teacher, since teachers are always trying to teach. "Well isn't that odiferous?" you could say, when something stinks.
 Keep a bunch of "school stuff" really organized on a desk at the front of your classroom, with everything labeled with post-it notes, if you have them. Write up a little name tag for yourself, or have little baskets to put all your school supplies in.


Or, you could always have your desk really messy, if your teacher has a really messy one. That could be a funny way to make school fun.
 It's supposed to be fun! try to keep your students quiet and settled, but they'll probably mostly want to mess you up and say silly things, since this isn't real school. That's ok. Make a fun game out of sending students to detention or giving them silly punishments, but don't take it too seriously.


Most of your friends will probably want to goof off in your classroom. That's fine. It's all in good fun. Assign one person to be the detention monitor, and have fun!

