 This will be your theme, and there is no "wrong" way to pick one. Some guitarists make up something new, improvising over the key of the song until a lick catches their ear. Others mimic the melody of the singer, or another instrument, changing it slightly to keep the song cohesive. Still others have a series of single notes, chords, or small licks that they have memorized, ready to use if they get stuck or can't think of notes to play.









Not all solos need a repeated theme. This is more of a technique in your arsenal than a blueprint for every solo you play.;
, A theme needs to come in only occasionally, never overstaying its welcome or becoming too predictable. As such, you need to show some discipline when restating the theme. At the very least, make sure there is some other part of the solo in between each theme.









A little pause after the theme, letting it stand alone before launching back into the solo, is a great way to give it emphasis and create space naturally.
 The theme should not be played perfectly each time. Slight variations will give it fresh life, taking your listeners just off-guard enough to pleasantly surprise them. Use the theme as a springboard, taking the last 2-3 notes and adjusting them into something new to keep your solo fresh and novel.









As long as you stick to the same basic set of notes, there is no limit to the number of changes you can put your theme through. Experimentation is key.
 If you're using repeated themes in your solo, a great way to wrap everything up is one last return to the theme. Truly slick guitarists can find a way to sneak into the theme at the ending, having it appear almost by surprise to cap off the song triumphantly. This, of course, is only possible if you know exactly how the theme fits into your scale. This makes it a great way to show how intelligent of a guitarist you've become.
 Who says the guitarist is the only one who need to know the theme? If you can get a piano, singer, bass, or saxophone to play the theme, you can sit out a bar, then "respond" to your own theme with a new lick of your own. Trading the theme back and forth, too, is a great way to add a new section to a song or solo.
 If you've used the theme before in the chorus and/or verse, you've prepped the audience for the wild departures and quick changes in the solo. The theme is already in their ears, giving you more chances to play with it later. Furthermore, using the theme after the solo is a good way to keep the energy and feel of the song high after you've stopped playing.









That said, people frequently over-use the theme, playing it so often it becomes obvious and boring. Find 1-2 spots in the song to place it, and no more.