 Save up and suggest she do some household chores as partial payment for the trip. A big trip every six months is reasonable.;
, She may think you're an endless source of money. Helping her understand that you are not, and that funds for shopping are limited, should help prevent her from asking for everything she sees.


Use the opportunity to sneakily teach her a few financial skills. Encourage her to save up and bring her own money on the shopping trip if she wants to go beyond your budget.
Take the budgeted amount with you in cash. Leave the cards at home so when the cash is gone you can honestly say you have no money left.
Make a list of what she needs beforehand. If there is a list of exactly what she needs to get it will help both of you stay on budget by not buying unneeded items. , Look for the latest fashion trends online before the shopping trip so you know what to expect when you get to the store and what your daughter might want to purchase. If you look at clothes together online before you go to the store you can get an idea of what she wants and she can see what she is allowed to get. This way nothing is a surprise when you get to the store. , If you’re daughter wants to buy a skirt you think is too short remind her of the practicality of the clothing: “Is that skirt going to be the most comfortable thing to wear during a test or are you going to be focusing on adjusting it the whole period?”, Don’t over complicate things with too many rules. Have simple clothing and budget guidelines to avoid fighting when you get to the store.


Write the rules down. If you write down the rules it will be harder for her to pretend like you never agreed on a set budget or a clothing restriction.
Explain your reason for the rules to help her understand you aren’t just trying to be mean., Go to shops she likes and let her take the lead. The day should be about her.
 It is important to stay positive throughout the shopping trip. This will help avoid arguing, keep the shopping trip fun, and be better for her. Make sure you both eat before the trip to prevent being grouchy. Eat food with B12 and folic acid such as chicken breast, salmon, and broccoli. Make sure to have Vitamin D to improve your mood and drink plenty of water. Make sure you are awake, but don’t drink too much coffee because caffeine can increase irritability. Schedule the shopping trip on a day you have nothing else planned so you are not in a hurry.
Have fun! She will be happier if you're happier. She doesn't want to argue over clothing choices any more than you do. Smile and enjoy the time with her!

, Shopping for clothes is a great opportunity to teach your daughter to have confidence about her own body.


Listen to your daughter’s feelings. If she gets upset about how something looks on her pay attention and sympathize with her about your own body issues so she knows that you relate.
Be a good role model. Be positive about your own body and your husband or wife's body.
Get off the topic of her body. Talk about the greatness of your daughter’s mind, because that is much more important anyway. , If you start to disagree about something on the shopping trip don’t make a scene out of it. Stay calm and explain your reasoning. If your daughter starts getting dramatic, whining, or yelling tell her you won’t continue the shopping trip until she stops. If necessary, go back to the car to talk about your disagreement in private. Punishing her in public will only embarrass her and make the situation worse. , Let her make the choices but help guide her so she does not make mistakes.


Tell her to buy only what she loves. Make sure she gets the important clothing she needs but don’t just let her buy whatever she wants. Encourage her to only choose the items that she can’t live without.
Make sure she tries on the clothes. Something can look great on the rack and not good or not fit when you try it on. Tell her to try on everything before she decides to purchase it.
Have her imagine it in her wardrobe. If she has a hundred green shirts and wants to buy another green shirt, remind her that she might want to get a new color. If she does not have anything that will match what she wants remind her of that too.
Help her manage the budget. Remind her of the budget when she is choosing which stores to go to and what she wants to buy. If one pair of pants is half the budget remind her of that so can decide if she would rather go to a different store and get less expensive pants., Other than your pre-determined restrictions, don't dictate what she chooses. If you don't like it, explain why but finish with, "...but you can still get it if you really want to." Suggest alternatives but let her decide.


Be willing to compromise. In example, if you don’t like leggings but she really wants them consider letting her buy tighter jeans as a compromise.
Don’t pressure her. Even if it is not what you would wear or how you would dress as a teenager it does not mean that she should not get it. Let her decide what style she wants. It is important to let go of control and realize she is her own person.
Respect her feelings and choices. Listen to what your daughter has to say and try to understand why she wants to buy certain clothes. Even if you don’t agree with her you should respect what she likes., Sometime after your trip, ask her to help choose some clothes for you. Your fashion senses may be different, but it will help you both become more comfortable accepting each other's opinions. Before you know it, you might even understand each other better and be more open to discuss anything.
 When you have spent your budget, suggest going for coffee or a treat, and then suggest going home. By then she will probably be tired and happy enough to agree with you.

