 Unless you have the wrong fuel in the tank, turn the car on and run the gas down towards empty by driving around. Park the car and let it cool before beginning to drain it.


This strategy will decrease the amount of pumping and draining you have to do, and leaves you with less gas to store or dispose of.
Never run a car if you have the wrong fuel in the tank. Draining a full tank will take a long time, but it is not impossible.;
, Sold at most auto stores, these are manually operated pumps that will draw the gas out of your car and into a container. Make sure that you buy one that is approved for combustible materials, as any sparks near your gas tank are a sure recipe for disaster.


You'll need six feet or so of small ⅜ inch hose, as well as a pump to draw the fuel out.The old trick of sticking a hose in the gas tank then sucking out the gas with your mouth is hazardous to your health and incredibly dangerous. You could swallow gasoline or spill enough to create a serious fire hazard.
Have a fire extinguisher specifically for gas fires nearby in case of a fire.
Some vehicles have saddle-type fuel tanks and may require a specialized way of removing the fuel from both sides of the tanks. Seek a professional's help or advice to get all the fuel out.
 This is the hardest part of process, as newer cars sometimes have protective metal bulbs or screens that prevent gas from escaping the car in case of a crash. For older cars you should be able to get the hose right in the tank without hindrance, but you'll need a new strategy for newer models:









Take a separate, smaller tube that is rigid and resists kinking.
Force this tube down until it hits the blockage, then twist, push, and force the tube around the metal bulb blocking entry to the tank. If a reasonable amount of force doesn't succeed, do not continue, as you may puncture the filler tube or cause other damage.
Take your larger tube, the one connected to the pump, and slip it over the smaller tube., As you pump, have your receptacle for gas ready to be filled up. Hold onto the end of the hose, as it can start to move when the gas begins to flow.









If you don't have a pump, but you have a spare tube, stick that in as well. Then, blow into this spare tube, pushing air into the tank, which will then force the gas out of your other tube.
 Your tank is empty, and you're ready to move on with your repairs. If you are working on a gasoline or diesel vehicle that had the wrong fuel put in the tank, you may have to flush out the fuel tank and fuel system with the correct fuel.
 If the gas is not old or unusable you can put it in another car or gasoline engine. If you need to get rid of it you should contact your local environmental waste disposal center. Never pour gas down a drain or sewer. You can often call your local fire department for information on how to dispose of environmental waste safely and effectively.


Check the Yellow Pages under Environmental and Ecological Services and Oils, Waste.
If you plan on reusing the fuel after the repairs are done, make sure you are storing the fuel in approved fuel containers.
You may have to pay to dispose of the gas.