 Here are some common definitions of each:


Bisexual: a person who is capable of being attracted to more than one gender.
Pansexual: There are two possible definitions, depending on whom you ask. 1) Someone who is attracted to people of all genders, and/or 2) someone who is attracted to people without regard to gender, who experiences attraction as "gender-blind."
Polysexual: Although this article focuses on the differences between bi- and pansexuality, "polysexual" is another possible term that essentially has the exact same definition as bisexuality, but is a different word for it. There are many reasons why someone might choose to identify as polysexual rather than bisexual, or vice-versa; reading on, you may infer why.
There are many, many more non-monosexual identities (such as "fluid," or "omnisexual," for instance); this article will just focus on the two most widely used. Many are not mutually exclusive, and many people enjoy using several terms to describe themselves. What you decide on is entirely up to you.
As you can see, "bisexual" and "pansexual" are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Just as all squares are rectangles but not all rectangles are square, based purely on definition it could be said that all pansexuals are also bisexual, but not all bisexuals are pan. However, while some people who identify as pan also identify as bi, there are also those who consider the two terms very different and who only identify themselves as pansexual.;
, This may help you in choosing the label that feels right to you.


"Bisexual" is more widely recognized outside of the LGBT+ community, and some people find it therefore easier to use and be instantly understood. Alternately, some people prefer to call themselves pansexual for this very same reason, in that they enjoy that many people may not have heard of the term and thus they get to explain it to them and educate them on it.
In terms of political and social organizing, there is a much larger community under the "Bisexual" name. You do not have to identify as bi in order to join the "bi" community--bisexuals consider the term an umbrella term for all non-monosexual identities, and there are plenty of pan people in the mix. However, many people do choose to call themselves bisexual in order to associate themselves with the political bisexual rights movement.
Because "bisexual" is a widely-understood term, it can be weighed down by negative associations in some people's minds. Some monosexual people automatically associate negative connotations with the word, as if it were synonymous with "cheater," "confused," or any other bisexual stereotype. Some people may prefer to call themselves pansexual to avoid such labeling. Incidentally, many bisexual people purposely choose to identify as bi for this reason, because they take pride in reclaiming a word that is often maligned. They think by being examples of positive bisexual role models, they can help dispel the negative baggage some associate with the word.
For many bisexual people, "bisexual" is their term of choice because it was the first word they ever found to describe their sexual orientations. "Pansexual," as a term that has only been gaining traction in recent years, may not have the same comforting associations for some non-monosexual people.
Many bi activists see "bisexual" or "bi" as an umbrella term for non-monosexual identities (equivalent to how "trans" or "transgender" has come to be considered an umbrella term for all non-cisgender/non-binary identities). Some people enjoy calling themselves bisexual, then, as they enjoy that there are a vast array of identities that can be covered by the bisexual term.
Conversely, many people who identify primarily or exclusively as pansexual like that their term offers more specificity about how their attractions function.
 Discussions in the bi and pan communities over the differences between the two terms have tended to focus on one issue in particular, which is as the terms relate to transgender people.


Some people prefer the term pansexual because they think the word bisexual implies a gender binary, and/or an attraction to exclusively two genders (men and women). They think, then, that the term bisexual is transphobic, and/or people who are bisexual are not attracted to trans people, and/or bisexual people are only capable of attraction to exactly two genders.
While there are some bisexual people who may only be attracted to exactly two genders, or only to cisgender men and women, the bi community as a whole rejects this definition of bisexuality. Instead, bisexuals point out that the "bi" prefix, which means "two," could be used to refer to "attraction to both people of the same gender as oneself ("homo"), and attraction to people of another gender than oneself ("hetero")." This definition does not restrict bisexuals' attractions to solely two genders and is not exclusive of trans people.
Furthermore, there is a double standard where "bisexual" is accused of reinforcing the gender binary, although by the same logic, both the terms "gay" and "straight" do as well.
As trans is a gender identity separate from a sexual orientation, many trans people also identify as bisexual (or pansexual, or both, depending on their preference). The bi and trans communities have historically been strong supporters of each other, and historically have not had problems with the bisexual term.
As the bisexual community has made its position clear on how it interprets the definition of bisexuality (i.e., as inclusive, not exclusive, of trans people), to accuse bisexuals of being transphobic for using their label of choice is unfair. You do not have to call yourself pansexual to be supportive of trans people. You may have other reasons why you prefer to call yourself pansexual, however.
 Does a person's gender play a role in whether you are attracted to them, or not? Are you exclusively attracted to, say, masculine-presenting people, of whatever sex, or do you find yourself able to be attracted to people of any gender whatsoever?


Consider why you want to label yourself. Is it so that you better make yourself understood to others, so that you can find community, or something else?
If you meet the definition of pansexuality, which term appeals to you more, pansexual or bisexual, and why? Do you want to use both terms to refer to yourself? These choices are up to you, and you might choose to use different words to refer to yourself in different contexts.
You might want to also explore the dozens of non-monosexual identities that are out there and see if there's another term you like even more. Labels are above all personal, and you can use as many (or as few) as you wish.

