 Using standard 6”x6” origami sheets, this book will be quite small. For something you can actually write in, you may want to use larger 12”x12” sheets. Begin by folding all four sheets in half.The pages in the book will be 1/4 the size of the sheets you use.
 With all four sheets of origami paper folded in half, cut along the creases.You will end up with eight separate sheets that are twice as long as they are wide.


3”x6” if you’re using standard size origami sheets.
 Take the first of the eight sheets and fold it in half “hot dog style.”This will leave you with a sheet that is now 1/4 as wide as it is long—1.5”x6” for a standard sheet.
 You want to fold the same sheet in half again, but this time along the opposite axis.You will once again have a sheet twice as long as it is wide but 1.5”x3”.
 Take the top half of the previous fold and fold it in half but make the fold back on itself.To do this, take the edge of the top piece and fold it back so that it is flush with the spine of the fold from step 4.
 This step is the same as step 5; however, it is for the bottom portion of the paper. The bottom part of the paper from the fold in step 4 will stick out farther than the top after you folded it back on itself. Fold this bottom portion back on itself the same as you did the top portion.After this fold, the paper will be a 1.5”x1.5” square (for standard size sheets) with accordion folds that give the sheet a W shape when looked at from the top., To make more pages for the book, you will repeat steps 3-6 for a total of seven of the sheets you cut in half earlier. A total of seven sheets will provide ten pages in your finished book.You can simply discard the eighth sheet from the earlier cuts.
 Once you have all of the page pieces folded, you need to arrange them. For this step, you will look down at the top of the pieces so that they all have a squiggle W or M shape. Arrange them in a line so each proceeding piece faces the opposite direction.Looking at it from the top, the pieces will look like one long squiggle of MWMWMWM.
 Take the last section of the first piece and the first section of the piece after it in the line and fit the latter section inside the former section by slipping it into the fold created in step 3.You will repeat this step for all five over page pieces until they form one long connected accordion chain.Though optional, using a glue stick to attach the overlapping portion of each page section will add a bit more strength to the finished product., With the pages done and all connected, you can now make the covers for the book. Begin by taking the final full sheet of origami paper and cutting it in half.Since this page will make the covers for the book, you can use a piece that is a different color or that even has a design.
 Take half of the page you just cut and fold the top and bottom edges of it toward the middle of the page.You want to fold it “hot dog style,” so the width of the sheet gets smaller rather than the length.


If you want to make sure the cover is slightly larger than the pages, don’t quite fold the edges exactly to the middle. Instead leave about a 1mm gap.Definitely make sure that if you chose designed paper, the design faces out.
 Take the section of pages and squeeze it down, so it is fully compressed, and then place it in the center of the cover piece. You can make sure the piece is centered by folding the covers piece (which will be long) around the pages and making sure the two ends come together evenly.Pinch a small crease on each side of the text block where the spine meets with the cover., The front and back cover will both be too long, but don’t cut them. Instead make a small crease where the covers reach the edge of the pages. Makes a fold along this crease for both the front and back cover., The folds you made to form the cover in step 11 will form a small slot. Once you’ve folded the excess length of the covers inward, you can use the first and last pages of the page section as a tab and slide them into the slots in the front and back covers respectively.Though not necessary, you can strengthen the book by using a glue stick on the tabs to glue them to the inside of the slots in the covers.

