 You should express gratitude for the gift. Regardless of whether you are excited, overwhelmed or perturbed by the gift, you should show gratitude. You might want to say “thank you” and show an appropriate level of gratitude.If you love the new dog given to you and feel excited about it, you might want to say “thanks!” or “thanks so much!” You may want to give a hug or otherwise show a high level of gratitude.
If you are not ready for a dog in your life for one reason or another, you should still express your gratitude. Remember the positive intentions of the person who gave you the dog and express your gratitude to show that you appreciate the thought.
If the new dog has been given to you in the form of a certificate, you should also tell them that you will be in touch about the kind of dog that you purchase.
If you do not want the dog, you should still express your gratitude for the gift. Although you may not want this particular gift, you should show appreciation for the thought and intention behind the gift. You could say: “Thank you. I really appreciate the thought. Although I am not ready for a new dog in my life, I really appreciate the effort you put into this gift.”;
, Consider whether you have the skill, time and financial ability to care for a new dog in your life. If the gift is a surprise, it is important to properly assess your ability to care for the animal, since caring for a dog is a long term commitment that lasts for the lifetime of the animal. If you knew about the gift in advance, you should make sure you are ready for this commitment.If you do not have the financial means or time for a new dog, you may not be ready for the commitment of a new dog in your life. Although you may have some dog training skills, lack of time and money will be a real impediment to properly caring for the dog.If you have the time and financial means to care for a new dog but lack the skill, you can hire a dog trainer and make the time to learn the necessary skills.
If you have the skill and time but not the financial means, you could look into budget options for dog food and other pet supplies.
 The cost of owning a dog varies significantly based on the type of breed or mixed breed dog that you have received, its medical history and other factors. Taking food, grooming, supplies, toys, veterinary, training, and exercise costs into account, consider how much it may cost you to own the dog for the average lifetime of its breed. For example, the following estimates show the approximate low, middle and high end costs of owning an average size dog that lives for fourteen years:On the low end of the spectrum, it may cost as little as $4,242.00.
In the middle of the spectrum, it may cost approximately $12,468.00.
At the upper end of the spectrum, you could end up spending $38,905.
You should also account for the costs of owning a dog in its first year, which add up to around $700-2,000, depending on the breed and its particular needs., Consider how much free time you have available and whether you want to spend your free time with a dog. In particular, you should consider whether you have time to walk the dog and participate in dog training. If the dog is a puppy or still growing, multiply five minutes by their age in months to give you the approximate exercise time they need. You should give that amount of exercise twice per day. So, if you have received a three-month old puppy, consider whether you have the time to give them a fifteen-minute walk in the morning and in the afternoon. In addition, consider whether you have the time in your schedule to attend regular obedience and dog training classes.If you lack the time, you could look into hiring a dog walker to give your new dog exercise.
If you are caring for a puppy, you can also get an exercise pen and some toys so they can exercise on their own.
Adult dogs will need more exercise.
Consider whether you have the time for obedience classes and regular dog training., You should figure out whether the breed of dog that has been given to you will fit in your house or apartment. Although smaller dogs can be happy in an apartment, many medium and larger sized breeds are happier with more space to run around, such as a larger backyard. Looking at the dog you have received, determine whether you have the space in your apartment, house or other living space.Small dog breeds such as the Chow Chow, Poodle, Shi Tzu, Pug tend to be great for apartment living, since they are small enough that they can enjoy the small floor space.Some medium and larger sized breeds will be content in smaller houses such as the Bulldog or Greyhound., Taking into account your budget, schedule, space limitations, skills and feelings about the dog, decide whether you want to keep the gift. You could write down all of the benefits of keeping the dog and then jot down all of the challenges. If the benefits outweigh challenges, you may want to keep the dog. If not, you may want to look at other options.