 When you are detaching from someone who was important in your own life, it is imperative that you rediscover yourself. No matter who the person the is, they made an impact on your daily life and how you saw the world. Now that they are gone, you must face life in a new way. The best place to start is discovering things you enjoy doing by yourself.


You need to learn how to cope with life without this person, which may mean finding answers to things they used to help you with, making decisions on your own, and so on.
Consider learning a new skill or visiting places you haven’t able to yet to discover what you are good at and where your weaknesses lie.
 Start to move on from this person by looking forward to something new. Seek a new beginning, whether that means going back to school, joining a club or organization, even chasing a dream, you have been afraid to pursue.Use visualization to imagine how happy you will be in these new settings and doing these new activities.
Consider dating again or striking up new friendships once you have had time to recover and stop being angry at the person you were detaching from.
 To truly detach from someone, it is helpful to understand what detachment is. For one thing, detachment is becoming calm and not allowing others to get under your skin. It means maintaining your internal balance. But it does not mean that you stop caring about what is going on around you. It is essentially a state of being able to accept whatever happens.This detachment allows you to stop caring what they think and make decisions based on your best judgement, rather than feeling pressure to conform to the other person’s desires.
Because detachment is a state of mind, it is a handy skill to have to endure the negatives in life.
For example, you may find that you cling to pleasure and fear pain, but practicing detachment will give you the ability to go through difficulty with humor and a sense of “this too shall pass.”, Detaching from someone you care about is painful, and realizing that you are not alone can help you make the plunge. Gather friends and relatives around you by inviting them out to events with you. You can also attempt to make new friends to fill the void. Find someone you can confide in, and find a peer group you can trust.Set goals about building a support system. For example, you can write down lists of people in your life now and people you want to be there in the future by creating a visual diagram.Approach people, you would like to be in your support system by asking them if they would like to be friends with you. Be honest about your needs.

