 If you want to be more mentally aware, the first step is becoming more observant of your surroundings. In your day-to-day activities, try to take stock of the environment, your senses, and your breathing.


Walk with purpose. Do not zone out when walking to the bus stop or to work or school. Pay attention to the movement of your body. Take in the scenery. What does your world look like? Smell like? Feel like? Watch the movement of those around you. Be aware of your feet connecting with the ground, your lungs taking in the air, the sense of your clothing against your body.Paying attention to your own breathing can help increase your overall awareness. If you find yourself getting caught up in worry and zoning out of the moment, pause to think of your breaths. Distracting thoughts can be quelled by tuning into breathing as it's a natural and rhythmic bodily process.Pay attention to all your senses. What does morning coffee smell like? Taste like? How does it feel against your tongue? How do you feel about starting off another day? As you drive to work, take stock of the sensation of the steering wheel against your hands, any songs on the radio, what the air smells like through your car's window. Try to stay in the current moment as much as possible by paying attention to your senses.;
, For many, eating is an activity done in front of the TV or computer. This means you lose track of the sensation and taste of food. This can lead to overeating as well as eating itself becoming less pleasurable. Try to be mindful when you eat.


Do not attempt to engage in other activities when you eat. When you eat, eat and do not do anything else. Have regular meals at the table, away from the television.It can also be helpful to eat slowly and pay attention to this bite. This will make food more satisfying to you and make you less likely to crave additional snacks or nourishment later on., People often rush between day-to-day activities needlessly. This decreases mental awareness and can contribute to feelings of stress. Try to pause between activities. Let the phone ring a few times before it picks up. Take in the sound and think of who might be calling you and why. Feel the door handle for a moment before entering your home. Take short, mini-pauses to feel, observe, and consider the present moment throughout your day., Oftentimes, people get busy and do not listen as mindfully as they should. You end up planning activities in your head while listening, considering how you're going to respond, or making judgment's on the speaker's character. Instead of doing this, listen as fully as possible. Try to focus only on understanding the words the speaker is saying. Trust that, when it's your turn to speak, you'll be able to think of an appropriate response., Paying attention the present moment, as well as your own thoughts and feelings, is referred to as mindfulness. Practicing mindfulness throughout your daily activities can help increase your overall mental awareness.


The first step to mindfulness is simply, as has been discussed above, being aware of the present moment. However, you should also strive to be aware of your own thoughts. Many people find it helpful to have a set time period each day to simply observe your own thoughts. Allow your mind to wander and any worries, concerns, or interests to creep in uninterrupted. Do not try to judge or control your thoughts. Simply be aware of what you're thinking.It can sometimes be helpful to silently name thoughts as they come in. This can help you address negative thoughts without engaging in them or trying to talk yourself out of them. Simply think to yourself "Here is my worry that I'm not as successful as I should be" or "Here is my concern that my friends don't really like me.", Certain activities can increase mental awareness and mindfulness. Look for classes in your area that teach such practices. You can also practice some activities at home on your own.


Meditation is the process of sitting silently and tuning into your own body and sensations.Many people find guided tutorials online or in books that help them practice meditation. You can also take meditation classes.
Yoga is an exercise routine where you move through a series of postures designed to stretch and flex the body. Not only does yoga have benefits for your physical health, it places emphasis on awareness of the present moment.You can take classes at a local yoga studio or find guided yoga routines online.
Tai chi is somewhat similar to yoga in that participants are guided through a series of slow movements. You will be asked to pay attention to your body and breathing.Like yoga, you can practice tai chi at home with guided routines or take classes at a local studio.

