 You may use a single trunk tree, or if you are lucky, you might find one with multiple trunks. Make sure it is not too heavy or large so it you will be able to move it during and after construction. Also, choosing a tree like cedar will mean your project will naturally be resistant to insects and decay.;
, You may decide to remove the bark if you like, or to leave it for a more natural appearance, the choice is yours.
 This will allow it to sit flat on the base you will be building later so it can be securely fastened. Use a chainsaw or hand saw for this step.
 You will want to decide how tall your cat tree will be and make these cuts accordingly. Since there are no flat sides on a round tree trunk, squaring the cut will depend on your ability, so cut as little as possible to assure you do not cut too much off if multiple attempts are needed to get it right.
 In the images, 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick red cedar is used, and pieces are assembled with large wood screws. Your base will consist of a band built with lumber fastened edgewise and decked with boards fastened flat on top of this band. The size of the base depends on the height and in the case of a forked truck, width of the tree trunk you are using. In general, you will want at least a 24 inch (61.0 cm) wide base, and for a large, tall, or multiple trunk tree, 36 inches (91.4 cm) or more is needed.
 Since the trunk will be heavy, and will support the weight of your moving feline friend, make sure these screws or bolts are sufficient to hold the trunk upright. Make sure the tree trunk is oriented the way you want it, and if needed, re-cut the base or shim it so it is plumb, or leans the way you want it to.
 You can use light plywood or thin wooden boards to build your deck. Attach a brace if needed diagonally between the trunk and the base to help support it.
 You can fashion a small wooden house to protect your pet from the weather, add blankets, carpet, or other items if you like.
 You may want to wrap the whole truck with strips of carpet so your cat can sharpen its claws on it, too.
 Set it up in a place where it will be protected from the weather, and let your pet learn how to enjoy it.

