 This will allow your body to get the correct amount of rest needed to perform the following day. Eat a wholesome light dinner, fish is often excellent as it is high in Omega Fish Oil and is light enough that you won't be up all night as it digests. Eat a very good breakfast, such as a banana, which is a great way to start the day when taking a test.;
, You have to be really on time to do well on tests or exams. If you set your alarm to wake you so you have enough time to prepare and take your time during the morning of the exam, you will be more likely to start the exam with a clear head and stress free, (or as stress free as anyone can expect you to be!)

, Keep away from heavy saturated foods such as Margarine and foods with high sugar content. Try to eat a balanced meal of eggs, toast, or cereal and some fruit. Make sure you are refreshed by drinking a glass of milk, juice or water, (make sure you don't drink them together, or you will be sick for the exam!). You need to ensure you have had the correct foods that will keep your energy and body functioning until the exam is over. Don't overeat, being too full will mean your stomach will hurt and you may feel nervous. Dark chocolate helps for brain boosting as berries do.
 You can also read a review book or perhaps quickly read over some quotes that you have studied. Don't put your head in a book or memorize that thick textbook. Casually test yourself. Keep calm - that's the key.
 You need to calm down! Being all flustered will be a big hazard. You can't do anything now, can you? You've arrived at the classroom, and even if you jump around in anxiety, you probably won't know about dividing fractions if you didn't revise!

, Put all your items (things you need) on the table before the teacher hands out the papers. If you have an English exam usually you are not allowed to take anything in, however, some exams may allow pens and pencils.
 If it's a Maths or Science test. You may want to write down formulas on a spare piece of paper. This will mean you won't have to remember them later on when you are getting stressed. If it's an English exam or you are required to do a lot of writing make sure you write down on a piece of paper any valuable quotes or material references. In English, references and quotes count. Incorrect quotes or author names means a lower score.
 However, this doesn't mean if you start with a bad start finish with a bad ending. Make sure at both ends of the exam you read all questions before answering them. Often time is allocated for this. When you are allowed to start pen to paper go straight to any questions which you were confident with. Perhaps there was a question about the review you studied before the exam, or a formula was selected to be used in a question and you particularly like that formula. By tackling questions that are fresh in your mind you will be more likely to remember, the more difficult answers later on.

