 Depending on what type of forage you have and how wet you want to harvest it at, you have the options of letting it wilt for not at all, half a day, or for a full day (24 hours).


In environments where there is no opportunity to allow forage to wilt or dry down to a 40 to 60% moisture content, direct-cut haylage may be the best option. Forage cut without any opportunity to wilt will be at 75 to 85% moisture, the highest-moisture silage/haylage you can get. See Warnings below for the potential problems and risks with this type of haylage.

Wilted silage can be allowed to wilt down for half a day (4 to 6 hours) before harvest. Basically, cut forage in the morning, and harvest in mid-afternoon. Wilted hay-silage is typically at least 60 to 70% moisture.

A common problem can be allowing the crop to wilt down too much, creating forage that is too dry; this can cause silage to heat, reducing digestibility for livestock, and cause harvest and storage losses, via leaf loss or spoiling, respectively.



"Low-moisture" haylage or what many would consider "normal silage" regardless the forage harvested is gathered at 40 to 60% moisture; compared with wilted silage, this haylage type often needs longer to wilt down, depending on weather conditions. Most recommend a day (24 hours) to wilt down; if the weather is hot enough, though, only half a day (4 to 6 hours) may be needed to get the forage down to that optimum level.

Grass tends to "dry down" faster than legumes like alfalfa or clover due to its hollow stems, and lower moisture content. However, because the recommended moisture range has a 20% difference, it's best to take a chance at harvesting a high-legume stand when it's at least 40 to 50% moisture to prevent leaf-loss during harvest or spontaneous heating.
Teddering and/or conditioning, as already mentioned, may be necessary to get low-moisture haylage, but this depends on what cutting equipment was used, and other conditions that may make the crop slower to dry than expected (such as rain, heavy dew, etc.).
If it happens to rain right after cutting the crop, there's plenty of argument out there that one rain shower won't hurt the crop so much as it will slow down the time needed to get the crop as dry as you want it to be. Conditioning and raking/teddering may necessary in this case to speed up the drying process before harvest.

In the next section below, this particular type of haylage is ideal for gathering into bales, as baleage or bale silage.
 Machinery known as "forage harvesters" that are self-propelled or pulled behind a tractor are needed for gathering and cutting up swaths into chopped haylage. Cut length is very important, especially for feeding to cattle. Set the cutter head blades so that they are chopping between 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) to 3⁄8 inch (0.95 cm).


With grass silage (if the forage crop is 90 to 100% grass), you can get away with chopping it at 1⁄4 inch (0.64 cm) instead.
Forage harvesters do not come with a storage compartment like combine-harvesters do when harvesting annual crops for grain like with corn or wheat. Once the forage is chopped up, it is blown out of a long, tall spout; built similarly to a snow blower machine, except twice as big. A tractor with a silage wagon (a wagon with three sides built higher than the fourth), a silage truck with similar sides, or a pull-behind wagon (some farmers may call it a "Jiffy wagon"), must be used to gather haylage.






An exchange is made between the wagons and/or trucks so that the person operating the forage harvester doesn't need to stop and wait every so often. Once the first truck is full, the harvester stops briefly so that the truck can pull away and the second one moves into position. The first truck returns after dropping its load off to get another load, and so the process repeats.
 Once the wagons or trucks are full they must travel to the site where the haylage feed is going to be stored. This may be a three-sided concrete bunker called a "silage pit," or on a hill that promotes good drainage. The wagons or trucks dump the fresh haylage into piles situated close together, and in a manner that is easy to gather and pack into a silage/haylage pile.


Make sure the loads are placed as close to each other as possible. When first starting the pile, the first several loads must be place where the pile is going to be. After that they are placed close to the built pile, and dumped in a way that is easy for the person in the "packing unit" to move into a pile; i.e., parallel to the pile, and/or in the same direction the pile will be built up as.
 The haylage pile must be packed very well, and should be packed down during and after each harvesting day. In a large operation where several people are employed, it would be beneficial to have one (a brave one that is not afraid of heights especially) stay behind to operate another tractor or large loader that will continuously gather and pack the pile well. Tractors with dual wheels are recommended to provide the best packing power possible.


Packing is what helps encourage fermentation activity and discourages spoilage. The more the pile is packed down, the less pockets of oxygen there is. Oxygen pockets create spoiled feed; aerobic-loving bacteria turn it into a brown to black slimy mess, that often smells like tobacco or burnt caramel. In other words, instead of fermenting the feed (which is producing a significant amount of acid as a means to preserve the feed), the presence of oxygen decomposes it into a substance equivalent to manure. You don't want feed that is messy and gross like manure (think cow poop). If you don't like the look, feel and smell of it, neither will your animals!
Haylage/silage piles must be longer and wider than they are tall. The higher the pile is built up, the wider the edges will need to be. A concrete bunker will control how wide you can make the pile, though you can pack several feet above, but only so much that the sides are not over-flowing.

A rule of thumb for pile-size is larger at the base than the top; no less than 12 to 15 feet wide at the top to prevent roll-overs or slippage from machinery; and silage piles should only be 12 to 15 feet tall, mainly for farm safety reasons.


The best way to tell if you have done a good packing job is if you try to sink your fingers into the pile. If you only get in so far as your second knuckles of your first three fingers, then the pile has been packed very well, and has potential for being good feed in the winter with minimal spoilage.
 Use the proper plastic recommended for haylage and silage piles. Often recommended and used is polyethylene plastic that may be black on both sides or white on one side and black on the other. The cheaper stuff is all black, but the better quality is the black and white plastic.


Use 6 to 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) plastic. This can be found at your local farm and ranch supply store. The heavier the plastic, the more effective it is at keeping oxygen out of the pile and reducing wastage with spoiling.
The rolls are very heavy. Use a tractor loader with bucket teeth to carry the plastic to the pit so that you can unroll and unfold it.

A trick to use is to insert a 6 feet (1.8 m) long, heavy iron bar into the roll (like you would hanging a roll of toilet paper on a toilet-paper holder), and fashion thick wire or heavy chain that hangs on the teeth of the bucket. Hang the bar onto this.

Important: White and black plastic must be used so that the white side is facing out, and the black against the fresh haylage in the pit. The white side reflects sunlight and reduces excess heating from the sun, whereas the black side keeps heat inside.


Trim off extra plastic and use that to cover the edges and sides that the plastic has not covered.
 Use numerous old or recycled tires all over the top part of the pile. Hay bales can also be used to hold down plastic on the sides if the haylage pile is not in a bunker.


Tires are much more gentler on the plastic because they do not cause punctures. Punctures are a serious danger of feed spoilage.
 Holes in the plastic can cause massive spoilage problems over time. Spoilage will not be localized, especially if the holes go from a tiny tear to a big rip, especially if wind is a problem.

