  Wash your body and hair.  Condition the ends of your hair to make them silky smooth, if you're a girl.  Rinse everything out completely.  Brush your teeth for 2 minutes.  After you dry yourself with a towel, apply deodorant and body lotion.  Blow dry your hair until it's 80% dry and then let the rest air dry.  This should be really easy, if you're a boy.;
,  For girls, wear a dress.  The dress should not be too revealing.  Pick light, pretty colours but don't wear white, same goes for boys because it will draw attention away from the bride and groom.  Light blue, beige, peach, sunset orange, and lavender are good colours.  For boys, wear a tux/suit, depending on how formal the wedding is.  If it's a small, outdoor wedding, wear a tux.  If it's indoors and "proper", wear a suit.  Black and brown are good for suits.  Wear a white or light blue dress shirt under and a nice, skinny tie.  For a tux, wear a white dress shirt and a black tux.  Have a cool bow near your neck.  The dress shirt could be button down.
  For boys, just comb your hair out and use some gel to make it spiky or sleek.  or girls, style your hair in a bun, curls, ponytail, braid, half up half down, or just add a nice hair accessory.  Ask a skilled family member or professional to style your hair so that it looks pretty. Remember to brush out your hair really well and then add a headband or something.  Remember not to wear huge bow headbands, maybe just a flower one with some sparkles.  Put some hairspray, mousse, or gel on it to make it stay good for the whole wedding.
  Boys don't necessarily have to accessorize.  They can just wear fancy shoes. For girls, wear some precious jewelry.  This means no skull bracelet or silly bands.  Only wear real, expensive jewelry, because it's a special occasion.  Diamond, gold, jade, your birthstone, etc. Wear some pretty gold hoops or something.  Make sure to wear your most valued jewelry piece you own.  You could also wear gold bangles, a jade bracelet, or your birthstone ring.  Also carry a special purse for this occasion, if you have one.
  Wear more makeup than you usually would on a regular day to school/work. Only put makeup on your kid if they're 6 or older, because no one likes makeup on a 2 year old.  For kids, just wear some glitter, eyeshadow, mascara, and lip gloss.  If you're a teenager, wear mascara, eyeliner, light blush, eyeshadow, and lipstick/lip gloss.  Adults can wear anything as long as it doesn't make you look like a clown.  Don't wear too much, but wear a decent amount.  Use colours like red on lips, light pink, blue, white, lavender, beige, peach, and orange.
  For girls, wear high heels or fancy flats.  For flats, wear bow ones with glitter on them. Get them in white, silver, red, pink, nude, or brown.  Get heels that aren't too high, because you'll be walking a lot.  Get them sparkly or classic.  Just wear some normal heels or wear a pair that have bows on them, because this sparks it up a bit.  Nude, white, black, red, and brown are nice colours for heels that you wear to weddings. For boys, just wear some black formal shoes that go well with your suit/tuxedo.
  Girls, check your makeup to make sure everything looks great.  Also check your hair and outfit, etc.  For boys, check your outfit and hair gel and shoes to make sure they're clean.  Spray on some light scented perfume such as flowers or citrus fruit for girls.

