 Planning ahead is important for your 16 week challenge. You should know not only what you want to achieve, but how to go about achieving it. A good way to do this is to break the goal down into parts or subgoals.


Breaking the goal apart into clear, achievable steps will make it seem more manageable. It will also mean it is always clear what you need to be working on to achieve the goal.Again, if you have to do this during the challenge period, you will waste valuable. Planning in advance means working more efficiently during the 16 week challenge.
For example, imagine your goal is to write a novel in 16 weeks. Your steps might be to come up with a concept, develop an outline, draft each chapter, and edit and revise each chapter, and then copy-edit the manuscript.
 Within your plan, set deadlines for completing each step. Or, create benchmarks relating to how much progress you want to make by the end of each week.Having deadlines will help keep you accountable and motivated.
For example, if your goal is to lose 50 pounds over the 16 week challenge, that means you'll need to lose an average of just over 3 pounds a week. Write this into your plan.
 There will always be something that comes up while you are striving for a goal that makes it harder to achieve. To extent that you are able, try to predict as many of these obstacles as you can, and make plans for dealing with them.


Thinking about potential obstacles in advance will help you be better prepared for them when they arise.This will allow you to deal with them more quickly, so they don't create a major interruption in your 16 week schedule.
 Before you get started on your challenge, spend some time visualizing the process of working for the goal. This can help you feel better prepared. It can also motivate you by bringing to mind all the benefits you will experience as a result of striving for your goal.Visualization means imagining yourself doing a task in the way you would like to do it.For example, if you are trying to learn to ride a unicycle, imagine yourself riding smoothly from your house, down to the corner, and back.
Repeat this visualization often. Rehearsing in your mind can help you build positive habits or develop skills more quickly., Try to emphasize to yourself that you control your own destiny. This is called an "internal locus of control."Whenever you start to have doubts about your ability to reach your goal, use self-talk. Remind yourself that you make your own choices and make your own future. This goes for not only before you start the challenge, but throughout the process.
For example, imagine your goal is to lose 40 pounds in 16 weeks. An internal locus of control means keeping in mind that achieving this will be a matter of making good decisions and working hard. If, in the fourth week of your challenge, you find you've fallen short of your weight loss goals, this would mean taking responsibility and making the decision to intensify your efforts the following week.
Of course, events will occur that will be outside of your control. But, how you deal with those events is up to you. Having an internal locus of control means meeting uncontrollable events with a positive attitude and looking for solutions, rather than accepting defeat.
For example, imagine jogging is part of your weight loss plan, and in the second week of the challenge, you break your foot. This is not a situation you can fix by sheer force of will. But, if you have an internal locus of control, you will look for an alternative exercise that can take the place of jogging, rather than giving up.
 Many people, find it easier to reach goals with the help of others. Especially for these intense, time-limited goal challenges, working with other people can be very helpful.


If your goal is fitness oriented, consider using a personal trainer. This person can help keep you accountable and motivated. He or she can also provide advice to make your workouts more effective.
If your goal is more more personal in nature, you might consider working with a "life coach." This is a professional who can provide accountability, encouragement, and guidance.If neither of these options is appealing, you can also try to find an "accountability partner" to do the challenge with. This someone you can check in with daily to let them know how your progress is going.They will do the same, updating you on their own 16 week challenge. This can increase motivation for both partners. Your accountability partner doesn't even need to be working on the same goal as you.
If you don't know anyone who is willing to be your accountability partner, look beyond your friends and family. There are online communities that exist for this purpose.

