 Rub a small bit of oil over your hand, scrubbing lightly over the sappy spots for 30-60seconds. When you're done, wash your hands with warm water and some dish detergent to get the sap off you hands.




For particularly difficult patches, pour a little dry baking soda directly onto the sap and rub it in with the oil to break it down.;
, In the same way that it helps remove gum from your hair, the oils in peanut butter are great at removing sap from your hands. Rub it along the covered areas and massage it lightly into your skin. It should begin pulling the sap off your hands, and the rest will be removed after washing your hands with soap and warm water.





Out of peanut butter? Try using mayonnaise in the same way., Liberally coat the area of sap with toothpaste and scrub it lightly between your hands. The abrasives in the toothpaste should have no problem removing the sap after 1-2 minutes. Wash away the toothpaste with warm water and soap to finish the job., These two liquids may dry your hands out, but they are incredibly effective. Pour some on a rag or sponge and use it to lightly scrub away the sap. Give it a little time to set in before trying to scrape it off your skin. and be sure to wash you hands with soap and water when you are done.


Alcoholic wipes, used in first-aid kits or as a disinfectant are a great portable solution.
 Squirt some of the degreaser into your hands and use it to "wash" your hands as if it was liquid soap. Spend some time scrubbing the sap, which should come right off. Be sure to wash your hands with soap and warm water immediately after finishing., Take a large bowl and fill it about 2/3 with warm water. Add 2 tablespoons salt and a liberal squirt of honey and mix it together. You can then soak your hands in the bath for 3-5 minutes, scrubbing them occasionally. Air dry your hands and then wash them with soap and water to get off any remaining sap.
 While the sap is still fresh and wet, rub a little dirt into it. Wait until it dries, when the dirt will make it fragment and keep it from sticking too hard to your skin, You can then use some simple soap and water to remove the sap from your skin.

