 Your period is something that will come whether you want it to or not. You can't force it to stop, and you can't force it to start. No amount of medicines or injections will help you with that. What you need to do is learn how to manipulate it.;
, You need to be able to identify how your blood flow is during your period every month to know what you need to wear (pad, tampon, panty liner, etc).


If you have a heavy blood flow, a thick pad or tampon should be worn. If you are afraid of your tampon leaking (which can easily happen while you're jumping and tumbling in cheerleading), wear a panty liner with your tampon so it doesn't leak in your underwear.
If you have a medium blood flow, a thinner pad or a tampon should be used. Girls with medium blood flows usually don't have problems with this if they change their tampons every couple of hours, but if you are afraid of it leaking, you should wear a panty liner with it. #*If you have a light blood flow, you should use a panty liner. Panty liners come in different shapes, sizes, and thicknesses, so you just need to select one that makes you feel comfortable. However, tampons are recommended for all types of blood flows when playing a sport or being active.
 Your period will come when it comes and leave when it leaves. There aren't any medicines, injections, surgeries, foods, or anything else that can make your period stop. Anyone who tells you that there are certain remedies to make your period stop, is not telling the truth.
 Most girls do not want to cheer on their football team or lead their competition team to the championships when they are sulking over painful cramps. A pain-relieving pill will do the trick and make those cramps decrease in pain. Ibuprofen, Tylenol, and Advil are examples of medicines that help with cramps. However, while you may feel better, these medications increase blood flow for the duration of your period. Try to avoid this if you already have a heavy blood flow.
 Part of being a cheerleader is going out on the field and cheering on your team. Having your period should not change the passion you have for your team and the activity you love doing. If it does, you should consider whether being a cheerleader is really the right sport/physical activity for you.


If you find yourself in a swirl of mood swings and negative attitudes, do something to relax you before your competition or game. Take a nice, hot bath, read your favorite book, tan in the backyard, take a nap, go for a bike ride, or do anything else that will relax your body and mind. Then, by the time your game or competition begins, you won't be nearly as stressed out.
 Sometimes, as humans, we just need to take a break once in a while. Unfortunately, when you commit to a sports team or extracurricular activity, you are bound to stay supportive to it. You have committed yourself to your cheerleading squad; do not let your period get the best of you! Have some fun and stay positive, and soon enough, you'll forget you even have your period! Just remember to change your pad or tampon every 2-4 hours to prevent leaking and odor (pads with deodorant in them do not lessen or mask odor, they only make it worse.)

, In a recent study and survey, 97% of girls that participate in physical activities regularly say that their blood flow during their period lessens while they are exercising and participating in physical activity. So, in hindsight, it is better to be cheering and chanting on the football field and competition floor than sitting on the sidelines watching.

