 First impressions start before you even show up. If you arrive late, the first information you provide about yourself is that you are potentially disorganized or inconsiderate. Show up within a minute or two of the proposed meeting time.This varies for different situations, of course. Ask around and establish time expectations before you arrive.
For a job interview or a first date, show up exactly on time.
For a punk show, show up two hours late.;
, In most situations, you'll make a great first impression if you make the first friendly overture. Shake hands firmly and introduce yourself. When the other person has introduced him or herself, say "It's nice to meet you." Make sure you introduce yourself to everyone in a group, not just the most important looking person.


If you're seated and you're meeting someone, stand up to shake hands.Wait to be introduced. In certain circumstances, you should wait to be introduced. If someone is talking to someone you know, you can greet both people and wait for your acquaintance to introduce you to the stranger.
Don't wait more than a minute, however. Introduce yourself if your acquaintance fails to do so.
Make an impression with your first words. Say something slightly to the left of "it's nice to meet you," such as "it's a pleasure to meet you," or "I'm so glad to make your acquaintance."
If you are in a social situation, you can crack a lighthearted joke. Just make sure the people you meet aren't the object of your joke. You might say, "Nice to meet you. I wish we had met when I was young, before I tried to take the 605 W at 5pm on a Tuesday."

, Eye contact is the most important element you can provide. You will look confident, friendly, relaxed, and attentive if you focus on the person you are talking to. Smiling is also important, but don't force it. Nobody can tell if you are willing yourself to make eye contact, but they can tell if you are willing yourself to smile.Smile to communicate that you are pleased to meet the other person.
Hold yourself tall. To communicate confidence and authority, stand up straight and keep your head upright. To communicate friendliness and interest, tilt your head slightly to one side or another., Even if you feel nervous, you can sound relaxed and confident by speaking slowly and calmly. Modulate your volume, and be clear. Don't shout, whisper, or mumble. Think before you speak—blurting something out will show that you are not collected.If you do notice yourself talking quickly, blurting, getting defensive, or giving thoughtless answers, calm yourself down.
Making dismissive or defensive statements will make you sound nervous. Try not to say things like "I'm late, I'm a jerk, I know, but at least I didn't run anyone over on my way here."
Finding fault with others will make you sound less confident. "I'm late because the guy parking the cars here is totally incompetent."
Instead, present your own actions without expecting attack. If you do something wrong, apologize immediately and let the conversation continue.
 Check in with yourself before and during the encounter. Check your heart, your hands, and your breathing. Notice how you are sitting or standing, and name what you can feel, hear, and see. Being conscious of the sensory information you are taking in will help you regain control.Name how you feel and accept it. Say "I'm nervous, and that's making it hard for me to think straight."
Take a few deep breaths and count down from 10 to 1.
Address yourself by name. Say "Jamie, you're nervous, but you're okay."

, Being a good listener will give others an incredibly good impression of you. To listen actively, pay close attention to what is being said. Reflect it back by affirming occasional statements with a nod or a smile, and by repeating what the other person says to make sure you have it right.Don't repeat word for word. Putting an idea in your own words shows that you understand it.
For instance, if someone says "What I really want is to live my life and not have anyone tell me whether or not I'm doing it right," you might say "You want to be your own judge."

, Ask follow-up questions when someone gives you information about him or herself, to show interest. Ask informed questions based on information you gathered before the meeting, as well as information garnered from the conversation. Ask open-ended questions that get others talking.An open ended question is one that cannot be answered with a "yes" or a "no." Instead of asking "did you have an okay time finding this place?" ask "How was your journey here?"

, To make a killer impression, dress to impress. Wear one of your best outfits. Conventions vary, and fashion is always changing, so consider the crowd before you get dressed. In most situations, it pays to look clean and to wear clothes that fit. In all situations, it pays to wear clothes that look good on your body and that you like wearing.


If you're looking to stand out, try wearing a shock of bright color. Red attracts amorous attention.Dress with a sense of humor. You can look elegant and still friendly if you don't take your outfit too seriously.
Outfits that are dead serious tend to be a bummer. Save suits and ties for highly formal occasions. If you wear a costume, acknowledge that it's silly instead of insisting that everyone treat you like a real elf.
 When you arrive, greet everyone you know. Get to know everyone you don't know, and learn their names. If you're in a huge room, just get to know the people near you plus anyone who crosses your path. You'll quickly accrue popularity if you are a friendly and welcoming presence.


Introduce yourself to pairs of people. Pick pairs who are chatting amiably, not flirting, sulking, or fighting. They either came together and are having trouble mingling, or they just met and don't know how to end the conversation. Either way, you'll help open it up.When you learn a name, stare at the person's face and fix his or her name in your head.
Use a mnemonic. Associate one aspect of a person's appearance with his or her name. Think "Lindsay—long hair." or "Barney—big head." (Don't let anyone know that you do this)., Individuals often struggle to assert themselves in groups. People who are able to behave naturally in a group setting are therefore magnetic presences. If you act like yourself, if you have fun, if you are not dazzled by the circumstances, then others will want to engage with you.


Be as weird as it occurs to you to be. You won't make an impression by agreeing with what everyone says, wearing "safe" clothes, or going with the flow in every situation.
If you have an opinion that contradicts those of your companions, say it. Don't act like you expect to be shocking, and stay open to conversation. If you're unafraid of controversy, you can get into a good conversation and impress others with your confidence.
Engaging with space creatively can make an impression on a crowd. If you see a spot to sit that isn't a chair, try it out. If it occurs to you to take a window instead of a door, hop out. If you're at a picnic, climb a tree. As long as you aren't damaging anyone's property, you'll be fine.
 When you are acting like yourself, acting confident, and making connections, people will watch you. If you seem authoritative and unafraid, people will imitate you. Once you have engaged in a friendly way, pick something you want to happen (dancing, a move to a new location, focus on a particular topic or person) and initiate that thing.


Initiate by inviting others to join you. Once they've met you, they'll be open to following your lead.
Start an activity by inviting people who are also making an impression. If you're all dancing together, the dance will grow.
 Show up on time, dressed professionally, and armed with information. Ask your interviewer informed questions about the company. Ask real questions that you would seriously like to know the answers to, or it will seem canned. Bring an extra copy of your resume or CV in case they need one.Shake hands with everyone in the room as you introduce yourself. Wait until you are asked to sit before sitting.
 Be neat, clean, and punctual when you meet the family of your partner. Talk to your partner beforehand about names, ages, and relations. Learn what conversation topics should be avoided, and what topics might be of general interest.Ask everyone questions about their lives, and answer questions about yours with friendly positivity.
Go with the flow. You're entering an established dynamic, so don't try to lead the way. Sit back a little on the first visit.
Ask if you can help. If you see work that needs to be done, like dishes to be cleared, a car to be parked, or something that needs to be picked up, volunteer.
 Show up for your audition full of energy. Get yourself amped beforehand—listen to music you love, jump up and down, sing. Know your material top to bottom. Get a good night's sleep beforehand so that you look and sound your best.


If you don't know the show or company you are auditioning for, do research on past productions.
 If you like someone and that person doesn't know you exist, get noticed. If you have friends in common, ask for an introduction. If you don't, find a moment that feels natural and introduce yourself. You might sit nearby in class, get in line behind him or her, or join into an activity you know she or he likes.


Acting friendly and relaxed is attractive. Stay calm, make eye contact, speak slowly, and smile.
Once you establish communication, you can invite your crush to parties, and can strike up conversation when you run into one another.
You can act out to get attention, but make sure you also communicate that you are balanced and kind. Don't tease someone or put someone else down to get attention.

