 Make sure to watch out for your well-being and that of others when you are attempting to interact with an aggressive dog. Some dogs may lash out without fully realizing what they are doing, so reason is not always effective or useful. Only go as far as you feel comfortable and know that some dogs will never fully become the stereotypical friendly companion.
 When a dog turns aggressive, it will move its body into an attack position. It might crouch lower to the ground in preparation to spring. Or, it might lunge forward and backwards. It could also try to move to the side of your body to prepare for a blind attack.Be warned if a dog looks directly into your eyes and tries to maintain direct eye contact. This is intended as an aggressive move. To try to diffuse the situation, keep moving your gaze to another part of the dog’s face, such as its left ear. But, continue to watch the dog in case it decides to move toward you.
 A dog might lower its head and try to push against your leg repeatedly. Or, it might nip at your leg or foot to get you to move in a certain direction. These nips could turn more aggressive if you refuse to comply.Cross your arms across your chest, or just keep your hands higher up, in order to avoid being nipped. Repeat the command, “No,” in a firm voice. Hold your ground or move slowly in another direction, keeping your eyes on the dog at all times.
 The tail is a good indicator of a dog’s feelings. However, it is easy to misread. Just because a dog moves it tail in a “wagging” motion doesn’t necessarily mean it is feeling friendly. A dog can also “wag” in an agitated way. Look for loopy, uncontrolled motions as an indication of friendliness.An agitated wag is more stiff and controlled. Watch for a tail that moves in a tight, horizontal motion.
 This is what most people will look for right away, and it is a clear sign of aggression. A dog showing its teeth is also giving you a warning. If you respond to this warning, there is a good possibility that the dog will back down.You can respond by saying, “No,” in a calm voice. Or, you can totally ignore the behavior, while watching the dog closely. If you choose to back away for your own safety, do so slowly with your body still facing the dog.
 If you experience any signs of aggressiveness with your dog, it is a good idea to meet with your vet and ask for advice and assistance. They may inspect your dog for a physical cause, such as arthritis, behind the aggression and pain. Or, they might suggest a particular dog trainer or type of training.