 You'll want to make sure there is nothing that your kitten will knock over, such as ornaments on a Christmas tree, or a lamp. You will also need to have all the necessary items needed to care for a kitten.


Take down anything that could fall and break, such as that expensive paw print vase that cost you 300 gems.
Add a sleeping place. For this, you could use the regular striped couches,vine rug, or flat couch and add some pillows.;
, For the food bowls, you can use either the regular bowls, or the pet bowls found in Claws 'N Paws.
 In case your kitten gets bored, add some mouse plushies, also found in Claws 'N Paws. Add some other plushies too, just in case.
 You can use a sandbox,sand pyramids,or sand table because they have sand and a border to keep the litter (also known as sand) inside. If you don't add this, the kitten will poop anywhere.
 This is located next to the Sol Arcade in Jamaa Township.



If there are no kittens, you can adopt a baby and turn it into a cat, just in the same way that you can adopt a cat and make it act like a baby.
 If you find a kitten (or baby), walk up to it and you can either say "I adopt you. My den," or, "Aww, you're so cute! Do you have a family? Can I adopt you? Carries to den."

, If it has a name already, don't change it. If it wants you to name it, pick a cute name like, Batman, or Cutiepie or Sugarcane. Most importantly, don't name it something like unpleasant, such as killer or ripper.
 Tell it the rules, but don't be too firm like, you can go two inches away from the stove but no closer. Rules like, don't go too close to the stove, or, don't scratch up the couch, are okay.
 If you have any kids, tell them not to pull the kitten's ears or tail, and not to chew on its paws, or to throw the kitten, or hurt it in any way. Make sure they don't harm the kitten at all.
 If you go to a restaurant, either make an extra account for a kitten-sitter or make sure that the kitten does not do anything bad. You shouldn't hire a baby-sitter whom you don't know, because you never know what they might do. They might ignore the kitten and text the whole time you are out, or they could abuse the animal and kick it or scream at it or do something bad to it.

