 Stress can relate to increased acid reflux since it can cause people to eat more, drink alcohol, smoke, or sleep less. Food takes longer to digest in stressful conditions, delaying gastric emptying and making it likely for food to be regurgitated. Learning to avoid stressful environments and managing stressful situations with ease can help improve your overall well-being.Simple ways to reduce stress are:Slow, deep breathing in a quiet environment
Focusing on positive outcomes
Restructuring priorities and eliminating unnecessary tasks
Reducing use of electronic devices. These can also cause eye-strain and trigger headaches.
Using humor. Research has found humor to be an effective way to deal with acute stress.
Listening to relaxing music

, You can meditate by simply taking five minutes to relax and shut off your mind to outside disturbances.It may be frustrating to practice at first, but this is a great, simple way to help lower stress. To meditate, follow these steps:Find a quiet, comfortable area, such as a private spot at the office, the park, or even at home.
Get into a comfortable position and sit with your spine straight, cross-legged if possible, or on a chair, the floor or grass.
Find something to focus on. Pick a meaningful word or phrase and repeat it. You can even focus your attention on a flower or doorknob or simply close your eyes.
While sitting in comfort and relaxation, don’t be distracted by your thoughts. Instead, try to keep your focus on the word or object for 5–10 minutes or until you feel calm and serene.
 If you can’t sit still for 5 minutes or more, consider practicing tai chi. Tai chi is composed of slow, deliberate movements, meditation, and deep breathing.Practice regularly to master forms of tai chi, up to 15-20 minutes at home twice each day.Before beginning a tai chi program, you should check with your doctor and discuss your health needs with the tai chi instructor. Tell your instructor about any health conditions you may have besides acid reflux to help them create a personalized fitness program for you.

