 In order to become a professional photographer, you need to know much more about photography than the average guy or gal with a camera. Learn about the technical aspects of photography, including topics like shutter speed and lighting.


Familiarize yourself with all the basic technical terms and get an understanding for how they work. This includes aperture, shutter speed, and ISO.;
, Most photographers have some sort of specialization. For instance, you might specialize in family photography, pet photography, or wedding photography. Each specialization will have its own quirks and intricacies, so you should pick a specialization and learn more about it in detail.


If you do not have a specific passion or specialization in mind already, research a little about the different options to determine which suits your skills and interests best.
 You could technically start a photography business while being entirely self-taught, but the right photography courses and workshops can improve the quality of your photographs and give you an edge over other beginning photography businesses.


Before you sign up for a class, do some research on the teachers. Make sure that the teachers are industry professionals who intend to teach you information relevant to the needs of your company. See if any former students have gone on to become successful.
If you are currently working full-time or part-time, look for weekend workshops and online courses.
 This mentor should be a professional whose work you admire.


A mentor does not necessarily need to be someone you can meet with in person, even though that can help. Choose someone who you can be in some form of communication with at least once a month, though, even if that communication is done via the computer.
Looking for a mentor outside of your area is actually advisable since most photographers may not be thrilled at the prospect of training someone who will become direct competition in the near future.
 This is another optional step, but if you can find a professional photographer to intern with, you can get hands-on business experience you can later use for your own photography business.


An internship should ideally be related to the type of photography you plan to specialize in, but even if the internship is not directly related, you can still gain experience from it.
You might need to offer your services on a casual, short-term basis before you can convince anyone to take you on as an intern in a long-term internship. This is especially true if you do not have any former experience or formal education.
 It may seem like an obvious requirement, but it is important enough to mention nonetheless. Your skill with a camera needs to be much better than the average person's skill. This will require many hours of practice before you ever start your business.


It takes roughly 10,000 hours of work to "master" the craft of photography. The more time you can put into it early on, the faster you will build up your skills.
 You need to pick your camera out before you start your business and learn all about the best way to use it. Many brands and models have their own peculiarities, so the more you can familiarize yourself with the camera, the better off you will be to handle those peculiarities.


At the very least, you need to know how to use the manual settings on your camera, how to adjust the light settings, and how to pose people so that everyone fits into the camera frame comfortably.
Aside from knowing your camera like the back of your hand, you need to know your light modifiers, lenses, and photo editing software.
 You need to own much more than a fancy camera if you want to start a professional photography business. Moreover, you should also have a backup supply of all of your essential equipment.


The basic equipment and tools you need include:

A professional camera
Various lenses, flashes, batteries
Photo editing software
Access to a professional lab
Packaging supplies
Pricing list
Accounting software
Client information forms
CDs and CD cases
External hard drive


At the absolute minimum, you need a backup camera, lenses, flashes, batteries, and memory cards. Make sure that all of these pieces of backup equipment are brought with you on location, just in case one piece of equipment dies during the middle of a shoot.
 For a small photography business, you will probably take all the pictures, do most of the editing, and do most of the marketing. For legal and financial matters, however, you might want to hire professionals in these areas to help you keep things straight.


Make room in your budget for consultations with lawyers and legal experts, as well as accountants of other financial experts. Consultations with your legal adviser will likely end once you get your business set up, but you should meet with your accountant once or twice a year for the sake of keeping your business's taxes straight., It is not uncommon for beginning photographers to charge a lower price than they intend to charge after they gain a little more experience. Doing so can keep you in the competition, but you also need to make sure that you do not charge prices that are so low that you no longer seem professional.


The precise amount of money you charge will depend on your skill level, as well as what your direct competition charges.
When factoring cost, you need to keep in mind the time you spend setting up a session, driving to and from the session, shooting the session, editing the photos, setting up an online viewing gallery, scheduling pick up or delivery, packaging orders, and burning back-up discs.Aside from time considerations, also keep in mind the amount of money you spend driving to locations, burning discs, and packaging photos.
 As with any business, there are a few legal aspects you need to worry about. At minimum, you need to set up a tax identification number and business trade name. You also need to obtain insurance, a business license, and a seller's permit.After setting up your Federal and State Employer Tax ID number, you can expect to pay self-employment tax, income tax, sales tax, and use tax.
Fortunately, there are not many inspections or career-specific licenses you need to start up a photography business, but you still need a basic business license or home occupation permit as well as a seller's permit.
You need insurance for liability, errors and omissions, and equipment.
As a self-employed individual, you will also need to pay for your own health insurance.
Choose a business structure, as well. When you set up your photography business, you need to decide if you should register as a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or LLC. For a small photography business, you will usually register as either a sole proprietorship (meaning that you are the only person in charge) or a partnership (meaning that you are one of two people in charge).
 This is only optional, but if you plan to expand your photography business as far as you can, setting up a business account through a bank can help you keep track of your earnings and expenses more easily than you might be able to do if you used your personal account.
 Society is in a digital age, so if you want to attract attention, you need to be an active part of the digital world. You should have a website or blog, at the very least, as well as various social media accounts.


Sign up on every social network you can think of, but focus on the main ones including Facebook and Twitter. Linkedin is good for professional purposes, and Instagram can be a great way to share sample photographs.
Regularly update your blog and other social media accounts.
Make sure that you support and interact with other artists whose work you appreciate.
 Building good relationships with other photographers will help you more than hurt you. These people might be your competition, but they can inspire you, give you advice, and send clients your way if they lack the time or the specialized knowledge.


Instead of seeking out a few individuals within the industry, look for online communities of photographers. If you only have one or two contacts within the industry, your connection gets cut off as soon as your contacts get too busy to keep in touch.
 Before someone hires you to photograph an event or a subject, that person will want proof that you are a good photographer. A portfolio will provide potential clients with the proof they need.


A portfolio should consist mostly of photographs that represent the work you want to specialize in. For instance, if you want to specialize in family and personal portraits, your portfolio should not consist of pages upon pages of food photography.
 Aside from online advertisements, you should also consider using various forms of traditional print advertisement. At the very least, you should design and print up business cards that you can pass along to potential clients as you meet them.


Aside from business cards, you can also place ads in newspapers or print up fliers.
 As with many small businesses, one of the best ways to get the word out is simply by asking the people you know to help you spread it.


Be prepared to do a few sessions for free, too, just to build up experience and a reputation for fine work. Word of mouth goes much further if someone unrelated to you can praise your work to other potential clients.
 There will always be room for improvement. Rely on other professionals to provide you with helpful critiques of your work so that you know which areas you need to focus on practicing.


Do not rely on family and friends to provide you with accurate critiques of your work. Someone who has a personal relationship with you might automatically praise your skill, but someone who only has a professional relationship with you will see things more objectively.
 When you show up to take someone's photograph, you need to look clean cut and professional. This is especially true if you are showing up to a big event, like a wedding.
 Do not think that the only photographs you should take after you start your business should be business-related. Taking photographs outside of your business can help you freshen up your skills and keep the passion for photography alive.


Your personal projects are the best time to try out new lighting styles, lenses, locations, and techniques.
Personal projects are also a great way to continue building your portfolio.
 Aside from your primary storage device, you should back up all the photographs you take for your business on one or two other storage devices.


Possible backup devices worth looking into include external hard drives and blank DVDs. You can also save your photographs using an online "cloud."

, When all is said and done, in order to really stand out, you will need to take pictures according to your own aesthetic senses. If you merely try to fit the “cookie cutter” identity of a professional photographer, there will be little to no life in your work.

