 Mix the two together with a plastic spoon until you get a thick, soupy mixture. There should be no clumps.


Plaster of Paris will begin to harden within 20 to 30 minutes, so you will need to work quickly.;
, The more paint you use, the brighter your color will be. The less paint you use, the lighter your color will be. Be sure that there are no streaks or swirls in your mixture. The color should be even.


If you want to make different colors, divide the Plaster of Paris mixture between two to three small cups. Stir in about 1 tablespoon of paint into each cup.
For an even more creative twist, you can use glow-in-the-dark or fluorescent paint instead of standard tempera paint.Glow-in-the-dark paint will allow the chalk to glow at night. Fluorescent paint will allow the chalk to glow under a black light.
 You can use almost anything that can hold liquids without leaking as a mold. For example, you can use a normal ice cube tray, or one with fun shapes, such as stars or fish. You can also use toilet paper rolls. Click here to learn how to make toilet paper rolls into chalk molds.


If you are using ice cube trays, be sure to wipe any spills and leaks with a damp paper towel before the chalk dries.
If you made toilet paper tube molds: line the tubes up on a baking sheet with the tape side facing down. Carefully spoon the colored mixture into each tube. Gently flick the side of each tube with your index finger to bring any trapped air bubbles to the surface.
 This can take anywhere between one to three days, depending on the size of your molds. For example, a simple ice cube tray may take as little as a day to dry, while toilet paper rolls will take up to three days.
 Once you pop the chalk out of the molds, you may notice that the underside is still damp. If this happens, simply spread the chalk out on a dry, flat surface with the damp part facing upwards. It should be dry within an hour.


If you used toilet paper tubes: peel off the duct tape and flip over each tube so that the bottoms can dry. After the chalk has finished drying, peel off the cardboard and wax paper.

