 You need to have a place that has a reliable source of edible food, a safe source of water (maybe a pond, spring or lake) and lots of room. Also, if you want to be hosting a campfire afterward (with a parent/guardian), find or make a fireplace in that area. And don't forget to bring along some marshmallows for toasting.;
, If you're in the desert, for example, look up food available in the desert. Whether you're in a forest, a beach, the local woods or alongside a river, do the same.
 Determine how many people are going to be attending. If there are 12 children attending, for example, break them into four groups with three people in each.
 The recommended supplies are: (per group if you're supplying): One pocket knife, a flashlight, blankets (one per person), a plastic bag (for storing food), a bucket and a colored flag. Decide whether you will be supplying the materials or whether this is the responsibility of the children attending. (The flags you will have to supply.)


Be sure to provide a list of appropriate clothing. Layers are usually the best choice, allowing for keeping warm or cooling down, as needed.
 Maybe a few hours, maybe one hour. Decide what is best for everyone. If it's a first time, a shorter course might be suitable, while for children attending an intermediate or advanced course, think of making it longer.
 Send them or give them to everyone you're inviting. If they are bringing the materials, make sure to include what they'll need to pack on the invitation. Also, clarify what clothes they'll need, depending on the weather and the landscape of the area.
 They first go scavenging around for a base. They mark it with a flag, as each group will have a flag of a different color. Then they go looking for food, store it in the bag, and bring it to the base. They can also use the bucket to wash the food.
 Choose a signal (maybe a long whistle) that means to go. Later, everyone will return to the flag once the whistle goes off again, and share their experiences. It is recommended that you have an adult do this job, so that you can participate in the survival course too.
 Maybe discuss ideas for another survival course.

