 All American cars made after 2002 are required to have a trunk release inside the trunk, thanks to a national law.If you're lucky enough to be in one of these cars, and your abductor was dumb enough to overlook it, find the release and pull it down or up, as the model may require. It will usually be a glow-in-the-dark handle located near the trunk latch, but it may also be a cord, button, or toggle switch, or a handle that does not glow in the dark.;
, Some cars have back seats that fold down to allow access to the trunk. Generally the release for these seats is located inside the car, but there may be one in the trunk as well. If not, try to push, kick, or pry the seats down, and then climb out. If there's a kidnapper involved, make sure he's nowhere to be found, or you won't climb your way to safety by getting into the backseat, just inches away from your abductor.
 If the car is equipped with a cable trunk release that can be operated from inside the car (usually by a lever near the driver's seat), you may be able to pull the cable and open the trunk latch. Pull up the carpet on the floor of the trunk, or pull of the cardboard paneling, and feel for a cable. It will typically be on the driver's side of the car. If no cable is there, search along the side of the trunk. If you locate a cable, pull on it (pulling toward the front of the car) to open the trunk. Pulling the cable toward the front or side of the car will pull up the release handle on the trunk.If there are pliers inside the trunk they may help you grip the cable.
 If you can't find the release cable but have located the latch, then your best bet may be to try to pry it open. Search for a screwdriver, crowbar, or tire iron inside the trunk. There may be a toolkit or tire-changing tool set under the trunk floor. If you find a tool, use it to pry open the trunk latch. If you are unable to pry the latch, you may be able to pry up the side of the trunk. This will provide some ventilation and enable you to signal for help., You should be able to access the brake lights from inside the trunk. You may need to pull or pry a panel off to get to them. Once you have access to them, rip the wires out of them. Then try to push or kick the lights through so that they fall out of the back of the vehicle. You can then signal to motorists or passersby by sticking your hand out through the hole.


Even if you're unable to push the lights out, if you disconnect the wires, you increase the chance that whoever is driving the vehicle (if you've been abducted) will get pulled over by the police for a faulty brake light or taillight.






Just remember that out of all the strategies, this is the one that will make the most noise. If you want to attract attention and haven't been abducted, then creating noise will only help your case.
 Many cars have a jack and a few tools in the trunk along with the spare tire. Sometimes they are underneath the carpet in the trunk, or on the side of the trunk. If you can get to the jack, set it up and crank the jack up under the trunk lid and attempt to keep pumping the jack up until the trunk lid pops open.
 If you just managed to get yourself stuck in the trunk of a car but aren't worried about making enough noise to alert your abductor, then just kick the trunk as much as you can and scream until you alert someone else, who will call for help. If you're in a relatively public place, you can try this method while you search for the latch or trunk release, but know that yelling and kicking is more likely to make you feel hysterical and hyperventilate.