 (D)SLR stands for (Digital) Single Lens Reflex, and you need an SLR camera to take professional looking photographs. Despite improvements in phone and point-and-shoot cameras, only SLRs have the range of features and photo clarity needed to set your shots apart. They are, of course, more expensive than simpler cameras, but the jump in quality is well worth the money to take good shots.


SLRs have a viewfinder that allows you to see the exact lighting in your shot as the pictures you take. A mirror reflects the exact shot to your eye, then slides out of the way when you take your photo, capturing the exact same image you saw in the viewfinder.
SLRs have interchangeable lenses that allow you to fit the right lens to the shot.;
, Though digital zoom gets you close to the subject, it distorts the image and keeps it from professional clarity and crispness. This is because a computer inside the camera is enlarging the pixels and guessing what pixels might fill in the blanks. Telephoto lenses work like binoculars or telescopes, bringing you "closer" to the subject without sacrificing quality.Zoom lenses have "mm" numbers written on them that indicates the focal points the lens is able to produce. The higher the number, the more you will be able to zoom in.
 When there is not a lot of light you need to keep the shutter open for longer. This allows you to capture more light and make sure the picture looks good. However, if the camera moves while the shutter is open then the shot will look blurry and even slight shakes will make your photo look amateur. If you have a shutter speed less than 1/125 seconds, you need a tripod.All photographers can benefit from a tripod, as sensitive cameras will pick up slight, uncontrollable movements from your hands.
Time lapse photos are when you leave the camera open for a long period of time to capture movement over time (like the path of stars through the night) or extremely low-light situations, and absolutely require tripods.
 ISO is represented by numbers (100, 200, 800, 1600, 2000, etc.), where lower numbers represent the need for more light.The higher the ISO, the brighter your photos will appear. However, more ISO means more grain, which looks a little like static, in the shot. Use the lowest ISO possible, preferably 100 or 200, whenever possible.


If the ISO is doubled (from 100 to 200) then the light sensitivity is doubled as well.Consider using your camera settings to stop down the light by 1 or 2 stops exposure.
For most outdoor settings, an ISO of 100-200 will suffice.
For most indoor settings, an ISO of 200-400 will suffice., Shutter speed is how long the camera lens is open and capturing the image.The longer it is open, the more light is let into the shot, but you will also capture any movement as blurriness. Shutter speed is measured by fractions of a second, and speeds range from 1/20 seconds to 1/1000 seconds. Bigger numbers are faster, meaning you capture less light, more quickly. This means that there is more light being allowed to reach the camera sensor for the short time that the shutter is open.


In most cases, aim for a shutter speed 1/125sec or faster, especially when shooting handheld.
Every time you cut the shutter speed in half, you're letting in half as much light, because the lens has half the time to capture it. Remember this when setting your ISO, because you'll likely need more light.
Faster shutter speeds eliminate blur during movement, but some creative photos look great with motion, like the blurring of a bird's wings in flight.Using your camera flash at the same time will also help to freeze the movement.If you are using a very fast shutter consider using a very low f-number, the lowest aperture (i.e. f-number) that your lens focus length will give you., The aperture works, essentially, like your eye's pupil. A wide aperture will let in more light because the "eye" of the camera is more open. Aperture also controls depth of field, which is how much of the picture appears sharp or in-focus. Aperture is measured by f-stop, with numbers like (f/1.4, f/2.8, f/8.0, etc.) The smaller the f-stop, the more of the image will look sharp and in focus, but the less light will be let in. Wide f-stops, in contrast, can be used to keep one specific image in focus.The larger the f-stop, the smaller the opening of the aperture. While confusing, this is because "f" stands for fraction. Thus, a larger f-stop is a smaller hole. Think of it this way: 1/8 of an inch is bigger than 1/16 of an inch, so f/8.0 is bigger than f/16.0.Use a larger f-stop, like f/32, to keep everything in focus, like a landscape or large scene but remember when using f32 you will need to have the shutter open for longer to let in enough light and it is advisable to use a tripod for clear sharp focus.
Use a small f-stop, like f/1.4 to make the foreground sharp and the background blurry, like when shooting one specific subject in a crowd.
Smaller apertures (high f-stop) generally need a longer shutter speed to let enough light., ISO, aperture, and shutter speed work in tandem for proper photo exposure. Balancing these settings is crucial to getting the best shot in any conditions. While you could spend a lifetime studying different combinations, the best way to learn is to practice. Take 5-10 shots of the same subject, in the same light. Change one setting each time and note how it affects the picture. If you need to speed up the shutter speed, how can you compensate for the lack of light, for example? You could raise the ISO, lower the aperture, or a mix of both.Don't be afraid to experiment with your settings. It takes years of practice to see a shot and intuitively know how to set ISO, aperture, and shutter speed.
Doubling the ISO double light sensitivity and halving the shutter speed halves the amount of light. Thus, doing both at once will result in less "motion blur" with the same amount of light in the shot.Never overcompensate by changing just one of these three settings. Change each one a little bit to get to the right photo settings.
 Focal length determines how zoomed in your photos look -- the higher the number the more zoomed in the camera lens will be.Different lenses have different focal lengths, and you need to choose the right one to get a professional shot.



Wide Angle, 24-35mm: Used to capture a lot of detail without looking stretched, wide angle lenses are commonly used by photojournalists looking to catch a lot of context in the shot, but be careful that when using ultra wide lenses that you do not end up with too much possibly unwanted foreground in the shot.

Standard, 35-70mm: This lens is closest to what our eyes see, which is commonly around 45-50mm. This is a great all-around lens that functions in a wide variety of situations.Mild Telephoto or Portrait, 70-135mm: As subjects get further away, or you want to differentiate the foreground and background, like in a portrait, telephoto lenses become a must. Portrait lenses usually start at 85mm.

Telephoto, 135-300mm. Best for far-away shots, these are used for sport or animal photography because they can focus on one element from a long distance. They will, however, flatten landscape or wide-angle shots because the struggle to create depth., This is, luckily, an easy calculation to make. If you focal length is 30mm, then 1/30 is the slowest you can make your shutter speed to avoid blur in handheld photography. Simply make the focal length the fraction in your shutter speed to find your slowest possible shutter speed.Longer focal lengths will accentuate a shaky camera, making the whole picture blurry if you have too slow a slow shutter speed.