 Music therapy should be performed under the direction of a trained musical therapist. These music therapists have been educated in the best practices for each speech impediment and are up-to-date on the latest research.When treating speech impediments with music therapy, many times the music therapists will collaborate with a speech therapists. The speech therapist will help the music therapists focus on words or speech skills that need to be worked on through music.You can search online for music therapists in your area. Websites like Musictherapy.org provide services to help you find a music therapist. If you are already working with a speech therapist, you may ask her for a referral since she may already collaborate with a music therapist.;
, For many speech impediments, you can sing songs to help begin repairing your speech. This can take many forms. The key idea is to put words to melodies, which activates a different part of the brain and helps unlock words and speech in the brain.For example, if you have a stutter, your music therapist may get you to speak your words along to a melody. You may also read something you have written down that you want to say along to a melody.
Another example of singing to help speech is to start singing the tones or melody of a song. After becoming familiar with this, you can then say words or phrases along with the music, using the rhythm and melody to help you produce speech.
You may also be able to tap into your memory and sing familiar songs to help you bridge the gap between the sides of your brain. Singing these familiar songs can help you start building your speech abilities again.
Singing along to songs can also help you learn how to slow down and breathe correctly, which may help with some speech impediments., In some music therapy treatments, a person taps out a rhythm on a drum or similar surface. This helps the person feel the rhythm of the music. Then, the person speaks sounds or words that the speech therapist instructs.Combining the rhythmic tapping helps the person gain the right rhythm. This taps into the music part of the brain, which helps stimulate the lyrical part of speech so the person can vocalize in the tempo like a song.
Speaking to this tempo also helps a person learn breath control.
Combining bodily movements with speaking may help a person feel like he has control over the situation, his body, and his mind.
 Another aspect of music therapy may include songwriting. Writing songs allows a person with a speech impediment to put words and feelings down. After writing the song, the person works on using the melody of a song to vocalize those words.Writing songs helps a person gain control over his speech by vocalizing his own words instead of someone else’s.
Songwriting is a creative outlet through which a person can express himself. This can help relieve stress and anxiety.
 Many people combine dancing with music in music therapy. Dancing helps your body find a rhythm which your mind then responds to as it sings the words.Instead of tapping a rhythm on a drum, you can get up and move around. This may include tapping your foot to the music, swaying your body, or going through rhythmic dance moves., Many music therapy sessions finish with a discussion or communication afterwards. You may be able to express what you felt through the session, including things that frustrated you or made you happy.Since music therapy is individualized, the discussion afterwards is a good time to tell your music therapist if something isn’t working for you. If you want to listen to music instead of sing for a session, let her know. If you want to move around instead of tapping a drum, discuss that with her.

