 Reduce your load by sending any required business materials in the mail prior to your trip. Talk to your client or associate at your destination about receiving and storing them if it’s convenient. Alternatively, send them to your hotel and ask them to hold the package for you.Similarly, ship as many business materials or souvenirs that you acquire on your trip home to make the trip back easier., Start a packing list a few weeks ahead of time with items you will need. Starting early will give you time to add to the list gradually as you think of necessities and conveniences you’ll want for the trip.Begin with business items such as your laptop computer, reports, and contracts. Make sure to include electronic chargers,
Include personal items such as clothing, toiletries, cosmetics, and prescriptions or other medications. Purchase small, travel-sized bottles of any toiletries you’ll absolutely need, and remember that your hotel offers personal hygiene products.
Do your best to pack lightly so you can avoid checking a bag, which can take up your valuable time during a business trip. You’ll also avoid the frustration of losing a checked bag.
 Plan your wardrobe based on the length and nature of your trip. Before packing, evaluate your wardrobe for clothes that will best avoid getting wrinkled. Make sure to pack one or two casual, comfortable outfits for downtime or exploring.While you want to avoid overpacking or checking a bag, don't leave yourself unprepared. Bring an extra dress shirt or blouse in case of a spill. An extra bag might slow you down and make your trip a bit less convenient. Having to wear a stained shirt to wear a business meeting because it's your only option will make you look unprepared and unprofessional.
Hang clothes that are prone to wrinkling up as soon as you get to your room.
Choose clothing items that can be mixed and matched to create more variety in your outfits.
Check with your hotel in advance to see if their rooms include irons or steamers. Consider purchasing a small, portable steamer. Alternatively, hang your clothes in the bathroom while you take a hot shower to release wrinkles.

