 Stains or mush on the container might be signs of rotting fruit, or at least wet fruit that is more susceptible to spoiling. Dark-colored or mushy strawberries are probably beginning to spoil, while strawberries with any signs of fuzzy mold are no longer usable.


If you're picking your own strawberries, pick them after they have ripened and become bright red, while they are still firm.





;
, Mold can spread from one strawberry to another, quickly ruining the whole batch. While ideally you can find a batch of firm, bright red, mold-free strawberries in the store, one or two bad ones are often hiding among the good. Check the strawberries right after you buy them and toss out any that are fuzzy, or dark-colored and mushy strawberries that might get moldy soon.


This applies to moldy fruit stored near the strawberries as well.
 Strawberries will begin to soak up water and break down into soggy mush if left wet too long, which speeds up the spoiling process.Delay this by only washing your strawberries right before you eat them or use them in a recipe.


If you have already washed a batch of strawberries, pat dry with a paper towel.
Washing strawberries before eating is still a good idea to remove potentially harmful chemicals or soil organisms.
 A mixture of white vinegar and water can remove potentially harmful bacteria and viruses from fruit more effectively than water alone, but this does not necessarily mean the strawberries will last longer.Fruit will break down even if the organisms that feed on it are killed, and too much liquid may actually break it down faster. If many of the strawberries in the batch had to be thrown out due to mold, it may be worth it to apply one part white vinegar and three parts water with a spray bottle. Otherwise, use vinegar washes only when washing the fruit, directly before using.


Rubbing the fruit with your fingers while washing will dislodge dirt and micro-organisms, and is more effective than only holding the fruit in running water.
 Strawberries will stay fresh in a cold environment, ideally within the range of 32–36ºF (0–2ºC). In order to prevent shriveling, keep them in the crisper drawer of your refrigerator, or in a plastic clamshell or partially open plastic bag.If your strawberries are wet on their surface, first pat dry with paper towels and place them between new, dry paper towels to absorb moisture.







