 There are over-the-counter products and prescription strength products that you can use to exfoliate, help damaged skin heal, and reduce wrinkles. There are several options:Products with beta hydroxyl acid (salicylic acid) as the active ingredient. Medications with this ingredient may make your skin smoother by encouraging exfoliation. They may also reduce acne. Products with salicylic acid are available in both over-the-counter and prescription strengths.
Alpha hydroxyl acids (citric, tartaric, lactic, and glycolic acids). Products containing these active ingredients may reduce small wrinkles and make age spots less obvious. These products may make you more sensitive to the sun. Use sunscreen to avoid further damage to your skin.
Retinoids such as tretinoin (Retin-A, Renova) and tazarotene (Avage, Tazorac). These medications exfoliate your skin and reduces fine lines. Some people experience side effects of skin irritation including redness, swelling, peeling, dryness, itching, a burning or tingling feeling, and the sensation that your skin is tight. You may need to apply the medication every other night at first until your skin adapts. These medications also make you more vulnerable to sunburns.
 These techniques use acid to burn away the outer layer of skin. The peel can be done to different depths depending upon how deep your wrinkles are. The different depths use different chemicals. Side effects from chemical peels include redness, scarring, changes in skin pigmentation, and infections.Light peeling. This peel would only remove the outer layer of skin called the epidermis. It is used to remove superficial wrinkles.
Medium peeling. This peel would remove the epidermis and the more superficial layers of the dermis below. It would address deeper wrinkles than the light peel and the effects should last for about a year.
Deep peeling. These more powerful chemicals burn away the epidermis and reaches into the lower layers of the dermis. This is used to get rid of deep wrinkles or scars. The chemicals used for deep peels can be harmful to your heart, kidneys, and liver. Discuss these risks with your doctor before undergoing this procedure., There are several ways that doctors can fill in wrinkles or tighten muscles to reduce sagging skin. Methods include:Soft tissue fillers. These methods inject material like fat, collagen, or hyaluronic acid gel into your wrinkles to fill them in. You may have bruises, swelling, or reddening of the treated areas. After a few months the wrinkles will return.
Botulinum toxin type A (Botox). During this technique you would receive injections into the muscles that cause your skin to wrinkle when they contract. The effects usually last for a third of a year or less. A side effect is that when the muscles don’t contract, it may alter your facial expressions in ways that people may notice.
A face lift. This procedure is more invasive. The doctor removes sagging skin and eliminates pockets of fat from your neck and face. You may be bruised and swollen for weeks afterwards, but the effects generally remain for up to a decade.
Laser or light resurfacing. Energy from a laser or pulsed diode light removed the top layer of skin. This slight, but unnoticeable, skin “wounding” kicks the skin's natural collagen-production system into high gear, resulting in smoother, more wrinkle-free skin.
Chemical peels. In this treatment, a chemical is used to "burn" away the top layer of skin, creating damage that causes the body to respond by making more collagen. You end up with younger-looking, smoother skin.
Dermabrasion. A vacuum suction device used in tandem with a mild chemical crystal helps remove the top layer of skin cells and bring new, more evenly textured skin to the surface. In the dermabrasion process, fine lines and wrinkles seem to disappear.

