 These people are harder to work with than the openly competitive colleague because they like to undermine through devious means. You can spot a sneaky competitive colleague by the things they conveniently leave out.This includes things like:


Not letting the boss know you helped with a project
"Forgetting" to send emails to you that concern you
Standing up in front of the weekly work meeting and proclaiming they were solely responsible for some good outcome in which you played a major part.
 A sneaky person is unlikely to change his or her ways, so you'll need to manage around them. Start by keeping back-up copies of everything you do, especially anything involving this person or their responsibilities. In the event the co-worker tries to place blame on you, or show you up in a negative light for anything, you'll be covered., Regardless of what is said openly elsewhere in the workplace, go ahead and let your boss know about your contributions privately. Make sure your performance is verifiable and unimpeachable, and use the paper trail you’ve been creating to back this up., If you suspect a co-worker is physically prying into your business, put a stop to it. Use secure PC passwords to protect any electronic files you use at work and keep your desk and filing cabinet contents locked with a key. Avoid sharing personal information about yourself with such a co-worker. Keep all conversations professional and distant., You may need to approach the sneaky competitor colleague directly, and call him or her on their tactics. This lets them know you're no pushover. If you find this approach too difficult, find other colleagues willing to approach the person with you, and/or talk to your boss about the impact this person's behavior is having on you., If possible, try to minimize your contact with this person. This doesn't have to mean avoiding your competitive co-workers altogether, but if hostile, negative, or undermining behavior is ongoing, stick to communicating with them only when you have to.