 Most people have heard the age-old advice "black is slimming" so many times that it's become a cliché. In fact, there's plenty of truth to the old saying. In general, the eye tends to focus on bright colors and ignore neutral shades like black, so wearing black clothes on your lower body in conjunction with brighter colors on your best features can direct attention away from your thighs and towards more appealing areas.Note, however, that the effect is lessened if you wear only black, as the crucial contrast between your dark pants and the rest of your body disappears.;
, Another sure-fire way to make your thighs look thinner is to visually extend the bottom half of your body with pants that sit above your natural waist. Since the eye processes the entire pant length as a person's legs, high-waisted looks can give the impression that your legs are significantly longer (and thinner.)


While high-waisted jeans at one point were seen as a painful reminder of 80s fashion, they're now actually somewhat en vogue again: see American Apparel's catalog or the wardrobe of modern style icons like Kendall and Kylie Jenner for examples., Thigh-slimming fashion isn't just limited to pants — even flowing garments like skirts and dresses are perfectly doable. The trick here is to choose garments that are longer and flowier than what you'd normally wear. The extra length gives the impression of long, straight lines flowing towards the floor, which minimizes any extra bulk in your thighs.Stay away from short, narrow skirts (i.e., miniskirts, pencil skirts, etc.) These fashion choices tend to emphasize the thighs, rather than downplay them. Plus, they show more of the thighs.
 Vertical stripes are a good choice for women looking to reduce their bulky thighs for the same reason that pinstriped suits are often recommended for men who want to appear slimmer. Vertical lines tend to lead the eyes upward and create the impression of a longer, slimmer figure — research has even confirmed this effect.By contrast, horizontal lines tend to have the effect of making someone appear slightly shorter and wider, so you may want to avoid them.
 Even something as simple as your choice of footwear can affect how your legs look. For instance, a moderate-length pair of heels lifts you up by a couple inches, making your body (and especially your legs) look a little longer than they actually are. In general, taller shoes are a good choice for anyone aiming to make themselves look a little slimmer.


Another good idea is to pick a pair of heels that have a low-cut vamp. A "vamp" is the part at the front of the shoe that conceals your toes. The lower it is, the more your foot can be seen and the longer your leg will appear., Shapewear is type of garment designed to change your figure by lifting, pulling or pushing your body into shape. In ages past, this often meant tight, painful contraptions like corsets and girdles, but today, shapewear is usually much more gentle and is designed to give a more natural look. Shapewear should never be absolutely necessary, but if you're desperate to slim your thighs, it can definitely work.


Shapewear garments that have a slimming effect on the thighs include products with names like slip shapers, thigh slimmers, control briefs, and bodysuits.If you do decide to go the shapewear route, don't overdo it. While gently, subtle shapewear can give your figure a boost, garments that squeeze tightly can actually harm you by compressing your internal organs., No matter what you're wearing, clothing that fits properly almost always looks better than clothing that doesn't. If you're worried about the way your thighs look in a certain dress or pair of pants, the problem may not be be with you — it may be with your clothes! Clothes shouldn't ever look or feel tight and restrictive, so if they do, you may want to consider taking the time to get your fit right. Talk to an employee at a clothing store (or a trusted friend) about finding a new outfit that fits better.


For "nice clothes" like formal wear, you may even want to visit a tailor's shop to get your fit just right. Keep in mind, however, that this option can become somewhat expensive.

