 Meanwhile, prepare a clean counter or other flat surface by sprinkling it lightly with flour. Line a baking sheet with silicone slip mats or parchment paper.;
, Thoroughly combine these dry ingredients in a medium bowl using a whisk or fork. Do not pack the ingredients down as you mix.


For best results, spoon the flour into your measuring cup and level it off with the back of a kitchen knife. Avoid scooping the flour directly into the cup, since doing so will pack the flour down and cause you to gather too much flour.
 Use a pastry blender to cut the two ingredients into the flour mixture until coarse crumbs form.


If you do not have a pastry blender, you can use a butter knife. Cut the shortening and butter with the knife, tossing the pieces about in the flour mixture as you work.
Work quickly so that the butter does not melt.
 Use your hands or the back of a spoon to form a well in the flour mixture. Slowly pour the buttermilk into the well all at once. Stir with a spoon to combine.


Only stir long enough to moisten the dough. It should be neither sticky nor dry; instead, it should be fairly tacky.
If the dough seems too dry, add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of additional buttermilk to moisten it.
 Gently fold the dough over itself two or three times using your hands. Shape into a rough piece roughly 3/4-inch (2-cm) thick.


Lightly flour your hands before handling the dough to prevent it from sticking to your skin.
If you decide to use a rolling pin, lightly flour the rolling pin before bringing it into contact with the dough.
 Use a 2-inch (5-cm) round biscuit cutter, dipped in flour, to cup the dough into rounds. Arrange these rounds on your prepared baking sheet, placing them 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) apart.


You could use the rim of a glass in the absence of a biscuit cutter or cookie cutter.
Dip the biscuit cutter in flour in between cuttings to prevent the dough from sticking.
Press straight down with the biscuit cutter. Do not twist the cutter as you form the biscuits.
Leaving space in between the biscuits will give them crunchy sides. For soft sides, place them together so that they just barely touch.
 The biscuits should be golden brown on top when finished.


You may need to turn the baking sheet around halfway through the baking time to ensure even browning.
 Transfer the biscuits to your intended serving dishes and ladle them with traditional sausage gravy before serving.

