 Briefly, these hints of peril include fast-paced relationships, the man's history, multiple relationships, how he selects his girlfriends, and patterns of behavior.


Resist his pressure to move your relationship too quickly. Dangerous and pathological men usually start a new relationship with an agenda in mind. They want "instant intimacy" so they can begin victimizing you.
Investigate his past. Find out if he has a criminal history, mental health issues, or a history of domestic/dating violence.
Ask your boyfriend about past relationships. If he chooses to tell you about his past girlfriends, listen closely. The man who does not like being by himself develops a history of multiple relationships so he can be with someone -- anyone!
Look for consistent and enduring patterns of behavior. Dangerous men with pathological disorders behave the same way with each new woman they begin dating
Seek information about your boyfriend's former partners. If he has been with women who are also emotionally unhealthy, listen to your gut and back away.
 These types of men have a mental pathology or, if they have not been diagnosed, a therapist should examine and evaluate them.


Watch this man very closely, especially if he is quickly able to discern and meet your needs. The emotional predator rapidly divines your needs and vulnerabilities.
Listen to your radar if you begin to suspect you have met a man who wants you to take care of all his needs. He wants a parent and is willing to use you for your care-giving skills.
Check into his history. Make note of problems such as criminal behavior, undisclosed children or diseases, women you didn't know about, and dangerous habits, addictions or hobbies.
Follow your instincts if you have met a man who is committed but promises he is "just about" to leave a prior relationship. These men seek out women with poor boundaries.
Pay close attention if you have met the "Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde" type of man. His negative side comes out when he needs to get back on top in the relationship. He will hit, shame, inflict physical harm, blame, and damage property if it forces you to return to him.
Listen to your instincts if you realize you have met a man who has an addiction of some kind. His addiction does not have to be to drugs or alcohol -- instead, it can be to pornography, thrill seeking, sex, or simply being in a relationship.
Pay attention to your feelings. For example, if you are in a relationship and feel as if you are giving everything and have nothing left to give, you might be involved with a permanent clinger.

