 Also known as discoid eczema, nummular dermatitis is characterized by circular, coin-sized red plaques.This skin irritation is found commonly on the legs, arms, hands, or torso.The red discs tend to be 1-4 inches in diameter, and they can sometimes lead to blistering or weeping sores.This diagnosis is especially likely if you are a man between the ages of 55-65 or a woman between the ages of 15-25., Unfortunately, nummular dermatitis is a stubborn condition that can be caused by a number of possible environmental factors. However, the easiest way to prevent future outbreaks and allow your skin to heal properly is to avoid possible causes of this uncomfortable condition. Possible causes of nummular dermatitis include:A cold, dry climate
Insect bites and abrasions (such as those caused by sports)
Metals, such as nickel
Prescription medications such as interferon and isotretinoin
Chemicals such as formaldehyde or chlorine
Bacterial infection
Poor circulation, especially in the legs
Excessive water and soaps

, Do not expose your skin to unnecessary chemicals, cleansers, or abrasions.Avoid scratching and rubbing the skin at all times. You do not want to irritate your skin further or cause a skin infection. It is generally a good idea to avoid rough sports and strenuous activity until your skin has healed.
 Soaking for twenty minutes once per day should cause your skin to improve.Make sure the water isn't too hot. You can use uncooked oatmeal or baking soda in the bath to help soothe your inflamed skin.
 Apply a moisturizing cream, ointment, or lotion before drying off to hydrate the dry skin.Dry yourself by gentle patting, not rubbing. Reapply moisturizer as necessary.


A room humidifier can also help keep the skin moist. And in particularly bad cases, bedrest in a cool, humidified room can help soothe the skin., For extreme cases, a dermatologist can recommend prescription-strength treatment. Many of these treatments have side effects, so be sure that you consult a medical professional carefully about your options. These can include:UV light therapy
Topical and oral corticosteroids
Wet dressings (wet, medicated bandages that often combine moisturizers and corticosteroid treatments)

