;
, If angry at a person, it generally helps to leave the room until you have calmed down. Don’t say something you will regret later: think about “I've hardly ever regretted anything that I didn’t say."



Think about why you are angry. Are you misinterpreting the situation?

Ask for clarification after you have calmed down. See whether you misunderstood what was said to or about you.
 Ask God to help you with your anger.
 It doesn’t possess us, but it can oppress us and kind of control us at different times.


You can say boldly, “In the name of Jesus, spirit of anger I command you to leave. You are not welcome here.”
Or another good phrase to say aloud is, “By the power and blood of Jesus, 'Satan be gone!' ”
It may then feel like something that is controlling your mind and emotions left. There are demons or even bad attitudes that can control us in certain ways, if we let them.
 So always be very careful when angry. Anger can "open a window" to Satan in your mind and heart.
 Don’t just stuff your anger.


“Don’t let the sun go down on your anger" means that you need to address what you are angry about.
 Jesus said, "Love one another.' Love covers a multitude of sins (by forgiving).


Don’t just "not speak" the truth, even if you are afraid of how the person will react.
Tell the person who made you angry how you are feeling, but do it gently.
Even if the person doesn’t say "I'm sorry", forgive anyway. Why? Because God commands you to and also because holding onto bitterness won’t help you at all.
 Headaches are a well known physical result of anger and worry. Emotions affect the physical body; so if only for the sake of your own health, let go of your anger. Forgive whatever happened, and move on.



An example would be, someone cutting you off on the road.
You might also want to get angry at mistakes you make, like losing your phone, etc. But try not to. That will raise your blood pressure, your stress levels and cause you to not live as long.
,


A lot of stress we bring on ourselves; we can cause much of our own stress.
Always remember, “It’s not about what happens to you that matters, but how you respond to it.”
We can control our own responses to things. If we determine in our minds that we will stay calm no matter what, then we can. Ask God for help to stay at peace, and He will help you.



There is a book by Cloud and Townsend titled Boundaries that may help you a lot.
Often times people get angry when they feel like a line has been crossed in some way. But, if other people never know what those lines are, how can you justify getting angry about it -- right? So you need to express to people what your lines or boundaries are.



Maybe you get mad easily, if someone is late, or if things are messy. Present your desires to people. Explain what areas you are more sensitive in or have more needs in. There may or may not be compliance with what you want. If not, then accept it and move on. But at least you will know that you tried to express yourself and what you wanted.
Often times anger builds up when we don’t express ourselves. We may feel stuck or trapped for some reason. Communicating about things will help bring freedom in any area. Anger or hurt may come when we feel ignored or disrespected.
Build more of a relationship through talking, showing interest and kindness; so you won’t feel ignored. Don’t expect people to read your mind or intuitively know what you need at any time; you have to tell them your ideas and needs. Listening and communicating is always very key to setting justifiable boundaries.
 Unresolved anger is not conducive to humility.


Often anger comes from one's own ego and pride, as when not getting ones own way and becoming angry. But remember, it’s not all about you, as there are six billion other people on the planet that have their own wants and needs too.
If what you want conflicts with what others want, sometimes you will have to let them have what they want.
 Everyone is not here to meet ones needs alone. Each person needs to take care of oneself, if competent.


Sometimes the angry person is on an ego trip. That is when a person shows/demands that everyone must cater to that person's desires by doing things his or her way.
 But, that may be for others or God to decide. No one but God is always right. No one can manage the universe, or be perfectly good.


Paul says in Romans 12, “Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought, but rather think of yourself with sober judgment.” Often times anger comes when we have a high opinion of ourselves and the way we think things SHOULD be done. But no one is perfect. None of us has a perfect way of doing things.
There is a need to allow for differences in other people and different opinions on things. It is never one person is right and everyone else is wrong. Admit that sometimes you might be wrong too.
Always remember to stay humble and not think of yourself as perfect or better than you are. If you are able to see that you too make mistakes all the time, then you will have more grace for other people, and you will then become angry less often. Amen.



Jesus was angry many times, and yet he was without sin.
Getting angry is not the sin; how you handle your anger is what can become a sin. Gossiping about people is a passive aggressive way to act out your anger. It’s better to confront the person directly. When Jesus was angry at the Pharisees, he didn’t gossip about them with his disciples: He confronted them directly.
 Don’t explode, but don’t implode (cave-in) either.


Don’t stuff it and hold it in, because that does just as much damage to a relationship as exploding on someone. Both can limit the freedom in a relationship.
If someone shuts down or gets overly angry with you, you won’t feel as free to talk and be with him or her. Be open but gentle about your anger, by always “speaking the truth in love.”

,


Jesus said, “Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God.” #*Likewise the apostle Paul said, “As far as it depends on you, live at peace with all men.” Paul also said, “Make it your ambition to lead a quiet life.” Those are some great verses regarding keeping the peace.
Another great verse is, “Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.” Amen.

