 A simple web search for “McDonald’s coupons” on your preferred search engine will result in a listing of numerous coupon websites promising deals. As with most things on the internet, some of it is legitimately useful, and some of it is junk. Do some research and utilize your best judgment in determining which sites offer the best means to scoring legitimate McDonald’s coupons.


Without passing judgment on the quality of the sites or their coupon offers, some popular third-party McDonald’s coupon sites include: https://www.dealsplus.com/mcdonalds-coupons, http://www.retailmenot.com/view/mcdonalds.com, and https://www.coupons.com/coupon-codes/mcdonalds.com/.
Third-party social media accounts (such as, for instance, https://www.facebook.com/McDonaldsCouponsForFree) may also be a coupon source. Once again, use your best judgment in the quality of the offers.
 Before pitching your stack of junk mail, take a look through all the “penny saver”-style flyers and leaflets. You may find a sheet of McDonald’s coupons mixed amongst the offers for personalized checks and basement waterproofing.


For many people, Sunday newspapers are primarily coupon-delivery systems, and big-city papers in particular are often stuffed with deals. You may find some McDonald’s coupons inside, and at very least are likely to find enough useful coupons to justify the cost of the paper.
 Many coupon-clippers have found that joining forces helps them to maximize the deals that are most useful to them. Even if you are having trouble finding McDonald’s coupons, the odds are good that someone out there is finding plenty of them.Numerous coupon-swap websites have sprung up in recent years. Research various options to see if any seem like a good fit for you.
Face-to-face coupon clubs also exist in communities all over, in which members meet regularly to trade coupons and discuss coupon strategies. Find a club near you, or start one yourself.
 If you have kids, know kids, or live anywhere near kids, you can almost certainly find someone selling coupon books as a fundraiser for a sports team, dance competition, church group, scout troop, and so on. They may be selling McDonald’s coupon books, or multi-retailer books that contain McDonald’s coupons.


Buying a coupon book for $10, $25, or whatever the cost may be in order to score McDonald’s coupons may not seem like the best investment strategy at first, but these books are usually loaded with enough useful coupons to be worth your while. And, anyway, think of it as supporting a good cause.

