 Search the website in question for what you’re looking for. Select that item’s profile page. Enter the quantity that you want to purchase in the appropriate field if it's more than one. Then click “Add to Cart.” Do the same for any additional items you want from the same vendor. Then click “Proceed to Checkout" when you're done filling your cart.


These steps are based on Amazon’s procedure for online ordering. Procedures for other companies will vary slightly, but the general concept is the same.;
, If you already have a personal account with that company, enter your username and password. If not, sign up for a new account in order to complete your purchase. Fill in all required fields with the appropriate information.


Some sites may also allow you to make a purchase as a "guest," without having to set up a personal account.
 If you’re new to this site, enter the address that you want your purchase shipped to (unless, of course, your purchase is a download). Otherwise, double-check the default shipping address if you use more than one. If necessary, switch or enter a new one if you want this purchase shipped somewhere else.
 When asked to choose a payment method, Click “Add a New Credit Card or Debit Card” to use your debit card on this site for the first time. Enter the card number. Do the same with your name and double-check that what you fill in matches what’s on your card (for instance, make sure you include your middle initial if it’s included on your card). Then enter the card’s expiration date. Once the card’s added to your account, click “Use this Method.”


Some sites may only require these three pieces of information. Others may ask for additional information, such as the 3- or 4- digit security code on the back of your card and/or your billing address, in order to confirm your identity.
Also, depending on the site, you may have to option to save your debit card information. Doing so will allow you to skip this step in the future, but it also makes your account vulnerable should anyone gain access to your account for this particular website.
 If you’re having your purchase mailed to you, review what options are available to choose from regarding shipping. These will vary from company to company, so not all may apply, but you can generally expect choices between:


Different carriers, like USPS, UPS, and FedEx.
Different services, like Next Day, 2nd Day, Ground, or Economy shipping.
 Before completing your purchase, make sure all the information that you’ve entered is correct. Double-check the quantity of the item you’ve selected in order to avoid purchasing more or less of the item in question than you meant to. Confirm that your shipping address and method are correct, and that your debit card has been selected as the payment method.


If everything is correct, click “Place Order” to complete your purchase.

