 Ask yourself why you don’t want your picture taken. There are a number of reasons you may feel the desire to avoid a camera. Knowing what fuels your own shyness will help you identify ways to overcome it. Ask yourself:


Is it because you don’t like the way you look overall?
Is there a certain feature you would like to hide?
Does the idea of putting an image of yourself out into the world cause you stress or anxiety?;
, If you know in advance that you are going to be in front of a camera, try a relaxation technique to help manage the stress. Yoga, deep breathing, or even dancing around before a photo shoot have all been recommended by camera-shy people.Try a deep breathing cycle immediately before stepping in front of the camera. Close your eyes and slowly inhale while counting to three, hold your breath for two seconds, then breathe out over another three-count.
Release some endorphins by making yourself laugh before you get in front of the camera. Find a funny picture or joke, or look back on an enjoyable memory., Positive self-affirmations can be helpful for building up your self-esteem, so they might also help you to feel more confident about how you look in pictures.Try giving yourself a compliment or reflecting on how happy you felt when the picture was taken.


For example, you can tell yourself something like, "My smile looks genuine and I look happy." Or, "I remember this day. It was so peaceful and I look like I'm enjoying myself."
Try to find something positive to say about each picture of yourself that you look at.
 If you find that the longer you look at a photo of yourself, the more negative things you have to say about it, then it might be helpful for you to limit your time looking at pictures of yourself.


Try to allow yourself no more than three seconds to look at a photo of yourself, or just long enough to see it. Then, put away the picture.
 You may have certain things that you say to yourself repeatedly when you see a picture of yourself that you do not like. To begin changing your thinking, you will need to begin to question and revise these critical phrases.Start by questioning the critical phrase, such as by asking questions like: Is that really true? Would a caring friend or family member say that to me? Is there any benefit to thinking this way? If not, then why don’t I stop thinking it?
Then, try to turn the critical phrase into something positive. For example, if you tend to tell yourself, “I look ugly in all my pictures,” then try revising this by saying something like, “My eyes look really bright and blue in this photo.” Or, “I had just woken up and I was so sleepy!”

, Instead of trying to look good for the camera by finding a look that is fashionable or trendy, look good by finding a look that makes you comfortable. Even if your fears aren’t rooted in how you look on camera, getting comfortable will cause less stress and distraction.Dress for yourself. Whether you prefer loose-fitting sweats or fashion-forward outfits, you’ll feel the most comfortable in front of the camera when you feel like yourself.
Find comfortable environments. For both more formal photo shoots and pictures with friends or family, start by only having your picture taken in places that are comfortable for you. If you don’t like being the center of attention in public, for example, start by taking pictures at home.
 Work on getting your confidence up so that you feel better stepping in front of the camera. Try some quick confidence-boosters to feel better before you get in front of the camera.


Try a confidence boosting positive affirmation. Before you get in front of the camera, repeat a phrase like, "I am going to take a wonderful photo," or "I will be fearless in front of the camera."
Adjust your posture. Some research suggests that adopting a good posture sends reassuring signals of capability to the brain.Mentally reassure yourself. Picturing the best outcome can be mentally reassuring. Subdue your fears by picturing taking a great photo before you get in front of the camera., Try motivating yourself by giving yourself a reason to step in front of the camera despite your fear. Remind yourself that photos capture memories of the times and the people most important to you.Remind yourself that your photos let you look back on times you enjoy. Think about times you really want to remember, such as vacations, celebrations with friends and family, and major life events such as getting married or starting a new job. Make an effort during those times to get in front of the camera.
Look back over old photos to remind yourself of good memories and inspire you capture more.
Set goals for yourself. Challenge yourself to appear in one photo during an event or with someone you care about.

