 This can range incredibly between different individuals. Write a list of the things that tickle your fancy. This might include:


Ruffles and lace
Short lengths
Long lengths
Round necks, V-necks, low necks, etc.
Short sleeves, long sleeves, 3/4 sleeves
Cute sayings on clothes
Animal/nature/plant/environmental motifs
Buttons/zips/tags/sequins/rhinestones/embroidered motifs, etc.
Rips and tears
A distinct style such as Harajuku, Emo, Goth, tomboy, etc.
Copying a book or movie character's clothing style;
, What colors do you consider to be cute? Pastels are often associated with "cute" because they are associated with small things such as babies, Japanese styles such as Hello Kitty, animals, etc. It is also possible for very bright colors to be "cute", especially when accompanied by patterns such as polka dots, zigzag stripes, etc.
 Shoes can be cute. Think "Mary Jane's"; they were once the typical shoe worn by girls in well-to-do schools, and they crossed over into mainstream. These can be great "cute" shoes that go with everything from jeans to dresses. Other cute shoes include ballet slippers, jeweled sandals, dainty boots, and metallic colored shoes.
 If you want to be known as "cute as a button", your clothes should be well tailored and fit well. This means not squeezing into anything that is too tight for you and not wearing baggy, over sized garments that cover up the real you. Don't go by the size label; that's a really unhelpful way to dress. Instead, start learning how to assess an item of clothing by look and try it on. If it looks good on you, don't worry about the size on it; every brand sizes differently and some simply look better a size up or down. Only the uncaring have a wardrobe that has one size label on all clothes.
 While you can shop in the major clothing places (High Street, Main Street, department stores, outlet stores, etc.), this won't necessarily find you all the items that you want. It pays to look around and to be picky. You might find a pastel pink t-shirt in one store, a bubble skirt in another store, and a brilliant pair of ballet slippers in the thrift store. Be open to all possibilities:


Department stores
Outlet stores
Chain stores
Thrift stores
Local markets
Designer stores
Online auctions and shops
Yard sales/garage sales

, Check out your parents' closet, your siblings, drawers and your cousins' hand-me-downs. Swap with friends or hold clothes trading parties with friends and friends-of-friends. There are lots of great possibilities!

