 You'll need a pen, paper towels, and tape. You may also use food coloring or watercolor paint to color the petals of your flower. However, remember that less can be more as too much decorations may become distracting or gaudy.
 You will need standard size paper towels. You will need about 10 standard sheets stacked on top of one another. This will create rather larger flower for your pen so you can cut to your desired size., Using regular scissors or special scalloping scissors, create smooth and rounded edges along the entire border of your paper towels. Remember to keep the paper towels stacked as you cut them.The scallop design does not have to be perfect but it does have to be consistent around the edges.
 You may dip the scalloped borders into some water with food colouring or watercolor paint. You can get as creative as you want and try to use a lot of different colors on different parts of the paper towel. You may also leave the paper towel white for an elegant look.


Be careful with your design because the color will spread and make an can ruin an otherwise appealing effect.
Put the paper towel somewhere for it to dry. Then, repeat this process 3-5 times with other paper towels.
 Fold the paper towel stack as if you were making a paper fan. Make sure to keep the creases smooth as you fold it. Do not fold the paper towel stack unless all paper towels are dry., Pinch the accordion-like stack of paper towels at the middle and secure this shape with clear tape. Squeeze down firmly and make sure the tape is wrapped tightly at this point as the entire flower will become undone if not securely wrapped., Whether you used 2-ply or single, fluff both sides of the paper towel to make your flower bloom. Careful not to rip the towel as you fluff each petal. Make sure the petals are dry if you have chosen to add color., Each end of the fluffed paper towel stack is its own flower. Make sure to tape as much layers as you need in the center of the stack to ensure that both flowers will not come undone once separated. Cut at the center of the stack and reinforce each stem with more tape if needed.The amount of tape needed at the neck of each flower depends on the fluffiness of the petals.
 You may glue real or fake leaves together with your freshly made flower. You may either add the leaves to the neck of the flower or directly to the pen., Place the neck of the flower firmly against the shaft of the top of your pen. Use green tape to wrap your flower tightly. The flower will be fairly fluffy relative to the size of your pen so be sure wrap the tape around as many times as needed to secure your flower in place.

