 The web browser should now direct you to the software Sumo Paint that is free to use.;
, The persona header must be a JPEG or PNG picture with 3000 (Width) x 200 (Height) pixels.

Option 1: Work on your painting with Sumo Paint. The program offers a lot more features than MS Paint, which means that you have the opportunity to make a nice - looking artwork. On the other hand, it will take time and requires a lot of backtracking with Ctrl + Z. When you think you are finished, click on the tab "File" and then choose the option "Save to my computer". Give your painting a name, and choose either PNG or JPG. What happens next is that you download your picture. Make sure you know where on the hard drive you store it.






Option 2: Simply download the "paper" to your hard drive as explained above and open it with MS Paint. It is likely that you will not get a smorgasbord of options and fancy possibilities with this option, but considering the fact that you may not want to spend too much time with this little project may convince you to do this job hastily and easily.
 Design it in the same way as you made the header, just be aware over that the picture must be 3000 pixels wide and 100 pixels high.
 How will it turn out and why? Is it stylish? Does it have a certain class?

,


Option 1: Go to the "plugins" - menu or simply go to the site and search for the add - on "Personas Plus". Install it, and restart the browser. Click on the fox down in the left corner, and then choose "Preferences" from the menu that pops up. Tick the box "Show Custom Persona in menu", and close the box. Click on the little fox again, choose "Custom Personas" and then "Edit". A tab telling to upload the images pops up. Notice that you have the opportunity to change the "Text colour" and the "Accent colour". Feel free to experiment with these buttons. Take notice of how the theme looks, and make some changes based on that.
Option 2 (Use this option only if you have Adobe Photoshop installed: Download a persona positioning template from this website. Open it in Photoshop, and then open the overlay layer set. Lay the header - file underneath one of the three OS layers (OSX, Windows XP or Windows Vista). Please make sure that the chosen OS layer is turned off.
 You will need to register and sign in before submitting your Firefox theme.

