 Even though everyone grieves differently, there are some emotions that are common when you experience a loss such as a child’s suicide. You will likely go through the normal stages of grief, but more intensely. Understanding what you may feel can help you cope with it as you feel it.You may feel denial, shock, anger, guilt, regret, resentment, shame, or confusion. Some days you may feel one emotion more than the others. Some days you will experience a combination of emotions.
You will likely wonder what you could have done to prevent this child’s suicide. You may ask why this happened.
Keep a journal describing your feelings related to this child’s suicide. You can write words, draw pictures, or scribble to express how you feel.
Write a letter to the child or to yourself explaining how you feel about the suicide.;
, When your emotions overwhelm you, using mindfulness strategies can help you cope with the grief of the suicide by reducing your stress and anxiety.The focus on actively experiencing your feelings makes mindfulness a helpful coping technique.Take a few deep breaths to calm and center yourself. Close your eyes if you need to.
Acknowledge how you feel without trying to stop it. Label each emotion and sensation without judgment, as if you were watching a video.Try saying to yourself, “I am feeling guilty. That is my grief. The guilty feelings will go away…”
Let the feelings diminish on their own. Don’t rush yourself to get over them.
 There will be times when you want (and need) to be alone. But, you also need to let your friends, family, and community assist you as you cope with this suicide.They can help you emotionally, as well as with practical matters. Tell them what you need and how they can be there for you as you grieve the loss of this child.


Don’t hesitate to say, “Could you pick this up for me?” or “Would you just sit with me right now?”
Talk to them about how you are feeling. Tell them when you are having a hard time coping, as well as when things aren’t so bad.
Join a support group or online forum so that you can talk to and be around others with similar experiences. They will be able to share what is helping them cope.
Involve your spiritual or religious leader. They can help you with everything from your feelings to finding other resources.
You may also consider starting a digital memorial for the child, such as a Facebook page. Creating a digital memorial can provide a space for you to put your thoughts into writing and also to connect with other people who are feeling this loss as well., Death is often traumatic on its own. But the suicide of a child can be overwhelmingly traumatic. Talking to a therapist or grief counselor will help you with your grieving.They can help you cope by teaching you stress management techniques, listening to you, and supporting you in other ways.


If you witnessed the suicide or found the child’s body, your trauma is even more complicated and you should definitely see a professional to help you cope.Don’t be afraid to consider medication if you are having severe problems coping with the suicide.
Ask your physician or another trusted source for a referral.

