 If you are dehydrated or if your minerals are out of balance, then you may experience some muscle cramping.This is a common problem and you can often solve it by drinking more water and including drinks that contain electrolytes. Make sure that you are drinking at least eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day.
 Intense, prolonged exercise can cause muscle pain and you may not experience any muscle pain until a few days after your workout.Try to lighten up your workouts in the future to help prevent leg pain. Keep in mind that you may even experience muscle pain from light exercise if your body does not get much exercise, so it is good to start slow and allow your body enough time to get used to its new activity level.
 Injuries, such as torn muscles, tendons, and sprains, can cause muscle pain as well.If you were injured, then you might have experienced some sharp, intense pain as a result of doing something. The pain can linger for days, weeks, or even months after the initial injury. Make sure that you see a doctor if you think that you may have been injured.
 Circulation issues can also cause leg pain. If you have a condition such as gout, diabetes, atherosclerosis, or varicose veins, then this might be causing your leg pain.If you have or suspect that you have one of these conditions, then see a doctor as soon as possible to get treatment.


If the problem is your circulation, then compression stockings may help. Check with your doctor to see if compression stockings might be a good option for you.If you often notice that your feet and toes feel painful and tingly, your calf muscles are weak, and you get ulcers on your feet and toes, then peripheral artery disease (PAD) may be the cause of your leg pain., Leg pain may also be caused by some less common conditions that are more difficult to detect. For example, bone cancer, cysts, and sciatica can also cause your legs to hurt.Keep in mind that you will need to see a doctor to determine if any of these conditions may be causing your leg pain.

