 If you are interested in catching many kinds of insects, buy a guide to insects in your area. If you are looking to catch a single kind of insect, you can read about its habitats and preferences online. It's important to know what kind of insects you are trying to catch, as your kit will be comprised of traps and bait that work for just such an insect.;
, To create a helpful tool with many uses, find a glass jar, clear Tupperware, or a lidded cup. These will allow you to store insects you have caught, as well as build "pooters" and subterranean traps. Find jars that are small, but not so small that your chosen insect will not fit.
 You will need fine wire mesh, netting, or muslin to build insect traps. Buy at craft or fabric stores. Any material that you can easily breathe through, but that an insect couldn't fly through, will serve.


To make your own net, sew netting in a cone shape to a wire hoop, and use wire to attach the hoop to a stick., You can buy ordinary drinking straws to catch small insects. You can also buy flexible rubber tubes in craft stores, hardware stores, or online. Buy tubes or straws large enough to fit the insect you are trying to capture, but small enough to fit in your mouth.
 Ruined bedsheets can be recycled as insect catching sheets. Make sure your sheet is bright and mostly stainless, so that you can see the insects when they land on it.
 Get battery-operated source of light for nighttime insect hunting. A plastic "votive" candle, could work, or a flashlight.
 Bags will help you in a pinch. You can make a fast container for an extra bug by bagging it and poking some airholes. Be careful not to squish a bug you catch this way: release it into the wild or into a jar as soon as possible. You can also wear a bag over your hand to grab a specimen., Learn what kind of foods, colors, and odors your insects are attracted to. Does your insect like honey? Sugar? Raw meat? Keep sticky or smelly in sealable plastic bags.
 If you are catching bugs that bite or sting, you may want to wear gloves. You can buy plastic disposable gloves, dishwashing gloves, or ordinary gloves that will allow you to handle insects without getting hurt.
 This could be a designated insect-kit backpack, a large lunchbox, a fishing tackle box, a valise, or any other kind of container you can find that will keep your tools safe.
 A "pooter" is a trap that uses a tube to suck up insects. Sucking allows the entomologist to quickly collect specimens without touching them. Take a jar and two straws. Use a nail or drill to poke two holes in the jar's lid. The holes should be large enough for the straws to fit snugly. Trim one straw a few centimeters, and use glue or a rubber band to fit a piece of net, muslin, or mesh over one end.Insert both straws into the lid, and screw the lid on the jar.
To use, point the long straw at an insect you would like to collect.
Suck on the short straw to vacuum the insect into your pooter.
 Similar to the pooter, this tube will allow you to suck up larger insects and deposit them in containers. Take your rubber tube, and sew or tape fine mesh, net, or muslin to one end. To use, point the vacant end at insects and suck. Pinch the vacant end of the tube to prevent insects from escaping. The mesh will prevent the insect from entering your mouth.To keep the insect, insert the vacant end of the tube into a container large enough to hold your insect, and wait for your insect to emerge. Shake or blow lightly if it needs encouragement.
 For bugs that scuttle on the ground, dig a small hole the size of your jar, cup, or other container. Stick your jar in the ground so that its edges are level with the earth.Watch your trap so that you can quickly cover it if an insect falls in.


If you are collecting specimens for preservation, you can fill the cup with preserving liquid. That way, if an insect falls in, it can't crawl out., Hang a white sheet near a light source at night. When insects land on the sheet, catch them with your pooter, net, or gloved hands.

