


In the US there are two different tracks of synchronized skating; ISI and USFS. The first is a more recreational league and the second is the more competitive track. The following information mainly only applies to USFS as it the most common league that a team will compete in.;
, Divisions are determined by age and Moves In The Field test level. There is a minimum test requirement for each division, but some coaches prefer if their skaters have passed a test that it higher than the minimum.The divisions are as followed;

Beginner 1, 2 or 3: A team of 8-16 skaters. No skater may have passed higher than preliminary in any discipline, and the majority of the team must be no test.
Preliminary: A team of 8-16 skaters. Skaters must be under 12, with the majority of the team under 10.
Pre-juvenile: A team of 8-16 skaters. The majority of the team must be under 12.
Juvenile: A team of 12-20 skaters. Skaters must be under 13 and have passed the preliminary moves in the field test.
Open Juvenile: A team of 8-16 skaters. All skaters must be under age 20. All skaters must have passed the pre-preliminary moves in the field test.
Intermediate: A team of 12-20 skaters. Skaters must be under 18 and have passed the juvenile moves in the field test.
Novice: A team of 12-20 skaters. Skaters must be under 16, with the exception of four skaters who may be 16 or 17, and have passed the juvenile moves in the field test.
Junior: A team of 12-16 skaters. Skaters must be at least 13 years old and under 19. All skaters must have passed the intermediate moves in the field test.
Senior: A team of 16 skaters. Skaters must be at least 15 years old and have passed the novice moves in the field test.
Collegiate: A team of 12-20 skaters. Skaters must be enrolled in a college or degree program as full-time students and have passed the juvenile moves in the field test.
Adult: A team or 12-20 skaters. All skaters must be 21 years or older, with the exception that up to four skaters may be 18, 19 or 20. All skaters must have passed at least one of the following tests: preliminary moves in the field, adult bronze moves in the field, preliminary figure or preliminary dance.
Masters: A team or 12-20 skaters. All skaters must be 25 years or older, with the majority of the team 30 years or older.
,


Depending on the division, the length of a program varies from 2 minutes to 4:30 minutes. In the Junior and Senior division, teams will have 2 programs: a short program and a long program.
The coach picks the music/theme. Music chosen is often from movies, musicals, musical groups, or just a general style. Some themes that have been used are: Pirates of the Caribbean, Evita, a Spanish theme, Chicago, Harry Potter, etc.
The basic elements of a program are circles, blocks, lines, intersections, and wheels.
Skaters can be connected by a series of holds: hand hold, shoulder hold, elbows, wrists, teacup, and many more.
Some elements such as blocks can be 'unconnected' where skaters execute moves and patterns not holding on but still together.


Being on a synchronized skating team means that if you don't practice, it will be noticed easily and can affect the entire team.

The season officially runs from November-March. But most teams start practice in early summer to work on their programs.
Normally teams compete at a couple competitions and then go to a larger sectionals competition(Eastern Synchronized Skating Championships, Midwestern Synchronized Skating Championship and Pacific Coast Synchronized Skating Championships; which determines ranking and placing for higher competitions such as Nationals.
Depending on your division your team may or may not qualify for Nationals. If you do qualify, the Nationals are normally 2-3 weeks after the sectionals.
Junior and Senior level teams who win at Nationals may represent the USA in the Synchronized World and other international events.







