 Some contaminants can cause chemical burns or other complications. Check the label of the chemical to ensure an eyewash is appropriate. You can always contact the Poison Control Center at (800) 222-1222 to learn how to respond to a particular chemical in your eyes.


You should also seek immediate medical attention if you develop symptoms such as nausea or vomiting, headaches or lightheadedness, double or impaired vision, dizziness or loss of consciousness, and rashes or fever.
If eye washing is ineffective in your situation, you should call the Poison Control Center and seek medical attention. You should also contact another person to come get you to ensure you receive the proper medical attention.;
, The amount of time you should spend washing your eyes depends upon the type of contaminant you need to rinse out. The times can vary greatly; however, you can never wash your eyes for too long when they have been exposed to a contaminant. Err on the side of caution when it comes to how long you rinse your eyes. You should wash:Five minutes for mildly irritating chemicals, such as hand soap or shampoo
Twenty minutes or longer for moderate-to-severe irritants, including hot peppers
Twenty minutes for non-penetrating corrosives, such as acids like battery acidAt least sixty minutes for penetrating corrosives, which include household alkalis like drain cleaner, bleach, and ammonia, Commercial eyewash solutions are sterile, and they have a balanced neutral pH of 7.0.This means that using an eyewash solution will always be preferable to simply using water.
 If you don’t have access to an actual eyewash solution, then try to use sterilized water. Tap water can still contain harmful elements that will further irritate your eyes


You can also use bottled water.
Milk can soothe burning from foods such as peppers. However, use sterile solution to flush your eyes as well. Always ensure that the milk hasn’t spoiled since this can introduce bacteria into the eyes.
 Especially when using bottled water or the milk combination, you should ensure that you don’t take liquids directly from the refrigerator. Regardless of which option you’re using to wash out your eyes, the temperature should be between 60–100°F (15.6–37.8°C)., You need some way to safely and cleanly introduce your water or eyewash solution to your eye. Some common household items you can use to do this include a bowl, a small cup, or an eyedropper. No matter the item you use, clean it thoroughly with soap and water and allow it to dry before adding your sterile water or solution to it.


A bowl is the best option whether you need to flush out a contaminant, a foreign particle, or even just for flushing tired eyes. The bowl should be large enough for you to fit your entire face in it.
You can use a small cup that fits snugly around the rim of your eye socket, such as a shot glass. However, this should only be used for contaminants or tired eyes and not for small particles in your eye.
You should avoid using the eyedropper for most situations that are simply treating dry, tired eyes.
 With all that being said, sometimes time is of the essence, especially with acid or basic chemical exposures. Getting a chemical rinsed out as soon as possible is more important than finding sterile solution, making sure it is at the correct temperature, etc. If you've been exposed to a corrosive material in particular, it's okay to just run to the sink and start rinsing.


The longer you leave these caustic/acidic materials on the surface of the eye, the more damage will be done. the goal is to rinse them out as quickly as you can.

