 Check your friends' schedule so you know when and where to meet them later. Most casinos are huge. Make sure you have an exact meeting point among the crowds.;
, You will need to find your way around buildings kept deliberately dark or without windows or you can easily lose your bearings. If you leave a casino, make sure you know which entrance to return to and which side or street you will face.
 Many casinos are lavishly decorated and designed. Spend time walking through the lobbies, halls, shopping areas, rooftop gardens, etc. Find the paintings, gold nuggets, jewelry, sculptures, marble floors, elegant chandeliers, etc.
 Casinos are wonderful places to park yourself in a comfortable corner and watch the people walk by or sit and gamble. People get intense in casinos and many dramas play out. It's better than a theater.
 If they are not behind guarded doors in private areas, go stand around the real gambling tables. There are people who play seriously for high stakes. This is where the real drama of a casino lies.
 Many casinos offer cheap meals, buffets, and drinks. Go have a tour of the facilities and choose something nice.
 Casinos are famous for a wide variety of shows, from music and stage acts to animals, musical fountains and stuff for kids. Get a schedule of upcoming performances and plan to attend.
 Many casinos have wonderful shopping arcades, including designer shops, and one-of-a-kind art dealers. Even if you just go window shopping, take the time to finger the Coach leather bags or the Swarovski crystals. Try on something new just for fun.
 Children are not allowed in the gaming halls themselves, but depending on their ages, there are many distractions for them elsewhere. Let them find the animals, various places (such as the buffet), or follow a floor plan map as a maze. Take them to an appropriate show, the water park, the swimming pool, or the musical fountain. Find child care through the hotel for babies.
 Discretely spend some time watching the security systems. Sit in one place in the casino hall and notice the ceiling camera systems, the staff around the tables, the pit bosses moving around. Notice how dealers handle money and how customers are managed.
 Maybe this is the break you finally get to find a manicure, pedicure, or a day spa. Get a haircut, a massage (check the hotel concierge for referrals), or find a hot tub. Go swimming at the hotel pool, read a book at the shore, or try the hotel health center.
 You might be in Las Vegas with a whole strip to explore. You could be in Reno, Virginia City, Atlantic City with a beach, on a river boat with shores passing by, a tribal gaming area close to forests and lakes, even in Macao with a historic city around you. Go out and enjoy the scenery or take a hotel bus tour to the nearby tourist areas (Hoover Dam, the ski slopes, around town). Go for a hike, a ski tour, or a bike ride.

