 Inspect the condition of your foundation. If repairs need to be made to floorboards, do so now. The less work done after the rail installation, the better in order to make sure the handrail stays intact for as long as possible.
 To install a handrail using balusters, rather than installing one on a wall, you'll need quite a few materials in addition to the handrail you have chosen. If you're installing double handrails, one on either side of your set of stairs, double the quantity of supplies you purchase.


Your handrail should be a 2x4 piece of wood that is no longer than 8 feet long, according to most building codes.
Purchase two newel posts, the supporting posts that hold up the rail; you'll need one for the top of the stairs and one for the base. The standard size of a post is 4x4 inches and 5 feet long.
Purchase one baluster per stair step. Balusters are the spindles that connect the rail to each step. The height of the balusters should be between 30 and 36 inches, depending on how high you want the railing to be. If there are already posts and/or balusters in place, count the total numbers of pieces you will need to replace, if any.
For secure installation of newel posts, you'll need a post-hole digger and concrete mix to pour into the holes.Purchase sure-tite fasteners for secure installation of balusters in the steps.
You'll need wood glue or epoxy glue to fasten the handrail to the posts.
Depending on the style of railing you install, you may need additional reinforcement supplies, such as a finish nail gun and a screwdigger.
 If you're replacing an old handrail, your set of stairs may already have newel posts at the top and bottom that you can use to support your new handrail. If not, you'll need to install posts before you can install your rail.


To install a post in the ground, use a post-hole digger to dig a hole least 18 inches in depth in front of the bottom step. Fill the hole halfway to the top with mixed, wet concrete. Stand a newel post in the hole. If you're installing two posts, use a 4-foot level to stand on the top of both posts to ensure that they posts are perfectly aligned with one another vertically. Use the same level to ensure that the posts are horizontally aligned and level, too. Wait 24 hours for the concrete to set before installing the handrail.
To install a top post to a wooden deck, place post over the stair stringer in a plumb position. Use four timber lock screws and wood glue to secure it into place. Finish it with finishing nails., Balusters should be spaced no more than 4 inches apart. Use a pencil to mark the place where each baluster will be installed. Make sure the balusters are lined up with the newel posts at either end of the stairs.


Drill holes into each step, then thread the holes with sure-tite fasteners.
If your balusters don't already have holes, you'll need to drill them. Drill a standard sized access hole into the bottom of the balusters. Into the side of each baluster, drill another access hole horizontally to intersect the first hole.
Set each baluster, or spindle, onto the sure-tite fasteners on each step. Tighten them down with a wrench.
 Apply wood glue or epoxy glue to the top of the posts. Fit the handrail into place. Wait 24 hours for the glue to dry before using the handrail, then secure the handrail and balusters together one at a time with a finish nail gun.


For extra reinforcement, you can screw the handrail to the post with a Screwdigger, using a wood screw of 100-120 mm in size.Position the screw behind the post and make sure that it is going through both the posts and the handrail.
 If the handrail is unfinished, finishing it is the last step. After allowing the glue to dry completely, use a sturdy paintbrush to apply a topcoat of primer onto the railing from the top down, ensuring that all surfaces and nooks are covered. After the topcoat dries, apply a second coat.If you wish to paint your stairs and railing, use an oil based paint because it preserves the wood grain while protecting the wood against harsh weather conditions. Use the same technique as the primer and topcoat when making the application.
If staining is more your preference than painting, choose a wood stain that contains a deck sealer to preserve the look and feel of the wood.

