 Change it seems is the only certainty. The Western world is undergoing enormous change economically, socially and politically, and along with this change comes anxiety and a reluctance to accept ‘the inevitable’. Why? Because we have been accustomed to enjoying a particular life style and the ‘freedom’ that money can buy.;
, Now we are being challenged symbolically in a way that has not been seen since perhaps the civil war. As Pluto made its transit once again over Thanksgiving, it retraced a cyclical patterning that lasts around 17 years promising transformation and change away from the status quo. Many of us have not in this lifetime experienced this intensity before that is linked to fear. Fear of what we have and may lose, or fear of what we don’t have and want. As it grows, it breeds anger and resentment in people that wrecks havoc emotionally, within the individual and those that surround them.
 Even if we look back a mere ten years to the technological advances that have been made in that time, it is truly amazing. On many levels our lives are easier, for example paying bills online and accessing all kinds of information at the push of a button, yet there are always two sides of a coin. The vast array of technological advances do not seem to satiate mans’ innate desire to want more, and time that could be saved is gobbled up with computer games and a host of other distractions.
 Un-checked, it can lead to buildups of toxic waste that can erupt into stress, anxiety or some form of disease. The desire for wanting more has resulted in millions of people who have built incorrect breathing patterns that don’t eliminate all the carbon dioxide from the body. We are living off of the borrowed next breath in the same way that we as a society are living off borrowed credit. The reality of that is beginning to sink in at this time of change and the entire household will be affected by any emotionality this brings.
 We live more in our minds than anything and so it is important to feel like we are in control and have everything we want……. even if we don’t. For this we need to be content and create a lifestyle that is harmonious. A tranquil environment is a good investment. I used to say that breathing correctly is the main area that we need to focus on. Now however I believe we need to create a lifestyle that supports any techniques or practices we chose to adopt. Simplifying one’s life and being mindful of what we take in through the senses is a powerful technique long term because we can become much more aware of the emotional thought patterning that the mind generates and know that there is something beyond it. This is because we have made space to think the thought that we never had before and this gives us an opportunity to solve any problems we may be facing. Discernment is key also because we need to know what is poison for us and makes us feel threatened, resentful, fearful and angry.
,,,, This may include things like taking a warm bath, reading, massage, restorative yoga, breathing techniques and meditation.
, Change that and you eliminate the stress. Attitude is all.

