 Simple physics provides an explanation of how this method works. For this method, you put the bottle of wine into the shoe and bang the shoe sole on a wall.
The force from the banging will help to loosen the cork and it will start to come out.
The force travels through the liquid and transfers to the cork.
Since the liquid isn't free flowing inside the wine bottle, it acts like a solid and allows the force to transmit to the cork.;
, Don't use just any type of shoes, as anything with a soft sole or high heel won't work. The shoes you choose should have solid, hard soles.
The opening in the shoe should fit a wine bottle nicely.
Make sure the shoes are a good sturdy pair. Shoes that are old and flimsy won't allow the force from the banging to transmit to the wine bottle well.
Men's dress shoes tend to work very well for this method.
 These shoes won't work well for a number of reasons. Athletic shoes have cushioned rubber soles that absorb force.
The soles of athletic shoes are often too padded to transmit force into the wine bottle.
High heels don't have enough surface area on the sole to transmit enough force. They may also snap when you bang the heel against the wall.
 Many wine bottles have a small tab you can pull to remove this. If you leave the foil or plastic top on the bottle, then the cork won't be able to slide out.
It's not necessary to peel all of it off.
Just make sure the top of the cork is fully exposed and that the wine bottle covering isn't impeding it.
 There is no need to pad the bottle if the shoe is loose around the bottle. Remember, you want to use shoes with a hard sole and sturdy sides.
Don't use tennis or athletic shoes.
Men's dress shoes are recommended.
 This requires a good deal of force. Hold the neck of the wine bottle in your left hand. Grasp it firmly.
Don't put your thumb, fingers, or palms over the cork.
Hold the toe end of the shoe in your right hand.
Bang the heel end of the shoe against the wall, holding the wine bottle in firmly.
Bang the shoe against the wall with a lot of force.
 It should do so more with each bang.Once the cork is out about halfway, stop banging.
Remove the wine bottle from the shoe.
Wiggle the cork the rest of the way out using your hands.

