 If you're creating your own world, keep social classes and conventions in mind. This will make your world feel more realistic. Ask yourself important questions. Are there distinct class systems in this world? What are the common customs and rituals?


Many fantasy writers base social conventions on aspects from the real world. For example, most societies have rituals like birthdays, weddings, funerals, and holidays. Try to think of similar rituals for your own world. How do your characters celebrate growing older, for example? How do they mark death?Researching other cultures can be a great way to come up with ideas. Many fantasy writers borrow their ideas from older cultures or different cultures. Research rituals from ancient cultures or isolated cultures to help you gain ideas.
 A lot of conflict in fantasy stories is driven by divisions of class. In the Hunger Games, for example, the upper and lower class systems are very much divided, eventually resulting in a revolution. How is class divided in your world? Are there strict divisions between the rich and the poor?


Write down your social classes. For example, maybe your society exists in a caste system with seven different classes. Jot down all the classes.
Write down how customs and jobs differ between classes. For example, maybe people in the bottom class are hunter/gatherers while people in the top class are royalty and do not have to work.
 Supernatural elements are key to most fantasy stories. Maybe magic is an accepted part of your fantasy world. Maybe ghosts are real and can interact with humans. If you're incorporating the supernatural, you need to establish rules as to how elements of the supernatural work in your world.


Decide where supernatural elements originate. Do they come from gods or goddesses? Are magic powers simply a part of the natural world? Can you gain special powers through certain rituals?How do supernatural elements affect the story? If your character can talk to ghosts, for example, is her gift widely known or is it a secret? In your fantasy world, do mediums have a special place in society?, Fantasy stories often include advanced weaponry or supernatural objects. If you choose to incorporate such things into your own story, make sure you understand how such objects work. In Harry Potter, for example, the wand chooses the wizard. These are the kinds of rules you should establish if you want your story to feel credible.


If your characters fight using a particular style of weaponry, do some research. For example, if your main character is an archer, you'll need to know a bit about how archery works. Read up on archery so you know how to operate a bow and arrow. This will make your story feel realistic.If you have a supernatural object, know how it works. In Harry Potter, for example, the resurrection stone can raise the dead. You have to turn it in your hand 3 times while thinking of the deceased relative. If you have a supernatural object in your work, know how a character would use that object.
 When making rules for your fantasy world, be consistent. Audiences will get frustrated if rules are bendable based on the situation or conflict. Once you establish a rule, do not change it.


Pay attention to detail. If you're creating a fictional world, you may have a lot of new rules to follow. Write down any rules you establish as you write your story. This will prevent you from inadvertently breaking them later. If your character can only interact with his dead ancestors' spirits when a full moon is out, for example, you do not want to describe the "looming crescent moon" shining down on his late Aunt Cassie's face.Rules should not be broken to suit the storyline, even if this means a certain conflict or tragedy is unavoidable. For example, in the popular fantasy show Buffy the Vampire Slayer, characters can only bring someone back from the dead when that person died of supernatural causes. Therefore, when Tara is killed by a stray bullet, Willow is unable to save her. It's tragic, but it follows the rules set out by the show. This makes the program's fantasy world feel credible.

