 Your thesis, or the main point or claim, most likely guided how you organized the biography. To remind the reader of your thesis, summarize its key points within the conclusion.Reminding the reader of your thought process will help make a stronger case for your thesis and help the reader understand the goal of the biography.


Briefly remind the audience of the key points that influenced your thesis. Perhaps your subject moved a lot as a child, and you believe the subject’s bestselling novels were influenced by this. Point out that the main character in the novel is often on the go, and that was the basis for your thesis.
 Do not use the conclusion to add new details, facts, or stories that were not referenced in the biography.Introducing new information at this point may confuse the reader or leave them with unanswered questions. Focus on referencing information that you already discussed.
 The biography’s main idea should be reinforced and supported in the conclusion. Briefly remind the reader of the evidence you provided in the biography. Use the biography’s themes, patterns, or messages to support your thesis.


If you believed that the subject’s actions later in life were a result of their experiences during war, briefly reassert what major decisions you think were affected. Perhaps they participated in anti-war protests, founded an organization that promotes peace, and worked to uphold human rights. Make a note that their actions revolved around establishing peace.
Remind the reader what makes the subject unique or special and what life events demonstrate these qualities., Pull quotes from the subject’s letters, interviews, or essays to support your thesis or your belief in their impact.Choose a pertinent quotation, but do not take a quote out of context simply to add strength to your thesis., Avoid including phrases like, “in conclusion,” “therefore,” and “finally” in your conclusion. Phrases such as these may make the reader feel as though the ending is abrupt and has been hurried along. Try to leave your reader with an ending that seems natural.Instead of saying, "in conclusion," try to provide your reader with a subtle transition instead. Conclude by saying, "Because of the magic and popularity of her novels, I believe that J.K. Rowling will continue to influence young readers for generations to come."

, Give the reader a satisfactory and fulfilling conclusion by offering them a sense of closure. Revisit the opening scene from the biography so the reader can experience it again now that they have more information. Reiterate a key event, important publication, or central accomplishment that encapsulates their life story.Conclude with a sense of hope or continued progress. Allow your reader to imagine that this person’s life story will continue influence the lives of others. If your subject is still alive, for example, provide a hopeful ending by saying “Elizabeth continues to fight for the rights of those who have been repressed by being a vocal leader in the United States Senate.”

