 For serious health conditions, the number of medications a patient must sometimes take can be overwhelming. As an advocate, you can help your loved one by keeping a list of which medications they are taking.


Make note of which medications should be taken at what time. Provide reminders or any other assistance the patient may ask for to ensure medications are taken on schedule.Use a medication planner with time slots designated for dosing schedules. There are daily medication planners and multi-time slot medication planners to make this more successful if the patient has multiple doses of medication throughout the day. You can also look into different medication reminder apps for your smartphone.
 You can also help your loved one by taking care of necessary paperwork for them. This will be one less thing weighing on their mind during this stressful time.


This could include forms and paperwork from the hospital itself, as well as insurance documents and applications for employer-provided benefits., Hospitals can be chaotic places, and errors by doctors, nurses and other staff are common. This problem is especially pronounced in the administration of medication.Make sure your loved one is receiving the correct medication in the correct dose, and that they do not have an allergy to anything the doctor has prescribed.The nurse should verify the medication, allergies and time of dose with the patient to avoid and mistakes. Nursing staff observe the five rights of medication administration — right patient, right dose, right drug, right time, and right route.
Take special note of any new medications, and ask questions about how long and when the medication should be taken, as well as what side effects it might cause., An advocate is often asked to take on a variety of other tasks. This could be anything from transportation to caring for pets.Take on any task that the patient asks you to and that you are comfortable and capable of carrying out. Ask regularly what you can do to help. There may be many ways you can provide help that you haven't thought of yet.

