 While you might be able to change your job, it might not be an option. If you can’t, it’s best to change the way you think about your job, which is almost always possible.Employees who focused on their happiness are typically less satisfied with their jobs than employees who focus on the meaning behind what they do. That’s because happiness is an internal value measured only by the whim of the individual. If an obstacle appears, it makes conditions more difficult, and if the feelings of one person are the most important thing, then obstacles are always a negative.
On the other hand, meaning is an external value measured more objectively. If the meaning behind the work is the primary source of satisfaction, then the appearance of an obstacle doesn’t necessarily change overall satisfaction that much, because an obstacle doesn’t necessarily render the work meaningless.
If you are struggling to find meaning behind your work, it might be as simple as "This job is helping me pay my bills and take care of my needs," or, "This job is a stepping-stone to something more meaningful."

, Sometimes the source of burnout can be clearly traced to one odious individual, routine, or task. It may also be the result of frequent commiserating over work. It is okay to vent occasionally, but constantly speaking about the negative aspects of your job can bring everyone down. If that is the case in your situation, do what you can to isolate the source of the frustration and avoid the negativity.If the problem is a co-worker, it's easy enough to avoid the person. But if the person is a supervisor, it's harder. Set boundaries and learn to say no in a respectful but firm way. If your boss is assigning you too much, ask them what they want done first. If you don't think you can get it done in time, or it will harm your other work, explain that to your boss. That way, you've either lightened your workload or avoided responsibility for the collateral consequences of the extra work.
 Taking care to cultivate a sense of gratitude isn’t as patronizing a piece of advice as it might sound. Gratitude is the understanding that even with all of the problems and challenges you face, there are still advantages and benefits to your position. It is the antidote to frustration, because it shifts the focus away from the obstacles and shortcomings onto achievements and goals.Try writing out lists of things you are grateful for on a daily basis to maintain a positive outlook. You can also use prayer, meditation, or therapy sessions to help you identify and name things you are grateful for. Try posting your lists somewhere you can see them to remind you of all that you are grateful for during the day.
You can also say and do kind things for other people to shift your attitude. Recognizing someone for their efforts is a great way to be more positive.

