 What makes your family special? What do you love about each family member? Think about that appreciation, and try to show it every day in one way or another.
 Play with your younger siblings, and offer to keep them out of your parents' hair when your parents are busy. Hang out with your older siblings, and leave them alone if they say they're busy.


Don't pick fights with your siblings, and if your siblings pick fights with you, don't retaliate. Ignore them, and if they're in your way, ask nicely for them to stop. Your parents won't blame you if they can see that you're trying hard to be a noncombatant.
 Express your gratitude through hugs and saying "thank you" when they do things for you. Do what they ask you to do without talking back, and only contradict them if you feel that it's important.
 If you're involved in a disagreement, don't lose your cool. Stay sweet, and genuinely listen to the other person. Understand what they're saying, and try to work something out so everyone can be happy.


Always voice your opinions respectfully. For example, if you do not feel responsible enough to do the dishes, speak about it but offer to help in a different way. For example, you could say: "Dad, I don't think I'm old enough to wash the dishes. I'm worried that I would drop them, and I don't think I'm strong enough to scrub everything away. But if you want me to have more responsibilities, maybe I could do a different chore, like vacuuming." Write a letter if it is difficult for you to express your feelings.
If you feel yourself getting angry, take a break instead of shouting or saying mean things. It's okay to say, "I'm really upset right now, and I need to go cool off." Return to the argument once you feel calmer.
 You are not competing with them, and it's not very angelic to be happy when something bad happens to your sibling. Give them some privacy or pretend not to hear if they are being scolded.


When it's over, you could do something nice for your sibling like hugging them, sharing a cookie, or drawing them a picture to cheer them up. This can help them feel better. They might also want to be left alone, which is okay.
 Try offering to watch younger siblings, giving gifts and crafts, cleaning up, or baking (if you're old enough). People will love the generosity.
 Forgive people easily, accept their quirks, and cultivate good relationships. Your parents will love to see you being so kind.Forgiveness and kindness are the best forms of love.
 You can control your behavior, but you can't control the way they think. That's not your fault. Remember to relax, have fun, and enjoy your childhood!

