 Color-correcting concealers help to mask skin discoloration by bringing problem areas to a more neutral hue. When picking concealers, an understanding of color theory will be helpful.


Complementary colors are colors that are completely opposite each other on the color wheel. The following are the pairs of basic complementary colors you'll use for color correcting: red with green, yellow with purple, and blue with orange.
For most types of color correcting, makeup of one color will cancel out discoloration of its complement.
The exact opposite color can also sometimes overcorrect, making skin look lifeless and unnatural. In these instances, you should use a color next to the discoloration's complement.
Most color-correcting concealers come in a single shade. The exceptions are oranges and peaches. For these, pair deeper shades with darker discoloration and brighter, more pastel concealers with lighter areas.A normal skin tone concealer is usually used over color-correcting concealers.;
, Green is the color opposite red on the color wheel and is therefore the strongest color for canceling out red. Because of this, green color-correcting concealers are best for neutralizing intensely red blemishes. Most green color correctors are a pastel mint color.


Use green concealers directly on small patches of red like pimples.
Green concealers are also good for medium-sized areas of redness, such as moderate acne and irritation. For people with fair skin, a common pattern for placing green concealer is down the front of the nose, the center of the forehead, around the nostrils, and along the cheekbones.
For more diffuse areas of vivid redness that cover most of your face, like sunburn or rosacea, consider using a green-tinted makeup primer instead. A tinted primer will work the same way as a color-correcting concealer but will even out your tone for a flawless foundation application., Sometimes green concealers work too well, making the skin look dull and lifeless. By instead selecting yellow, a warm color next to green on the color wheel, you can tone down red discoloration without removing all traces completely.


Yellow concealers are a good choice for masking mild to moderate diffuse redness.Yellow concealers are also great for neutralizing and brightening dark purple and blue blemishes like fresh bruises, age spots, sun spots, and dark under eye circles on some people.
If this is your first time using a particular skin tone concealer or foundation, check to see how you look wearing them without additional color correction first. Many concealers and foundations for lighter skin tones have some degree of yellow pigment for built-in color correction., If you have darker skin, orange can be used as a catch-all color corrector for many different types of discoloration.


If you have dark skin, you can use orange to disguise anything from acne scars to hyperpigmentation around the lips.
You can also apply orange to the entire face for a radiant effect. When using orange as a whole-face product, consider using a dusting of orange powder or tinted primer instead of concealer.Orange is also the color of choice for correcting blue-toned under eye circles on medium to dark skin.
If you have darker skin that has a lot of natural variation in shade, it's best to also use two or more different oranges for color correcting. Use a deeper orange on darker areas of skin and a paler orange on the lighter spots.If you have lighter skin, you may choose to use orange concealer as a bronzer for contouring instead of color correcting. Orange is generally too bold to work as a color corrector on light skin., Concealers in this color family are a muted combination of orange, red, and yellow. Because of this, a single concealer can cancel out the blue, green, and purple often found in the dark under eye circles of people with fair to medium skin.









In general, salmon works best on pale skin, while peach works best on olive and tan skin.
You may need to experiment a little to find the exact tone that works best with your skin.
Peach can also work very well on pale skin when correcting brown patches like age spots.These shades are also good as an all-over balancing brightener for olive skin. When used in this way, either brush some onto your highlight areas or use a pink-tinted primer on your whole face., Purple is the complement of yellow, so purple concealers neutralize warm yellow tones. The vast majority of purple concealers are a pastel lavender color.









You can use lavender to cover up old bruises and age spots.
Like orange and yellow, lavender can also be used across the entire face. When using color corrector in this way, consider a tinted primer as an alternative.
If your natural, healthy skin tone is on the yellow side, don't feel the need to "correct" it. Skin that is merely warm-toned looks radiant on its own., While orange discoloration is uncommon, the best way to neutralize it is with its complement, which is blue. A majority of blue concealers are a pastel robin's egg color and tend to work best on fair to medium skin.









These concealers are best for balancing out warm tones that are dark and intense, such as sunspots.
These concealers are also a good choice if you've gone a little overboard with the self-tanner. By bringing these patches to a more neutral tone, they will look less obvious and more natural.
If the discoloration is across your entire face, try using a blue-tinted primer instead of a concealer., Start with clean skin and add a little moisturizer of your choice if needed. Next, apply a makeup primer evenly across your entire face. Primer will even out any imperfections on your skin to give you a smooth canvas to work with. Primer also helps makeup to adhere better to skin, making it last longer.








When using an all-over color corrector, such as green for ruddy skin or lavender for sallow skin, consider using a tinted makeup primer. If this is the only color correction you would like to do, skip the color-correcting concealer.If you're using foundation, apply it after your primer and before your color-correcting concealer.Some people apply foundation after color-correcting concealers. However, foundation has its own concealing and color-correcting properties. Starting with foundation will help to prevent overcorrection.
 If you don't have a concealer brush, any other fine makeup brush will also work. Dip or swipe your brush over the concealer to load.


Like other types of concealers, color correcting-concealers come as creams, liquids, and powders.
If you're using a powder concealer, tap your brush over the container to remove excess product.
Some liquid concealers come in tubes with their own applicators. You can use those directly on your skin instead of loading a brush.
If you're using a crayon or stick concealer, you can either swipe your brush against the concealer or apply it directly to your face.
 Be careful not to overdo it. For localized areas of discoloration, be especially careful not to apply the concealer too far outside the blemish's perimeter. While green will neutralize redness, it can make already neutral-toned skin look sickly. Brush on only a minimal amount of concealer. Too much product in general will also lead to caking and creasing., Even out the concealer by blending it out. Use small, circular buffing motions to spread the product.









If you used a brush for application, use the same one for this step. You can also use clean finger tips to blend instead.
If you're correcting a small blemish, be sure to keep the concealer focused on this spot and don't blend it out too far.
If you're using a color corrector on your entire face, blend it out completely as you would with foundation.
 Remember that color-correcting concealers are meant to neutralize just the tone of a blemish. You will need to brush on a normal concealer to actually hide the mark. Use a concealer with a sheer formula to prevent the area from looking too thick or caked on.









Be sure to blend the second concealer before moving on., Move on to the rest of your makeup. Color-correcting concealers can be used with any style of makeup, from minimalist natural looks to dramatic ones. Dust on a layer of setting powder at the very end to help your makeup last all day.
 Like regular concealers, color-correcting concealers come in a variety of different consistencies. While which you use will likely come down to personal preference, some types will work better on skin that is dry, oily, or a combination of the two.


Liquid concealers are the best choice for dry skin. Liquid concealers feel lighter on the skin but may not cover darker blemishes adequately. Despite this, liquid concealers work very well around the eyes. Primers are always liquid.
Powder concealers are best for oily skin. Liquid concealers often turn blotchy on oily skin.
People with combination skin may choose to use two or more types of concealer on different parts of the face. For example, powder at the oily T-zone with liquid for dry cheeks.
Solid or cream concealers offer the best coverage and are a good choice when correcting dark or vivid discoloration., If you have multiple skin issues you would like to address, there is no reason to just stick to one color corrector. Most people who use color correctors go with at least two at a time.


For example, if your skin is sallow but you also have purple under eye circles and a few pimples, you would use at least three different color correctors. A potential makeup scheme would be to start off with a lavender primer before applying your foundation. After that, brush peach concealer under your eyes and spot treat your pimples with a green concealer.
 A common cause of a subpar, unnatural look when using makeup is improper blending. Foundation, concealer, bronzer, blush, and eye shadow all need to be blended. In fact, many makeup artists consider blending to be the most important step when applying makeup.









One major reason to use color-correcting concealers is to avoid having to go overboard with opaque foundation and concealers. If you find that your makeup still looks caked on, use less product. Rely on thin, well-blended layers instead of thick ones.If you have difficulty blending your color corrector in completely, try putting it on under your foundation instead. This may be necessary when covering a large area with an unnatural-looking color like green.