 There are different type of hunt: non-jumping, optional jumping and jumping. Don't go to a jumping hunt until you are sure of your horse an its ability out hunting. If you would rather not jump, go non-jumping, and if you want to jumping, try optional. This means if you don't like the fence you can go around it.;
,


If you are unsure whether your horse has been hunting before, then it is best to put a green ribbon in their tail. This shows that they are "green". People are more likely to pass you safely.
If you think your horse might kick, put a red ribbon in its tail. This will warn others to stay of the horse's bum. Also, remember to stay away from red and green ribbons if possible.
 Horses get strong out hunting. A bolting horse horse could cause a lot of damage.
 Don't do anything you are not capable of. Don't attempt a jump if you are not sure your horse will get over it.
 These are very dangerous. Do not jump them (they can get thorns stuck in your horse's legs).
 If it is wet/slippery don't attempt to jump. Jumping on slippery ground may cause a fall of horse and/or rider.


Don't attempt to hunt after dark, without Hi-Vis.
 Even if the hunt ends, you might want to walk round the roads until your horse is no longer blowing.
 Sometimes it is safer to do this once you get home. You may also want to trot up if your horse feels stiff.
, If at all possible, keep horses in during early morning and at dusk or during foggy weather.
 Or if the temperature allows, put a brightly colored blanket on the horses.
 Orange hunting socks can be placed on fence posts, gates, placed on a tail (like a tail bag), electric fence and any other creative areas where it will be easily seen.


Prominently post “No Hunting” signs on gates and fences.
 A small bell (not for every horse) can be fastened to a horses halter.
 Trail rides are better with company as well.


No matter what the season, when headed out on trail with your horse, tell someone your planned route and what time you will be back.
 Hunting season is not the time to be silent. Keep up a constant banter or sing. Even better put bells on your mount. Bear bells, cow bells, sleigh bells, etc. all work extremely well at alerting hunters of your presence. They may help keep bears and other predators away too!

, A phone in your saddle bags does you no good if you are separated from your horse.
, Stay in open fields where you will be more visible. A horse traveling through the trees might be mistaken for an elk but is more obvious in the open.


Stick to the main trails and fields and avoid the thick wooded areas where it is harder to identify you.
 Wearing hunter orange may not be a fashion statement, but it can save your life. It’s also the law in many states across country.

