 Balancing on one foot, especially while moving parts of your body at the same time, will helps you continually adjust to keep your body weight balanced.


Stand with both feet together. Raise one foot a few inches off the ground. Stand like this for a few seconds with your eyes open. Then close your eyes and continue to hold the pose. Repeat on the other side. Do this set about 5 times every day., For this move, your arms will swing around like the hands of a clock while you balance on one leg. Stand on one leg and look straight ahead. Put your hands on your hips. Raise one arm up to the 12 o’clock position, then start to move your arm around to the 3, downward to the 6, and over to the 9. Repeat with the other leg and arm.Try to move as little as possible except for your arms. Breathe evenly and concentrate on keeping your body still.
 Your trunk is the core of your body, and practicing balance with a focus on your trunk will help you stabilize your body and improve your balance. To do trunk turns, stand with your feet just more than shoulder-width apart. Stand on a mini trampoline or other surface that is somewhat squishy or malleable. Hold a heavy item in your hands, such as an exercise ball, a weight, or something similar. Turn your body at your waist to one side and then the other about 10 times.Make the movement a smooth and deliberate motion, but don’t swing back and forth. You want your body to work for every twist of your trunk. Don’t use the momentum of the twist to propel you into another twist.
 This exercise requires your legs to be very strong and able to balance while you lift a weight upwards. To do this exercise, balance on your left foot and keep your left knee slightly bent. Bend forward at the hips and touch the ground with your right hand. Hold onto a 5-pound weight with that hand. Raise your right leg behind you. Move smoothly back to an upright position. Repeat with the other leg. Do up to 5 sets of this exercise a few times a week.Practice doing this movement in one clean, smooth motion. Try not to wobble around. Breathe evenly and focus on engaging your core and leg muscles to keep your movement deliberate.

