 Chemotherapy is used to try to kill off cancer cells by administering certain drugs. Your doctor may suggest the use of chemotherapy if your cancer is in the early to middle stages to try to promptly attack and kill the cancerous cells in your throat.Your doctor may suggest several chemotherapy drugs for throat cancer, including Cisplatin, Carboplatin, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), Docetaxel, Paclitaxel, Bleomycin, Methotrexate, and Ifosfamide.
Your doctor may suggest the use of one drug or two or more drugs together. You will likely be prescribed chemotherapy in cycles of a few weeks at a time, with a rest period between each cycle of treatment so your body can recover.
 Chemotherapy can be effective at attacking your cancer cells. But it can also attack other cells in your body, such as cells in your bone marrow, your mouth, and your intestines. You may also experience common side effects while on chemo, such as nausea, vomiting, a loss of appetite, mouth sores, diarrhea, hair loss, fatigue, and a higher risk of infection and bleeding.Keep in mind some chemotherapy drugs can also cause other side effects like nerve damage, numbness, tingling, and pain in your hands and feet.
Most of the side effects of chemotherapy will go away after the treatment is done, but some can last for a long period of time or be permanent. You should let your doctor know when you experience certain side effects while on chemotherapy, as there are ways to treat or prevent some of these side effects.
 This form of chemo is called chemoradiation, where chemotherapy is given at the same time as radiation treatment. Your doctor may suggest this course of treatment instead of surgery or after you have throat surgery to ensure the cancer does not return.Your doctor may suggest a dose of chemotherapy every three weeks during radiation therapy. The exact dosage will depend on the stage of your throat cancer.
Some chemotherapy drugs can make the cancer cells in your throat more responsive to radiation therapy, which can then help to kill off the cancer cells more effectively. However, combining radiation and chemotherapy can increase the side effects you experience on both treatments.