 An infestation of worms, such as tapeworms, can cause your cat to vomit.By deworming your cat, you will be able to either stop the vomiting from occurring, or at least rule out this as a cause.Deworm your cat more often — once a month at minimum — if they are allowed to hunt.
If your cat is behind on their deworming, get them up to date.
There are many dewormers available to purchase. Different products have different spectrums of effectiveness, thus deworming your cat is not a guarantee all the worms are gone. On occasions it is necessary for your vet to analyze a fecal specimen to identify any worms that have survived treatment.
Use, selamectin (Revolution), for roundworms.Use, milbemycin (Interceptor), to remove many types of worms.;
, Many cats have allergies, particularly to proteins. Your cat may have an intolerance to a component of their diet. Identify and remove any allergens from the cat's diet.Ask your vet about hypoallergenic diets.
Use a hypoallergenic diet for at least eight weeks, to ensure the allergen has passed.Slowly introduce new foods, one at a time, and check for any that trigger vomiting.
Some cats will vomit almost immediately after eating the allergen, but others may take hours to vomit. Generally, when the allergen reaches the stomach, irritation occurs, which results in vomiting., Cats are very sensitive to medications and many medications have the side-effect of causing vomiting. Take note of any medications you may have given your cat and see if they might be responsible for the vomiting.


Your veterinarian will be able to tell you more about complications from medication.
If a medication is the cause of the vomiting, ask your veterinarian for alternative.
Cats are extremely sensitive to medications, home remedies should not be administered.
 Hairballs are common in cats and are a result of your cat’s normal grooming habits. When cats groom themselves, they ingest hair, which can irritate the stomach, inducing vomiting. By brushing your cat, you minimize the amount of hair it might ingest, preventing your cat from vomiting a hairball.


Brush both long and short haired cats.
Use a comb to remove knots.
Use a rubber brush to remove loose hairs.
 There are several kinds of cat food on the market designed to minimize hairballs. Try to choose a dry food formula which has high fiber content.Fiber helps hair to pass through the digestive system.
 If your cat frequently has hairballs, you might consider keeping a cat lubricant paste on hand. These lubricants are designed to help cats pass hairballs.A number of different products exist, such as Lax-a-paste or Katalax.
Many are made of inert liquid paraffin and are often given a flavor so your cat will lick it.
Apply about one inch to the cat's paw, twice a day for two to three days, so that it licks it off.
The paste coats the hairball and either helps it pass out in the feces.
 Some cats eat quickly and in doing so swallow a lot of air with its food. This can cause its stomach to become irritated and it will vomit shortly after eating. Stop this behavior with a few simple actions:


Divide its food in a muffin tray to make smaller portions and slow down its eating.
There are already many devices for purchase that are designed to dispense food slowly.
 A healthy cat that vomits should not lose weight. If your cat is vomiting at least two or three times a week and losing weight, take them to the vet. You should also take your cat to the vet if you notice the following symptoms of intestinal dysfunction:Soft feces
Feces with blood
Feces with Mucus
Diarrhea

, Look for any behaviors in your cat that are not normally present. These behaviors could include many things, but if they seem to be out of character for your cat, take them to the veterinarian. Check the following list for some examples of things to look for:Lack of energy, tired, or lethargic.
Quiet, withdrawn, or listless.
Extremely vocal or hyperactive., Keep an eye on how often your cat is eating and drinking. Also watch for the amount they are consuming, both in food and drink. If your cat presents any abnormalities in their appetite or thirst, take them to your vet.


If your cat is drinking or eating much less, and losing weight, visit your vet.
If you cat is drinking much more than usual, visit your vet.
 It's not always easy to identify what the problem might be. Your veterinarian will be able to pinpoint the cause of your cat vomiting and help to discover if it is symptomatic of something more serious such as:Pancreatitis
Kidney disease
Liver disease
Inflammatory bowel disease
Worms
Infections

