 When someone at the pizza place answers the phone and says hello, say hello back and state whether you’re ordering for delivery or pickup. You should specify this before any other details.


Don’t be surprised if you are put on hold. Pizza places can get busy, especially around popular meal times, and they may not have someone available right away to take your order. Wait patiently for just a minute or two until someone comes back on the line.
You can say, “Hello, I’d like to place an order for delivery” or “Hello, I’d like to place an order for pickup.”

, Give your exact pizza order, including details about size and toppings. Don’t forget any add-ons, like drinks or side dishes. Speak slowly and clearly so the employee taking your order can understand you.


State your order beginning with the size of the pizza, then the type of crust (if options are available). Follow that with the toppings you want, in no particular order. This is the easiest way for an employee to take down your pizza order.Read off your order if you wrote it down so that you don’t miss anything. Remember that the person taking your order must record it all too, so speak slowly enough to give them time to do so.
After you state your food order, you may also provide the appropriate numbers or codes for a coupon or gift card, if you have one for the pizzeria and want to use it for your order. It’s best to do this on the phone, otherwise it may take time and hassle to adjust your price later.
 If you’re making an order meant for delivery, provide any contact information they need when asked. This typically includes your name, a phone number that they can reach you at, and your current physical address.


Don’t forget to provide your apartment or unit number if you live in a building or complex with more than one. Also give out any access instructions or an area you can agree to meet your delivery person outside the building.
It helps to provide a recognizable landmark or any special instructions about where you live to the person taking your order, especially if it may be difficult to find. For example, you could say “between the post office and yellow apartment buildings” or “the house with the blue door.”
If you placed an order to pick up, they will only need your name and phone number, not an address.
 Ask for the price of your order, and the estimated time it will be delivered or ready for pickup, if they haven’t already told you this information. Answer any other questions and confirm the order before you hang up the phone.


The person taking your order will likely repeat what you’ve ordered back to you so that you can make sure they got everything right. Tell them “correct” if it’s right, or state any corrections or changes if it's wrong.
He or she will then give you a total price, which will have any discounts you used excluded, as well as possible fees added on if tax applies or there is a delivery charge. Make sure this is the price you expect, then write it down if you need to to remember it.
Say “thank you, goodbye” to end the call, then hang up the phone.

