 While some of the best pre-game pep talks seem like they are given off-the-cuff, most have actually been prepared well in advance of game day. Spending some time preparing the content and structure of your speech will help you create the biggest impact for players on game day. Preparing in advance does not mean you have to memorize what you are going to say word-for-word, but will give you a chance to decide what your most important points are and how you can communicate them most clearly., Players may have their own pre-game rituals that help them perform at their best. Don’t take up so much of the pre-game time that the players don’t have time for their own rituals.Additionally, giving too long of a speech may actually decrease the players’ motivation by giving them too much to think about and distracting them from the game at hand.
 Even if the players are standing in front of you, their minds may still be elsewhere. Grab their attention by starting off your speech in an exciting way.Consider opening with a rhetorical question, a powerful quote, or a very brief story.


To pose a rhetorical question, you might say, “Are you ready to push yourself harder than you ever have before?”
To use a powerful quote, you could say, “A man named Ferdinand Foch once said, ‘The will to conquer is the first condition of victory.’”
An brief story might look like this: “Rudy Ruettiger was a kid who no one gave a chance at anything in his life. He fought for everything he got. Because he never gave up, he achieved his dream of playing football for Notre Dame and helped lead his team to victory.”

, The main part of your speech should focus on no more than 3 points for the players to focus on during the game. Only include points you have gone over in practice. Five minutes before the game is no time to introduce new and unfamiliar strategies to players.Types of information you can include here may consist of specific techniques the players have practiced or key elements of the opponent’s strengths or weaknesses.


For example, you could focus on a technique from practice by saying, “Remember to drop your shoulder before you swing.”
To point out key elements of the opponent's strategy, you might say, “This team favors their running game over their passing game. Keep an eye on the running backs.”

, Remind players of game strategies in a positive way, and don’t harp on their shortcomings. Leaving players with a positive mindset can go a long way in giving them the confidence they need to win the game.Don’t dwell on negative faults like this: “You’re too heavy on your feet when you put your weight in your heels. Don’t do that on the field.”
Instead, use positive language to remind players of good form: “Stay on your toes, like we’ve been doing in practice. Remember how quickly you can pivot when you’re on your toes.”

, These are your last words to the players before the competition begins. Making them actionable will inspire players to follow through and bring your words with them into game play. Like your opening, make it emotional and dramatic. You might say something like:


“Now let’s go out there and bring home this trophy!”
“Show them that you’re the team to beat!”

, Keep your language conversational, using the same language that you normally use to talk to the players.Don’t take on a new tone or use overly complicated language just because you feel like this championship game is a special occasion. Using unfamiliar language will only distract the players from your message.
 Giving the players concrete imagery can actually help improve their performance.For example, someone giving a speech to a baseball team could describe how the opposing pitcher will throw the ball and how the batter should prepare to hit it: “This pitcher turns his left foot in when he’s winding up for a curve ball. Watch the ball leave his fingertips and keep your stance steady until the ball is right in front of the plate.”

, Repeat the same key ideas throughout your speech to reinforce them and help the players remember.Important elements to repeat are key strategies for winning the game, such as “Fake with your eyes, move with your feet.” Or, “Serve strong, and serve fast.”

, Bringing in a prop for your pre-game pep talk can help reinforce a visual idea with players. A college basketball coach, known for his corny pre-game props, started one speech by placing a potato chip on each of his players’ shoulders and then telling them they all had “a chip on their shoulders.”The prop helped players visualize the challenge and literally “eat it up.”


Other ideas for props include bringing in a sledgehammer to smash the competition, a lasso to pull the team together, or glasses with blinders to focus attention on the competitor facing them.
 Using questions during your speech stimulates the minds of your audience, keeping them more involved in the content of your speech.Get the players even more involved by having them answer your questions in unison or eliciting a call-and-response round.


Ask questions with obvious answers: “Who are we going to beat today?” or “How bad do you want this championship title?”
Give players the appropriate response by setting up a call and response: “When I say ‘go,’ you say ‘win’! Go!” And they respond, “Win!” Repeat the same call and response several times to build momentum and excitement.
 Read your speech aloud and practice in front of a mirror. Repeat your speech enough that you memorize the key ideas and the structure. Even if you have written everything down, you don’t want to read from a script in front of the players.
 If you don’t believe what you say, the players will feel betrayed and will lack confidence even if they can’t identify why. That is because your tone and body language will subconsciously convey your true feelings.Only include messages in your speech that you honestly believe.
 No matter what, present your speech with confidence. Don’t stutter or scramble for your notes. Players will feel that confidence and it will give them more confidence as they begin the competition.
 Making eye contact improves your audience’s focus on your speech, builds trust, and encourages cooperation.Look each player in the eyes as you’re delivering your speech so that each player feels accountable and included in your speech. The more eye contact you make with the players, the more engaged they will feel in what you’re saying., As you begin your speech, speak slowly and in a deeper pitch to convey confidence and trust.Towards the end of your speech, build excitement by raising your volume and talking in a higher pitch. The change in volume and pitch will motivate the players and increase their energy level.
 Your gestures enhance your words and increase the dynamism of your speech.Practice your speech in front of a mirror and use your hands to “describe” the words of your speech to ensure that your words and your gestures work together to convey a stronger message., Speaking slowly allows your audience to absorb and understand your words better.It is especially important to speak slowly during the portion of your speech about technique and strategy. Pausing emphasizes parts of your speech by giving your audience time to absorb the point you just made. Use these pauses as moments to take a deep breath to keep yourself calm and focused during the speech.

