 If you have a good ear, you can use an audio reference to tune your guitar to Drop C. Search online for note references to use, or you can download an app for your mobile phone.Once you have a note reference, simply detune your guitar until the sound the string makes matches the sound of the note reference.;
, If any of your strings are out of tune before you start, it can throw your detuning off and you could end up breaking a string. If you've switched to thicker strings, tune them to standard tuning first.
 If you're not using a note reference, you'll need to find a C note on your guitar that you can use to detune your sixth string. The easiest one to use is on the third fret of the A string.








You don't want to tune your sixth string to sound exactly like this note. The C you're looking for will actually be an octave lower, but you can match the tone.
 Your newly tuned low C will produce a G when you pluck it while fretting it at the seventh fret. Use this note as a reference note to tune your fifth string. This is an exact match, not an octave off like your sixth string was.
 Once you've got your A string tuned down to G, you can use it to find a reference note for your fourth string. The C note that you will use is located at the fifth fret of the fifth string.
 To tune your third string, look for the F note on the fifth fret of your fourth string, which is now newly tuned to C. Detune your third string until it matches this note.
 Once your third string is tuned down to F, you can use it to find the reference note for your second string. Fretting the third string at the fourth fret and plucking it will produce an A.








Make sure you're at the fourth fret, rather than the fifth, as you were with the other strings.
 Now that your second string is detuned to A, you can find the D at the fifth fret. Use this as your reference note to detune your first string from high E down to D.








When you're finished, pluck each string and adjust as necessary to make sure they're all in tune. At this point, you may need to set up your guitar to accommodate your new tuning.

