 Most parking and towing issues will involve a relatively small amount of money, probably $200 or less. Nevertheless, if you are going to file a claim in small claims court, it will help to have the advice of someone who knows the legal procedures. If you can afford it, you may want to hire an attorney. Alternatively, some small claims courts in the U.S. offer access to free legal aid counselors who could help you with you case. Ask the court clerk if such a service exists.


As one example, the small claims court for San Diego, California, provides a free legal service. You can reach the small claims adviser by telephone, Monday through Thursday, at 858-634-1777., In most U.S. states, a complaint for predatory towing needs to be filed in small claims court. You need to file your complaint in the appropriate court. Usually, this is the court in the county where the defendant resides or does business. If you have doubts, you should contact the clerk’s office where you believe you need to file and ask if you are in the right place.You can find a handy resource to the local filing rules for small claims courts in all 50 states at http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/small-claims-court-in-your-state-31016.html.
 Small claims courts will often have a simple form for you to complete, while others may require you to draft a complaint of your own. Visit the clerk’s office to find out what the local expectations are. Alternatively, you may be able to look up your local small claims court online and find copies of the required forms.When you complete the complaint or claim form, you will be expected to provide the defendant’s name and address. Use the name of the company and find out its address for its place of operation. If you know that the company has one address for its offices and a different address for its storage lot, you should be prepared with both.
You will need to provide your own name and address, as plaintiff.
You will need to provide a statement of your claim against the towing company. Explain all the facts that you believe support your claim that the company engaged in predatory towing.
In small claims court, you are generally not responsible for providing notice. You will file your claim form with the court clerk. The clerk’s office will set a hearing date and will mail that notice to both parties.
 Think carefully about your claim against the towing company and the reasons that you think the bill should be denied. Put your strongest arguments first, followed by any supporting reasons. Consider whatever evidence you have as well, and prepare it for court.You should bring additional copies of any documents, photographs, or other items that you wish to introduce as evidence. You will need the original of any such items to provide to the court, and a copy for the defendant.
 When you arrive for your assigned hearing, you will want to arrive early. Make sure that you have all your documents, copies of parking regulations, and any other evidence you will need. When you present your case to the judge (or perhaps a clerk magistrate), you should begin with your strongest arguments first. As you go through your presentation, provide the judge with whatever evidence you have.For example, your presentation of a case related to predatory towing may look like this:


Begin by asserting that you parked in a legal location. Present the judge with photographs of the area, showing that there were no “no parking” signs. If this argument is successful, the court may find in your favor without needing any further argument from you.
Argue next that you were only parked for a brief time. Even if the space was marked as “no parking,” if you were only there for a few minutes, you should not have been towed. If you have a witness who can corroborate your testimony on this point, this would be the time to have the witness testify.
Challenge any inappropriate fees that the company may have charged you. Even if your car was properly towed, you may still be able to challenge the amount of the bill. If the company charged too much, took your car to a lot that was impermissibly far from the parking spot, or refused to accept reasonable payment on your part, you may be able to challenge these with copies of the bill.
 After you present your case with whatever evidence you have, the defendant will have an opportunity to present its case. After hearing from both sides, the judge will consider the matter briefly and give you a ruling on the spot. If the judge rules in your favor, particularly if the judge orders that the towing company pay you for some fine or restitution, you should get instructions either from the judge or from the court clerk about the procedure for collecting any amount that may be due. If the order is simply a cancellation of your bill, you should get a certified copy of that order from the clerk before you leave the court.If the order is for the defendant company to pay you any amount, you will need to contact the company some time soon after your hearing to request that payment. Send a demand letter, along with a copy of the court’s order, to the company. If the company refuses to pay, you would then need to contact your local sheriff’s office, with a copy of your order, and the sheriff will help with collection.