 The easiest and most accurate way to tune your guitar properly is to use an electronic guitar tuner that reads your tone, usually provides a visual gauge of how on or off of pitch you are, and tells you which direction you need to tune. It does everything but turn the pegs for you.


These tuners range in price and quality from cheap to somewhat fancier acoustic tuners that can be fairly expensive. To get started, get a cheap one in your price range, or research free online options.
 It's important on all acoustic stringed instruments, especially acoustic guitars, to tune from flat to sharp, rather than tuning from sharp to flat. You're more likely to slip out of tune if the tension on the string is going down (as it will when you tune sharp-to-flat), so it's better to create the correct directional tension on the string by tuning up, instead of tuning down.









Even if the string is sharp (which it usually won't be), tune it down lower than it should be first and then tune it up to the correct pitch.
 Old worn-out strings won't stay in tune as easily. If you're having to constantly re-tune, or your strings are getting a little raggedy, consider changing the strings of your guitar to fresher strings that'll stay in tune while you play. The guitar will sound better and will be a lot more fun to practice on if you've got fresh strings on it.
 Get the strings in the neighborhood and then fine-tune more accurately, especially if you're putting on new strings. The strings put a lot of tension (hundreds of pounds of pressure) on the frame of the guitar, and acoustic guitars are very susceptible to a bit of shifting and settling, especially older bodies and different varieties of wood.


Don't get frustrated if you tune the guitar perfectly and it slips out a few minutes later. This is normal. Tug on the strings some as you tune to get the extra slack out and let it sit a few minutes, then check it again.
 While it's important to tune accurately and give the electric tuner its due credit, it's also important to learn to really hear the strings and learn to distinguish when something's a little off. Experienced guitar players don't have to have perfect pitch or consult their tuner to know when something's a little off. Listen to the notes as you tune and you'll be able to tune more accurately.








