 To be a stereo kid you have to absolutely love music in many different genres. The genres Stereo kids listen to are mainly rap, nu-metal, punk-rock, pop-punk, R&B, death metal, metal, techno, dance, Christian Rock, Christian Metal, emotronic, ghettotronic, emo, emo-metal country, indie-rock, classic rock, hair bands, jazz, classical, and adult alternative. Don't listen to music like pop, mainstream rap, oldies, adult contemporary, or any other conforming genres. Indie pop and pop-rock is OK and World Pop (J-pop, C-pop, French pop, Britpop) is cool too. Classic country is better than hot country, but hot country is also accepted as well. Listen to some music from other countries especially from Japan, China, Korea, Australia, France, Italy, Finland, Russia, Germany, Poland, Sweden, and Great Britain.;
, Listen to your music whenever you're not at a show. Myspace is a good way to find music that is made by amateur artists just like you and pros alike. You can also listen to entire albums with buying the album or song only an option, not mandatory. If your parents don't approve of Myspace or you just don't like the site, check out sites such as SoundClick, purevolume, tightbeatz (hip-hop and R&B) and such. Napster is more of a stereo kid music program than iTunes. Listen to only unsigned and indie on Myspace.
 Value your physical appearance. Don't be ashamed of who you are and what you look like.
 Post lots of pictures of yourself, your friends, and shows you went to. Go on Facebook too just to keep in touch with other stereotypes and fan pages of your favorite bands but do not make that you dominate social networking site.
 Try buying a video camera and try making videos of you or your friends doing fun stuff together. A webcam is a must.







wear scene, punk, or gangsta clothes.






Buy over sized aviator sunglasses in assorted colors such as black, red, white, etc.






Wear Converse Chuck Taylors/slip-ons, classic Vans, Duffs, Air Force Ones, and Bathing ape shoes.






Rock layered hair.






Don't wear a band tee if you've never heard of the band before.






Wear oversized hoodies (full zip too).






Band Ts are your best friends. When in doubt just wear a band tee and a pair of jeans.






Wear tight, straight leg or baggy jeans.






If you don't own contacts, wear thick framed glasses in either black, white or red.






Wear lots of bandannas and beanies.






Invest in wristbands with spikes or pyramids on them.






Never use backpacks - use messenger bags instead.
 Unless you're taking a test which requires pencils only, you should always write in pen. Randomly strikeout or underline your writing.
, Say words like "hella", "dude", "rad", "tight", "lame", "poser", etc. Remember to use them often and incorporate them into as many conversations as you can.
 Read their biographies and know all the members and their songs.
 No track, tennis, basketball, golf, etc. If this isn't for you, than Moshing or mountain biking can always be your favorite.
 Add lots of bumper stickers.
 Keep your GPA at 3.0 or higher. Stereo kids do cross over with the nerd stereotype.
, Get an idea of what type of Stereo boy you want to be:


Grungy Stereo: Conor Oberst, Travis McCoy, Aaron (from The Almost)
Punky Stereo: Travis Barker,
Emo Stereo: Pete Wentz, Daniel Issac,
Ghetto Stereo - Pharrell Williams

