 Let your friend know how much you care about them and that you are happy that you two are friends. This will make your friend feel like they are valued and important to you.Be specific and tell your friend the things that you like about them. You may tell your friend that you like their laugh, their sense of humor, their smile, or their kindness.
The positive attributes you describe can be big or small. Just be genuine. Your friend may be surprised by how you view them.
 Trying new things can help your friend find talents and skills that they are good at and begin think more positively.Suggest activities that your friend may like. If you are comfortable, you can offer to try the new activity with your friend. Some new activities may be joining a new club at school, volunteering for a local charity, or taking an art class.


Be sure to encourage your friend no matter the outcome. If they are successful or if they do not get it right at first, be encouraging.Celebrate the small victories with your friend. Tell your friend, “I am so proud of you for ___” or “It’s great that you tried ____.”

, Positive feedback includes praise, encouragement, and recognition of something your friend has done. It helps improve confidence and can be a source of motivation.Not only are you telling your friend that they are important and valuable, you are teaching them how to acknowledge their accomplishments.For example, if your friend did well on an assignment, you may say, “You did such a good job on your assignment.”
If your friend helped you with something, you may say, “Thanks for helping me. It means a lot.”

, You may hear your friend being critical or saying negative things about themselves. Never join in if your friend is saying negative things about him or herself. Remind your friend that speaking this way will only make them feel badly about themselves.You can also help your friend focus on something more positive if he or she starts to get negative. For example, you might say something like, "I don't think so. I have always thought you are a very attractive person, not only because of the way you present yourself, but because of all your attributes.
If your friend says, "I look so ugly today," then you may say, "I don’t think so.”

, Friends are there to support and help each other, but friends are also people that we can have fun with. Having fun with your friend will help your friend focus on more positive things. Also, your entire friendship should not be about you trying to make your friend feel better.


You can have fun doing many things like listening to music, watching movies, going to the park, reading magazines together, or eating good food together.
Anything that gets both of you to laugh will do the trick.

