 Sometimes, dogs bark because they’re frustrated or bored. If your dog doesn’t get enough exercise, he may bark because he has too much pent-up energy. Give your dog plenty of exercise and playtime to reduce problem barking.If your dog is bored, make sure he has plenty of toys. Puzzle games, especially those that involve food or treats, can be a good way to keep your dog occupied and happy.
 Happy dogs may bark to greet others. Teaching your dog other ways to greet them will cut down the problem barking.

For visitors to your home, teach your dog to go to a specific spot and wait to receive guests. Get her to sit and stay as you (or a helper) come in the door. Reward her with praise and treats.
You can also train your dog to find a special toy near the door when people come over. If he has a toy in his mouth, he’s less likely to bark when guests arrive.
Train your dog to sit quietly before allowing others to pet him when you’re out. This will also reduce the risk that anyone will get hurt by an excited dog.
Don’t reward greeting barks by acknowledging your dog. Wait until she’s quieted down before you greet her and give her pets or treats.
 Dogs often bark to communicate their needs. If you can train your dog to alert you in other ways, he won’t have to bark for everything.For example, ring a bell whenever you take your dog outside to associate the two. Train your dog to ring the bell (hotel-service “tap” bells work very well) when he needs to go outside.
Bang the water dish or food dish before you fill it. Your dog will learn to associate the two, and can bang or paw his dish when he’s hungry or thirsty.
 Desensitizing your dog to whatever is causing her barking can help curb problem barking.Start by introducing the stimulus at a distance -- far away enough that your dog doesn’t bark at first. For example, if your dog barks at a neighbor’s dog, ask if your neighbor will help you.


Move the stimulus a little bit at a time toward your dog. Praise her and give her treats for staying quiet.
As the stimulus approaches, feed your dog some treats. If she barks, stop the treats.
As the stimulus disappears, stop feeding your dog treats.
Start small. Gradually increase the time spent around anything or anyone that might make your dog bark.
Practice until your dog becomes more and more comfortable. Be patient. Remember: learning any new behavior takes time, practice, and consistency.
 Distracting your dog can help curb problem barking by giving your dog something else to focus on. Once you’ve distracted the dog, give him something else to do, such as fetch or perform a command.You can use a high-frequency whistle or a noisemaker to break your dog’s concentration when he barks. When the dog barks, use the noisemaker. This will interrupt the dog.
You can also make a physical noise that isn’t verbal, such as clapping or snapping your fingers. Don’t yell or shout, though, as your dog will think you’re barking with him.
Once you have your dog’s attention, ask him to perform a task that’s incompatible with barking. For example, you could ask him to fetch a toy, go to his crate, or perform a trick.