 If you suspect the kitten has a harelip or cleft palate, you should take them to the vet. The vet will do a physical exam to determine if the kitten has an oral defect.The problems it causes with eating can make the kitten have poor health, and it also can cause death if the cat gets pneumonia or has other problems from food getting into the nose. Getting this condition fixed will help the kitten survive.
 To help the kitten thrive, you should alter the way you feed them. The defect makes it difficult to swallow normally, so a feeding tube can help them eat more safely. Your vet may place a feeding tube into the kitten’s neck or stomach so they can be fed. The vet may explain to you how to use a feeding tube yourself.To use a feeding tube, you will lubricate it and carefully slide it into the kitten's mouth and down into the esophagus. There should be a line letting you know how deep to go into the kitten's throat. Then, you will use a syringe to feed the kitten.The feeding tube will probably be used for three to four months.
This allows the kitten to receive the nutrients they need to grow and gain weight.
 Kittens with harelips that can suckle may be fed using a bottle with an elongated long nipple. This special nipple deposits the formula farther into the mouth, past the palate.This special feeding bottle can be obtained from your vet, who can also show you the proper way to use it.
 To make sure your kitten gets water, use an overhead dispenser. This will help the kitten swallow the water instead of getting it pushed up through the hole in their palate.An overhead dispenser can be purchased online and at pet stores.
 Though your kitten may have a harelip, they should remain with their litter most of the time. This ensures they are properly socialized. You may want to keep a close eye on them to begin with and around feeding time to make sure they are not trying to nurse from the mother cat, since that can lead to problems. Feed the kitten from the nipple or feeding tube around the same time the kittens are nursing.If your kitten has a feeding tube, you should talk to your vet about strategies to keep the tube safe from the other kittens.

