 There are hundreds of different types of watches available and they often have very different functions. A luxury watch that you will wear with suits or formal wear will be very different than an athletic watch you will use to time your runs. When you are able to determine if this is a special occasion watch, or a watch for everyday use, you can begin to narrow your search.


Some common types of watches will be for athletic training, formal wear, everyday use, as a tech piece, or an antique piece.
There are also men’s, women’s, and children’s watches. Some watches are also marketed as unisex.;
, Look at watches that catch your eye, whether you see them on celebrities or stylish people you admire, or on the Internet. It can be helpful to keep a list of bookmarked websites or a written list of brands and watch types that you like. A local jeweler that specializes in watches can offer expert advice.
Ask friends or family members who wear watches for any brand recommendations.
Use the Internet to search for topics like “watch trends,” “watch reviews,” “popular watch brands” to gather ideas.
 Finding the right watch for you is a personal decision. You can choose the most trendy or popular watch but if you don’t like it, you won’t ever wear it. Look for watches that compliment your personal style and fit your tastes.Watch brands have their own personal styles that you can work off of. For instance, Rolex watches are luxurious and elegant. You can get a sense of a brand’s personality by looking at how they market themselves.
 Watches faces are available in a variety of metals and materials. You can choose watches that are made from gold, silver, rose gold, platinum, titanium, and more. Watch faces can also be made from plastic, though these will be less durable.


You can also choose a watch that is two-tone gold and silver if you prefer.
Metals will typically be more durable than plastic faces, though metal can become scratched.
 Watch faces come in different shapes, like square, circle, a hexagon. You may be limited in your choice of watch faces based on your choice of brands, but having a watch face shape in mind can help you to narrow your options.


Some novelty watches will come in more unique shapes. If you have your heart set on a uniquely shaped watch, you may not be able to find one by looking at mainstreams brands.
 The band is the part of the watch that goes around your wrist. Like watch faces, you do have a choice of materials. The most common choices are metals, like gold or silver, leather, or plastic.


Look for a watchband that is adjustable and durable. Some materials are naturally more durable than others; leather can break more easily than metal. You can adjust metal bands by having a link removed by a jeweler or watchmaker. Leather bands can have additional holes cut to make them tighter.
Watch bands can be replaced, though it will cost more to replace metal bands than those made of leather or plastic.
There are also more unconventional band materials that you can choose from, like woven fabric or a durable rubber.
 There are fairly standard color combinations that most brands will follow. For instance, you’re less likely to find a plastic watch face on a gold band.


If you are looking for a watch to wear every day, select materials that match or complement the accessories you already wear., This is more applicable to men’s watches, since women’s watches tend to stay within a smaller measurement range. The vast majority of men’s watches have faces that are between 34mm and 50mm in diameter. You will be able to find face dimensions on the manufacturer’s website, watch packaging, and on retailer’s websites.The majority of men look great in watches that are 34mm to 40mm.
Watches also vary in their thickness. A 10mm height for a case will sit better under a dress shirt cuff than a 15mm. Some people find taller watch cases more or less attractive, but this usually won’t be a big concern unless you are looking for a formal watch for suits., Watches can either display the time digitally, where the time is represented in number form, or through analog, which will use a clock with minute and hour hands. The size of the numbers or clock face can vary between watches, and the numbers can be in different stylized fonts.


Some people prefer to use digital watches if they are not comfortable reading time on a clock. Digital watches tend to be found in lower price ranges since they are not intended for formal wear or dress use. They work best with sport watches or smartwatches that are paired with other technology, like the Apple watch.
Analog faces are a more classic and traditional look and tend to stay in style longer than digital faces. There are different types of analog faces. Some faces may have numbers marking each hour, some may only mark four, while others will have no numbers on them and use symbols to mark each hour.
 There are two primary types of watch movements, which are essentially the engine that powers the watch and allows its functions to work. The vast majority of watches will fall in one of two categories, mechanical or quartz.There are two primary types of mechanical watches: automatic and manual. Automatic mechanical watches can be rewound (which replenishes the motor’s energy) throughout the day. A manual mechanical watch needs to be rewound daily for it to work. Quality mechanical watches will typically cost you more than $1000 and have higher maintenance costs. Quartz watches are more precise than mechanical watches and can be found in a wider variety of price ranges, from $50 to $500. Maintenance costs are much lower since you’ll only have to replace a battery occasionally, which is usually around $10.
 A watch that does more than tell the time and date are called complicated watches, so additional features are called complications.Complications can be found at a variety of price points and may or may not be important to you. Here are some common complications to look for:


Timer
Special materials like gems or diamonds
Smartwatch
Water resistance
Illuminated face
Alarms
Fitness tracking

, Watches are available in every price range possible. Before you choose a watch, you should determine how much you are willing to spend. Keep in mind that cheap off-brand watches are typically poorly made and can break frequently.


If you have your heart set on a certain brand, you will have to set a budget that reflects the brand’s price points.
Different price points can have a lot of variety in the brands and types of watches that you can find. Watch collectors can easily spend $20,000 on a luxury watch, but you can also find quality watches at the $200 range., This is the best way to find out whether a watch is proportional to your wrist and you enjoy the look. The band of the wrist should fit securely and the case should be centered on your wrist.


Avoid oversized watches, usually over 50mm case diameters, unless you are very tall and have very large wrists. Oversized watches that are larger than 50mm can dwarf your wrists and look clunky and outdated.
Metal bands, which can be called bracelets, usually will need links added or removed to customize the fit.
This will also give you a sense of the weight of the watch. Some watches are heavier than others, and the heft of a watch can be either comforting or burdensome. This is a personal choice but it is a good idea to try on watches with different weights., You should trust the person you are buying your watch from. Whether you are buying from a collector, a local jeweler, a watchmaker, a large retailer, or an online store, you need to trust the person or company you buy from.


Look at reviews for the company online to see whether there seem to be any quality issues with the products they sell.
 Like with cars, retailers can become authorized dealers for certain watch brands. Brands like Rolex and TAG Heuer will list authorized retailers on their websites. Authorized retailers can help you feel secure in knowing that you are buying a real luxury watch, rather than a counterfeit piece. If you are looking at lesser known watch brands, this won’t be an issue since the brand will most likely not authorize dealers other than themselves.
 Watches do break and can be costly to repair. Different watch brands offer different warranty policies that cover damage or repairs that can help to offset repair costs. Check to see whether there is a time limit on the policy and what it covers.


See whether the retailer you have chosen has an additional warranty. For instance, some retailers will replace watch batteries or cover basic repairs in-store.

