 Ready-to-use formulas are liquid and ready to be poured directly into the baby bottle without being diluted.


These formulas focus on convenience, especially for late night feedings.
Ready-to-use formula is also the most costly type of baby formula.
Because of its volume, ready-to-use formula also require quite a bit of storage space compared to other formula categories.
Another factor to keep in mind with this category is that this category of formula is perishable and will not last long after the container is opened, even when refrigerated.
 Powdered formulas are purchased in powder form, and mixed with water when preparing for feeding.


These formulas need to be measured and thoroughly mixed with the right amount of water when making a bottle for a baby.
Formulas in this category do take a bit more time when preparing a feeding, but several bottles can be made at once and stored in the fridge for later use.
Powdered formula is the least expensive and takes up the least amount of space in the pantry or diaper bag.
One issue with formulas in this category is the possibility that the powder might not get thoroughly mixed with the water in the bottle and clumps will form that can clog the nipple.
Another issue is that there may not be any suitable water available when it is necessary to make a bottle while away from home.
 Concentrated liquid formulas have characteristics of both powdered formula and ready-to-use formula.


Concentrated liquid formulas are in the middle category, being in liquid form, but still requiring additional water prior to serving.
The cost of these formulas is generally between that of the other two categories.
They are easier to mix than the powdered formulas because there is no chance of clumps forming, but there is the chance of leakage when transporting an open container.
 Hydrolyzed formula is formula that contains broken-down proteins that are easier to digest. There are two types of hydrolyzed formulas: partially hydrolyzed and extensively hydrolyzed.


The extensively hydrolyzed formula is intended for babies who have problems with allergies or problems with the digestion of nutrients.
Partially hydrolyzed formula is a formula designed for babies who suffer from colic and have stomach problems. This formula is easily digested because it is made from whey protein.

