 In order to play downloaded copies of Xbox 360 games, you'll need to mod your Xbox 360 console. This is against the Xbox Live terms and you could get your account banned if caught.



Click here for instructions on modding your Xbox 360.
It is not currently possible to mod the Xbox One.
 Torrents are the most common way to share game backups. Be wary when downloading torrents, as they are often targets for viruses. Downloading backups of games that you do not own is illegal, and even if you do own it it's a legal gray area.



Click here for details on downloading torrent files.
 This is a program that will "patch" the backup file that you've downloaded so that you can connect to Xbox Live and play online. If you don't perform this patching process, you should not connect your Xbox 360 to the internet.


You can download ABGX360 from abgx360.xecuter.com/


, Start ABGX360 to begin the patching process. The patching process will help fool Xbox Live into thinking you're playing with a legitimate copy of the game, and not a backup. Not all games can be successfully patched with ABGX360.


Select the ISO file that you downloaded in the "Input" section.
Click the AutoFix tab and change the AutoFix Threshold from Level 2 to Level 3.
Click the Misc tab and select the region that you connect your Xbox 360 to.
Click the "Launch" button to begin patching. A new window will appear displaying the patching process. If the game fails verification, you can still play it but you should not connect your console to Xbox Live when the disc is inserted.
 You will need a burning program that allows you to burn .ISO and .DVD files. You won't be able to use Windows' built-in burning software, as you will need to adjust some settings. ImgBurn is one of the more popular free choices.
 This file was created by ABGX360, and will be located in the same location as the .ISO file that you downloaded.
 In the Write tab, find the "Layer Break" section. Set it to "User Specified" and enter 1913760 into the field.,, Click the "Burn" button and then lower the "Write Speed" to 2 or 2.4x. This will help ensure that no errors occur during the burning process, which is highly error-prone when burning Xbox 360 games.
 Now that the game has been burned to disc, you should be able to play it in your modded Xbox 360. If your game did not pass the verification process, do not connect your Xbox 360 to the internet will playing. When a game doesn't pass verification, Microsoft will be able to tell that you're playing a burned game, and you Xbox Live account will be banned.

