 Raw or crushed garlic contains a compound called "allicin" which affects the body's ability to make platelets, therefore decreasing the number of platelets in the blood.


Your body responds to the lower platelet level by improving its immunity, which helps to protect the body from any foreign objects (such as viruses and bacteria) that enter the system.
The allicin content of garlic decreases rapidly with cooking, so try to eat it raw. Eating raw garlic causes stomach upset in some people, so be sure to eat the raw garlic with food.;
, Gingko biloba contains substances called “terpenoids” which reduce blood viscosity (making it thinner) and prevent the formation of clots.


Gingko biloba also help to improve blood circulation and increases your body's production of warfarin, which helps to dissolve clots.
Gingko biloba is available as a supplement in liquid or capsule form. You can buy these supplements at the drug or health food store.
If you can get your hands on gingko biloba leave, you can boil the leaves in water for 5 to 7 minutes, then drink the water as a tea.
 Ginseng contains “ginsenosides” that help to decrease platelet aggregation, and therefore prevent the formation of clots.


Ginseng is available in capsule form at drug and health food stores. It is often added to energy foods and drinks.
Ginseng causes insomnia and nausea in some people, so you will need to test it out for a trial period to see how it reacts with your body.
 Pomegranates contain substances called polyphenols which have an an anti-platelet effect — this means that they reduce your body's production of platelets and prevent existing platelets from clotting.


You can eat whole, fresh pomegranate fruits, drink pomegranate juice, or add pomegranate extract to your cooking.
 Omega-3 fatty acids affect platelet activity, thinning the blood and reducing the chance of clotting. Omega-3's are abundant in seafood such as tuna, salmon, scallops, sardine, shellfish and herring.


Try to include 2 to 3 servings of these fish per week, to meet your recommended weekly allowance of omega-3s
If you're not fond of fish, you can boost your omega-3 intake by taking 3000 to 4000mg of fish oil supplements per day.
 Red wine contains flavonoids, which comes from the skin of red grapes during production. These flavonoids prevent the overproduction of cells in the lining of artery walls (a process caused by too many platelets in the blood). This reduces reduces the chances of clot formation.


There is one unit of alcohol in half a standard glass of wine (about 175 ml). Men should not drink more than 21 units of alcohol per week, and no more than four per day.
Women should not drink more than 14 units of alcohol per week, and no more than three per day. Both men and women should have at least two alcohol free days per week., Fruit and vegetables that contain “salicylates” help to thin the blood and prevent clotting. They also boost the body’s immunity and help to maintain normal platelet count.


Vegetables that contain salicylates include cucumber, mushrooms, zucchini, radish, and alfalfa.
Fruits that contain salicylates include all kinds of berries, cherries, raisins and oranges.
 Cinnamon contains a compound called “cinnamaldehyde” which is known to reduce platelet aggregation and therefore blood clotting.


Add ground cinnamon to baked goods or stewed vegetables. You could also try boiling a cinnamon stick in tea or wine.
 Smoking puts you at increased risk of developing blood clots, due to several harmful compounds found in cigarettes (such as nicotine). Smoking causes the blood to become thicker and the platelets to clump together.


Serious health issues such as heart problems and strokes often occur as a result of clots forming in the blood. Quitting smoking is one of the best things you can do to avoid these blood clots from forming in the first place.Quitting is difficult, and is not something that can be done overnight. See this article for some helpful advice on how to quit smoking.
 Coffee contains an anti-platelet effect, which means that it reduces the number of platelets in the blood and prevents platelet aggregation.


The anti-platelet effect of coffee is not due to caffeine, but to phenolic acids. Therefore, you can still benefit from the anti-platelet effect by drinking decaffeinated coffee.