 Seed starting kits are available at most garden centers. However, annual seeds can be planted in almost any type of container, from egg cartons and plastic cups to muffin tins and milk cartons. Be sure to poke a drainage hold in the bottom of each container.
 Use a seed starting mix, available at most garden centers, to grow your seeds indoors. Regular garden soil will compress the seeds and prevent root growth. Wet the soil before adding it to the growing containers.
 Consult the directions on the seed packet to determine at what depth to plant the annual seeds. A good rule of thumb is to plant the annual seed at a depth that is 2 or 3 times the seed's diameter.
 Some experts recommend keeping containers on top of a refrigerator, which is warm and usually out of direct sunlight. Ideal temperatures for seed growth are usually between 60 and 75 degrees F (15.56 and 23.89 degrees C).
 The soil should be moist, but not too wet. Do not overwater the seeds or they may rot.
 Once the seeds sprout, transfer the container to a warm, sunny location. For best result, choose a bright south-facing window or place the seedlings under fluorescent grow-lights.


Thin seedlings to 1 plant for every 1.5 inches (3.8 cm), or 1 seedling per small container.
 Plant the seedlings on a cool, cloudy day. Excessive heat, sun and wind can stress to seedlings and may kill tender transplants. If the transplant day is sunny, plant the seedlings late in the day to avoid the harsh mid-day sun.


Remove weeds from the garden soil where the seedlings will be planted.
Plant the seedling. Dig a hole that is large enough for the seedling's root system, and place the seedling in the hole. Cover the hole with garden soil and gently tap down the soil around the plant using the palm of your hand.
Water the annuals after transplanting. During the first few weeks, keep the soil moist while the plant's roots become established. If plants start to wilt, water immediately.
Fertilize the seedlings with an organic, granular slow-release fertilizer.

