 The chords for jazz guitar are much more complex than the open chords acoustic players use. For one, you probably won't use many open strings, and for another, you'll be playing different notes. At a minimum, start with 7 chords (minor, major, and dominant), augmented, and diminished chords (+ and -, respectively). Once you've got the basics down you can learn to add extensions.;
, Yes, there are plenty of guitarists who learned to play by ear, but if you can read you'll be at a huge advantage. Start with learning to read chord changes, because as a guitarist you'll be doing that more often, but don't be stumped when you're called on to play a melody. The best way to learn is with a method book (William Leavitt's Modern Method for Guitar is excellent).
 Most solos can be based on either the major or minor pentatonic or blues scales, but you should learn your arpeggios (which are even simpler than pentatonic scales) and your full major and minor scales. Work on the chromatic scale too- it might be easy to finger but learning to apply it is one of the skills that distinguishes the best from the rest.
 Jazz is one of those genres where there are certain songs everybody knows how to play, and you'll be expected to know them. Get yourself a copy of The Real Book from Hal Leonard. Volume One has plenty of standards to start with, and Volume Four has a lot of other older standards (there are other good books out there but Hal Leonard is the one that's on most bandstands, so you'll never get into a fight with the trumpets about the chords). The most important chord progressions are blues (Blue Monk and Straight No Chaser are good first tunes to learn) and rhythm changes (I've Got Rhythm is the original, and Oleo gets called almost every night at a jam somewhere).
 Don't step up to the bandstand the first time you attend a jam session. Listen to what's going on, but when you're ready, get up and play. You can't become a great player if you only ever play in the woodshed by yourself! As a corollary, don't spend too much time on the stand when you're up. Play one or two songs, and don't solo for too long- two or three choruses is appropriate for blues, one for something longer, and on a slow ballad, you might even limit yourself to half a chorus and let somebody else trade off with you. There are probably other players who want to play too, so don't overstay your welcome.

