 The first thing you should do if you are retaining fluid is to see your doctor. Your doctor can perform a physical exam and tests to determine the cause of your fluid retention. There are many different conditions that can cause fluid retention including:A heart condition, such as heart failure or cardiomyopathy
Kidney failure
Underactive thyroid
Cirrhosis of the liver
An issue with your lymphatic system
Deep vein thrombosis
Excess fat in your legs
A burn or other type of injury
Pregnancy
Being overweight
Being undernourished;
, For women, it’s not uncommon to experience some water retention in the days leading up to your period, due to hormonal shifts within the body.Birth-control medication can also cause fluid retention. So can any other type of medical hormonal treatment, including hormone replacement therapy.

If you’re experiencing fluid retention leading up to your period, the retention will likely end shortly after your cycle has concluded.
However, if the retention is uncomfortable or persistent, a doctor may prescribe you a diuretic. This pill will increase water processing through your body and let you pee out the fluid that you’ve retained., If your diet is healthy and you do not lead a sedentary lifestyle, your fluid retention could be a side effect of one or more medications you’re currently taking. If your body continues to retain fluid for more than a few days, schedule an appointment and speak with your doctor regarding ways to reduce fluid retention as a medication side effect.Medications most likely to cause water retention include:

Antidepressants
Chemo therapy medicine
Some pain relievers
High blood pressure medications

, Both of these serious medical conditions can cause the body to retain fluid.In these cases, fluid retention is sudden and severe: you’ll notice a palpable, rapid change and a large amount of fluid being retained, especially in the lower portion of your body.

If you’re concerned about heart failure or kidney disease, contact your doctor as soon as possible. These are potentially life-threatening conditions, and the sooner a doctor can diagnose heart failure or kidney disease, the more effectively they can be treated.

