 Think about your goals. Are you looking for just sex? That's perfectly fine. Just make sure to maintain the same priority throughout the experience.Do not expect a relationship to develop. Sometimes people get hurt after a one-night stand. It's usually because their expectations shifted.
Accept that a one-night stand is actually a one-night occurrence. If something else develops, great. But don't expect it to.
 Once you have decided that you want to have a one night stand, it's time to take control of the situation. If you want to have a sexual encounter, approach a potential partner with confidence. If you feel good about yourself, you will project an air of confidence.

When you see someone attractive, strike up a conversation. If you are at a party, try saying, "Great music. Do you go to many concerts?"
Keep your tone relaxed, but convey your interest. For example, maintain eye contact with the person you are interested in.
You can also make some experimental physical contact. Try resting your hand on the other person's shoulder while you are telling a funny story.
 Even if you are looking for a one night stand, you might feel some emotional repercussions the morning after. It is perfectly normal for women to experience regret, or even shame. It's important to remember that you are in charge of your own actions and you can choose how to feel about them.To avoid having regrets, think carefully about whether you want a one night stand. Do you feel like you can handle having sex with no emotional attachment?
If so, remind yourself that you made a proactive choice to have a one-night stand. As long as you were safe, there's no need to feel regret.
Maintain high spirits. Celebrate the fact that you just had enjoyable sex.
 The key to a successful one night stand is that both parties are on the same page. Avoid having a sexual encounter with someone you would like to pursue romantically. Likewise, do not have a one night stand with someone you know is interested in having a relationship with you.Make your expectations clear. Let the other person know that you are only interested in a casual encounter.
Try saying something like, "I'd love to ask you to come home with me. But I need you to know that I'm not interested in dating or having a relationship."
Being honest upfront may save you an awkward conversation later.
Take the lead. Feel free to be the one to instigate sex. If you are interested in being intimate, make that clear.You do not have to wait for the other person to make the first move. Be confident and upfront. You can even say something like, "I'm really attracted to you."

