 Kids and teenagers should be careful posting pictures of themselves online, because these images could open them up to predators and catfish. This is particularly important with images that are viewable by the general public.For example, your kids may use a picture of a pet or other animal, or a cartoon avatar, as a profile picture.
One tactic catfish use to get close to their victims is flattery in the form of compliments about how the person looks. If they don't know what your kids look like, they won't be able to get to them this way.
Check the privacy settings on your kids' social media accounts, and teach them how to manage their privacy if they want to post selfies or pictures with their friends. You can adjust the settings so that those types of pictures are only visible by close friends and family members, not the public or even "friends of friends."
Keep in mind that your kids' friends also may post pictures of them. Make sure they are at least receiving a notification when they are tagged in someone else's picture, so they have the option of removing the tag.;
, The best screen names for kids if you want to protect them from online catfishing should be impersonal and gender-neutral. Nothing in the screen name should reveal the child's real name, age, or location.You may want to create your kids' screen names for them, or help them choose one that they like. Make sure they understand what information cannot be in their screen name, and why.
Kids' screen names also shouldn't include anything that could be interpreted as suggestive. These kinds of screen names can attract predators, including catfish, who believe your kids are open to something they're not.
Avoid words such as "girl," "boy," "darling," "baby," "cutie," "princess," "flower," "fairy," and similar. Any numbers should be random – don't use a zip code, area code, or birth date, for example.
 Catfish are able to emotionally manipulate their victims because they get them alone. You can adjust your kids' privacy settings on their social media accounts so that they do not receive private messages from people they don't know.Explain to your kids the importance of not having private conversations with people they don't know in person, especially if they frequent chat rooms or play multiplayer video games in which the players interact with each other while playing the game.
Talking to strangers in a group situation is generally okay, because a catfish or other online predator isn't really going to make a move when there are other people who can observe the interaction.
However, they may still try to build up trust with your kids so they won't see anything wrong with having a private conversation. Tell your kids that if someone they don't know in real life asks to have a private conversation, they can simply say something like "I'm sorry, I don't go private. Catch you later!" They also can make up an excuse, although they need to understand that if they do that, the person probably will keep asking them.
 Encourage your kids to make social media connections with people they know and trust, but not with people they only know from online and have never met or interacted with in person.This means kids should be cautious with friends of friends as well. Sometimes a catfish finds a way into their victim's life because they actually do have a mutual friend. This mutual friend typically isn't aware of this person's online games. Since your kids see that they have a friend in common, they think it's okay to go ahead and connect with this person even though they don't know them in real life.
People you know in real life also can be deceptive and manipulative online. This is something to keep in mind if, for example, your kids get a friend request from someone who moved to a different part of the country and hasn't spoken to them in awhile.
A good basic rule to teach your kids is that if they get a friend request and their first reaction is "Why?" they probably should ignore that friend request.
 Often a catfish will read through their potential victim's profiles and posts to learn as much as they can about the person. The more information they have, the more potential weapons they have for their manipulation.Kids will be attracted to someone if they feel like they have a lot in common about that person, or if that person seems to really understand them. The way a catfish establishes this level of commonality and trust is to study their victim's social media profiles and then parrot back those things that they know are of interest.
It's often the case that your kids will forget things they've posted online after a few weeks or even a few days – especially if they are active online and post frequently. All of these old posts can be used as fodder by the catfish to establish things they have in common with your kids.
If there isn't a lot of personal information on your kids' social media accounts, a catfish won't have much to use and your kids won't be an easy target.
 Every social media website or app has a terms of service agreement to which you must agree before setting up an account on that site. While these agreements can be cumbersome to read through, understanding them is important.Generally, the terms of service spell out what behavior is and is not permitted by users of the app or website. If a user is violating the terms of service agreement, you can report it to the company that runs the website or app, and that user's account will be suspended.
Cyberbullying violates the terms of service of all major social media platforms, but proving that cyberbullying or catfishing is occurring to the point that the company will suspend the user's account is difficult.
Typically, the company will respond to your report by instructing that you or your kids should simply block this person so that they cannot access your kids' information or contact them. If you have already done this and the person is still harassing your kids, you may be able to spur the company to take further action.
Take note of the steps you must take to report a violation of the terms of service agreement, and the type of evidence you need to present. That way, if your kids are contacted by a catfish, you'll have the knowledge you need to protect them.

