 Lung cancer is the most common type of cancer brought on by smoking, but smokers also have an increased risk for cancer of the throat , kidney, esophagus, bladder, stomach, colon, rectum, and cervix.Cigarettes contain at least 69 chemicals known to cause cancer. This compelling information will surely dissuade your grandmother from smoking.


Cancer is usually determined by medical diagnosis, but some symptoms are easy to identify. If your grandma has shortness of breath, chest pain, wheezing, or swelling of her neck or face, she may have lung cancer.
About 85-90% of all lung cancer cases occur in smokers.;
, For instance, smoking increases your grandmother’s risk of heart disease by two to four times. Her risk of stroke – blockage of blood flow to the brain -- also goes up by two to four times.


After just one year without cigarettes, ex-smokers experience a significant decline in their likelihood of getting a heart attack.
Two to five years after quitting, risk for stroke returns to its baseline level.
 COPD includes a variety of negative health conditions including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Smoking can also cause asthma attacks and pneumonia.
 There is a huge range of illnesses and negative health conditions associated with smoking. For instance, smoking can cause rheumatoid arthritis, the painful swelling of joints (usually those in the hands and feet). Smoking can also cause gum disease and tooth loss. Her likelihood of cataracts – clouding-over of the eyes, already a common symptom of aging – increases the more she smokes. Finally, your grandma might be especially interested to learn than in older women, smoking can lead to a higher likelihood of broken bones.


People who quit smoking often report lower levels of stress and an improved mood compared with how they felt when smoking.Blow your grandma’s mind. Remind her that smoking causes more deaths each year than human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), illegal drug and alcohol abuse, car accidents, and gun deaths combined.Tell your grandma that she should quit because her family wants her to live as long and healthy a life as possible. Show some emotion when you say it. It might help if you tear up or frown. Add, “We are all very worried about you because you smoke.” This will show your grandma that the impact of smoking on her health is a cause of great concern for you and your family.
 Secondhand smoke – the smoke that gets left behind in an environment where someone was smoking and inhaled by other people – is just as dangerous as smoking directly from a cigarette.Breathing in secondhand smoke raises your likelihood for lung cancer, heart disease, and heart attacks. Over time, secondhand smoke can cause an overall decline in health and lead to symptoms such as wheezing, shortness of breath, and coughing.


Say to your grandma, “I know you care about me and the rest of our family. In order to keep us healthy, please quit smoking.”
Tell your grandmother “I love you so much that I’m afraid I will get cancer or feel ill, too, simply because I cannot bear to be away from you.”
If you don’t live near your grandma but still want her to quit smoking, you could say, “I look forward to the day when I can visit you without fear of breathing in smoke.”

