 Go to the Dun & Bradstreet website and click the link to "Get a D-U-N-S Number". It will prompt you to see if your company already has one. All you need to know is your company name, city and state of operation. If your company name does not appear, you can apply for a D-U-N-S number.;
, On the results page that shows your company is not listed in the D&B database, click the yellow "Get Started" button.
 Next, list your formal organization's name. Below it, provide all other names that your business might be listed under. For example, if you are "Joe's Print Shop" in your hometown but also known as "Speedy Printing" online, list both business names. Including both names makes it easy for potential credit lenders and business partners to locate your operation.
 If you have a fax machine, ensure that you add that number, too. Select the yellow "Next" button to continue the application for a D-U-N-S number.
 Include the business owner's name and email address. Dun & Bradstreet's privacy policy dictates that they will not sell email addresses to third parties.
 Including these facts can help your organization make contact with groups that specialize in assisting economically disadvantaged businesses operated by these demographic groups. If your organization is owned by a larger entity, be sure to include that information in the last section.
 Include all vice presidents, principals and directors, if any, and when they started working at the organization. Click the yellow "Next" button to continue to apply for a D-U-N-S number.
 Dun & Bradstreet also needs to know if you are an Internet-based operation, where you sell to and how you bill customers. List facts about how large your facility is and what kind of building it is located in.
 Check the box if you agree with Dun & Bradstreet's terms. Then, click the yellow "Next" button to move on.
 If you need the number within 5 business days, select the option indicating a rush charge to expedite your number assignment. But if you can wait 30 days, choose the "Free" option and click the yellow "Next" button to register your information.
 Look for an email from Dun & Bradstreet within 30 days indicating your assigned D-U-N-S number.

