 The MCAT guide is published by the American Association of Medical Colleges. Each year the AAMC prepares a detailed description of the exam sections. Use this guide as a reference to guide your studies., The MCAT exam is 230 questions and is administered in four sections. Examinees are given 95 minutes for each of the three sections on scientific disciplines and 90 minutes for the analysis and reasoning section. The total exam is 6 hours and 15 minutes long.Sit and read for 95 minute blocks. Concentrating while sitting still and quiet for 95 minutes can be a challenge; make sure you’re ready on test day by practicing your concentration for this length of time.
Take a day to study for 6 continuous hours. Your mind will need to be able to concentrate for a long time period without fatigue. Prepare yourself mentally for the stress of the exam by studying for long stretches of time.
Make sure you do not underestimate the reading portion of the examination. This section makes up a large amount of your score. You need to concentrate and have good mental stamina in order to succeed.
 The MCAT is only offered on certain dates in specific locations. You may need to arrange travel or lodging to ensure that you can make it to the test on time with plenty of rest., Review a syllabus from an introductory college biology course. Make sure that you are comfortable with the outline of the course and topics of general Evolutionary and phylogenetic trees
Plant form and function
Animal form and function
Biotic and abiotic factors of ecological interactions

, The MCAT covers a wide array of biological topics. Be able to describe how individual cells contribute to the general function of an individual organism.


Create flashcards of cellular parts and functions.
Explore online modules of cellular interactions and structures

, Create a concept map that shows the relationship between different body systems:Nervous System
Endocrine System
Organ Systems

, Take time to understand the details of how DNA codes for amino acids that form proteins. Describe how changes in DNA can lead to phenotypical changes in offspring.Create a chart that matches DNA codons to their respective amino acids.
Categorize the amino acids according to their structures

, Create flashcards detailing each step in the processes of cellular division. Understand the differences between mitosis and meiosis. Be able to describe the similarities and differences between both types of cellular division. , Teach your friends and family about the concepts that will be covered on the test. When you are able to teach a concept to someone else, you can be sure that you have a thorough understanding of the idea.
 There are an extremely large number of chemicals that are biologically active. Each chemical operates on unique pathways to accomplish a specific job within an organism.Create charts linking chemicals to their respective jobs.
List molecules that are essential in performing cellular functions.
 Describe how external influences affect cellular response. Be able to show how a change in environment leads to a metabolic or behavioral shift within an organism., Check college websites for links to recorded lectures. Stream or download lectures and videos of topics that are difficult to understand by reading the material:


Thermodynamics
Nuclear Decay
Electrochemistry

, Create an outline describing the differences between different chemical processes used to create purified samples:


Chromatography
Distillation
Electrophoresis

, Many concepts of physics are also covered on the MCAT. Become familiar with the applications of various equations used to solve problems associated with motion, wave properties, and energy.Memorizing equations is vital to doing well in the physical sciences portion of the examination.
 The MCAT assesses a student’s knowledge of how sociocultural influences affect an individual’s perception and decision making abilities. Seek out recent research in peer reviewed psychological journals., Check university webpages for links to presentations and lecture notes on feelings and interactions with others. Focus on topics related to:


Self- Identity
Social Thinking
Social Interactions

, Be able to describe the neurological pathways that enable each of the five senses. Make a detailed map that shows how information is transmitted through sensory pathways to the brain and back to the muscles in response to a stimulus.
 Being able to understand different psychological responses to environmental changes will help you be successful on the behavioral biology section of the MCAT.
 Locate a local test preparation or tutoring center that offers courses in MCAT preparation. Be aware that some of these classes can be costly; research and read reviews about your local tutoring center before signing up.The two main review courses are offered by Kaplan and Princeton Review.
 Read chapter summaries from every biology, chemistry, physics, and psychology class you can find. The more material you are able to review prior to the test, the better prepared you will be.
 Set aside blocks of time to take a full 95 minute section of the test. If possible try and take all four sections in one sitting so you are fully prepared for the full length exam., The format of the MCAT changed in 2013. Although older doctors and medical students may have had a different version of the test, they will still be able to provide valuable insights and strategies to guide your studies.
 Train your brain to evaluate situations using critical and logical thinking. Each section of the MCAT has questions designed to evaluate your logical thinking skills. Make sure that your brain is at the top of its game by practicing daily with logic puzzles.


The MCAT might make you extrapolate information that is provided in the text to answer the question. Also, make sure you know the difference between being directly proportional and indirectly proportional. This is a common theme.
 Become familiar with the typical wording of exam questions by purchasing or downloading exam booklets from previous years. Be aware of the recent changes in the MCAT format and seek out the most recent questions you can find.

