 When you're ready to add glitter, you want it to stick on successfully. Before you begin the process of adding freckles, tap some vaseline on your cheeks and under your eyes. Target the areas where you'll be adding your freckles.





;
, Your lipsticks will create the freckles you will surround and cover with glitter later on. You want to use liquid lipsticks, as they will stay on better throughout the day.








Choose two shades you like. It's best to start off with a very dark and very light shade. You can start by dabbing on dark and light freckles and, later, mix the shades together and add smaller freckles to help the shades blend together better.
You should also choose shades that match well with your chosen glitter.
 Dot wherever you want your freckles to appear. Use a thin tipped brush to gently dab a smattering of freckles on your face, varying between your light and dark shades.








Many people like dabbing their freckles where they would naturally appear, such as near the chin, under the eyes, and on the upper cheeks.
Do not worry if your freckles are not perfectly round. Slightly oblong freckles are normal and you will be covering your face with glitter. This will obscure the precise shape of your freckles slightly.
 Not all of your freckles should be the same size and shape. This can look a little too uniform for what is supposed to be a fun, carefree look. Try dabbing freckles in different shapes and sizes. You can also have clusters of freckles in some areas and spread them out more in others.
 You want your light and dark shades to blend together naturally. Mix together your light and dark lipstick in a shade that's the middle ground between the two of them.








Use a slightly smaller brush to apply this shade.
Dab on your lighter freckles in between your light and dark freckles, creating a color gradient that's slightly less jarring.
 From here, get your glitter ready. You can buy makeup glitter at a local department or beauty store. Take the cap off the glitter and pour a small amount of glitter into the cap. Set the bottle aside as you work.Make sure you set the bottle aside in a clear space. If glitter smears, it can be very difficult to clean up.
 Use the tip of your index finger to gently dab on your glitter. Try to dab glitter over your existing freckles, making them sparkle slightly. You can also dab glitter in between the freckles, creating an attractive, shimmery look on your face.








There is no precise to apply glitter. Apply as much glitter as you want and in a manner that looks attractive to you.
Remember to use a shade of glitter that matches well with your lipstick.
 Glitter spreads easily, so small bits of glitter will smear in unwanted spaces during the process. Use a makeup brush to gently brush off any unwanted glitter. If you added too much glitter, or added glitter to an area you now want clear, you can brush this glitter off as well.
 Glitter freckles are a dramatic look, so it's okay if your glitter feels a little overpowering. Do not shy away from using bright shades. Dull glitter can create a dark look, and people may even struggle to see your freckles in the wrong light. Opt for lighter shades., Glitter lashes are supposed to be spontaneous and carefree. Therefore, avoid going overboard on symmetry with glitter freckles. It's okay if one side of your face has a little more glitter than the other. In fact, this can actually improve upon the glitter freckle look., There are no strict rules when it comes to glitter freckles. Everyone has their own preferences and tastes, so be open to experimentation here. Have fun experimenting with different colors and styles as you create a fun glitter freckle look that works for you.







