 Different cultures have different views on what the acceptable speaking volume is, but one way to make locals really hate you is to speak loudly when in public. Try to keep your volume at acceptable levels, and avoid yelling in public.


In places like Japan, speaking loudly is a sign of disrespect.In Muslim countries, speaking loudly is also a sign of a disrespect., Dress according to local customs and be mindful of their religions which may look poorly upon some clothing choices.In many Muslim countries, it's customary for women to wear a hijab in public.France has a ban on any clothing that covers the face., Instead of being a spectator, you should be a participant when it comes to local events. Whenever you get an opportunity, you should be engaging with the people who live in the place you’re visiting.


When traveling domestically, many major cities celebrate different cultures and regions of the world in parades or festivals, that the public can attend.
The Macy's Thanksgivings Day parade happens every year in Manhattan New York and has been a tradition in the U.S. since 1924.The Holi festival is celebrated in India, Sri Lanka, and Nepal and is an event where people cover themselves in multi colored dyes.Carnival is a huge festival that happens in Venice, Italy each year and is one of the biggest costume and art celebrations in the world. , There’s a good chance that the indigenous animals that live in the country or region you’re visiting will be different than your local wildlife. However, this is not an excuse to feed or interact with them. Feeding wildlife can actually throw off the ecosystem and hurt and endanger the animals you’re feeding.As a result of tourists feeding monkeys in Morocco, the animals have become larger, more susceptible to disease, and more stressed.Feeding wild animals can also be incredibly dangerous if you’re not familiar with the species.
If you’re a hunter, make sure you are hunting legally in government designated areas.
 One of the biggest signs of disrespect in any country or region you're visiting is to throw trash on the ground. If you can’t find a waste bin close by, just keep the trash on you until you have the opportunity to properly dispose of it.


In Hong Kong, the penalty for littering or spitting is $1,500.