 Autozone, Walmart, O'Reilly, or Advance Auto Parts should carry the bulb you need, and they will even be able to tell you which bulb you need based on your car's make, model, and year. My '07 Jetta's low-beam headlight was an H7 series bulb, which costs about $8.00 (generic). Once you have purchased the bulb, go back out to your car and...;
, The headlight assembly will be located directly behind the headlight.
 It is a round, black cover that looks and behaves like the lid of a jar. As it clearly states on its face, turn it about an inch and it will pop right off. Don't let it fall down into the engine area.
 That's right, the entire socket just twists right out. The socket is made of plastic and has a nice wavy, blue handle on it that allows you to twist it. The chamber that houses the socket is made of white plastic, has wires connected to it, and serves as the walls that the socket twists into (see pic). There are some white plastic pegs pointing inward towards the socket. You must turn the socket counter-clockwise so the holes in it align with the pegs and the socket slides out. Be careful, as the old bulb is still plugged in to the socket, and you will be pulling both out together.
 You will see that the bulb simply plugs in to the socket like any household appliance plug. Remove it by its metal, disc-like base.
 It is VERY IMPORTANT that you do *NOT* touch the glass of the new bulb. The impurities and heat from your fingers could irreparably damage and kill your bulb. The guy at Autozone sold me some goop to put on the bulb plug and in the socket connectors to keep it from crusting over with corrosion, but it's not really necessary.
 After plugging the bulb into the socket, slide it back into the chamber so the white pegs pass back through the holes. Twist the socket counter-clockwise to lock it in its chamber, making sure that the portion of the socket marked "TOP" is at the top and the socket is firmly in place (you wouldn't want it falling out while you're driving).
 Screw the cover back on and close the hood firmly.
 Go flip the lights on. If they both work, you're all set.

