 Most of the materials you require for a solar water still can be acquired at a hardware store or home-brewing supply store. A solar water still will require more handiwork and assembly than a stove-top water still, but a solar water still can come in handy in emergency situations where you do not have working electricity or gas.Your materials should include:Plywood (4 feet by 8 feet)
One sheet of high-finish, tempered glass (27.25 x 22 inches)
Wood glue
High-temperature black paint
Screws
Drill with drill bits
Caulk
PEX tubing (2 feet)
Rigid insulation
Two long, flat glass baking pans

, The base of your solar water still will be a wooden box made out of plywood. The top of the box should have a slight incline so that the glass top will be at an optimal angle. Your box will be made of five different plywood pieces:


A bottom base that measures 23.25 x 19 inches
A short end piece that measures 5.75 x 20.5 inches
A long end piece that measures 9 x 20.5 inches
Two trapezoidal side pieces that measure 9 1/8 inches tall (at the long end), 5 1/8 inches tall (at the short end), and 26.75 inches wide
Note that a circular saw set to a 9 degree angle can help you cut the trapezoidal pieces correctly, Cut a piece of rigid insulation using the same measurements as the bottom base of your plywood box. Screw the insulation to the plywood base., Using screws and wood glue, assemble all of the pieces of the wooden box together, except for the long end piece. The long end piece will be your hinged door and must be attached using separate door hinges. Make sure that the door faces the short end and that the two trapezoidal pieces face each other. Use caulk or weather seal to make sure all of the edges are airtight., High-temperature black paint will help the water inside the still heat up in the sun, allowing it to evaporate more efficiently. Coat the inside of the box thoroughly. Allow the painted box to dry for 3-5 days to ensure that all fumes and toxins are aired out before you finish assembling the still., Your PEX tubing will be used to collect the water droplets that form inside the solar still and pour them into a separate, clean container. To insert the piping into the box, drill a hole the same diameter of your tubing 1/2 inch down from the top of the box at the short side of the trapezoid. Only make a hole in one of the trapezoidal pieces: not both., In order to collect water effectively, your water tube must be open inside of the box (to collect water drippings) but closed outside of the box (to keep the water clean). Mark 19 inches on your PEX tubing, and slice it in half. This should leave you with a piece of tubing that is open for 19 inches and closed for 5 inches. Screw the open piping inside the short side of the box using three screws, making sure that a few inches of the closed tubing are able to stick out through the pre-drilled hole.Use a 1/4-inch incline to make sure the water flows out of the box properly.Use caulk or sealant to make sure that the piping fits snugly in the hole you drilled and that the open tubing is securely fastened to the plywood., The glass plate will fit at a slight incline into the top of your water still, allowing water droplets to form inside and then flow down the incline and into your PEX water tubing. From there, the purified droplets will leave the still through the closed piping and into a separate container. After making sure your glass plate has been thoroughly cleaned, caulk the outer edges of the glass thoroughly. Then gently lay it on top of your assembled box. If you have measured correctly, the glass roof should be at a 5-10 degree angle, which is ideal for water collection.You can use a temporary stop or painters tape to secure the caulked glass roof until it has dried thoroughly., One of the sides of your still has been attached with hinges, which will allow you to open and close the door at will. Fill two flat, glass baking pans with water (1-2 inches or so), and insert them into your assembled still. This will serve as the water source that will be purified by the sun.
 If you plan to store your distilled water for long periods of time, be sure that your storage container has been thoroughly sanitized. Dilute one teaspoon of bleach in one gallon of water. Use this solution to thoroughly coat the inside of your storage container. After about 30 seconds, pour out the bleach solution. Let your container air-dry or rinse it with clean water.