 “Residue” refers to undigested food, like fiber, that makes up stool. Eating a low-residue diet will lead to fewer and smaller bowel movements. This helps ease stomach cramping, bloating, gas, and diarrhea. A low-residue diet limits high-fiber foods, like whole-grain breads and cereals, nuts, seeds, raw or dried fruits, and vegetables., Ease your stomach into food after an IBD flare by having liquids like water and diluted juices before you have any solid foods. You can also have soft solid foods like applesauce, oatmeal, cooked eggs, mashed potatoes, noodles, and rice. These foods are easy on your stomach.Other soft solid foods like canned fruit and plain bread are also good options.
 Go for plain chicken, turkey, or fish that is steamed or baked. Eating protein can be a good way for your body to recover after an IBD flare.Choose sauces such as margarine or butter, mayonnaise, ketchup, sour cream, soy sauce, clear jelly, honey, or syrup, and smooth salad dressing., Fruits and vegetables are high in fiber. It can be difficult for your body to digest fiber if you have IBD, especially after a flare. Avoid eating raw vegetables and any fruit or veggie with seeds. Limit your intake of fruits and veggies, and stop eating them if your symptoms worsen.Choose veggies like asparagus, beets, carrots, and green beans and fruit such as ripe bananas, cantaloupe, honeydew, or pears., Omega-3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory and can help your body recover after an IBD flare. Go for foods high in omega-3 fatty acids, like salmon, mackerel, sardines, and herring., Dairy can aggravate the symptoms of IBD and make it harder for your stomach to recover from a flare. Avoid dairy products like milk, yogurt, cheese, and ice cream.If you do want to have dairy products, only do so after you have had liquids and soft solid foods. This way, your stomach has time to recover from the flare up and can digest the dairy properly.
 Candy, cake, cookies, and other sweets high in sugar can make your IBD symptoms worse. Skip the sugary treats as your body recovers from the IBD flare.You should also avoid salty snacks like nuts, popcorn, and chips. The sodium content in these foods can irritate your stomach more.
 Eating smaller portions throughout the day will make it easier for your body to digest your meals and recover after the IBD flare. Allow one to two hours between each small meal. Make a meal plan where you have five to six small meals, with snacks.Follow a regular eating schedule where you eat five to six meals at the same time every day. For example, you may start the day with a glass of diluted juice and applesauce. Then, you may eat cooked eggs and soft bread after one to two hours, followed by a mid day meal of cooked chicken and noodles.
 Dehydration is common after an IBD flare. Make sure you drink lots of water throughout the day. Have at least five to eight glasses of water per day. Carry a water bottle with you so you can sip from it.Avoid sugary drinks, caffeine, and alcohol as you recover from the IBD flare. These drinks will only dehydrate you more and also cause irritation in the digestive tract.
 Write down your meals for the day as you recover from the IBD flare. Notice if any foods trigger your symptoms or make you feel worse. Take these foods out of your diet so you can recover. Keep track of what you eat and try to follow the same diet.Do not eliminate entire food groups from your diet without consulting with your doctor. If you notice a food group is making you sicker based on the notes in your food journal, talk to your doctor.
 If you are unsure of what to eat after you have an IBD flare, speak to your doctor. If you have a care team that works with you to maintain your condition, speak to them about what to eat after a flare. They should be able to suggest foods you can try.Your doctor may also be able to work with you to create a meal plan of foods that will help you recover after an IBD flare.
 You are at risk for malnutrition when you have IBD. Be sure to discuss your nutritional needs with your doctor or nutritionist.If you have a hard time tolerating food after an IBD flare, ask your doctor about taking nutritional supplements.Your doctor may suggest liquid oral supplements you can take to help you maintain a healthy diet as you recover from the IBD flare.
Common liquid supplements prescribed for IBD include Peptamen, Modulen IBD, and Lipisorb.
 For severe flares of IBD, your doctor can prescribe medication to help with discomfort and pain. Medications like corticosteroids, cholestyramine, and 5-ASA compounds can help address the issue.Your doctor should outline the side effects of these medications, which include a decreased absorption of vitamins and minerals.
Your doctor may recommend taking nutritional supplements along with these medications.

