 You want to make sure to remove all the hair that has built up in your hair combs during their use. This can harbor germs and dirt that can spread to your clean hair during styling. Your hair combs can also have a buildup of hair product that needs to be cleaned regularly to ensure your hair looks its best. To remove the excess hair from your hair combs, try:


Using a pen or pencil to lift the hair off the hair comb bristles. Using a comb to get in between your hair comb’s bristles. Cutting the hair with scissors if it is tangled or hard to remove from your hair comb’s bristles. ;
, Using a clarifying shampoo will ensure that it cuts through the styling product residue that is on your hair combs. Baby shampoo is also effective at cleaning hair comb dirt. Use a dime size amount of shampoo or conditioner and mix well with warm water.
 You want to allow your hair combs to soak to soften the bristles. This will also loosen the dirt, hair, and hair products that may be stuck on the hair comb, itself.
 If it seems that your hair combs need additional cleaning, use a toothbrush to scrub the bristles and surface of the hair comb. This will allow dirt and hair products to be removed easier and will ensure you have a clean hair comb when you are finished. , Thoroughly rinse the shampoo or conditioner from the hair comb’s bristles. This will help remove any excess dirt and hair from the hair comb. You want to make sure to rinse well, so there is no shampoo or conditioner residue left on the bristles. This could make your hair greasy when used later.
 Once rinsed, dry your hair combs on a towel. This will remove any excess water and keep your bristles fresh. If you have a natural bristle hair comb, leave it bristle side down on a towel to air dry overnight. , You can drain the water that is left in the sink. It may be necessary to rinse and clean your sink with a cloth to remove any lingering dirt from your hair combs. Any hair that has been left in the sink should be disposed of. Be sure not to let large hair clumps to go down the drain as this could clog your sink.

