 This doesn't need to be a long conversation or a date or anything, but make sure she knows who you are. Make eye contact and smile, ask her about the homework, get a friend to introduce you. Even just a small interaction will work to break the ice between you, so that when you do approach her on Facebook, it won't seem so random and she'll be much more likely to respond positively.;
, Once you've made contact with her in person, you can approach her online. Send a friend request and wait for her to respond. If she accepts, you can move on with these steps. If she rejects or ignores your friend request, however, take this as a sign that she's not comfortable getting to know you online. Respect her wishes and approach her in person, or leave her alone altogether.


Be patient. For someone who doesn't use Facebook often or during certain periods of time like exam weeks, it can take a while for her to accept your friend request.
 Hang out near her at school, eat lunch at the next table or sit a row away in class. You might get glances and stares from the girl when you pass by, so glance back and smile a bit, then keep walking. Start small conversations with her - ask about the homework or what she's having for lunch. Again, these don't need to be long, deep, meaningful conversations - you're just trying to create a base familiarity with her so that it won't be weird when you approach her online. This will help her feel more comfortable talking to you, so it will be easier to get to know her on Facebook.
 As her friend, you'll get to see her posts. Look through them. Like a few posts, but not too many - it gets very suspicious very quickly when you like everything she's ever posted, or any posts older than a week or two. Like her profile picture and cover photo if you want, and any other recent posts, but don't go overboard.
 Compliment any good pictures of her, post responses to articles or links she posts, or join in a friendly debate that she's having with someone else. If you think she'll like them, you can also reply to her posts with appropriate memes or gifs to spice up your comments. Always remember to be polite and respectful when commenting, and don't butt into every conversation she has - if she's talking about when to get together with another friend, don't jump in with your own availability.


Use memes, emoji, and emoticons to supplement your comments, not to replace them. These tools are useful when used sparingly, but they quickly get annoying when abused.
 When you see that she's online, message her to begin a conversation. Talk about school, her friends, what she's up to - anything. But make sure you have a conversation starter coming into the conversation - it's really hard to respond to a vague question like "what's up?" with anything that will actually spark a conversation. Instead, ask a direct, specific question like "What did you think about the book we read in class this week?", and have several follow-up questions planned to keep the conversation going.


Chat with her regularly. You don't need to chat for a long time or about anything too serious, especially not at first - chatting a little at a time will help make her more comfortable with the idea of talking to you. Develop your relationship over time until you're chatting for longer and longer periods of time, about more and more serious and interesting things.
 As much as you can get to know her online, it won't mean much unless you can bring it back to the real world. Approach her at school or invite her to hang out after school, and try to have the same kinds of conversations you're used to having online.


It's up to you to carry the talk, and keep bringing up topics day by day, make excuses to talk to her.
 Maintain eye contact as much as you can while talking to her. Don't look under-confident or over-confident, be just confident enough. Talk slowly, don't rush, practice at home if you must, make yourself clear.


Pay attention to her body language. If she looks at you a lot, if she turns her body towards you, or if you catch her checking you out, chances are, she's interested. If she backs away or turns away from you mid-conversation or as you approach her, she might be trying to avoid you.

