 Part of a no-strings-attached relationship means that you are free to see other people. Don't forget this important perk. If you're only hooking up with one person, it may turn into a real relationship. If that's not what you want, then keep a look out whenever you're out at a bar or a party. Don't just wait to get a text from your hook up buddy, but look around and see if there are any other options for you.
 You can hang out with your friend with benefits, but you need to make it clear that it's not a date. For one thing, you should spend more time in bed together than out of it. You can go out for a drink -- but not for dinner. Try to make your place as inhospitable as possible so your hook up buddy doesn't want to linger in the morning.


If your friend does stay the night, don't fry up some pancakes in the morning, or give her a kiss goodbye. Be nice, but not loving.
Don't do things a real couple would do, like go on a mini-vacation, go grocery shopping, or go on double-dates with your friends.
Don't go clothes shopping together, and don't bring your "friend" as a date to a wedding or a party.
Don't get gifts for the person you're hooking up with, or call him or her just to chat.
Keep your distance. Don't see the person more than two or three times a week.
 The joy of a friends with benefits relationship is that you can still have enough time to pursue your own goals, whether it's grad school, your love for painting, or just all of the fun times you have hanging out with your friends. You can keep hooking up with your friend while having plenty of time to do all of the things you love during the day.
 There are three main reasons that a friends with benefits relationship ends: one person gets too attached, one person finds someone else he really wants to date, or both people just get bored and want to move on. The fourth reason is that there is a natural time-based end to the relationship, such as the end of a summer, the end of a long trip, or that one or both people is graduating.


Once you have a feeling that it may be over, then it's over. If you set the ground rules early on, then it shouldn't be too painful to have a conversation about ending the non-relationship.
And in the rare event that you and your hook up partner have fallen for each other, just sit back and enjoy the ride.

