 Wash and cut carrots or parsnips into sticks or chunks. Bring a pot of water to boil and add the vegetables. Reduce the heat so the vegetables simmer for about 5 minutes. They should be just tender. Drain the carrots or parsnips and transfer them to a baking sheet. Toss the vegetables with olive oil and any seasoning. Roast them at 375 degrees F (190 C) for about 40 minutes.Roasted carrots or parsnips will look golden and caramelized.
You don't have to peel the carrots before roasting them.
 You can either roast an entire fall squash (like butternut, acorn, or kabocha) whole or cut into pieces. To roast one whole, place the whole squash on a sheet and bake it at 400 degrees F (204 C) for one hour or until it's tender. To roast pieces, cut the squash in half and slice or cut it into smaller pieces. Toss the pieces with olive oil and spread them on a baking sheet. Roast the squash for about 30 minutes.You can scoop out and discard the seeds after roasting a whole squash. You could also save them and roast them separately.
 Cut brussels sprouts in half and place them in a large mixing boil. Drizzle them with olive oil and any seasoning you're using. Spread the brussels sprouts on a baking sheet and roast them in a 500 degree F (260 C) oven for about 20 minutes.The brussels sprouts will appear dark brown and will be tender if you poke them with a fork or knife.
 The easiest way to roast beets is to drizzle whole unpeeled beets with foil and place them on a square of aluminum foil. Fold the aluminum foil into a packet so the beets are sealed. Set the packet on a baking sheet and roast the beets in foil in a 375 degree F (190 C) oven for 1 hour. Remove the beets and let them rest for 30 minutes before opening the foil pack.To remove the skins, simply run the roasted and cooled beets under cold water. The skins should just slip off.
 For potatoes that are crispy on the outside and tender on the inside, wash and cut the potatoes into pieces. Bring a pot of water to boil and add the potatoes. Let the potatoes boil for 5 minutes. Drain the potatoes and transfer them to a bowl. Toss them with olive oil and any seasoning you're using. Spread the potatoes onto a baking sheet and roast them at 500 degrees F (260 C) for 35 to 40 minutes.To ensure even baking, you can use a metal spatula to flip the potatoes halfway through the cooking time.

