 This will help you maintain muscle tone. It won't reverse Parkinson's disease, but it can slow the progression. Focus on low-impact exercises like walking or water aerobics if you have trouble with mobility. Remaining active will help prevent muscle degeneration and will help you stay healthier for longer.Remember to always talk to your doctor before making any changes to your exercise routine.
 Those who suffer with Parkinson’s disease may need to alter their diet to accommodate the changes in their body. Discuss any side effects with your doctor, or get a referral for a nutritionist.You may want to start eating high-fiber foods to help with constipation problems. This includes foods like whole wheat bread or pasta, brown rice, fruits, nuts, and certain vegetables.
Problems with swallowing caused by Parkinson’s may require smaller bites, including more liquid diet options, or avoiding hard, brittle foods.
Decreased mobility and inactivity could cause potential weight gain. In this case, you may need to consult your doctor and/or a nutritionist to maintain a healthy weight.
 If you have Parkinson’s disease, you may need to make adjustments to your home to make it more livable for you. This could include things like purchasing a shower stool, adding grip bars in the bathroom (shower and/or toilet area), moving oft-used items to lower cabinets or shelves, or moving your bedroom downstairs.

An occupational therapist will be able to discuss these potential changes and walk you through the process.
 If your Parkinson’s progresses, you may need assistance handling some everyday activities like bathing, cooking, or cleaning. Your health insurance may cover some of these problems – like providing a person who comes over to help you bathe. But other services may need to be covered by friends and loved ones.There may also be programs available in your area that offer services you could use – like delivering meals to your home or helping you with financial and legal issues.
You may also find support groups with other Parkinson’s patients who can support your emotionally as you adjust to your new situation.
 High stress levels can increase Parkinson’s symptoms and speed up the progression of the disease. Try to maintain low levels of stress in your life in order to manage your Parkinson’s symptoms.If you want to lower your stress levels, you might want to try meditation, calming visualization, deep breathing, or even getting a pet.
Some people also respond well to music therapy as a means of decreasing stress.

