 You can decorate a tiny cardboard box or matchbox with stickers or colored paper. Make sure that you have some soft material or cotton batting inside to nestle the precious tooth in if you use a box.;
, Alternatively, get a book of wallpaper samples, any kind of fancy paper. Cut the paper into strips or shapes; you can fold it up later accordion style, or criss-cross, or origami. Hide this stash of paper, as your child must never see this paper. After all, it comes from the fairy realm!

, Choose something long and fanciful, like Lucinda or Lucien, Esmeralda or Eduardo. Practice writing teeny tiny notes in fanciful handwriting. A rollerball felt pen works best.
 "Wow! You are getting soooo big and grown up!" "These teeth will be perfect for giving to (insert name of newborn relative or friend). "This tooth is so perfect! It's just what we need for a new throne for Queen Dentica!" Offer encouragement and joy to your child. Remember, it's coming from their best fairy friend.
 Try to find special coins with pictures (states, provinces, flowers, Olympics on them). Or use half dollars, or the magically gold-and-silver Canadian toonie, or pound coins. The shinier the coin, the better too. Try to leave something unusual.


If you must use bills or notes, fold them up. See how to make a dollar into an origami shirt.
Spend a little - there are only twenty teeth to "pay" for!

, If your child is a heavy sleeper, have them put the tooth in the container under their pillow - make sure you watch where it goes. If they are a light sleeper, suggest that they put the container on their night stand or window ledge.
 Write out your note, fold your paper, put it and the money into the container. Sprinkle a tiny amount of glitter on the night table or window ledge, make footprints using the very tip of your pinkie. Be sparing with the glitter - love fades, but glitter, as we know, is forever.
 Discard it if you must, but it's a better idea to store it in a secret place - maybe a box up high in the cupboards. It's a nice counterbalance for your child when they discover their secret fairy is just Mom or Dad to see a whole box of teeny-tiny teeth that you saved just for them. They can make art or jewelry or put them in their memory box to show their own children one day. And they will have a whole raft of notes to show those children.
