 Sanitize all the cooking utensils by submerging them in boiling water for several minutes. Dry well with clean paper towels before continuing.

You'll need to maintain a healthy, controlled balance of bacteria when making cheese curds, and that balance could be upset if unsanitary cooking utensils introduce additional bacteria to the ingredients.;
, You don't need to pasteurize the milk if you're already starting with commercially pasteurized dairy, but you should do so if you start with raw milk.

Note that both cow's milk and goat's milk can be used for cheese curds.
To pasteurize milk, heat the milk to 161 degrees Fahrenheit (71.6 degrees Celsius) using a double boiler. Maintain this temperature for 30 minutes, then cool the milk in an ice bath until it reaches 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius).
 Add 1/2 tsp (1.25 ml) of 30% calcium chloride to 1/8 cup (30 ml) of cool, non-chlorinated water. Stir until well-combined.Even though the calcium chloride is already diluted, diluting it further can extend its volume and allow it to spread more evenly throughout the milk.
 In a separate dish, combine 1/2 tsp (1.25 ml) ml of single-strength liquid rennet with 1/4 cup (60 ml) of cool, non-chlorinated water. Stir until well-combined.

Note that you can use 1/2 rennet tablet instead of the liquid rennet. Crush the tablet before adding the water, then stir until dissolved.
 Fill a large stainless steel pot half full with water. Place a smaller pot inside of it, then set the entire assembly on the stove.

Switch the heat onto medium. While the water in the larger pot reaches a simmer, continue to the next step.
Note that the water in the larger pot should never be allowed to boil over the sides of the smaller pot.
 Pour the milk into the smaller pot. Allow it to heat up without stirring it.Attach a cooking thermometer to the side of the pot so that you can closely monitor the temperature. The tip of the thermometer should dip into the milk but should not touch the side or bottom of the metal pan.
 Sprinkle the mesophilic culture over the surface of the milk, then stir it into the liquid until it is thoroughly distributed.

Use a mesophilic culture blend like MA 4000 or MM 100. Alternatively, you can use 1/4 cup (60 ml) of buttermilk instead of the culture.
 Cover the double boiler set-up and hold the temperature at 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius) for 60 minutes.

You may need to reduce or switch off the heat to prevent the temperature from continuing to climb.
The milk must remain at a temperature between 86 and 96 degrees Fahrenheit (30 and 35 degrees Celsius), and it should be allowed to sit for 30 to 90 minutes.
 Pour the calcium chloride onto the ladle and lower it into the milk. Stir well for at least 30 to 60 seconds.

If you chose to use raw, unpasteurized milk, you may wish to omit the calcium chloride since raw milk has more freely distributed calcium in it.
 Sprinkle the rennet over the surface of the milk, then stir it into the milk using an up-and-down motion for 60 seconds.

To help distribute the rennet evenly, pour it over a perforated ladle held over the surface of the milk.
 Still the milk, then cover it and allow it to rest for 30 to 45 minutes.

To still the milk, hold the ladle at the top of the milk until no more ripples form.
The milk mixture should turn into a gel after several minutes. Wait until the gel can be cleanly cut before continuing.
 After the curd has rested, slice into the top of it with a knife to verify that it's ready to work with.

After cutting the slit, insert the wide, flat side of the knife into the curd and lift the curd where the slit ends. The slit should continue forward when you do this, creating an opening with a clean edge.
If the curd isn't ready, allow it to continue cooking for a longer period of time.
 Use a sharp knife to slice the curd into 3/8 to 1/2 inch (0.75 to 1.25 cm) cubes. Keep the size of the cubes as even as possible.

Slice into the curd, separating it into parallel vertical columns.
Turn the knife, then cut through the curd in perpendicular columns, spacing them apart at even intervals.
 Cover the pot and allow the curds to sit, undisturbed, for 3 to 5 minutes.Note that the curds should still be sitting at an approximate temperature of 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius) during this stage.
 Gently stir the curds using an up-and-down motion while raising the cooking temperature. It should eventually reach a range between 100 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38 and 39 degrees Celsius).

This increase must happen gradually, so do not increase the stove heat above medium. Ideally, the increase will take approximately 30 minutes.
If the curds begin to heat up too quick, you should remove the pot from the heat for several minutes to stop the temperature from climbing too fast.
 Cook the cheese curds at this temperature for another 30 to 60 minutes, or until the curds develop an even and springy texture.

Stir the curds every 5 minutes or so while they rest.
You can continue cooking the curds for several minutes after they reach this consistency if you'd prefer a drier texture.
Checking the pH isn't necessary, but if you choose to do so, the pH should be between 6.2 and 6.10.
 Scoop out the curds using a slotted ladle and place them into a colander. Set the colander over the pot and allow the whey to drain.

To make gathering the curds easier, use your hands or the back of the ladle to press the curds into the bottom of the pot. After they form a solid mass, scoop out the mass and place it in the colander.
The colander should rest above the whey and not inside of it. Place a thermometer into the curd, then cover the pot and allow it to rest for 10 to 15 minutes at 98 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius).
When ready, the curds should mat and clump together into a solid mass.
 Remove the curds from the colander and cut the slab in half. Stack the two halves together, cover, and let them sit for 10 to 15 minutes.

You may wish to return the cut, stacked slabs to the colander to keep them warm.
Otherwise, place a bag of warm water measuring 98 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius) on top of the stack slabs to keep them adequately warm.
 Flip the stacked curd slabs over every 10 to 15 minutes over a 2-hour period of time.

Check the texture of the curd after the first 90 minutes. When the curd is ready, it should tear apart like cooked chicken breast.
 Place the curd onto a cutting board and cut it into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces.

Note that the slabs should be flattened to about 1 inch (2.5 cm) by this stage.
Cut the curds into 1-inch (2.5-cm) strips, then cut the strips crosswise into 2-inch (5-cm) long pieces.
 Sprinkle the curds with the salt, then toss gently with your hands or a spoon until all of the salt is dissolved.Cover the salted curds and allow them to sit for 5 to 10 minutes. During this time, the curds should absorb the salt.
More whey may drain away during this step, too. It might be a good idea to let the salted curds sit in your colander for that reason.
 Once the curds absorb all of the salt, they should be ready to enjoy. The fresh curds will create a satisfying "squeak" against your teeth when you bite into them.

To store the curds, place them in a resealable plastic bag and keep them in the refrigerator for up to one week. They will lose their "squeak" after the first day, though.
You can also freeze the curds in a freezer-safe plastic bag for up to 4 months.

