 You can purchase different types of cat tunnels. Crinkle cat tunnels are one type of popular cat tunnels. They make noises as the cat walks, which some cats like and respond to. Some cat tunnels can be connected to other tunnels at the end, and you can buy Y and T shaped pieces to create an intricate network for your cat.Some cat tunnels have dangling toys at one end and holes in the top. Others have soft sides instead of crinkling ones.;
, Paper bags make a great base for cat tunnels. Gather a few paper bags. Cut out the bottoms so the bag is open on both sides. Take the edges and fold them back around one inch to help keep the shape.Place the ends of the bags against one another and tape them together to make a cat tunnel.
 Box tunnels are another great thing you can make your cat yourself. If you have a long box, you can just use it. Make sure both ends are open. Cut the flaps off each end so the openings stay unobscured.For small cats, you can leave the top flap so your cat feels more secure in the box.
If you don’t have one long box, find multiple boxes of similar sizes. Cut off the flaps and tape the boxes together for a long cat tunnel. You can also use the flaps to tape the boxes together.
 Since the cat tunnels are supposed to help the cat venture through the house, use the tunnels to guide the cat to the things they need. Place a few tunnels leading the way to the litter box and another set of tunnels leading to the food.The tunnels will help the cat feel more confident and hopefully soon they will be able to go to these areas on their own.
 Many cats are afraid of open spaces. They may hide in closets or stay under furniture. They only like to walk around the edge of the room, where they are protected by the wall and furniture. To help the cat get out in the open, put a cat tunnel in the middle of the room.Once the cat takes the the tunnel, they will use it to to cross through the open space in the room. The tunnel provides them a safe environment. Once they start venturing out from along the wall into the tunnel, they will hopefully realize that the middle of the room is a safe space for them.
 Tunnels can also be fun for your cat when you play with them. The tunnels can also help nervous or scared cats feel more comfortable and secure when playing. Try placing a toy at the end of the tunnel and wait for your cat to get comfortable and move towards it.For confident cats, you can place a toy near the opening of a cat tunnel and let them use the tunnel for a surprise attack on the toy.
 Instead of using a toy, you can get down on the floor to play with your cat in the tunnel. Get at one end of the tunnel and call the cat to you. You can also hide outside the tunnel and play peek-a-boo with the cat., Some cat tunnels are made of netting or another transparent material so your cat can enjoy the sunshine and fresh air. These outdoor tunnels have covers on the ends that you can close to keep the cat safely inside the tunnel so they can’t run away.
 Some cats immediately love cat tunnels. Others will not like it immediately. They may see the strange object as something suspicious. To help a reluctant cat use the cat tunnel, put a favorite toy or some treats into the tunnel.After a few hours, put the tunnel up if the cat hasn’t started using it and try again later.
You may also want to make sure the tunnel is secure and won’t roll around. That may scare some cats. To secure the tunnel, you can place it between two pieces of furniture or two heavier objects that will keep it in place and stop it from rolling around as the cat walks through it.
 Tunnels are a helpful way to get scared, new, and unconfident cats to leave their comfort zone. To help your cat get used to moving beyond the bedroom or under the sofa, place the tunnels near where your cat spends their time., Cat tunnels are easily collapsible, which means they can be moved or put away whenever you want. If you have a small space or you don’t want the cat tunnel in the floor all the time, you can put it up until you are ready to let your cat use it.