 When you use eyeshadow, choose two or three coordinating colors. You can use two or three colors that go well together or opt for a few different shades of the same color.For example, you might apply a shade of green with some brown or copper eyeshadow. Or, you could apply a dark blue with a light blue eyeshadow.;
, Start by applying the lightest color of eyeshadow to your eyelids. Cover your whole eyelid with the eyeshadow up to the crease. This will provide a great canvas for layering the other color(s) you have chosen to use.








As you add other colors, make sure to leave the inner part of your eyelid alone so that it only has the lighter shade on it.This will help to make your eyes appear brighter.
 Next, you can apply one of the darker shades to the outer edges of your eyelid and to the crease as well.This will help you to achieve a more complex eyeshadow look.








Use an eyeshadow brush to apply the darker corner to the outer edges of your eyelids.
You can also apply this color to your creases for an even more intense look.
 To highlight your eye look, you can also apply a bit of a light, shimmer shade of eyeshadow to the inner corners of your eyelids.Try using a silver or champagne eyeshadow as your highlighter.








Gently pat on the shimmery shade of eyeshadow using an eyeshadow brush. Apply this color to your upper and lower eyelids.
 Eyeliner can make an eyeshadow look even more dramatic. If you like, apply some eyeliner to your upper eyelids right along your lash line. You can use any color you like, such as black, brown, blue, green, or purple.








Black will provide the most dramatic eye look.
Try to coordinate the color of your eyeliner with the color of your eyeshadow. For example, if you applied green and brown eyeshadow, then use a brown or green eyeliner.
 Finish your look with a layer of black mascara. This will accentuate your lashes and make your eye look even more dramatic. Use the mascara brush to sweep on one or two coats of mascara. Apply the mascara from the roots of the lashes to the tips.You can also apply some fake eyelashes for an even more dramatic eye look.

