 The more organic material in your soil, the better chance your plants are going to thrive.Topsoil that is too light in color is lacking this material, and will impede the growth of any plants or food that you are trying to plant. In addition, check the surface of the soil for a light or white residue that may indicate the presence of salts or lime, which are both chemicals that can have toxic effects on a garden or lawn.Extremely black topsoil indicates a lack of minerals in your soil. Look for something that’s dark brown, but not black.If the topsoil you want to buy has already been packaged, ask the owner if he has any sample soil you can look at.
If the soil is blue-green or gray, it means it’s been continuously wet or saturated which is not good for topsoil. Avoid buying soil that looks like this.;
, A quick run of your fingers through the soil will give you a good idea of what it’s made up of. Good topsoil should crumble in your fingers. You should feel the grit in it which indicates minerals that are needed for your plants like phosphorus, magnesium, and calcium. Avoid soil that is too hard, as it indicates low organic matter.Soil that clumps up into balls or large chunks is too rich in clay.
Topsoil that is heavy in clay interferes with plant’s ability to aerate and stops water from effectively reaching the plant’s roots.Look for large stones or weed roots which are also bad for topsoil.
 Ideally your topsoil is going to be a perfect combination of silt, clay, and sand. Place a portion of wet soil in the palm of your hand. Rub the sand around and pour a little more water over it while it's in your hand. As the sand becomes wet, you can physically feel for its properties. Gritty soil indicates high sand, smoothness indicates high silt, and stickiness indicates high clay. The sand should be dark and posses a combination of stickiness, grittiness, and smoothness. Ideally you don’t want any one element dominating your topsoil. It should be an equal combination of all three.You can also see if your soil has any unwanted seeds while doing this.
If the topsoil you’re examining is not ideal, ask the soil seller if he has anything else available.
 Good topsoil will smell sweet. Avoid any soils that have an off-odor or smell like chemicals such as gasoline. This indicates unwanted and unnatural chemicals which can stop plants from growing, and makes for terrible topsoil.Topsoil takes hundreds of years to be created naturally, and decomposition should have already taken place. If the soil in question smells like rotting material, stay clear of it.