 Rabbits are very intelligent and eagerly respond to incentives. This means that strong punishment, such as spanking or yelling at a rabbit, won’t make it more cooperative. If you use incentives correctly, however, most rabbits will respond accordingly.


Food is generally used as motivator, but toys may also be a reward for your rabbit.
Rabbits are prey animals, so if they feel frightened they will usually flee and try to find somewhere to hide. If they exhibit this behavior, it means that you need to find a way to make them feel more comfortable and safe before attempting to train them.;
, Bunnies do not see well directly in front of their faces. Their eyes are set far apart on the head and so they see to the side and far away better than up close.


The rabbit will use scent and whisker feedback to detect anything in the immediate environment more so than sight, so you will want to place treats under the rabbit’s nose and mouth.
You may notice that rabbits change their head position as you get closer. This is an effort to see you better, like a person with bifocals trying to get the glasses and their eyes lined up to see.
Rabbits are prey animals and need to see predators from far away, so that they can run and hide in time to save themselves.Because of this, before you touch it, you need to let the rabbit see and smell you. This will give you an easier time handling the rabbit. By letting it see and smell you, it can verify that you are not a predator, and therefore no danger to it.
 Rabbits respond to kindness and will make excellent companions who will respond positively to your voice and presence if you treat them well. While you must have your rabbit’s respect in order to train it, you’ll be most successful if your rabbit also feels loved and comfortable in your presence.


Not all rabbits enjoy being stroked, but some enjoy it so much that stroking can be an even better incentive than food. Spend plenty of quality time petting your rabbit, and attend to all its basic needs so that it feels secure and comfortable in your home.
Never hold your bunny by the ears! Don't hurt your rabbit. Be kind and gentle to your fluffy friend and it will respond more positively to your training.

