 A British national can hold a UK passport but does not have the automatic right to live and work in the UK. There are quite a few laws that grant British nationality to citizens of current and former overseas British territories, and to people born in those territories who would otherwise be stateless. In some cases the spouse or child of a national may also be able to apply for nationality.If you're not sure whether you qualify for British nationality, contact the UK Visas and Immigration office.
 If you are a British national, you usually qualify to fill out a simpler citizenship application form. You can find these forms at https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-visa-forms#citizenship. Choose a form based on your status:


B(OTA) if you have another citizenship.
B(OS) if you have no other citizenship.
S1, S2, or S3 if you are a stateless person. (See form instructions to find out which form applies to you.)
EM if you are a resident of Hong Kong and were a resident on 4 February 1997.
RS1 if you previously renounced UK citizenship.
UKM (mother) or UKF (father) if you had a British parent but do not have citizenship due to laws at the time of your birth.
 You can register as a citizen if you are below this age and qualify for one of these reasons:If one of your parents has or acquired indefinite leave since you were born, apply with form MN1.
If neither parent is a UK citizen or here on indefinite leave, but you lived in the UK from birth until the age of 10, apply with form T.
If at least one parent was a UK citizen at the time of your birth, or was here on indefinite leave, you are automatically a citizen. There is no need to apply.
 If none of the above instructions describe your situation, but you have some other connection to the UK, contact the UK Visas and Immigration Office. There are many corner cases that may make you a British national.The office of the Home Secretary also has the ability to grant citizenship to anyone under 18, so a compelling case may allow you to bypass the official requirements.Most people 18 or older must apply using the regular process for foreigners living in the UK (see above).

