 As of 2015, Uber has begun accepting cash in some cities in Asia and Africa.It is currently not possible to pay for your Uber with cash in North America or Europe. To find out if cash is accepted in your city:

Visit https://www.uber.com/cities/ and select your city from the list.
Scroll down to the “Riding with Uber.” The accepted payment options in your location are described in this paragraph.
 If cash is accepted in your location, you can sign up for an Uber account without having to enter credit card information. Find the Uber app in the App Store (iPhone) or the Play Store (Android), then tap “Get” or “Install.”

If you are already an Uber member, you don’t need to re-register. Just launch the app, set your pickup location, and select “Cash” as your method of payment.,

Enter your name, e-mail address, phone number, and a password to protect your account.
Tap “Next” when you’re ready to continue. A text message containing a confirmation code will be sent to the mobile phone number you provided.
 This sets your default payment to the cash option., If you do not see a prompt to enter the code, it will show up before you book your first ride., Type your current address into the search box or drag the map around to position the pin on your precise location., Use the slider at the bottom of the map to select a type of Uber vehicle. For a description of each Uber vehicle type, see How to Pick the Correct Uber Type.
 Here you’ll find the ETA (estimated time of arrival), maximum party size, and minimum fare., On the details screen, tap “Get Fare Estimate.” Here, enter the address of your destination and tap it in the search results. You must have enough money in cash to cover the high-end of the estimated fare to request this ride.

Once you’ve viewed the fare, tap your phone’s back button to return to the map.
 Enter your destination address the same way you entered your current location., In a few moments, you’ll see the driver’s name, license plate number, and a short description of the vehicle. Head to the pickup location you specified and waited for your driver.

The app will keep you up to date on how far away your driver is from your pickup location.
When the ride is complete, pay your driver with cash. You will be unable to specify a different form of payment after the trip has begun, so you must have enough cash to cover the trip.

