 An electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) tests electrical activity within the heart. The results of the test are interpreted through line tracings on a piece of paper, which contain a series of spikes and dips known as waves. Aside from detecting heart blocks, an ECG can also be used to:


Identify the cause of chest pain and angina
Identify the presence of heart disease
Identify whether the chambers of the heart are hypertrophied
Check whether certain medications are working
Check whether pacemakers are working.
 Certain medications can interfere with the results of an ECG, therefore it's important to tell your doctor in advance about any prescription or non-prescription medications you are currently taking. You doctor will let you know if you need to stop taking these medications before the ECG or not.


You will need to remove all jewelry before the ECG, especially from the neck and wrists. Men usually need to take their shirt off before an ECG, women will usually be allowed to remain in their bra or vest.
If you have any other concerns about how to prepare for your ECG, speak to your doctor. They should be able to answer any questions you might have.
 When it's time for the ECG, you will be asked to lie on a bed or table. A number of small electrodes will then be attached to areas around your body, like your arms, legs and chest.


Before the electrodes are put in place, your skin will need to be cleaned and possibly shaved to ensure a clean, smooth surface for the electrodes. A paste may be used to attach the electrodes.
A number of wires will connect the electrodes on your body to the ECG machine. This machine traces the electrical activity of your heart onto a piece of paper.
You will be asked to lie very still for the duration of the procedure, which is usually only 5 to 10 minutes. You will also need to refrain from talking and potentially hold your breath., An ECG is a completely safe procedure, and there are no prohibitive factors to getting one. No electricity is passed between the electrodes and your body throughout the procedure, so you are not in danger of getting an electric shock.


The only slight discomfort you might feel during the procedure is if the electrodes feel cold against your skin, and pull or pinch the skin slightly as they are being removed.
 Following the ECG, your doctor will assess the results of the test by examining the pattern of spikes and dips on the paper, which represent the heart's electrical activity.


Depending on the results, your doctor will be able to identify the presence of a heart block (or other cardiac issues) and advise you on the recommended course of treatment, if any.

