
Freshly ground coffee beans ground to espresso setting.
Measuring spoon.
Stirring stick.
Hot water.;
, This is the top of your French press that is comprised of the lid and a rod that screws into the mesh filter.


The mesh filter and the plunger is what you will press down on the coffee grounds and water. The filter separates the grounds from your beverage for drinking. Make sure it is pulled up when you remove it.
 Using a stovetop safe kettle, heat your water.


As your kettle begins to heat the water, warm the glass container of your French press by swirling some hot water in it. Adding a bit of warm water ensures the glass won’t crack from the sudden temperature change when you add boiling water later.
 The grind of your beans is going to be a large factor in how close you get to having a drink that resembles an espresso. If you are buying ground beans, then look for an espresso grind.


If you are grinding your own beans, still look for coffee that says "espresso beans" or "espresso". While there is no actual espresso type of bean, often commercial roasters will have an espresso bean. This will give you a taste and consistency to which you are used to because it is roasted to bring out the espresso flavor.
If you grind your own beans, you will want a grinder that can offer you an espresso grind. Burr grinders are grinders which actually grind the beans between two burrs. These grinders crunch up a few beans at a time and grind the bean into a nice even powder.
Blade grinders can be effective as well. However, with a blade grinder, you’re using a sharp propeller to chop the beans. This method can be less consistent. The espresso ground is very fine. It is finer than what you would have if you were grinding beans for a regular French press or a drip coffee maker. The fine ground contributes to the flavor and ability to mix with the hot pressure of water. You don’t want an espresso grind to be so fine that it goes through your filter. The problem with this fine of a grind in a French press is that the filter has a larger mesh. It should be like sand. You may then want to make your grind slightly more coarse, but not much. Unless you don’t mind a bit of grounds in the bottom of your cup.
 Pour roughly 36 grams (1.3 oz) of grounds into your press.


This part is a bit tricky because you are trying to make espresso. Which when prepared in an espresso machine uses about 16-21 grams of grounds per 1 cup of water. Since your French press is larger, try doubling your proportions. You’ll have some espresso left over but that’s ok.
 Then after a few seconds add the remainder of your two cups of water.


Your water should not exceed 200° F, around 195° F is ideal.
Before pouring in your full two cups of water, just add a splash to let the grounds flour and bloom. This will open the grounds up and let the flavors really come out.
 Give the brew a quick stir with a long-handled spoon to prevent clumps and add a nice frothy consistency. Then push the lid/filter assembly down until it just rests on the water.


Don’t plunge your filter down yet. You need to let the coffee steep.
 Let it steep until the coffee is is very dark (about 3-4 minutes).


The longer you steep, the stronger your coffee will be. However, this does not mean that you should steep your espresso too long just to get a stronger, more espresso-like flavor.
Steeping is another area for experimentation. Just be aware of one rule: The length of steep time controls extraction. Too short and the coffee will be under-extracted and sour; too long and the coffee will be over-extracted and bitter.
 Hold the lid to steady and press the plunger down slowly in a steady, even manner until it stops.


You may want to experiment with plunging halfway, bringing it up, and then plunging it down all the way to create a thin layer of foam.
 Pour your coffee through a clean cloth or a coffee filter if you want to catch any of the very fine sediment.


Note that pouring through a paper filter will alter the consistency and flavor of your drink slightly. The paper will catch some of the texture of your drink, and possibly transfer an oily essence as your coffee steeps through.

