 Only use products that are approved for computer use—Applying unapproved products could harm your computer, so check labels before making any purchases.

Don’t use any solvents, aerosol sprays, abrasives, or cleaners with hydrogen peroxide in them. This can damage the finish of the computer.
Use only lint-free, soft cloths. Avoid anything that might be abrasive, including paper towels or textured cloths.;
, Cleaning a computer that is still running could compromise any open documents or programs. Be sure the computer is not in sleep mode, but completely powered down.


If you have a removable battery, remove it. Make sure you detach the power adapter, too.
 Carefully blow air into the keyboard, screen and ports.


Go over those areas a few times if you haven’t cleaned the computer in a while.
Avoid allowing any liquid from the air duster to spill onto your computer. If this happens, dry the liquid, wait a few minutes and shake the can before re-applying.
 This will brush away any dust that emerged from the air duster.


Brush outwards carefully at the ports to remove dust.
 Apply a small amount of water or cleaner to a soft cloth, not the screen; then use the cloth to polish. Avoid getting this liquid in any ports or openings.


Work in a circular motion to avoid streaking.
 This is a great added touch for screens that are especially dirty.
 Avoid getting moisture in any openings. Do not spray any type of liquid directly on the computer.


Apply to the computer body, both inside and outside the laptop.
Polish the keyboard with a cloth that's only very slightly damp. Stick to only a small amount of water for best results; if you do decide to use a cleaner, make sure it's labeled as safe for computers, and use only a very small amount, applied to the cloth (not the keyboard itself). Remove any excess cleanser so that it doesn't damage the MacBook's finish.
You can also use dry cotton swabs to get any dirt that's stuck between keys.
For the trackpad, be especially careful not to use any cleaning solutions, since the area is very delicate. Use a barely damp, lint-free cloth to wipe it, and then make sure you dry it immediately with another clean, lint-free cloth.
Don’t neglect underneath the computer. Actually, that is one area that is certain to be dirty. For the nonslip rubber on the bottom of some Macbook models, make sure you use a dye-free cloth to prevent discoloration.
 At this stage you are polishing and removing any leftover cleaning agents.

