 Right-click the desktop and a context menu will pop-up. Click “Personalize” from the menu. This will open the “Settings/Personalization” menu. The “Personalization” window is divided into two panes: the left pane contains the things you can personalize and the right pane contains personalization options available for what is highlighted in the left pane.


Another way of accessing the “Settings/Personalization” menu is to click/tap the Windows icon at the bottom left of the desktop. Select “Settings” from the Start menu. This opens the “Settings” window. From the “Settings” window, choose (by clicking/tapping) “Personalization”. This will open the “Settings/Personalization” menu.;
, By default (because it is the first on the list in the left pane), the “Background” section is highlighted when you open the “Personalization” menu. If the “Background” section is not highlighted, click/tap on it so that “Background” is highlighted.


When you choose (highlight) the “Background” section, the options for setting or changing the desktop background appears in the right pane. At the top of the right pane, you will see a preview of the desktop background. This changes as you choose the background you want.
 Below the preview pane is a choice box labeled “Background,” from which a drop-down menu of background types will appear. Click/tap this “Background” choice box and choose “Picture” from the drop-down menu that will appear. When you select “Pictures,” the “Choose your picture” option will appear below the choice box.
 Below the “Choose your picture” label are four thumbnails (small previews of larger pictures). These are either the sample pictures provided by Windows 10 or the most recent pictures that you used as desktop background. Clicking/tapping one of these will set that picture as your desktop background. You will notice that when you choose a picture, the preview pane will reflect your choice and your desktop background is changed to the selected picture.
 If none of the sample or recent pictures is the one you want, click the “Browse” button located below the thumbnails in order to look for and select a picture you have on file. A dialog box labeled “Open” will appear. By default, the “Open” dialog box opens to the “This PC >> Pictures” folder. If the picture you want is not in the “This PC >> Pictures” folder, navigate to the folder where your preferred picture is located using the folders on the left pane and/or double-clicking (or double-tapping) the folders on the right pane.


When you have located your preferred picture, click on it and then click “Choose picture,” which is located at the bottom left part of the “Open” dialogue box. After you click “Choose picture,” the “Open” dialog box closes, and your desktop background will be changed to the picture you selected.
If you are satisfied with the fit of your picture with respect to your desktop (that is, the picture is not pixelated or distorted when made as a desktop background) you only have to close the “Personalization” window and you’re done. If you are not satisfied with how your selected picture looks like as a desktop background, you must determine how the selected background picture will fit into the desktop screen.
 Digital pictures (photos, images, patterns) come in different sizes, proportions and dimensions. So do computer or tablet screens. Thus, in some cases, pictures will look distorted or pixelated when used as desktop background. Windows 10 allows you to choose how the picture will fit into your desktop screen. To do this, click/tap the choice box labeled “Choose a fit,” which is located below the “Browse” button.


If you choose “Fill,” your selected picture will be resized so that it will fill up the whole screen. The picture will not be distorted as it will be resized proportionately. Note that “Fill” is the default fit.
If you choose “Fit,” your selected picture will be resized proportionately until either its height or width reaches the boundaries of the screen.
If you choose “Stretch,” your selected picture will be stretched to fit the screen with no regard to proportion. “Stretch” will cause distortions to pictures whose dimensions differ significantly from that of the screen. “Stretch” can work with certain patterns and images (for example, an aerial view of a forest or clouds in the sky).
If you choose “Tile,” the size of the picture will not be changed. Instead, the picture will be multiplied and put side by side until the entire screen is covered. “Tile” works particularly well with small patterns.
If you choose “Center,” your selected picture will be placed at the center of the screen without the picture being resized. If the size and dimensions of the picture is smaller than that of the screen, the space around the selected picture will be surrounded by a solid color.
“Span” will place one portion of the picture in one monitor and continue it in the other monitors.
 Once the picture background is set the way you want it, just close the “Personalization” window. To do this, click/tap the “Close” button (×) at the upper right-hand corner of the window. That’s it. You have successfully changed your desktop background to show a preferred picture.

