 If you work in an office or cubicle of some kind, you don’t want someone to walk up behind you without you knowing it. Arrange your computer so you are facing the entrance to your area. If you have non-work windows open, you can quickly close them without them being seen.In many cubicle-style settings, your desk will be set up in a fixed position. At the very least, turn your screen away from the entrance and angle your chair toward the entrance.;
, Peel off four or five sticky notes and write messages on them. Even peel off a few and leave them blank at different spots on your desk in case you need one in a hurry. Set out binders and open them to project pages. Leave a few documents that look like what you should be doing.


Don't bring things from home that don't look like work. Use old projects or make some decoy documents that look like what you'd be working on.
There may be a fine line between a messy, work in progress desk and a desk that is just a mess. Keep things in check so it doesn't get too out of hand.
 Keyboard shortcuts allow you to toggle between windows and tabs. Use this trick to switch from watching internet videos to checking over the latest customer data. Practice the shortcut so you can tap it quickly without thinking.Use Alt+Tab on PCs to switch from one window to another window. On Macs, use command+tab to switch between open applications.
Use Ctrl+Tab on PCs to switch between tabs within the same window. On Macs, use control+tab to switch between tabs in the same window.
For example, if you have a Mac laptop, open iTunes, two different tabs on Safari, and Garageband. Hold command and press tab to switch from iTunes to Safari. Then hold control and press tab to switch from one Safari tab to the other Safari tab.
 If you are an accountant, always have a couple of spreadsheets open. If you do graphic design, have a couple sketches that you're "working" on. Open these tabs first thing in the morning, or set them to open automatically when you open a browser.


Never close all of your tabs so just your desktop is showing. An essentially blank screen will be a dead giveaway that you are not doing anything.
Email, Word, Google docs, business websites, news sites, are all good to keep open, depending on what type of work you do.
 The key to looking like you are busy is to always be doing something. If you appear to be sitting completely still, it’s going to be obvious you aren’t working. Anytime you get bored or have a lull in your work, grab a notebook and start writing something or peck quickly on your keyboard.It doesn’t matter what you are typing or writing, if you seem to be paying close attention to it, you’ll look busy.
This works better if you have a document on hand that is work-related. If you are asked, show the decoy document as proof of what you’re doing.
 Slacking off without being noticed has a lot to do with how you look. If you are slouching in your chair, leaning against something, or staring off into space, you’ll look lazy. Good posture and keeping your eyes on something that looks like work will do a lot for your image.If you stand while you work, don’t be caught sitting down or leaning up against something.
If you’re going to zone out, make sure you have some work out in front of you and keep your head pointed toward the work stuff.
 Being on the phone, if it’s part of your job, is a great way to look busy. If the phone is slow sometimes, dial your desk phone from your cell and then answer the desk phone. Depending on how good you are at acting, it’s easy to kill 10-15 minutes a few times a day on fake phone calls.You’ll probably want to have a plan for what the fake phone call is supposed to be about. If you seem to be rambling or not making sense, it will be obvious you are faking it.
If you want to really put some effort into it, write up a script for a standard conversation you’d have at work. Write dialogue for two people, but make sure you only read the part that makes sense for you to say.

