 The best way to avoid someone, and the conversation they may want to have with you, is to be aware of when they are or might be around. Be aware of their schedule as well as of your surroundings.


Pay attention to which routes they take, where they normally hang out, what times they leave and arrive.
This way you will know what places to avoid and when.
Pay attention to what is going on around you so that you spot them before they spot you.;
, If you happen to run into them, don’t give them the opportunity to start a conversation with you. If at all possible leave the area before the person sees you. If you can’t leave the area, then avoid a conversation with them by appearing very busy.


Calmly, but briskly walk away. Avoid looking behind you because they could be trying to get your attention.
Do not make eye contact. As soon as you see them, look away before they can make eye contact with you. Act naturally, but look at your watch, your phone, your computer, anything but them.
If you are seen by the person, a smile and a small nod may allow you to continue on your way. Don’t break stride when you do it.
Absorb yourself in some work, a phone call, or something that makes you seem far too busy to talk.
 Because so many people use social networking, where you are, what you are doing, and who you are with is almost public information. The person you are trying to avoid could use it as an easy way to contact you.


If you are ‘checking-in’ everywhere you go or using a location tag on your posts, the person will know exactly where to find you. Also, don’t post picture of where you are. Wait until later or even until the end of the week to post pictures of places you have been.
Some apps and sites indicate when you are logged on allowing the person to know when to try to contact you.
Responding to public posts or sharing posts of your own, but not responding to that person is a clear sign that you are avoiding them. If you don’t want them to take it personally, avoid a social media presence until you can stop avoiding them. You may even have the option to prevent certain people from seeing your posts depending on what social media site you are using.
Consider unfriending or blocking them for a while. Although it may be extreme, if you are truly trying to avoid them and the conversation they want to have, you may need to do this. Blocking them will prevent them from finding you in a search, so they may believe that you are not currently on social media.

