 Most people don't realize that there are a variety of different kernel types, and they have slightly different effects on the texture of your kettle corn. For the classic, "exploded" kernel, with it's thin, rough edges, you can use "movie popcorn." For softer, hull-less popcorn, use the "tender" variety. For the big, ballooning kernels popular at state fairs, you should look for "mushroom popcorn," which retains a rounder shape.Unless you live near a specialty store, you may have to order these versions online.
 This variation is a delicious, spicy-sweet take on kettle corn for those who don't just want something sweet. As soon as the popcorn is finished, sprinkle the chipotle powder and squeeze half a lime over the popcorn, stirring quickly. Spread and cool like normal.For an even spicier popcorn, add 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper as well.
 The most common choices are coffee syrups, the same ones used for flavored lattes. Make a note of the ingredient list on the syrup -- if they contain a lot of sugar, consider cutting the sugar to 1/4 cups. Simply add the syrup when the popcorn goes in and cook like normal., To make this delicious variation, put 2/3 cups (160ml) brown sugar, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, and 3 tablespoons butter in a bowl and microwave for 30 seconds, until hot. Cook the popcorn like normal and, right before pouring it out to cool, pour the hot butter mixture over the popcorn and stir quickly. Cool like normal.


Note -- the butter mixture should still be hot when poured, so don't be afraid to reheat it for 10-15 seconds if needed., Cook 4 slices of bacon in a pan, keeping all of the excess grease, and let it cool. Cut the bacon into small pieces and toss with 1 tablespoon maple syrup, setting aside. Use the excess bacon grease in place of the normal 3 tablespoons oil, supplementing more vegetable oil if you don't quite have enough, and use it to cook the kettle corn like normal. Once the popcorn is done, stir in the maple bacon and cool as you normally would.


You may want to lower the sugar to 1/4 cup (60ml), as the maple syrup will add some sweetness.
Consider cutting some of the salt from the recipe, as the bacon has plenty.