 A water fast is when a person does not eat or drink anything but water for a set period of time. This obviously results in rapid weight loss because your body is not taking in any calories through food. However, the weight you lose through fasting will come back when you start eating again. In fact, because your metabolism slows down to deal with the lack of energy coming in through food, you may gain back more weight than you lost in the first place when you start eating again.If you’re trying to lose permanent weight, you should drink plenty of water in concert with balanced meals and regular exercise.
However, if you need to drop a few pounds for an event, a water fast might be a quick solution for you.



However, people with some medical conditions should not fast under any circumstances. Diabetics, for example, need to regulate their blood sugar with food throughout the day. Consult your doctor before beginning a fast.
Children, the elderly, pregnant or breastfeeding women, and people with chronic illness should not fast.
Even otherwise healthy people will feel negative side effects while fasting. When you stop eating, your body doesn’t have an energy source; as a result, you will feel fatigue and dizziness. You may also feel nausea or suffer from constipation, and, obviously, you will feel very hungry.
You may want to consider a clean eating cleanse instead. Focus on eating lean proteins, vegetables, fruit, nuts (i.e. almonds and cashews), and complex carbohydrates like sweet potatoes, brown rice, and quinoa, for at least 48 hours.
 You may see recommendations for 21 or 30-day fasts online, but these are extremely dangerous if not under direct medical supervision. If you choose to fast, do so only for the three or four days before the event for which you’re preparing. Beyond that, you will be so fatigued and dizzy that you may hurt yourself or others just going about your daily life., If you have a big deadline coming up at work, or you’re going to be taking a road trip, you shouldn’t fast. The side effects will impede your ability to concentrate, and you’ll end up doing a bad job or being dangerous behind the wheel of a car.


Don’t try to exercise while fasting, either, as you have no excess calories to burn off. It will only make you feel terrible! Ideally, you should have a stress-free, low-energy stretch of days during which you can lay about.
 You want to look great on that day, not nauseous, tired, and dizzy! Don’t rush back into fatty foods immediately, as they can cause digestive problems after a fast. Instead, eat healthy, low-fat foods like fruits and vegetables to get you back on track for your big day.

