 To perform the Nae Nae correctly, the muscles in your legs and arms need to be loose and warmed up. Do some shallow squats, bending your knees slightly before standing back up. Roll your shoulders up and down. You can also rock your shoulders forward and back, loosening up your back., To make the base stance of the Nae Nae, stand with your knees shoulder width apart. Bend your knees slightly, making a shallow angle with your knees. This is called the defense pose.








You don't want to bend your knees too much. This will overextend your knee muscles and will make your movements stiff. You will also tire out more quickly.
 Once you've bent your legs, start rocking back and forth. Engage your legs muscles, moving yourself from side to side at a moderate pace. You can also move your arms and shoulders in time with your rocking motion, making it a whole body movement.








Don't rock too fast. This will cause you to lose your balance or hurt yourself.
 Hold one arm above your head and the other down at your side. It doesn't matter if you have your right or left arm raised. You can start with either arm in this position.








Remember to keep your arms loose. You don't have to lock your elbows, and you can bend your arms slightly if you like.
 Once you master the steps, it's time to incorporate them all together. First, pick a song with a good tempo. Once you have your song on, do all the steps together. Bend your knees and hold your arms in position, rocking back and forth to the beat.









Hip hop songs work great for this dance. Try the song "Do the #Nae Nae" by WeAreToonz. They wrote the song specifically for this dance.Try this dance in front of a mirror if you can't seem to get the moves right. This way, you can see how you are moving your body and change any move you are doing incorrectly.
 Don't worry so much about sticking strictly to the basic steps. Once you've gotten the hang of the basic steps, you can incorporate a swagger to your moves, swinging your hips more as you rock back and forth. You can also move your arms and shoulders around, shimmying your shoulders back and forth as you rock your body.








Feel free to switch your arms back and forth as well, holding your right arm up for three or four counts and then switching arms., While you are doing the basic Nae Nae, think about some dance moves you can do during the freestyle portions, which are called the Four Counts. You can incorporate any dance that you want, as long as it lasts the four counts that are dedicated to freestyle moves.
 Once you've done the Nae Nae for awhile, it's time to break into your freestyle. Start your freestyle, do the moves for four counts, and then move back into the Nae Nae. You can do the freestyle as many times as you like, moving from the basic move to the freestyle and back every few counts.









Try doing another dance move you love, such as the Dougie or Macarena. You can create new dance moves of your own. You can even amp it up a notch by doing a head stand or back flip.There is no one way to do freestyle. This portion is all about you and doing whatever dance move you feel you want to perform. Just listen to the music and trust your instincts.
 Although there are specific moves that are considered the Nae Nae, it is meant to be a social dance that you can enjoy doing in large groups. Try it out with some friends, feeding off their energy and excitement. You can also take turns doing freestyle, incorporating their moves into yours.







