 Use about 1/4 or 1/2 teaspoon when starting out.


Tinctures, capsules, and cayenne drinks are the most effective way to use cayenne when fighting high blood pressure; however, in addition to getting cayenne in drinks, capsules, and tinctures, you can have a few snacks or meals that incorporate cayenne.
Take a measure of your blood pressure before starting your cayenne pepper regimen so that you can track it as time goes on.
If you’re using cayenne capsules, you can take anywhere between 30 and 120 milligram capsules three times daily.
 If you haven’t been taking 1/2 teaspoon already, start taking that amount after one week. If you’ve already been taking 1/2 teaspoon, you’ll want to level up to 3/4 teaspoon. You can take it once daily or divide the amount between several meals or drinks.


Measure your blood pressure again at this point to see what kind of progress you’re making. If you aren’t noticing a change, consider adding more cayenne to your diet.
For instance, use three-quarters of a teaspoon instead of half a teaspoon.
 For instance, assuming you eat three meals per day, use 1/3 teaspoon with each meal. Take another measurement of your blood pressure after using it at this level for a week. If your results are satisfactory, reduce your daily intake slightly.


If your blood pressure has not declined to a normal level at this point, continue taking cayenne pepper three times daily until it does. Add more (up to 1 teaspoon, three times a day) if you wish to accelerate the process.
Continue to monitor your blood pressure. If it starts ticking back up, add more cayenne to your diet.
 Due to the variability of individual human bodies, it is best to talk to your doctor about whether cayenne can help you lower your blood pressure. The claims behind the healing properties of cayenne might not apply to everyone. Your doctor will help you figure out how much you should take based on your personal medical history and whether you might do better with other medical interventions that could lower blood pressure.

