 Think of them as your furry baby. You'll need to spend a lot of time with them, care for them, and buy them the things they need. Before you decide on a dog, do a bit of research to find the kind of dog that will be best for you. Some breeds are easier to care for than others, and some dogs will need special care for disabilities or illnesses. If you have the time and money for it, always try to get a dog like this. They are difficult to find homes for and are usually put down by shelters.;
,, Dogs are very social animals, so you need to pay lots of attention to them to make them feel happy and loved. Pet them and play with them every day. Getting another dog is usually a good idea to prevent them from getting lonely, if you have the space and money for it and you have enough room

, When your dog is a puppy, they will need to go to bed early. Make sure you have a comfy bed for them to sleep in and that they go to bed as often as they need to. On average, dogs need about 12-14 hours of sleep, but may need more or less depending on their breed, size and age., Provide fresh water at all times.
 If your dog isn't eating, you might want to try changing the brand of food that you're giving them; however, they may be sick, and will need to see a vet if they still won't eat.
 If dogs aren't walked enough, they may develop heart problems, become overweight, or develop destructive tendencies. Remember not to overwork your dog: they need to build stamina the same way humans do, so you want to take it easy on them at first, especially if they're already overweight.
 Make sure you buy a quality brush that fits the needs of your dog's coat. You should also be sure to wash your dog when ever they get too dirty, but not too often, as your dog's skin may become too irritated; bathing your dog every week or every other week is too often. If they don't like bathing, be sure to reward them afterwards. If you're having trouble grooming your dog by yourself, or they have a difficult coat to look after, take them to a groomer every six to eight weeks, depending on how fast their hair and nails grow.
 When training your dog, make sure it's in a big place such as a park or a big backyard.


Always reward your dog, with a treat or a pet, when it has done something well during training. This will reinforce that they are doing a good thing, and will make them listen to your commands more often

, If you are away on vacation, make sure to leave your dog with a pet-sitter or at a kennel so that they are taken care of, even without you there.

