 Becoming a full-time stress management counselor requires that you seek higher education. Take psychology and science classes to prepare yourself, and engage in activities that hone your communication skills.;
, This degree will teach you about the anatomical structure of the brain, human behavior and the major theories of treatment in psychology. It may also require you to spend clinical time observing and helping psychologists in their practice.
 Spending time working with psychologists and counselors will create valuable professional relationships, and it will also give you a good idea of how you want to specialize in later study.
 This test is required for people who are applying to graduate school. The necessary score required differs between universities.
 Few people start clinical practice in psychology with a bachelor's degree. Apply for schools that offer courses in stress management, if possible.
 While studying and writing your thesis, you may be asked to specialize. If possible, choose stress management, behavioral management, workplace counseling or cognitive behavioral therapies, which will help in a stress management practice later on.
 Many graduate schools require that their psychology or counseling students do at least 1 semester of clinical practice before graduation. Look for residencies in behavioral management.
 Contact your state or national license board. You will most likely need to take an exam, prove a sum of clinical hours have been completed, take an ethics test and undergo observation.
 In order to get professional experience, you may choose to work as a psychologist or counselor in a more general practice before you become a full-time stress management counselor.
 These courses are available online, at colleges or at continuing education seminars. Enroll in a comprehensive course that gives you a stress management certification at completion.
 This profession can be useful to a number of different organizations and individuals. Consider the following methods:


Slowly develop a stress management private practice. This course of action takes time, because you must develop your client base from personal or medical referrals. Get in touch with hospitals, clinics and doctors who may recommend stress management to their patients. They may be able to prescribe stress management counseling.
Contact companies or human resources (HR) departments. You may be able to become a workplace stress management counselor or train HR departments to handle stress in the workplace.
Apply to be a stress management counselor at a university or college. Many students become stressed out as they study for degrees. Some schools employ people to counsel the students and teach them how to handle stress.
 This will help you stay on top of new methods and opportunities.

