 Although the desktop software works for computer versions, for tablet users and users who fear using desktop software on the Windows PC, you can open the app from the Start screen.


Open your Start screen and type in "Internet Explorer" or open the search charm and type this phrase in. When the list displays, make sure it's been pinned to the Start menu, otherwise it'll open in the desktop version. Most new Windows 8.1 and Windows RT 8.1 devices come with this preinstalled to the desktop, but the user might have disabled it from the desktop.

If you chose to make any other browser (such as Google Chrome) the default browser the desktop should use, the Internet Explorer metro app will tell the user that this app can't be used until the changes have been made (and then you'd need to close this version and go back into the app).


Look for and click the blue "e" icon with the words Internet Explorer as an app on your Start screen.;
, It'll look fresh and clean, though at first it'll look like you're missing some options that every web browser requires - the address bar, back, forward, stop and refresh button. Don't worry;they are all easy to find.
 This should bring up your "missing" options and almost-required usability features for using this app including the address bar, back, forward, stop and refresh buttons along with other buttons. If you are using a desktop PC with Windows 8.1, be thankful as the address bar stays open.
 The address bar can be found just to the right of the back button near the left corner of the screen.
, When a page is loading, is the only time the Stop button will be displayed.
 This button will allow you to see what tabs have been utilized through all of your synchronized Windows 8.1 PCs through the Internet Explorer app.
 Also, this button will contain another button on the right top corner of the expanded item that will allow you to add a favorite or pin the found webpage as a site to the Start screen. You can also share pages with the share button inside this expandable list.
 Also, utilize this button to view options or transfer the current page to the desktop version of Internet Explorer (if you don't like the app that much, or the page won't display for some reason in the app).

