 If your cat is constantly scratching at a couch, or won't quit leaving a layer of fur on the back of a chair, an easy and effective technique can be to line the surface with a sheet of aluminum foil. The sound and the texture of the foil is undesirable for the cat, and they'll usually avoid it. You can always remove the foil when you're using the chair or company is coming over.


Some cat owners have also reported success using strips of masking tape on the arms of couches or pillows to create a strange texture the cats won't like. Sticky side up or down, it can be an effective repellent.
It's also effective to use scented repellents on small sheets or pieces of foil to make the cat less attracted to the area. These scents are discussed in the following step.;
, Citrus-scented cleaners are the most effective at keeping cats off of surfaces, so citrus cleaners are great to use on counter tops, around appliances, and gently on furniture and other places in your home where you do not want your cats to go.


Lemongrass, lavender, and coleus are other natural cat-repellent scents. Try tossing lavender and citrus peels in small bowls and place them on shelves next to breakable items, or other places where you do not want your cats to go. Add essential oils in those same scents to increase the smell, if necessary. Spray lavender or citrus fabric fresheners on rugs to keep cats out of certain rooms in the house. You can also use these sprays on other soft surfaces, such as curtains and bed spreads, to deter cats from those places.
Commercial cat repellents are often made from fox urine, or the waste of other predators. It's probably not something you want to spray indoors, but the use of repellent is discussed in the following method.
 If your cat won't stay off your fern, or keeps climbing up and messing with the couch she always claws, use a little water to flick onto the cat. You can keep a small glass of water close by to the place you're trying to repel the cat from, dip your finger in, and flick some water around to discourage the cat.


Better yet, buy a couple small toy squirt-guns and hide them at strategic places around the house so you'll always have an armament close by. When you use it, aim at the cat's body. Avoid its face, as a strong stream might actually hurt the cat's eyes or nose.
Do it calmly, without raising your voice. It should be the water that the cat associates with the location, and the discomfort, not your presence or your voice., Clicking spoons together, snapping your fingers, or yelling are not effective ways at getting your cat to stay off of surfaces or objects. You'll get the results you want in the short term–the cat will run away and hide somewhere, probably. Long-term, though, cats will come to react that way whenever they hear the sound of your raised voice, two things clicking, or snapping sounds. You'll be training your cat to be skittish, but not to avoid the object you want avoided.
 Is it any wonder your cat wants to curl up on your super-soft comforter and take a nap? If you want to keep your cat off your bed, you need to provide a comfortable and equally-inviting sleeping alternative for the cat. Not all cats like to sleep in beds, but little spaces with furry warm blankets are inviting and pleasant. Prepare a box with an old blanket, and sprinkle a little catnip in there to make it more enticing.


If your cat is scratching furniture, it's absolutely essential that you get a scratching post and tend to the cat's nails regularly. Cats with their claws must regularly scratch things, so you need to provide them a surface to dig into.
It's also a good idea to make surfaces you want the cat to avoid as difficult to get to as possible. Cats are obviously sneaky jumpers and creepers, so this can be difficult, but trying to remove jumping surfaces and other objects the cat uses to perch on can help to keep them off high surfaces and difficult-to-reach spots.

