 If your dog usually eats well and decides to stop, it is imperative that you seek vet attention. Problem teeth, sores in the mouth, or more serious health issues can affect your dog's appetite.


Your veterinarian can also weigh your dog and give you a goal weight to aim for.
 If the dog is acting tired, lethargic, in pain, or if he has an distended belly, dull coat, or rumbling noises from his stomach, take him to a vet. Seeing worms in the dog's stool is an obvious sign of parasites, which require vet attention.
 Torsion is when a dog's stomach twists into a knot. This is very serious and can lead to the death of your dog within hours. If you suspect torsion, roll your dog on his side and gently palpate (push) his abdomen in several places. Any unnecessary agitation on the dog's part may indicate torsion and should be checked with a vet immediately.


Do not play rough, go for a run, or do strenuous activity for at least an hour after eating. Doing so can lead to torsion.
 Another reason a dog may be refusing to eat (or not even acknowledging the fact you have provided food) is if they have had a recent vaccination. Although these injections save many pets every year, they may also have an adverse effect. This is usually minor, lasting for about 2-3 days at the absolute most. If it lasts longer, contact a vet right away as it may be a serious illness.
 Pull the dog's lip up gently to check his teeth, if any are missing, or if they look very brown, stink, or have visible buildup, he is probably in too much pain to eat well. Take him to a vet if any teeth are loose, badly chipped, missing, or falling out.


The vet can teach you how to clean your dog's teeth regularly.
 Your veterinarian may prescribe a special diet to address your dog's health issues. Your dog may not enjoy the diet, but it's important to make sure it eats enough to meet its nutritional needs.
 If the dog refuses to eat its special diet, or its health declines further, visit the vet right away. Your dog may need further medication or a liquid diet.

