 What are the key ideas that your audience will take from the speech? What do you want them to remember when your speech is over and they return home?Avoid opening with any statements that will make your audience doubt your credibility. Don't say "I wasn't given any time to prepare" or "I have been too stressed to focus on this." Even if you haven't prepared thoroughly, pretend like you have.
Signpost your points. For example, in the introduction you could say something like "Today I'll begin by talking to you about how to start a small business. I'll follow that with some marketing advice, and later I'll be talking about how to continue to grow your business.";
, The content and structure of your introduction will depend on the level of knowledge and interest of your audience. Are you speaking to an audience at a conference, where they might already have some knowledge or your topic? Or is this an audience that you are unfamiliar with and that has no prior knowledge of your topic?Consider the demographic of your audience. Are your listeners family members, friends or colleagues? Are you speaking on a cultural, scientific, political or economic issue? Are the members of your audience from very similar backgrounds or are they more diverse?If your audience is already generally informed on your topic, don't spend your introduction explaining very basic concepts. Your audience might find this to be insulting or patronizing.If your audience is uninformed on your topic, explain why they should care about it. How does it affect them? What should they gain from listening to your speech? Avoid using any jargon or complicated concepts that your audience might not be familiar with. They might easily become disinterested and distracted from your words., The introduction should be short, only about 10% of the length of the total speech. You have a limited amount of time to keep your audience captivated, so getting to the heart of your speech is important.Give yourself time to give your audience a map of your points, but don't use the introduction as a way to delay actually making those points in the body of your speech.
 How did you first become interested in the subject of your speech? How has your interest evolved since then?A very clear example or anecdote will draw in your audience early and help sustain their attention throughout the speech. For example, you could begin by saying "I didn't start out a small business owner. I started out as a veterinarian, but after a few years I realized that my heart really lay in entrepreneurship. I'm here today to share my passion with you."

, A joke will help capture your audience's interest and also give them a sense of your personality, making you more relatable and engaging.


If you are giving a speech in a professional setting, be sure to avoid profanity and anything that might offend some of your audience members. Stick to neutral jokes.
If you are giving a best man or maid of honor speech at a wedding, make sure your jokes are tasteful and don't include anything that could be truly hurtful toward the bride or groom or their families. Remember: it's a toast, not a roast., If humor is not an appropriate hook for your audience, use another rhetorical device to capture their interest. Is there a question you would like for the audience to consider as you give your speech? Is there an important metaphor or allegory you are using to illustrate your overall points? If so, then include these in your introduction.If you have an inspiring quote you want to use to represent your points, then you can consider using this as well. But beware of using anything that is too cliche or trite. It might prompt your audience to doubt your originality.
 Introducing a speech is an auditory experience; you have to make sure it can be followed by the ear, not the eye.


Generally avoid long, rambling sentences or cramming multiple ideas into one long sentence. Your audience will struggle to follow your train of thought if you don't provide pauses in your speech.
Use simple, common language. Unless you are speaking to an audience with specialized knowledge, you should avoid using any jargon or obscure vocabulary.Read with a highlighter in hand. If you cannot read a sentence in one normal breath, highlight it. It's too long, and you'll need to shorten it.
 If you speak in obscure, abstract language, your audience will quickly lose interest. Instead, incorporate concrete examples to support your ideas.


Imagine trying to draw an image with words as you tell a story. If you are using an anecdote, give compelling details that are relevant to the story. Describe important details, like the physical setting of the story and your emotional reaction to specific events.
For example, in a best man speech you could say something like "The first time I met Jake, he was covered in mud and bruised from head to toe. We had just finished running the Tough Mudder race, and right from the start, I knew he was going to be a one-of-a-kind friend."

, You will find the introduction is a good time to discuss any visual aids you are incorporating into the speech. Perhaps you have a powerpoint, a slideshow or a handout. Alert your audience to your plan to refer to this aid in the speech.

You can also include an key quote or example on a visual aid that encapsulates your main thesis (or argument) in the speech.
Don't overwhelm your audience with text in the visual aid. A few punchy visuals and bullet points are more effective than walls of words.
 Delivering a speech is not simply an act of reading. Rather, you have to use many non-verbal cues to engage your audience.Make eye contact. Whether you are speaking to just a handful of people, or a room filled with thousands, you should try to make eye contact with different members of the audience. It will show your audience that you are not just reading your ideas out loud, but are trying to make a genuine connection with them.
Use engaging facial expressions. Smile when you discuss something pleasant; if you are discussing something somber, your face should reflect this. Using engaging facial expressions will give the audience an indication of how to react to your ideas.
Be mindful of your gestures. If you plan to walk around a stage as you give your introduction, you might move one hand in a slight circular motion as you talk. But make sure you don't gesticulate wildly or in a way that will distract your audience.
Practice in front of an audience. Try to give a practice run of your introduction and speech in front of a few friends. This will give you the opportunity to become comfortable with non-verbal cues.
Practice in the mirror. If you don't have a live audience you can practice in front of, then you should try delivering your speech in front of a mirror. This will give you a clear sense of your posture, your expression and your gestures as you talk.
 This might seem like a small detail, but if you can pick your outfit ahead of time, it will remove stress later.


Pick something comfortable and that you know will suit you. Dark colors tend to hide stains or sweat marks more effectively than light colors.
Don't pick something with a really busy pattern. You'll end up distracting the audience.
 If you can, try to visit the venue where you will be delivering the speech ahead of time. You will get a sense of the placement of the audience, the lighting and any necessary technology beforehand.
 Public speaking can be nerve-wracking, but it is easily mastered with practice. There are many stress-saving steps you can take to make sure you deliver a great speech.

Exercise before giving the speech. Exercise can curb the production cortisol in your system, thus reducing your overall levels of stress. It also releases endorphins that will keep your stress at a minimum.Listen to other famous speeches. You can read to speeches delivered by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., President John F. Kennedy, President Barack Obama, President Ronald Reagan to get inspiration on how to deliver your views with passion and confidence. Watch Ted Talks presentations will also feature compelling public speakers.
 Nothing will make you feel more confident going into your speech than knowing it back-to-front. If you practice repeatedly, you will be able to speak more conversationally rather than in a stiff, stilted cadence.

