 Clean the citrus with warm, soapy water first, then pat it dry. Peel the fruit by hand to ensure that there is no pulp clinging to the pith. Any pieces of fruit can lead to mold.You can use any combination of lemons, limes, grapefruits, or oranges. You can also use just one type of peel if you prefer.You need enough peels to fill up a glass jar.
 How many peels you end up using depends on the size of jar. The larger the jar, the more citrus peels you will need. Make sure that you fill the jar all the way to the top. If you can, use a jar with tapering sides. This will reduce the chances of any small pieces floating to the top and causing mold.The jar must be glass; the oils released by the citrus peels will break down a plastic jar.
 You don't have to do this, but it can give your spray a more interesting fragrance. Listed below are some suggestions based on the type of citrus peel you may have used:If you used orange peels, add some cinnamon sticks, whole cloves, and almond extract for a Fall-like fragrance.
Add rosemary sprigs and vanilla extract to lemon peels for a fresh, yet sweet, fragrance.
If you used lime peels, add some thyme for a zesty scent.
Add mint leaves, extract, or essential oil to grapefruit peels for something more refreshing.
 Pour the vinegar into the jar until the citrus peels are completely submerged. If you see any small pieces floating on the surface of the vinegar, place a large peel on top to weigh everything down., Check the jar every few days to ensure that the peels are submerged and that there is no mold developing.If the vinegar level has gone down, open the jar up and add more vinegar. If you see any mold, you will need to discard the affected piece(s) immediately.


Write the date on the jar with a permanent marker to help you keep track of time., Once the 2 weeks are up, open up the jar. Place a strainer over another jar, then pour the liquid into it. Discard the peels caught in the strainer. The liquid may still have a lingering vinegar odor, which is normal.
 How much water you end up using is up to you. For best results, however, plan on using equal amounts of strained citrus liquid and distilled water., Open up a glass spray bottle, and stick a funnel into the neck. Pour the strained liquid through the funnel and into the spray bottle. Avoid using a plastic bottle, as the oils will cause it to degrade over time., Close the spray bottle and give it a shake. Adjust the nozzle, if needed, then spray it on the surface to be cleaned. Wipe the spray off with a sponge or paper towel.


This spray may cause etching on marble, granite, and other stone surfaces.