 You should have clean hands whenever you are touching the area around your band-aid to prevent the spread of bacteria and possible infection.Use clean water from a tap to wet your hands. Warm or cold is fine.
Turn off the tap and apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to create a lather with the soap making sure to coat the back of your hands, between your fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Continue scrubbing your hands for 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice in a row from beginning to end. Rinse the soap off of your hands with clean water from the tap.
Dry your hands with a clean cloth towel, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
As an alternative to washing your hands, you can use a hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol., Like washing your hands, cleaning the area around your band-aid can help prevent infection or the spread of bacteria during removal.


Fill a clean bowl with clean tap water and mild liquid soap. Warm or cold water is fine, although warm (not hot) water may feel more comforting.
Soak a clean washcloth in the soapy water and wring it out to remove excess moisture.
Gently wash the skin around and on top of the band-aid with the wash cloth. Avoid putting direct pressure on top of the band-aid as you do this. Instead, give it a quick wipe with the cloth.
Gently pat the area dry with a clean, dry washcloth.
 This is the most efficient way to get the most oil onto the adhesive part of the band-aid.


This will take 1-2 minutes depending on how big your cotton ball is.
Be sure to protect your clothing and other items around you from accidental drips.
Alternatively, you can also use baby-oil instead of olive oil.
Another option is to use a mixture of lotion and baby-oil applied with a cotton swab to achieve similar results
If you don’t have either of these oils on hand, you can also soak the band-aid and surrounding area in a bowl of clean, warm water until the adhesive dissolves. This option may work better for fabric types of band-aids.
 The oil will help to dissolve the part of the band-aid that sticks to your skin so it can slip off with minimal effort.How long this takes depends on the size, location, and strength of the adhesive on the band-aid.
Keep the oil from getting on the cotton underside of the band-aid so it doesn’t irritate your wound.
 This should require little effort and no pain. If it's still sticking, try leaving the oil on for a little longer.

