 IHA does however consider your grades and Coop where as AHA focuses more on Coop Scores. At AHA, if you do really bad on the coop they will consider letting you retake it. Know the high school you want to go to and what score requirement they have.;
, Too much stress can cause you to procrastinate any studying or constantly wonder and estimate your chances of getting in. DO NOT DO THIS! If you get into the high school or not is a yes or no. Don't imagine yourself as getting the lowest score on the Coop or the highest. Think about it like this: Every student in the Archdiocese of Newark and Bergen County is at the bottom of a mountain. The more you study the better chances you have of getting in. If you climb that mountain as hard as you can you could reach the top.


If you are overconfident here is a tip. But if you are not overconfident at all then don't read this because it might make you nervous. Archdiocese of Newark and Bergen County. That's only 2 counties taking the exam right? No, actually there are about 50 people who come to each school when taking the COOP. Multiply 50 by the number of catholic schools you know... you have some studying to do my friend!

, How else are you going to study? The examination book covers everything on the COOP. It provides study resources if you don't know something, practice tests, practice problems, study tips and even how much time you have for each section on the COOP!


Students in Catholic schools get this around the end of the year in 7th grade. It costs about $20, but beware, because some schools do not let you write in it. Public schools do not offer the examination book but you can still get this book online at Amazon.com.
 The COOP book is has more than just the COOP, it has HSPT, SSAT, TACHS and more. Use colored tabs and marker to mark where exactly everything is.


Mark COOP study tips, COOP practice tests and the pages with practice questions designed especially for the COOP test. Put a tab on Verbal Skills, Quantitative Reasoning, Reading, Math skills, Analogies, etc. After you've marked everything with tabs, skim everything. The first step in studying is knowing what you will be studying.
If you aren't allowed to write in your COOP book buy it from amazon. First off, its cheaper. Second what's the point in carrying loose papers everywhere you take your COOP book? What if you lose a practice test? Or a a set of important questions your teacher told you to write down in COOP class? The point is, writing in your COOP book is more organized and dependable. It could even boost your score!

, There are lots of catholic schools that offer a COOP summer study program. A lot of the schools have it right on their website. Trust me this is one of the main things that helps you a whole lot.
 Some schools offer it while others do not. This is a class the school provides lead by your teachers to study important things on the COOP. In a COOP class you basically do practice problems and then go over it in a group. My advice: check every answer. Write down problems you didn't understand and ask the teacher. Then write down exactly how to do it. After you go over a set of practice problems in a COOP class MARK IT! Mark it with a different colored tab that says COOP review. That way, the days before your COOP you can review everything you learned in that class by flipping to your tabs- a lifesaver isn't it?

, Every day. Take practice tests, practice problems, go over them, PRACTICE PRACTICE PRACTICE! It really does help. Also time yourself when you do questions. Go through your tabs one by one.
 Many schools look at your schools before your COOP. So get at least B's if not A's. Plus your grades are more controllable than your COOP scores.

