 If the caterpillar is still on your skin, you need to remove it. Do so without using your hands. Use pliers, tweezers, or thick gloves to pick up the caterpillar. This is important, as you could get stung again if you try to remove the caterpillar with just your fingers.In addition, you should use tweezers to remove a stinger, if you see one.;
, Use scotch tape, duct tape, or something similar, and place it over the site of the sting. Then, quickly remove it. The tape will catch any poison hairs or spines that remain on your skin. This is important in minimizing sting symptoms and preventing additional stings.You may want to place and remove tape on the sting site several times to make sure you’ve removed all hairs and spines.
You can also use the adhesive part of a bandaid to remove hairs or spines.
 Use soap and warm water to wash the area thoroughly. In addition, wash the surrounding area as well. Finally, make sure to wash both of your hands thoroughly just in case you came into contact with poison or stingers., Mix a tablespoon of baking soda with a tablespoon or two of warm water. Then, liberally apply the paste and allow it to sit for a couple of minutes. This baking soda paste should reduce itching and other discomfort. Reapply the paste every couple of hours., If the baking soda fails to alleviate your symptoms, rinse your baking soda paste off and then apply a liberal amount of hydrocortisone cream. Allow the cream to sit. It may take up to an hour for it to sooth the sting site. Reapply the cream per the instructions on the product., If hydrocortisone cream also fails, wash off the baking soda and hydrocortisone cream, and then apply a liberal amount of antihistamine cream. Wait up to half an hour to see if you notice a difference. In many cases, antihistamine creams have proved ineffective in soothing the symptoms of a caterpillar sting. However, you may find that the cream works for you., After you’ve applied baking soda paste or a cream, you can put a cold compress on the site of the sting. Place a bag of ice or frozen meats or vegetables on the site of the sting for 10 to 20 minutes at a time. Reapply the cold compress every hour or two., If your symptoms worsen or your blisters are severe, you should contact a medical professional immediately. This is important, as some people could have potentially deadly allergic reactions to caterpillar stings., If you haven’t had a tetanus booster in the last 5 or 10 years, you should get one within 72 hours of getting stung by a caterpillar. This is because the sting/wound site may become open to bacteria and infection., Contact poison control at 1-800-222-1222 any time of the day or night if you have any more questions about how to treat a caterpillar sting. A poison specialist will answer the phone and provide you with recommendations about how to treat the sting site., Caterpillar stings can result in a variety of symptoms. Depending on the type of caterpillar and whether you are allergic, symptoms could be very mild or very severe. Common symptoms include:Itchiness and contact dermatitis, blisters, weals(welts), small red bumps, pain.
Acute conjunctivitis, if hairs penetrate the eyes.
Rash and hives.
Difficulty breathing.
Nausea and vomiting.
Bleeding and renal failure can occur after contact with the South American Lonomia caterpillar.

