 Some dogs lose control of their bladders or bowels as a result of extreme emotions, such as excitement or agitation. Place your dog’s bedding in an area that is quiet and dark. It is best if the bed space is out of the way, so that the dog will feel safe sleeping without worrying about being bumped into or jostled.If your dog is showing signs of submission while in bed, such as rolling over, then you may need to rethink the bed’s location. The same goes if your dog is acting agitated while lying in their bed.
 Use bedding materials that you are comfortable washing many times, as that is what you will need to do. Every time the blankets are soiled, remove them and wash them with an enzymatic cleaner. This is a cleaner designed to remove odors and waste. Then, replace the soiled linens with fresh ones.You can find pet-specific enzymatic detergents and sprays at most pet stores.
 You can either place a washable crib mattress cover over all of your dog’s blankets or place a layer of disposable dog pee pads, or adult incontinence pads, under a thin layer of blankets. The mattress cover and pads will absorb some of the urine, keeping at least some of the blankets clean.If your dog tends to sleep walk and urinate near the door, it may be a good idea to place some pee pads in that location as well. There are non-slip ones available for this type of situation.
 Try to place your dog’s bed on a tile or hardwood floor. This will make it easier to clean up day after day. Avoid carpet as much as you can as it tends to soak up odors and can quickly become rather smelly and stained.If you must use a carpeted space for your dog’s sleeping area, consider adding a rug underneath the pallet. You can then wash the rug as needed and hopefully save your carpet.
 Some dogs need to be reminded to use the restroom and taking quick trips outside is one of the best ways of doing so. Keep a routine where you and your dog hit the pavement early in the morning, in the middle of the day, and right before bedtime, at least., It is very important that you talk with your vet about how to do this both safely and comfortably for your pet. Expressing your dog’s bowels essentially involves stimulating the urge to use the restroom on demand. You will then need to clean up the mess left behind, but it can often prevent overnight accidents., Pet stores carry doggy diapers that can fit animals in a variety of weight ranges. These diapers are often cloth with a liner or pad insert. You can also buy human disposable diapers and then modify them to fit your dog by folding the sides and cutting a tail hole. Boys’ or girls underwear can work as a make-shift diaper as well, just make sure to insert a pad and account for your dog’s tail.Make sure to change your dog’s diaper every two hours or so, or whenever you know it is soiled. Failing to regularly change their diaper could lead to your dog developing a rash or urine scalding.
Be aware that not all dogs like to wear diapers and many will try to claw them off. You might want to test the waters with a cheap disposable pair.

