 Needless to say they must have been made with anticipation.






Wrist bands indicating the name of the Tour/Activity they´ll be doing, once they hand you their ticket you´ll proceed to check them in by giving them their corresponding wrist band, but just never without a ticket.





;
, This is when you start welcoming your guests. Suppose your ship arrives at 8:00, be at the Pier and Tours Area 15 minutes before 8:00 and you´ll leave the Pier and head for the Tour location at 8:30 in almost all cases.
 The Shore Excursions Mgr. should get off the ship at 8:00 and give you the up to that moment final counts or number of people signed up, by the night before he should have e-mailed you the prelims too, you now know how many people you are expecting.
 Let´s say you are expecting 50 divers, by 8:30 you should have all of them checked in, remember, they give you the ticket, you greet them enthusiastically as they are there to have a great time and quickly brief them by telling them the departure time, (8:30 in this case) where to gather around, usually somewhere near you, in many cases you´ll have them sign a waiver, in some piers it´s possible to send them directly to the buses to wait in the A/C, sometimes you´ll use taxis, it varies from place to place, however, if you didn't get them all by 8:30 you let the Shore mgr. know and you´ll wait for them 5 minutes or more depending on how many people you´re missing.
 know and announce to the group it´s time to leave and have them all follow you, by then all your tickets should be counted and organized to come back for the invoice later on that day, if you are a team sometimes one of you can stay to settle it as soon as the operation permits.
 On the bus PAS or gathering right before boarding it you must brief your group on the Tour, basics such as staying together with the group, the time difference that most times apply between the Port of Call and the Ship´s time so no one gets left behind and, the duration of the tour and an amusing preview of the activities they´ll be performing, their return time and of course your name in case they need anything must be covered, all of this in a friendly and fun fashion, a good part of their experience will depend on the quality of the service you´ll provide.

