 Peppermint tea can soothe a dry cough and it can also help to clear nasal passages and thin out mucus.Try drinking a few cups throughout the day to soothe a dry cough. You can find peppermint tea in grocery stores.


To make a cup of peppermint tea, place one teabag in a mug and pour eight ounces of boiling water over it. Then, let the tea steep for about five minutes. Wait for it to cool down to a comfortable drinking temperature before you drink the tea.
 It produces a film that coats the throat and this seems to help suppress a dry cough.You can find marshmallow root tea, drops, and capsules in health food stores.


You can drink several cups of marshmallow root tea each day, take 30 to 40 drops of marshmallow root tincture in a glass of water daily, or take up to six grams of marshmallow root powder capsules per day.For any product that you use, read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.
Make sure that you check with your doctor first, especially if you are taking any medications.
 Slippery elm helps to soothe a dry cough by increasing mucus production and coating your throat.You can take slippery elm in a few different forms, but make sure that you check with your doctor first and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.


You can drink a few cups of slippery elm tea each day, take 5 mL of slippery elm tincture three times daily, take a 400 to 500 mg capsule of slippery elm three times daily for up to eight weeks, or suck on slippery elm lozenges throughout the day.If you are pregnant or taking any medications, ask your doctor before using slippery elm.
 Thyme is another traditional medicine for dry cough. You can brew a thyme tea to use it as a cough suppressant. To make a cup of thyme tea, place 1 teaspoon of dried thyme into a mug and pour boiling water over the herbs. Then, let the herbs steep for about five minutes, strain the herbs from the water, and drink after the tea cools down a bit.Thyme oil is toxic when ingested. Do not take thyme oil by mouth.
Thyme may interact with some medications including blood thinners and hormone medications. Talk to your doctor before using thyme if you are taking any medications or if you are pregnant.
 Ginger helps asthma sufferers because it has bronchodilation effects (it opens the airways).Since ginger helps to relax the muscles and open air passages, it may also be helpful for a dry cough. Try chewing on a 1-inch piece of peeled ginger to see if it helps with your cough.


You can also make a ginger root tea. To make ginger tea, place a teaspoon of minced ginger into a mug and pour 8 ounces (236.6 mL) of boiling water over the ginger. Then, steep the ginger for about five to ten minutes. Drink the tea after it cools down a bit.
 Turmeric milk is a traditional treatment for cough and studies have shown that consuming turmeric can help to relieve a cough.Try adding some turmeric to cup of warm milk to help soothe a dry cough.


Stir ½ teaspoon of turmeric into one glass of warm cow’s milk. If you don’t like cow’s milk, try soy milk, coconut milk, or almond milk.
 Warm salt water can be helpful if you have a sore throat or if your dry cough is causing your throat to feel swollen or irritated. Add 1/2 teaspoon of sea salt to about 8 ounces (236.6 mL) of water. Stir the mixture to dissolve the salt and then gargle the solution.Repeat this once every couple of hours throughout the day.
 Keeping the air humid in your environment may also help to soothe your cough. Try using a vaporizer or taking hot, steamy showers to help moisten your throat and soothe a dry cough.If you have a vaporizer, then you may also want to add a few drops of peppermint or eucalyptus oil to provide some additional relief for your dry cough. These scents can help to open up your airways and may soothe a dry cough as well.

