 Tax preparation software walks you through a series of questions, and then determines what credits and deductions are available for you. Most people can use these, whether you plan on taking a standard deduction or using itemized deductions (charitable contributions, tuition, other tax deductible expenses). Popular programs, which provide both a free and several paid versions. After you complete your federal return, you will also have the option to file your state income tax return for a fee, which is usually around $20. This is a great value because the program will automatically populate your state return with answers from your federal information. Tax preparation software options include:Tax Act offers a free federal version, which has no income or age restrictions, so everyone can file their federal return electronically, free of charge. H&R block offers a free, as well as Basic, Deluxe, and Premium version of its tax preparation and filing software. Turbo Tax offers free, Deluxe, Premier, and Business versions of its tax software. ;
, Typically you will need the following: A Social Security number
W2's and other income statements from wages
Interest and dividend statements
Statements regarding alimony, child support, or other financial stipends
Child care receipts, healthcare bills and insurance statements, and job related expense reports

, Answer each question to the best of your ability. You will need to input all of your wages and earnings from that income tax year.
The software will ask you about income from wages and interest, as well as job, medical, and childcare expenses.
You will also be asked about additional sources of income such as income from farming, child support or alimony payments.
You may be able to deduct expenses relating to your job, healthcare, and childcare. Certain charitable contributions are also tax deductible.
When you are finished you will be given a copy of your tax return. Print this out and keep it in a safe place. You may need this information at a later date. You also have the option of saving your return to your computer and printing it later as needed.

