 You’re probably more likely to enjoy your day if you’re allowed to make your own schedule, particularly if you're feeling stressed or overwhelmed, so when it’s possible, postpone any appointments, chores, or other commitments for another day. When you know the entire day is yours to plan as you wish, it’s already off to a great start., If it’s not possible to take an entire day for yourself, try to cut back on the number of must-do activities on your list. Doing a few less chores or tasks can help reduce your stress, so you’re in a better mood. Evaluate your schedule and only commit to doing the most important tasks., You’re always going to have a better day when you’re around people who make you happy, so seek out family and friends who are important to you and find a way to spend quality time with them.Don’t just watch TV with your loved ones; find meaningful activities that you’ll all enjoy.
Sharing a meal and good conversation is a simple but effective way to bond with family and friends.
Finding an activity where you have to work together, such as doing a puzzle or baking cookies, can be a fun way to spend time with your loved one.
 The right song can definitely help boost your mood, so pick your favorite tunes and turn up the volume. If you have to work or do chores, listening to good music can be especially helpful in improving your day.Music


If you’re a big music fan, consider going to see some live music played. Karaoke is a great option if you enjoy singing yourself.
Dancing to your favorite music is another effective way to boost your mood, so you may want to bust a move too -- even if it’s just alone in your room.
 You can help reduce stress and ensure a great day by taking the time to pamper or indulge yourself. That can mean something as simple as taking a nap or something elaborate like going bungee jumping if you’ve always wanted to. Devote at least part of the day to yourself.If you need a little pampering, a visit to a spa is a great idea. Get a massage or facial, and just allow yourself to relax. If you’re on a budget, you can do a spa day at home or just take a relaxing bath to help yourself unwind.
If you like to shop, visit the mall and treat yourself to something to that you’ve been wanting for a while, such as new clothes, books, or video games.
If you have a favorite activity that you don’t get to participate in too often, make plans to do it. Schedule a round of golf, play laser tag, or go horseback riding.
 Beautiful natural scenery can help you feel more happy, so go outside and look for ways to enjoy your surroundings. You might wake up early enough to enjoy the sunrise or go outside in the evening to take in the sunset. Let the sights and sounds of nature invigorate you.Let the season dictate how you interact with nature. In mild weather, you might take a hike on a local trail with striking views. In summer, you might hit a nearby beach to take a swim. In the winter, take a brisk walk to watch the snow fall.

