 Sand away the existing finish completely, or just rough up the existing finish to allow a fresh coat of paint to stick. If you're going with a stain, translucent paint, or if the original finish is much darker than the color of paint your using, then you need to completely remove the existing finish. Otherwise, if you're using a solid paint, then you only need to rough up the surface. Please be aware that most guitar builders agree that a thick coat of paint is tonally inferior to a thin coat of paint.
 Fit an orbital sander with coarse-grit sandpaper and work over the entire guitar body using smooth, circular strokes. This technique should allow you to remove most of the lacquer and paint on the guitar's body. You may be tempted to use paint stripper. However, this is a very messy and toxic process, and most paint strippers are not capable of removing the rock-hard polyurethane that modern guitar manufacturers use.
 For curved areas that are difficult to reach with the orbital sander, use loose sandpaper wrapped around a large dowel, or you can use a small sanding sponge. Coarse-grit sandpaper is best for removing the paint and lacquer.
 After using coarse-grit sandpaper to remove the finish, you'll want to smooth out the wood using progressively finer grains of sandpaper. Work the entire body over with medium-grit sandpaper (such as 120-grit), and then go over it again using fine-grit sandpaper (such as 200-grit).
 A vacuum cleaner with a hose attachment can remove most of the sanding dust. To remove additional dust, you can use a can of compressed air to spray it away or wipe it away with a moistened cloth or tack cloth.
 Unless you are going for the unfilled look, an option you have when working with mahogany or other porous woods, then you will need to fill in the grain with a filler or putty. Choose a water or oil based filler that will match the paint or finish you are using.
 Do not touch the guitar's surface after this step, or oils from you fingers will ruin the finish.

