 Like any type of shoe, a new climbing shoe will break down and start molding to your foot as you begin to use it.
Breaking in your shoes takes around four or five climbing sessions, so the amount of time this method takes will depend on how frequently you climb.
Most retailers will let you return a pair of shoes as long as the rubber on the bottom of the shoe isn't worn or scratched.;
,,  This will allow the shoe to begin to conform to your foot.  Do this indoors in order to protect the rubber of the shoe.  Wear your shoes for roughly fifteen minutes before removing them to prevent blisters, then repeat.  If you are experiencing severe rubbing or blistering, wear a thin pair of socks.,  Climb only for brief intervals, primarily bouldering routes or indoor routes that can be completed in a relatively short time frame.  If you own another pair of shoes, alternate between pairs on successive climbs.  This way the shoe continues to mold properly to the shape of your foot as you climb, while you avoid developing painful blisters from over-climbing.,  As you break in your shoes, begin to climb longer and harder routes, or begin to climb multiple routes consecutively in your shoes.,  If you are still feeling discomfort after several climbing sessions, you may need to actively work to stretch the leather of your shoes using one of the later three methods, or you might consider getting a different pair of shoes. Some tips for determining if a pair of shoes is going to fit include the following:

While it's normal to have your toes slightly curled inside your shoes, if the joints of your toes hurt or your toes start to cramp, you're probably in too small of a shoe size.
The leather on top of your shoe can be stretched out, but the rubber sole cannot. Therefore, pressure points on top of your foot can be relieved, but pressure points in the heel, toe, or arch cannot.
Although a close-fitting shoe can help your climbing, remember that if discomfort from your shoes is intense enough to be distracting, it outweighs the benefits of wearing a tighter shoe.

