 Shake the thermometer well if you are using one that contains mercury. A digital thermometer may also be used and typically gives a faster result. It is recommended that you use a disposable sleeve with a digital thermometer., KY Jelly or Vaseline works well. Your goal is to make this process as stress-free for the cat as possible. Using lubrication helps decrease the risk of abrasion, ripping, and puncturing., Hold the cat under one arm like a football, with its tail towards the front of your body. Make sure its feet are on a solid surface like a table. Doing so will reduce the likelihood of scratches.


It may be a good idea to have a friend help you hold the cat if possible. Some cats are wiggly and may be difficult to keep still. Have your helper position the cat in a way so that you can insert the thermometer in its rectum easily.
You might also grab and hold onto your cat’s scruff (extra skin on the back of its neck). Since many cats associate this with their mother’s protection, it may have a calming effect. , Be sure to only insert the thermometer approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm). Do not go more than 2 inches deep. Hold the thermometer at a 90 degree angle so it goes straight into your cat’s rectum. Do not enter at any other angle as this will increase the likelihood of pain and discomfort., A mercury thermometer may take a little longer to get an accurate reading. If you are using a digital thermometer, hold it until it indicates that it has finished reading the temperature. Most digital thermometers will beep when finished.Hold your cat firmly during this process. It may squirm, scratch, or bite. Do your best to keep it still to avoid injury to your cat and yourself.
 A temperature of 101.4 degrees F (38.55 degrees C) is ideal for a cat, but a cat's temperature may also range from 100 to 102.5 degrees F (39.17 degrees C) and still be considered normal. If your cat's temperature is below 99 degrees F (37.22 degrees C) or above 104 degrees F (40 degrees C) you should seek immediate medical attention.
If your cat's temperature is approaching 103 degrees F (39.44 degrees C) or over, and your cat is acting unwell, also seek veterinary attention.
 Use warm, soapy water or rubbing alcohol to rinse and wipe off the thermometer. If you used a cover sheet for the thermometer, remove the sheet and wash the thermometer as instructed.Make sure that it is completely sanitized before storing it.

