 You will need to zero in on your cravings and triggers in order to get the most out of your e-cig. This will help you use the e-cig to meet non-physical cravings while gradually reducing your body's dependence on nicotine. A week before your purchase, keep a running log of when you smoke, how you feel when you do smoke, and when you particularly crave a cigarette. Some common observations to record may include:How intense was your craving?
What were you doing when the craving came on?
What were you doing?
Who were you with?

, Some people like to go cold turkey and stop smoking altogether; however, it is thought that real advantage of an e-cig is that you can gradually decrease your nicotine intake by progressing to lower and lower strengths of liquid nicotine.Gradually reducing your nicotine intake rather than going cold turkey can lead to fewer withdrawal symptoms.Set goals for quitting and start a timeline.


Set a start date and a day by which you want to be nicotine free. Taper down the strength of e-liquid nicotine based on this timeline.
Reward yourself for meeting goals. Quitting nicotine is really hard! Reward yourself when you meet goals. Go buy something you've been meaning to buy or go out with friends to a new restaurant so others can help you in your journey.
 Get rid of all of your cigarettes or nicotine products. Once you no longer have cigarettes around, you can increasingly rely on your e-cig to help you get through cravings and tough patches while also reducing your nicotine intake.Stop other behaviors that are likely to bring about cravings. For many people this can be drinking alcohol, hanging out in certain settings, and even excessive caffeine that will increase cravings for nicotine.
 There are many reasons why quitting smoking is difficult. Physical addiction to nicotine can cause physical withdrawal symptoms like headaches, nausea, irritability, and even fatigue. An e-cig can be effective because it allows you to gradually decrease the amount of nicotine in your body to avoid some of the brunt of physical withdrawal., Most e-cig companies offer e-cigs with different nicotine concentrations so you can gradually reduce the amount of nicotine without actually having to reduce the amount of e-cigs you use. You can continue to use your e-cig to satiate triggers that make you want to smoke while reducing your body's dependence on nicotine.Most companies offer the following nicotine levels: 3.6%, 2.4%, 1.8%, 1.2%, 0.6%, and 0% nicotine concentration.
If you are heavy smoker and/or smoke unfiltered cigarettes, you will want to make the wean off more gradual. You may want to do this slowly over a period of several weeks (or longer). For example, you might start at 2.4% one week, and the next week go down to 1.8%, and so on.
 The really useful part of an e-cig is that you can actually use a nicotine-free liquid. This way even after your body no longer needs nicotine, you can continue to use the e-cig to satiate the triggers you identified in your journal.


If you are used to smoking while driving, continue to use your e-cig in the car.
Have the e-cig on you during other normal trigger situations. For example, if you crave a cigarette when you are out with friends drinking, having the e-cig on hand can help stave off falling off the wagon.
Use the information from your journal entries to help you prepare for trigger situations. Review what you identified as a trigger and make sure you have your e-cig with you on those occasions or that you have developed other coping mechanisms.

