 Use the horsehair brush that comes with many shoe cleaning kits, or another soft-bristled brush. Alternatively, you can use a piece of clean, soft, lint-free cloth, like a strip of an old t-shirt.The more often you do this basic surface cleaning — e.g., every time you take the shoes off — the easier it and the rest of the cleaning process will be.
Save your old t-shirts for shoe cleaning and polishing. They’ll come in handy often.
Remove the laces from the shoes before continuing; they’ll just get in the way.;
, Lightly moisten another clean cloth and work in a small amount of either saddle soap or leather shoe cleaner. Rub the shoe firmly but not aggressively.For stains caused by road salt, try applying a two-to-one mix of water and white vinegar with a clean cloth. Lightly dampen the leather; don’t saturate it with the solution.If you have caked-on, clumpy layers of old polish to contend with, try adding a bit of nail polish remover (acetone) to cotton balls and wiping gently. This should remove the old polish.
 Give the shoes a bit of time to dry fully if you used any liquids in the cleaning process, then apply your chosen product to make the leather more soft and supple. You can use a leather conditioner, saddle soap, or an oil renovator (like mink oil), all of which can be found alongside other shoe repair products.Follow the product instructions for application, but remember that a little goes a long way no matter what you’re using.
 Choose either a wax or cream polish, or even start with a layer of cream followed later by wax. Shoe cleaning kits include a brush meant for polishing, but a strip of old t-shirt fabric works quite well also. Apply a small amount of polish to the brush or cloth, and work it onto the shoe with a circular motion. It’s better to add small amounts of polish multiple times than to glop on too much at once, so take your time.After you’ve finished applying a coat of polish, buff the shoes using a clean cloth and the same circular motion. Buffing evens out the wax, helps work it into the leather, and removes excess.
If you want to add one or more additional layers of polish, let the shoes dry for a short while between rounds, and always buff after polishing., If your goal is a mirror-like sheen on your shoes, polish and buff at least twice apiece. Then, after the shoes dry a little, sprinkle a few drops of water on them and buff them with the cloth used to apply the polish. Keep repeating this process (with brief drying intervals) to further enhance the shine.If possible, let the shoes dry overnight, then give them one final buff with a dry cloth.

