 Your agent will market your home to potential buyers, negotiate with them on your behalf, and help you arrange the necessary paperwork to get your home sold.Look for an agent with a good reputation. Check online agent reviews at Trulia and similar sites to locate and agent who seems serious and trustworthy. Ask friends and neighbors who have sold their homes near you for a recommendation.
Interview several real estate agents before settling on the one you want to work with. Ask them for their advice about how they would sell the property. Ask them what would they highlight about your home when presenting it to potential buyers, and what they suggest you change to make it more marketable., If you don’t want to go through a real estate agency or agent, use sites like ForSaleByOwner.com and HelpUSell.com. Use all major real estate portals online to market your home, including Trulia, Zillow, and Realtor.com.Take flattering pictures of your reverse mortgaged home, both inside and out, preferably without your furniture and belongings in them.Selling a reverse mortgaged home yourself can be extremely difficult. Think carefully before deciding to sell your home on your own.
If you’re selling the home yourself because you’re concerned about paying the real estate agent’s fees, talk to a few agents up front about your cost concerns and see if you can find an agent who is willing to negotiate their listing and sale fees., If your reverse mortgaged home is priced too low, you’ll end up with a raw deal and get less than you should.To set the right sale price for your reverse-mortgaged home, hire a professional property appraiser. An appraiser is a specialist who determines the value of a piece of property based on its location, improvement, and other variables.
Use the International Society of Appraisers database at http://www.isa-appraisers.org/find-an-appraiser to find an appraiser near you.
Setting the right sale price for your reverse mortgaged home is another area where you could benefit from the assistance and experience of a real estate agent.
 Whether you sell the reverse mortgaged house yourself or hire an agent, you’ll need to invite people into the home so they can see it in person. If you’re selling through an agent, you’ll need to temporarily vacate the reverse mortgaged home while the agent shows it to prospective buyers. If you’re selling the reverse mortgaged home yourself, you’ll need to be home to let the potential buyers in.In either case, you’ll need to work around potential buyers’ schedules. Be ready to show the reverse mortgaged home in the morning, afternoon, weekends, and evenings.
Buyers often feel more comfortable viewing a home in the presence of an impartial agent than they do in the presence of a homeowner, who might make them feel like intruders.
When showing your home, remove your pets. Have a friend or relative take them to the park or take them for a walk. Remove pet paraphernalia, too, like dog toys and food bowls. Knowing that pets live in the home could discourage buyers from purchasing your reverse mortgaged home.
 Whether you sell the home yourself or go through a real estate agency, you will likely be on a tight schedule following your decision to sell. The period of time you have to sell your reverse mortgaged home and repay the mortgage depends on the terms of the mortgage. But the lender will want to be repaid relatively quickly.In some cases, if you demonstrate that you’re making a good-faith effort to sell the home, you might get an extension on the time you have to sell the reverse mortgaged home. Generally, though, you ought not dawdle.
Houses typically take six months to sell.
 Once you’ve receive the proceeds from the sale of your reverse mortgaged home, use the funds to pay off your mortgage. If you accrued any additional fees or liens through the sale of the reverse mortgaged house, pay them, too. Deposit the remainder in your savings account.If you’re worried about getting the mortgage completely paid off, utilize the services of a real estate attorney. A real estate attorney is a lawyer who specializes in real estate law and property sales.