 The best way to find sled dogs to add to your team is to ask other mushers if they know of any for sale. Network and meet other mushers at races or mushing association get togethers, or consult online listings and internet sled dog groups. Ideally, you should look for already-trained sled dogs who are relaxed, happy, hard-working, and spayed or neutered.Contact large operation tour guide mushers, big kennels, shelters, and rescue groups to see if they have any sled dogs available.
 Always visit a sled dog that you are thinking of buying at its current dwelling before bringing it home. Check out the conditions it’s being kept in, and look for signs of illness, injury, or an aggressive personality (e.g. dogs who move slowly or appear sullen). Be weary of owners who may be trying to unload a dog they no longer want on you; a good musher and owner will do their best to make sure their dog is a good match for you and your team.Ask the owner if they will take the dog back if it is not a fit for your team. This will make the decision process a lot simpler.
 Starting a dog team means housing your sled dogs, which is a big commitment of time and money. If you are planning to house the dogs in your home, plan spacing accordingly (e.g. where to feed them and have them sleep). Sturdy sled dog breeds like Huskies can live outside in cold temperatures, but a kennel to house them will require a vast amount of space (10 sled dogs require 1,000 square feet of pens, or 1,450 square feet for tethers) and a significant amount of cleaning and upkeep. Ask other mushers for advice, contacts (e.g. a company to install fencing), and price estimates for building a kennel.Even mushers who primarily house their sled dogs indoors require some sort of outdoor confinement system.
 Be sure to equip your sled team with high-quality gear to get off to a good start. Ask other mushers for advice about the most reliable brand and equipment options. If money is an issue, look in local ads or online for second-hand mushing equipment, which should include:A lightweight, sturdy sled
Harnesses
Dog booties
Dog jackets
Thermal gear

