 There are some positions, though, where only a high school diploma is required.

Even though a high school diploma is the minimum requirement, aim to complete your Associate's degree so that you are more competitive and stand out from other applicants.
While completing your Associate's degree, try to take a medical billing or medical coding course as an elective.
 Although having a high school diploma or an associate’s degree is necessary, it is more important to have experience in the medical billing field.


Medical debt collectors need anywhere from two to five years of experience, as it is important to understand the medical billing codes.If you’re in the medical field, but haven’t had experience with coding, consider taking a course. Every state offers courses to those in the medical field. Just do a search online or visit www.aapc.com (the American Academy of Professional Coders website).To find work in the medical billing field, do a search online for "medical billing jobs." You'll notice there are many jobs, which only require a high school diploma or equivalent.
You may want to consider working in the medical billing field, while you're completing your Associate's degree. This would give you the minimum requirement of two years in the field.
 Include pertinent information such as your name, address, telephone number and email address. List your education first, followed by your work experience. Customize your resume by looking at a medical debt collector job description.


Look online at one of the job sites, such as Monster, Careerbuilder or Indeed. Do a search for "medical debt collector jobs." Click on any of the listings and scroll down to the "Qualifications" section.
Write descriptions under each of your work experiences, which tie into the job posting. For example, if the qualification is, "ability to multi-task," make sure to include a sentence about how you handled multitasking at your previous job.
Don't exaggerate your qualifications. If something is listed that you haven't done before, don't lie about it.
Before applying to a medical debt collector job, be sure to highlight any existing knowledge of medical coding.


In order to work as a medical debt collector, you will need to be up to date on the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.Most agencies will provide onsite training on these two acts, but it doesn’t hurt to read up on them before you begin.
If you’ve worked in a position where you dealt with either the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act or the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, make sure to mention it on your resume. Even though it’s not a requirement, it will help to set you apart and impress your future employer.
 You can quickly send out your resume to a number of different companies by using online resources such as Monster, Careerbuilder or Indeed.


Create a cover letter ahead of time, which briefly describes your previous work experiences and/or education.
The cover letter should also include your personal, contact information and should contain four main parts - the introduction, the first paragraph, second paragraph and conclusion.Use the first and second paragraphs to detail past work experiences, which are relevant to the position you are applying for.
You can often use the same resume to apply to multiple positions, but be sure to customize the introduction of your cover letter, to include the name of the company you're applying to.

