 In many places, teachers are never allowed to reprimand their students physically. Teachers should never approach their students romantically or sexually, or make sexually charged comments or jokes.Humiliating or bullying students is not ok.


For example, teachers should not make comments such as, “If you were older, I would date you,” or other remarks that seem to suggest or invite a romantic relationship. Sometimes these comments can seem flattering. However, they are an abuse of the teacher-student relationship.
Teachers should not single students out for humiliation or invite other students to mock them. Reprimanding students in this fashion is inappropriate, bullying behavior.
While it’s normal for a teacher to impose reasonable consequences or speak sternly to a student, she should not scream, subject a student to a lengthy tirade, or threaten a student with disproportionate punishments., It’s normal to dread a class taught by a bad teacher, but fear or sadness about entering a classroom may be a signal that something more serious is going on.Notice if your feelings about the class are impacting the rest of your life or preventing you from enjoying your normal activities. It’s one thing not to love math class; it’s another to have your whole week overshadowed by it.
 Note down the date and, if possible, exact words or actions, or record it with your phone. This kind of information will be more helpful than general statements such as, “She always picks on one kid,” or “He often talks about girls and dating in a weird way.” Notice what other students or teachers witnessed the incident., Inappropriate or abusive behavior needs to be reported. Start by discussing it with your parents. You may ask them to meet with the principal, head-teacher, department head, or other appropriate authority. Be prepared to submit your concerns in writing. If these conversations don’t have an effect, talk to those higher up: the superintendent, the school board, or the local education authority, for example. Physical or sexual abuse should be reported to the police if you feel safe doing so. You can also seek out a therapist or counselor and disclose what’s happening. If you don’t feel able to speak to anyone, call a hotline that specializes in child abuse., While the school authorities deal with this teacher, you should not have to be her class. Ask to be switched into another class, if possible, or allowed to drop the course and re-take it with another instructor.

