 Traditional corporate media kits are physical folders containing paper copies of marketing materials. Digital kits are designed to publish on the web or email to journalists or prospective advertising clients.


Physical press kits are useful for distributing at trade shows.
An online media kit is typically a single web page that links to all the appropriate information.Another common format for a digital media kit is a multi-page .pdf document.;
, Download or view press kits for large corporations and small businesses. Take note of what appeals to you, and what ideas you may be able to use for your own kit., In a single paragraph, explain who you are as a business, and what you do. Highlight your skills and achievements.Summarize the history of your company, including the names of its founders and when it was created.
List the names of your company's high-level management team.
Describe your company's structure – whether public or private, and who the owners or shareholders are.
Include information about the physical locations of your company's offices, plants, or stores (if applicable.)
If you get stuck, consider hiring a professional copywriter to write your company bio.
 If you don't already have one, this is a good time to come up with an official company mission statement, or “manifesto.” This is a short statement that explains why your company is different from the rest.Your mission statement should encapsulate your company's business objectives, ethical standards, and core philosophies.
Your mission statement should answer four main questions: “What does your company do?,” “How does your company conduct business?,” “What is your target market?,” and “What value do you bring to the marketplace?”
If you need inspiration, the mission statements of Forbes' Fortune 500 companies are available online., Talk to your sales staff or customer service department to find out what questions customers ask most frequently. Compile any questions submitted by customers via the web, and include them as well.Keep both the questions and the answers simple and concise.
Only include the main questions your customers ask. If you want to write a more comprehensive FAQ, this should go on your main web site.
 Any time your company gets a positive mention in the media, you should keep a copy of the publication. Include the most interesting or most glowing reports in your media kit.Include a sampling of articles (3-5) that make your company look good. Too many articles can be overwhelming – you want the kit to keep your reader's attention.
 If you have a section of your website that collects customer comments, choose 2 or 3 of the most glowing recommendations to include in your press kit. You can also use any favorable comments that have been provided in writing.If you don't have any, ask your most valued repeat customers if they would be willing to contribute to your reviews section.
Never write your own recommendations, and pretend they came from a customer. Although you are unlikely to be caught, this is highly unethical.
 If your company issues official press releases, find 3 – 5 of the most impressive ones and include them in your kit. Try to choose press releases that generated any of the media articles you chose to include., If you have a company website with decent traffic, collect data on the number of page views, number of unique visitors, and how much time each spent, on average, at your site. Advertising clients will want to know these things., Collect examples of your brand logo and any copyrighted slogans. Include camera-ready art in a physical media kit, and digital versions in various formats (.jpg, .eps., .gif) for a digital press kit.