 Having an idea of the guest list will help you get an idea of which political opinions will be in attendance.;
, Holiday gatherings are meant to be light and enjoyable, so they are probably not the best time to analyze each line of a Congressional budget.


Discuss the unfair tax code, for example. All political sides will have their own reasons for thinking the tax code is flawed, but everyone will agree on that single principle. Other examples might include topics like the need for improved education and the necessity to support military families.
 Even if you do not like what you are hearing, everyone is entitled to an opinion. Allow people to finish their statements and thoughts.


Respond respectfully. For example, instead of saying "you're wrong," say "I understand where you're coming from. I always felt..."

, No one wants to attend a holiday party full of angry, yelling people. For example, if you do not like the president's politics and you are talking to someone who does, say something like "I don't agree with much of his agenda, but the President seems devoted to his family and his country."

, Instead of launching into a tirade or feeding into a disagreement, play a game of "what if." This can help diffuse politically tense discussions and give everyone a moment to reflect.


Ask people what they would do as governor, senator, school board member, etc. For example, when a political discussion starts to turn ugly, say "what kind of bill would you have introduced?" Or, "what would be our foreign policy priority if you were the Secretary of State?"

, Political discussions do not always bring out the nicest sides of people. Stay calm, speak slowly and evenly and do not raise your voice. Yelling and name calling do not belong at a holiday gathering.
 Politics can be funny, and a holiday gathering is a good place to laugh about political missteps and jokes.


Talk about funny bits from satirical shows such as Saturday Night Live and The Daily Show.
Poke fun at issues and people in the news to keep political discussions less controversial. For example, instead of discussing a candidate's policies, laugh about his bad hair. Instead of discussing what Sarah Palin says on FOX News, talk about her short-lived reality television show.
 A brief political discussion is fine at holiday gatherings, but no one wants to start a fight or offend the other guests.


Steer the conversation to other topics if things get too tense. For example, ask about holiday travel plans, tell everyone you need gift suggestions for a hard to buy for family member or solicit interesting decorating ideas.
Eat and drink. Put a halt to an incendiary conversation by offering food, cocktails or coffee.
 Agree to continue the discussion as a later date and take time out to enjoy holiday music, introduce yourself to someone new or exchange a gift with someone special.

