 It may be tempting to start eating high fat meats to gain weight, but eating high-fat protein may lead to other problems, such as high cholesterol. Lean proteins are the best choice for healthy weight gain, so opt for lean proteins instead. Good sources of lean protein include:Skinless turkey or chicken breast
Lean beef
Pork loin
Light tuna (packed in water)
Tofu or tempeh
Beans;
, Some fruits and vegetables are higher in fat and calories than others. By choosing higher calorie options, you will have a better chance of gaining weight. When it comes to fruits and vegetables, go for bananas, pineapples, raisins, other dried fruits, peas, corn, potatoes, and squashes., Carbohydrates are a great source of calories, but some choices have higher calories than others. Steer clear of “light” breads and cereals to avoid low-calorie choices. When choosing bread, look for healthy higher calorie breads like 100% whole wheat bread. Other good options include:Whole grain cereals
Granola
Bran muffins
Whole wheat bagels
Whole wheat pasta
Brown rice

, When you're grilling vegetables, meats, or other foods, use a healthy cooking oil to add some fat and calories. Opt for olive, grapeseed, or canola oils over vegetable oil. Olive, grapeseed, and canola oils are higher in calories and also contain more nutrients your body needs to put on weight in a healthy fashion.Try drizzling olive oil over a salad, use canola oil to grease a pan, or replace butter with canola oil in cookie recipes.
 Coconut milk is a great source of lactose-free fat and calories, so incorporating it into your diet may help you to gain some weight as well. Coconut milk is a good source of healthy fat as well as other nutrients and it is quite versatile, so you can use it in a variety of recipes.Try making a coconut milk based curry, replace dairy milk with coconut milk in a soup recipe, or add a spoonful of coconut milk to your morning coffee.
Coconut milk in it's looser, liquid form is a direct substitute for cow's milk. Coconut milk in it's more solid form (such as, in a can) is a perfect substitute for whipped cream or creamer.
 Nuts are a great, nutrient-dense snack that are also high in calories. Macadamia nuts, pecans, pine nuts, brazil nuts, and walnuts have the highest calorie count while chestnuts, cashews, and peanuts are on the lower end of the spectrum.Try munching on a handful of nuts as a snack or incorporate nuts into other recipes. For example, you could throw some cashews into a stir-fry, blend walnuts into a pesto sauce, or add chopped almonds to a batch of chocolate chip cookies.
Spread nut butter on bread or try some with fruit. Adding nut butters, like peanut butter and cashew butter, to a slice of whole wheat toast can be a great way to increase calories while getting in a healthy snack.Try spreading a tablespoon of almond butter on toast or dip apple slices in some peanut butter.
 Hummus is a highly recommended spread for healthy weight gain as it contains chickpeas, which are high in calories, as well as healthy fats, and nutrients. Hummus is a great source of fiber as well.Try spread some hummus on a slice of bread, using it as a dip for veggies, or adding a scoop of hummus to a salad.
 Avocados are high in fat and rich in nutrients, so eating avocado is a great way to add some calories into your diet if you are lactose intolerant. Avocados are best known as the main ingredient in guacamole, but they have a mild flavor, so you can use them in lots of different ways.Try spreading guacamole on a sandwich, toss some avocado slices into your salad, or throw ¼ of an avocado into a fruit smoothie to add some fat and calories without changing the flavor.
 You should avoid using added sugar to gain weight as too much sugar can increase your risk for a variety of medical issues. However, adding honey to snacks and drinks may help you gain weight safely. Some research shows honey helps with malnutrition and it also has strong antibacterial properties.


If you have diabetes you may want to avoid honey. While honey does not have the same effect on blood sugar as table sugar, some studies indicate it can affect blood sugar levels.