 How does she see things? What does she need? Understanding her side of the story can help you relate to her and figure out how to make the both of you happy.

If you don't know why she's doing something, tell her "I don't understand why you ____. Could you explain your point of view to me?"
In rare cases, her perspective might be something to understand but not honor. You don't have to give up your boundaries or tolerate abuse. For example, if her goal is to insult you and make you feel that only she will love you, that is terrible and wrong.
 Many times, relationship problems are two-sided. Instead of fighting with her, try to work together with her to make both of you satisfied.

For example, if she wants more time with her friends, and you are worried about drifting apart, perhaps you two decide that she has a girl's night on Friday, and then comes back to watch a movie, snuggle, and relax with you. This could start a tradition that you both enjoy.
Or if she wants to talk on the phone for a long time but you have a deadline, you could tell her that you have 15 minutes, devote those minutes completely to her, and then tell her you'll be able to talk more tomorrow.
 It may be that your girlfriend has different expectations than you do, or doesn't realize how you feel about her behavior. Use "I" language to express how you feel.

For example, "I feel overwhelmed when you send a lot of texts in a short period of time. If you just send me one, I'll text back as soon as I'm able."
Or "I felt hurt when you teased me about my haircut."
A good girlfriend will listen to "I" statements, and try to avoid upsetting you again.
 Both of you deserve to be able to have alone time, have a social life outside of dating, and reveal very personal details only when you are ready. Neither one should be pushing the other.

If you feel pressured, say so. Ask that she give you a little space when you're elsewhere, and trust that you'll come back ready to devote time to her.
Similarly, let her have her own privacy and time alone or with friends. You don't need to know every detail of her life. This is important in showing that you trust her.
 You should stay in a relationship because you enjoy it, and because you feel that the hard times are worth it. If you feel like it isn't working, you're allowed to break it off.

Don't stay in order to "fix" a girl's issues. That's not your job, and she's the one who needs to take the initiative. You can be supportive if she wants to change, but you can't change her.
 Some people have a hard time taking "no" for an answer, and if your girlfriend is one of them, expect her to be very difficult to deal with.

Don't invite her over.
If she leaves lots of messages, give one message asking her to stop contacting you. Then block her if she continues.
Tell your family and friends that you are broken up and don't want to see her anymore.
Ask your mutual friends not to talk about it with you. Explain that you don't want them to take sides; you just want to move on.
 Some people are toxic, and you should get out as safely as you can (if possible). If your girlfriend ignores your boundaries, follows you, belittles you, or hurts you (it doesn't have to be hitting), then you have a very serious problem. No one deserves to be treated this way.

Get advice from supportive loved ones.
Ask a counselor or trained expert for advice if your girlfriend scares you.
Don't go back to her. She may draw you back in. Even if it seems nice or she says she's changed, change takes time and the will to change, and it's likely it'll be just the same.

