 These appliances shift energy use to less peak hours and can reduce your overall energy use. Though they may occasionally be more expensive, they will save you money in the long term.Energy smart appliances will have the "Energy Star" label, which means it meets the minimum energy standards set by the federal government. When shopping for smart appliances, make sure anything you purchase at least has this label.
Appliances also usually have the "Energy Guide" label. This label estimates the operating cost of the appliance, as well as its annual energy usage. , Light bulbs use different amounts of energy depending on the type of bulb. Changing your light bulbs with smart bulbs can save you money immediately, but also in the long term, since the bulbs often last longer.


Compact Fluorescent (CFL) and Light Emitting Diode (LED) are the best light bulbs for saving money on electricity. They use less wattage, but produce the same amount of light as traditional incandescent bulbs. LEDs do not give off as much heat, which can be especially useful to keep your cooling costs down in the warmer months. Smart bulbs can be turned off more easily and be set on a timer. Although they are potentially more expensive, they can save money in the long term., Many new refrigerators have power saver switches that can reduce your energy costs. It prevents the fridge from working too hard when it does not need to.Turn your power saver switch on in the summer, since it is warmer outside. Conversely, you can turn it off during the winter since it is cooler.
If you don't have an energy saver fridge, consider getting one with your next appliance purchase. Also, if you rent, talk to you landlord about one, since it may save them money in the long term.
 The amount you can save by installing a solar electric system depends on a number of factors, including the amount of sun you get in your area, cost of installation, and how much space you have to install panels. If, for instance, you have very little room to install solar panels, and the cost to install and operate a system are hefty, you may not end up saving when all is said and done.Or, if you are in an area of the country that doesn't get much sun, you may not benefit as much from a solar system. On the other hand, if the factors line up, you may end up saving a bundle.Talk to your local solar system supplier for an estimate and analysis. Ask how much your system would generate per year and compare that to how much energy you consume in your household.Look into solar rebate programs, subsidies, and tax incentives for solar systems. You may be eligible for a sales tax exemption your purchase, a property tax exemption, or state personal income tax credits.