 Hold your wood underneath a steady stream of water until you feel as if it is clean. Monitor this process carefully as too strong of a water stream can start to strip away the wood. You can also break off finer wood details if you are not careful. Allow the wood to dry outside when finished.
 ‘Curing’ driftwood is the most popular cleansing method amongst aquarium users. Place the wood inside a large container. Slowly pour distilled water into the container until the wood is completely covered. Soak for one to two weeks. Remove the wood and allow it to dry in a cool location.You will notice the water darkening over time. This is normal. It is the result of tannins being released. Leaching all tannins from your wood will keep your aquarium water clear. For maximum effectiveness, replace the soaking water if it takes on a ‘tea-color.’
When the distilled water appears clear and is no longer noticeably discolored, it is time to remove the driftwood.This is also a good, chemical-free way of diminishing the buoyancy of your driftwood. Ideally, you want your wood to sit on the bottom of an aquarium without floating to the top., Get a large container, mix bleach and distilled water together, and place your driftwood under the water. Use 2 teaspoons of bleach per gallon of distilled water. Soaking in a bleach solution will help to kill off any spores or bacteria that are lingering on the wood. Keep the driftwood submerged for a minimum of 15 minutes.If you plan to use your driftwood in an aquarium, it is best if you follow-up a bleach soak with a straight-distilled water soak. For the safety of your fish, all traces of bleach need to be out of the wood.
 Woodworking artisans often prefer to use a soda bath to clean their driftwood. Buy a cleansing soda, such as Arm & Hammer Super Washing Soda. Get a large container and mix hot water and the soda together. Keep adding soda until it stops dissolving into the water easily. Then, lower your driftwood into the mixture. Soak for 48 hours minimum.If your driftwood keeps rising to the surface when soaking, you may need to place a rock or other heavy object on it to hold it down and keep it submerged.

