 Keep in mind that, no matter what you do to the inside of your shoes, they'll still be about the same size on the outside. This can unfortunately sometimes lead to posture and gait problems. When you're wearing an oversized pair of shoes, it's important to maintain good posture to compensate for your "bigger" feet. See our posture article for a good selection of tips and pointers. A few general points include:Stand up straight. Keep your head and chest up and pointed forward. Pull your shoulders back slightly to align your arms.
Use a heel-to-toe walking motion. Start each step by putting your heel down in front of you, then rolling through your arch, balls, and toes. Finally, push off!
Try to squeeze your abs and glutes slightly as you walk. These supporting muscles help keep your spine straight and well-supported.
 Oversized shoes are usually slightly longer than what you're used to wearing. This means that it's extra-important to pick your feet up off the ground as you walk. If you let your feet drag, it's easy to catch the toe of your shoe on the ground. This can lead to tripping or stumbling, so be aware of this common issue.
 No matter what solutions you're using for your too-big shoes, almost nothing provides the support of a shoe that fits properly. Try to avoid using too-big shoes for longer treks like day trips and hikes. You will spare your feet the discomfort of blisters, cuts, and sore spots caused by big shoes sliding around as you walk.


More importantly, you'll also reduce your chance for injury. Ankle injuries (like painful twists and sprains) are more likely in shoes that are too big. This is especially true in athletic situations.
 This may seem obvious, but it bears mentioning: the tricks above will only go so far. If your shoes are more than one or two sizes above your normal shoe size, no amount of padding will help. Don't risk pain and injury just to wear a pair of new shoes. In these cases, you'll want to switch for a better-fitting pair of shoes — even an old, worn-out pair is usually a better choice than a pair that's far too big.

