 If you are in a relationship, it is imperative that you do your best to leave past baggage from relationships behind you. It isn’t fair to either you or your new partner for you to project that negativity onto your new love. This kind of comparison can make your new partner uneasy and dredge up your fears about love.Make a conscious effort to think about the things that drew you to your new partner. Think about how much they make you laugh or how thoughtful they can be. Note how different these characteristics are from your last toxic experience with love. Putting relationship baggage in the past doesn’t mean forgetting it. It simply means not letting it affect your current relationship.
 When you put yourself out there and you’re trying to work on a fear of love or commitment, it can be devastating to be rejected by your love interest. When you’re feeling low, it’s important to remember that you’re going through the worst of it, and things will only get better.It’s cheesy, but time truly does heal many wounds. Keep in mind that you will live through the rejection, no matter how painful, and one day you will likely find a loving relationship that will cause this one to pale in comparison.
 Sometimes we fear love because we demand perfection from ourselves and our partners. It’s important to be selective about who you get into a relationship with because people can hurt you or be abusive. It is absolutely not asking too much to be treated well in a relationship. However, if you constantly look for any little flaw in your partner, you will always find one because people are flawed. The key is to find a respectful partner who cares about your needs and feelings and go from there. With respect and kindness as the basis of your romantic relationship, there is a higher chance of success and less anxiety for you., Do not change yourself to accommodate a new potential relationship. If you are still fearful of love and the relationship feels forced, it will not succeed, and you’ll be back to where you started feeling like love is a negative, elusive thing. Admit to yourself that you’re still working on your fears and that soon you will be able to test the waters with a new relationship.


Make sure that you’re actually trying to work on overcoming your fears. It can be easy to use any excuse to avoid both love and working on your fear of love. If you are actively not dating or putting yourself out there for the purpose of working on your anxieties, that is different than practicing avoidance behaviors that reinforce fears.
If you’ve gotten in over your head with a new relationship, sit down with your partner and explain your fears. Tell them you have issues with love, and that although it might sound cliche, it’s not them but the idea of love that’s worrying you. Being honest, even if what you’re saying isn’t what they want they want to hear, shows that you respect and value them even if your relationship might not continue., If you feel as though you’ve tried to overcome your fears on your own, and it isn’t working, try talking to a professional. Sometimes we can’t simply try to muscle our way through our fears and anxieties. A therapist will talk with you to determine the source(s) of your fears and work with you to eliminate them.