 In most cases, the letter should be addressed to the priest at the church where the confirmand attends. In rural locations or small churches, the letter may be sent to the bishop of the local diocese. A diocese is a geographical territory divided into parishes and overseen by a bishop.;
, Include a greeting, body of the letter, and signature.


Type your letter using a word processing software program. Do not hand write it, except for the signature at the conclusion of the letter.
 Begin your letter with "Dear," followed by the name of the priest. Use the title of "Father" when addressing the priest. If your priest's name is Michael Jones, the letter should begin, "Dear Father Jones.
 Tell the priest your name, gender, age, year in school and what school you attend. Include some information about your background, family, activities and interests. This paragraph shouldn't be a long biography, but a brief description of who you are.
 Tell the priest why you want to be confirmed in the Catholic Church. Explain what Confirmation means to you and why it is important that you receive the sacrament. The second paragraph should provide specific information about why you want to be confirmed.
 Note any formal preparations within the church setting, such as Confirmation or catechism classes. Address how you are preparing for Confirmation through prayer. Indicate how often you are attending Mass, and how the worship services are helping you to prepare for Confirmation.


Explain how any mission work or community service is deepening your spiritual life and contributing to your Confirmation preparations. Take time to honestly evaluate your spiritual life and note areas where you are strong in your faith, as well as areas needing improvement.
Tell your priest why you feel you are ready to accept the sacrament of confirmation. Explain why you are ready for Confirmation, both spiritually and psychologically.
 Explain how you plan to stay connected to God throughout your life. Evaluate the role the Holy Spirit will play in your spiritual growth. Tell how you will continue to serve others and God in your life. Tell your priest how you plan to live out your Confirmation promises in the future.
 Thank your priest for his role in preparing you for confirmation. Tell him that you appreciate his spiritual leadership and teachings. If you have a personal relationship with your priest, note a specific attribute or quality that he shares for which you are thankful.
 Use the words "Sincerely" or "Best Regards" before your signature line. Be sure to sign the letter with your complete name using a blue or black ink pen.

===Rosary Prayer===