 Assertiveness and self-confidence are naturally attractive to most people. Showing your guy you're capable of being happy is appealing and brings a natural desire. If he sees that you're happy with who you are and what you do, he'll want you even more. Here's how to develop confidence:



Become a more positive thinker.If you learn to see the good in the world instead of the bad, you'll give off an irresistible positive energy, and your guy will want to be around you again.
Be happy with your appearance. Think of at least three things you love about yourself, and dress to show off your best assets. Make sure to get regular exercise to stay mentally and physically strong.
Be assertive. Speak in a clear and effective manner instead of mumbling or talking softly. Command attention with your voice, and everyone will see that you're confident about what you have to say.
 It's fun to be in a party and dance a lot, but that's not always classy behavior. If you're at a party, the classy behavior is to socialize, but speak calmly, not monopolizing all the attention. You can still get a little crazy as long as you don't get sloppy and he'll like you even more for it. No one wants a girl who is falling down drunk or fighting for all of the attention in the room.


Being classy is a form of being mature. Every guy wants a girl who is mature and in control of her emotions instead of a hot mess in public.
Dress elegantly. You have to look classy as well as be classy. You can show some cleavage, but don't wear anything so scandalous or tight that it looks like you're desperate or just trashy. If you look cute but classy, your former flame will naturally notice you.
 Have a big smile on your face and let him see you really enjoying yourself and bringing pleasure to the world and the people around you. You shouldn't have to fake it. If you really want him to want you, then you should actually be having a great time, and be comfortable enough to be happy without him.


Laugh -- a lot. Let him see you laughing and giggling with friends and really having the time of your life.
Be engaged. Be fully engaged in whatever conversation you're having. Let him see you being animated, gesturing, and making great points.
Let him see you engaging in fun activities. If he sees you laughing it up at trivia night, having a great time running with a girlfriend, or hitting up the dance floor, he'll want to spend more time with you.
 If you're desperate to get his attention, make him see how much fun you're having, or to look so hot that he falls over, then he'll be able to tell right away. Just work on being your best self and hope he catches you in the process. Don't overdo it, or you'll only make things worse.


Don't try too hard to look like you're having fun when you're around him. Let it be natural.
Don't try too hard to look good around him, either. Dress appropriately for the occasion and don't wear much more makeup than usual or incredibly high heels just to catch his eye. He will notice you this way -- but not in a good way.
Don't cling to him. Let him come to you. If you're at a party, let him come up to say hi first.

