 Because you’ll likely be leaving your hair in cornrows for several weeks straight, you want to make sure that you start with clean, well-conditioned hair. Wash your hair with your regular shampoo, and then use a deep conditioner to soften it. You’ll also want to use a hair oil of some sort while you braid, to keep your hair smooth, frizz-free, and easy to control and manipulate.
 Cornrows can be braided in any direction, so it is important that you decide where your part will be before you start braiding. The two most common part-styles are either in rows from your hairline straight back to the nape of your neck, or braided in a circular motion around your head from a center part. You’ll need to use a rat-tooth comb to part your hair in the desired pattern, and to split your hair into sections for braiding.
 Fill a spray bottle with water and a little bit of olive oil, and shake it well. Then, spray down the section of hair you are working with. Use your comb to separate off this section of hair in a row down your head. The smaller the part, the smaller the braid; the larger the part, the larger the braid. Use butterfly clips to hold your remaining hair in place out of your face.
 Take the sectioned part of hair in one hand, and pull a small piece from the very top (near your hairline) away from the rest of the bunch. Separate this small piece of hair into three sections of equal size. Start braiding these three pieces in the traditional braiding pattern; cross the right-most section over the middle section, then cross the left-most section over the middle section, back and forth.
 The cornrows are created by braiding your sectioned hair in a french braid really close to your head. As you work down your parted section of hair, continue your braid the same way you started it. However, as you braid, grab small portions of hair from the un-braided part and incorporate them into each strand you cross over the middle section. You are essentially creating a very tiny french braid.









As you add in hair, pull the braid tight and keep your fingers close to your head.
Don’t braid your hair away from your head, as this will make your cornrows loose and appear funny.
 When you get to the nape of your neck, you may or may not run out of hair. If your hair is short, you will finish your cornrow by twisting the ends of the braid together to secure them and prevent unravelling. If your hair is a bit longer, you will continue your cornrow past the nape of your neck in a regular braid. Twist the ends to secure the braid, when you’re finished.


You can choose to use small, clear elastic bands to hold your cornrows in place, if you’re worried about the braids coming loose.
Some people choose to put beads on the ends of each braid as a decorative detail.
 Work across your scalp, sectioning out even pieces of hair and braiding them into cornrows. The process can be quite time-consuming, so don’t be alarmed if it takes several hours to complete. Make sure that each cornrow is the same size and follows the same pattern, so that it appears even and intentional across your head.


If your hair is sticking out from your braids, it is likely not moisturized enough and your braids aren’t tight enough. Add more oil or gel to remedy this.
You might need help from someone to make sure that all your rows are even and parallel, especially on the back of your head.

