 It is important for your child to get around 10 hours of sleep every night, depending on age. Going to sleep at the same time each evening will help this happen. Stick carefully to this routine and only push back the bed time if it is absolutely necessary. When possible, allow you child to sleep in if they went to bed late.Sleep is important to health in many ways. It allows your body to recover quickly from illness or fight off potential infections. It also boosts your metabolism. Good sleep can calm your emotions and result in a healthier mindset as well.It is recommended that preschoolers get between 10 to 13 hours, elementary and middle-schoolers between 10 to 13 hours, and teenagers between 8 to 10 hours. This is dependent on personal preference as well. Some children simply prefer to sleep more or slightly less than average.;
, Purchase a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole-grain products, and lean meats for your household. Go for fresh, organic produce whenever you can. Carefully read labels to determine portion sizes and make meals that conform to those guidelines. Offer healthy snacks, such as hummus and carrot sticks, throughout the day.Invite your child to help you with meal prep. Let them choose a healthy recipe for dinner. Take them with you to the grocery store and turn reading labels into a game. Make food more interesting for finicky eaters by crafting healthy personal pizzas (with their own selected toppings) or by positioning fruit into a smiley face on their plate.If your child refuses to eat their veggies, keep offering them. Try out other vegetable options and preparations as well. A child who dislikes straight steamed broccoli may love it when it is topped with a bit of shredded cheddar cheese.
 A child should drink the number of 8 oz. water glasses that correspond to their age (up to a limit of 64 oz. total at 8 years of age). So, a 4 year old child should drink 4 glasses containing 8 oz. of water per day. This total does not include milk, juice, or other liquids, just water.Your child should only start drinking water after they reach 6 months of age. Prior to this, they should drink formula and/or breast milk.
To add some variety, a child can also drink milk after their first birthday. A 2 year old should drink up to two 8 oz. glasses of milk per day. You can also offer juice, in moderation.A child’s brain is composed of 80% water, so staying hydrated is particularly important for optimal cognitive development. Teach your child to look at their urine to make sure it is more clear than yellow. If they spot yellow, then they should grab a glass of water., Avoid purchasing sugary, fatty, or heavily processed foods. If you don’t buy them, then your child will turn to a healthy alternative that is available in your fridge or pantry. Watch out for ‘sneaky’ foods that appear healthy but are actually the opposite. This can include items labeled “low-fat” or even low-juice fruit drinks.Other ‘sneaky’ junk foods can include various crackers labeled as kid friendly that actually contain high amounts of sugars or syrups. Watch out for fruit gummies as well. They often contain high amounts of sugar as well. It is better to simply offer your child a piece of fruit.

