 Hepatitis A has a number of symptoms that typically appear between two and six weeks from the date of exposure. Some of these symptoms are generic, like a fever, while others, like jaundice, are telltale signs of hepatitis. Keep in mind that not all those infected with hepatitis A will show symptoms. Asymptomatic hepatitis A is more common in children than adults. When hepatitis A does show symptoms, it appears with the following signs.Abrupt onset of a fever
Loss of appetite
Fatigue or lack of energy
Nausea or vomiting.
Abdominal pain. Since hepatitis attacks the liver, abdominal pain is often concentrated on the right side of your body just below the ribs, where the liver is located.
Dark urine
Light or clay-colored stools
Joint pain
Jaundice. This is a yellowing of the skin and eyes. It is usually considered the telltale symptom for hepatitis, although it does not appear in all cases.;
, Like most diseases, hepatitis A can infect anyone. There are some people, however, who are statistically at higher risk than others for contracting the disease. The following activities are considered risk factors for hepatitis A.International travel. Besides the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand, hepatitis A is rather common in most countries of the world. Traveling abroad, especially to developing nations that may lack sanitation infrastructure, puts you at increased risk for hepatitis.
Sexual contact with an infected person. During sex, you can come into contact with particles of the hepatitis A virus. Having an infected sexual partner can increase your chances of coming down with the disease.
Men who have sexual contact with other men. Since hepatitis A is spread through the fecal-oral route, male-on-male sexual contact puts participants at risk for contracting the virus.
Drug use. Both IV and non-IV drug use places you at greater risk for hepatitis A, especially if users share paraphernalia.
Living with someone who is infected. Household contact can spread the virus. If infected persons do not exercise proper hygiene like washing their hands after using the bathroom, they risk infecting other members of the household.
 If you are experiencing any of the symptoms stated above, go to the doctor for an evaluation. The doctor will physically examine your symptoms. If he suspects hepatitis A, he will perform a blood test to confirm. If this blood test comes out positive, you've contracted the virus. If this is the case, don't panic. Though you will feel very sick for a while, hepatitis A is rarely fatal and symptoms usually disappear within two months. After that, you'll be immune to the virus for life. In the meantime, you'll have to treat the disease properly., Hepatitis A will drain your energy through fever, vomiting, and diarrhea. To counteract this, you'll have to conserve your energy so you're strong enough to fight off the virus.Avoid strenuous activity like vigorous exercise. Light activities like walking may be possible if you're feeling strong enough, though you should always consult your doctor before trying this.
If possible, take time off from school or work. This is important both for your own energy levels and to avoid spreading the disease to others.
 Ibuprofen is an anti-inflammatory that can help treat the body aches and swelling associated with hepatitis A. Brand names include Motrin and Advil. Ibuprofen is the preferred pain reliever for hepatitis because it is easy on the liver. On the contrary, you should avoid acetaminophen and aspirin, as these are tougher on the liver and could cause further damage., You'll feel very sick, but you should still do your best to practice good hygiene. Wash your hands often, especially after using the bathroom, and don't drink out of cups or eat with utensils that other people will use. This will help prevent you spreading the virus to your family, friends, roommates, or any others living in close proximity to you.
 Your body will need to replace fluids lost through vomiting and diarrhea. Water is usually the best choice, but if you're having trouble eating or keeping food down, you may need to opt for a fluid with more nutrients to avoid getting malnourished. Good choices include Gatorade, milk, fruit juices, and nutritional supplement drinks like Ensure.Avoid alcohol completely while recovering. Alcohol puts strain on the liver, which can cause serious or permanent damage while you're recovering from the disease., Three large meals may make you feel nauseous or uncomfortable, so break up your eating schedule into smaller meals. This will prevent nausea and help your body process foods more efficiently., Protein helps the body repair damage, which is necessary for your liver to heal. Aim for 60 to 120 grams of protein daily. Also try to get protein from plant sources like beans, chickpeas, tofu, quinoa, nuts, and soy products. Your healing body will probably tolerate these foods better than meats., Since you may suffer from vomiting, diarrhea, and lack of appetite, it's important to eat foods that will keep your energy levels up. You can keep your calorie levels up by adding certain ingredients to meals or snacking on others throughout the day.Drink whole milk instead of reduced fat varieties
Eat fruit canned in syrup for sugars
Add butter to foods for fats and oil
Snack on vegetables dipped in salad dressing, nuts, and dairy products. These are all high in fats and calories.
Eat bread, bagels, pasta, and other foods high in carbohydrates
Avoid diet or fat-free foods. These will be lower in calories and won't help you keep your energy up.
 Since you'll lose nutrients through vomiting and diarrhea, you'll need to make sure you're eating enough to maintain your weight. If your weight stays consistent, your diet plan is working. If you start losing weight, you need to bring up your calorie intake. If you fail to do so, you could end up in the hospital with complications from your disease.It would also be a good idea to let your doctor know if you've lost weight. She may want to examine you to make sure there are no other issues with your recovery.
 Although rare, you could experience severe complications from hepatitis A. These can land you in the hospital and are potentially life-threatening. Monitor your condition closely and contact your doctor immediately if you notice symptoms of the following conditions.Cholestasis. This is a condition where bile builds up inside the liver. It is usually not a medical emergency, but your doctor should still be informed so he can decide on the best course of action. Symptoms include persistent fever, jaundice, diarrhea, and weight loss.
Liver failure. This rare but very serious complication stops liver function. Untreated, it can be deadly. Besides normal hepatitis symptoms, signs of liver failure include nosebleeds, easy bruising, hair loss, high fever, shivering, edema (buildup of fluid in the legs, ankles, and feet), ascites (buildup of fluid in the abdomen resulting in a noticeable bulge), and drowsiness/confusion. Contact your doctor right away if you experience these symptoms.
 It's likely your doctor will want to see you regularly while you recover to monitor your condition and test your liver function. Be sure to keep appointments with your doctor and keep her updated on your condition to ensure a healthy recovery., Fortunately, there is a vaccine available for Hepatitis A that is 99 – 100% effective in preventing the disease. It is recommended for all children. If you were never vaccinated, you should consult your healthcare provider to receive a vaccine. Also consult your doctor if you fall into one of the risk groups discussed in Part 1, as he may recommend a booster for your vaccine., Regular handwashing is considered one of the best ways to avoid contracting and spreading disease. Hepatitis A is no exception. Since hepatitis A is spread through fecal contamination, always wash your hands thoroughly after using the bathroom. Follow these steps for proper hand-washing technique.Wet your hands with clean, running water.
Apply soap and lather your hands by rubbing them together. Be sure to cover all parts of your hands, including the backs, between your fingers, and your fingernails.
Scrub your hands for 20 seconds. Popular timekeeping tricks are humming the "Happy Birthday" song twice, or singing the ABC's.
Rinse your hands under clean, running water. Make sure to avoid touching the faucet with your hands when you turn the water off. Use your forearm or elbow instead.
Dry your hands with a clean, dry towel or allow them to air dry.
If soap and water is unavailable, use hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol. Apply the amount suggested by the label to your hands and rub them until they are dry.
 Foods you plan on consuming raw should be carefully washed. If they've been handled by someone who has hepatitis or exposed to human waste, you can get the virus by eating them. To prevent this, be sure all food is clean before you eat it.Rinse fruits and vegetables under running water. Don't use any soap.
If the food has thick or rough skin, like a watermelon, scrub it with a clean brush.
Dry the food with a paper towel or clean cloth.
Avoid eating food or drinking water while in endemic areas, or take special precautions to make sure you are not ingesting anything that may be contaminated.
 Like produce, meat can also be contaminated by hepatitis A if handled by an infected person. To prevent this, follow federal guidelines for properly cooking meat. Generally meat should be heated to at least 145 – 160°F (62.7 – 711°C) degrees to kill any pathogens. Reference this chart to see the right temperature to cook different meats.

