 Shopping for larger clothes can be challenging. It is easy to give up and settle for wearing something that sort of fits. Very skinny women are all more or less the same proportions, and these are often the fashion models that designers base clothing sizes on. Larger women tend to be more diverse in body proportions. The scaling-up clothing designers attempt often fails completely unless the designers are competent and knowledgeable about plus-sizes.


You may need to find stores that specialize in larger sizes. In America, for example, Lane Bryant has been providing clothing for larger sizes for decades.
Better department stores may have areas dedicated to full-figured clothing. However, usually this is for mature women, not so much adolescents or children.
Online shopping may be your best bet if you have no specialty clothing stores nearby. Just be sure that you consult sizing charts--what is 4X in one brand may be a 2X in another.
Make use of a seamstress. Since full-figured women vary so much, proper tailoring is important. Being able to take in a seam can turn an almost-right piece of clothing into just-right.;
, It is one thing to find well-fitting plus-sized clothing, but sometimes the styling is sorely lacking. This is often especially true if you are a young adult, and want to wear junior's fashions and not items designed for a middle-aged woman. Follow the advice give for fitting above, plus:


Do not settle. It is very tempting to "give in" and wear clothes you really do not like. But fashionable larger clothing exists...you just may have to look longer and harder than other women. The extra work is worth it.

You deserve pretty clothes! The fact that it is so difficult to find fashion-forward larger clothing sends a very strong, subtle message: That you do not deserve to look or feel pretty, just be grateful it just fits. But that is no more correct than it is for any other woman. You have every right to look and feel great, no matter what your weight is!
The clothes are meant to flatter you, not the other way around. All too often, women are made to feel if they do not look good in a clothing item, that it is somehow due to a personal failure. If you do not like how the pants look, that is because there is something not right about the pants...not that there is something wrong with you. Even models do not necessarily look right in every piece of clothing.
 Full-figured women sometimes spend so much effort concealing, they forget to accent the positive as well. Every woman has features that is worth showing off. Do you have great hair, shapely legs, flawless skin, a curvy figure? Choose styles that show off these features.
 Women have been taught to feel good wearing small size, but bad if the size is larger. This is ridiculous. You will look and feel better if what you wear fits appropriately, no matter what the tag says.


Sizing for clothing pieces vary by designer, manufacturer, whether the clothing is for juniors, or misses, or women, and even what country the company is in. A size "16" or "XXL" or "2x" means essentially nothing.
Try on the same piece in two or three sizes, and choose the one that flatters your body the most.
Sometimes things are mis-labelled. In all clothing, occasionally one factory makes an error cutting something, or the labels may get mixed up. This happens once in a while especially at discount clothing stores. Once in a while, two items labelled the same size do not fit the same.
 Larger women sometimes completely give up on finding the right undergarments, and just settle for "something"--but in fact, well-fitting undergarments make a huge difference for full-figured women. Supportive bras, panties, and other shaping items like Spanx not only feel great when well-fitted but also make you look more "put together".


Get fitted for a bra. Many women think they know what bra fits properly, but in truth, are often way off. Many department stores and better lingerie stores are exceptionally helpful in determining if a bra fits or not.
Invest in bras that fit. A-cup women can go around with flimsy (or no) bras, but not so women with bountiful bosoms! Good bras are inevitably more expensive than cheap ones, however. But good bras will typically be longer-lasting, support better, and feel better.
 Even if you do not wear shapewear every day, it is a confidence booster. This not only helps clothes fit better but boosts confidence! No more underwear lines, hooray!

, Be happy with who you are; this is more important and speaks louder than your clothes or size ever will. A skinny girl with a sour attitude and poor self-esteem is just not as beautiful as a young lady that is well dressed and wearing a smile.
 Larger women can carry off accessories that may "overwhelm" a smaller frame. For example, a big, chunky necklace might look over-sized on a thin woman, but be able to be pulled easily by a large one.


Difficult-to-shop-for sized women often must be very selective and deliberate in shopping, so the number of items in the wardrobe may be smaller. Accessories can give more variety in the wardrobe without having to worry about size as much as one would in buying something like a shirt.
Remember that not all accessories are clothing. Things like handbags, shoes, belts, are all things to consider in an outfit.
 Some people seem to have the notion that if you are heavier, you somehow cannot or should not wear what you want to wear. It is true that some trends (like spaghetti-strap tank tops) may not be a first choice for larger women. But most trends are fine for women of all sizes. For instance, if you really like those leopard print tights, wear them, no matter if you are size 12 or 22!


Darker colors are generally more slimming. But a wardrobe of dark, drab colors is not flattering.
Do not be afraid of color. A great color looks great on anyone, regardless of size. Using color can bring the eye to features you want to highlight.



Wear a straight-up-and-down or boot-cut jeans or pant. These will take the emphasis off your hips and butt and compliments curves.
Pointy-toed shoes and boots tend to make legs seem longer and you look thinner overall.
Opt for longer shirts. When the hem of the shirt falls a few inches below a woman's natural waistline, the overall effect smooths the stomach.
Try dresses that gather under the bust. For many larger women, dresses with an empire-style bust de-emphasizes the stomach and shows off a lovely bust.
 Try a black dress pant paired with a bright top and great shoes. If you do decide to go with a dress, make sure it fits! Strapless can be tricky for a bigger bust, so be careful.A tulip skirt can also do wonders on a plus-size lower half.

