 Routines are important for people trying to cope with, or get rid of depression and anxiety.


Having a daily routine which you follow can be a big help. The reason for this is because a routine gives you something to focus on and look forward to.
When we are left with no concrete plans we find that it may be easier to wander and procrastinate.
Try to get up at the same time every day, eat a healthy breakfast and follow daily routines. These routines can be as simple as brushing your teeth, or more involved like planning out a whole day.
You can also incorporate time just for you into your daily routine. Maybe you find it helpful to go for a fifteen-minute walk every day after lunch.
If you are on medication, make sure to take it at the same time each day.
 While having a good diet is important for fighting depression and anxiety, certain foods are a great natural resource to boost your mood.For example:


Cherry tomatoes are a great addition to your salad. These little tomatoes contain a component called lycopene which has antioxidants that are responsible for enhancing your mood.
Instead of iceberg lettuce in your salad, try spinach. Spinach is full of iron and folic acid which boosts your immunity by buffing up your red blood cells.
Drink green tea and add honey. Honey is a great sugar substitute that contains kaempferol and quercetin which improve brain health.
For a healthy, lean meat try turkey. Turkey has tryptophan which makes you happy and provides a great source of protein.
 When you suffer from anxiety and depression it’s easy to feel like the world is spinning around you and too overwhelming. Meditation is a perfect natural combatant to these feelings. Whether you do it for an hour a day or five minutes, breathing and clearing your mind can help rid you of bad feelings.
You don’t have to sit in a complicated position on the floor and say “Ohm” over and over; though you may find that comforting. Just find a quiet place where you can be comfortable and focus on your breathing.
Practice breathing in and out through your nose. Let the air fill your stomach and push it out on the inhale. On the exhale let your belly fall as you slowly expel air.



Vitamin D is a vitamin that helps our bodies to stay strong. It’s found in milk and also in the UV light created by sunlight.
Not getting enough Vitamin D can contribute to our feeling low, weak, and tired. Drink more milk and get outside more to get exposed to sunlight.
You can also take Vitamin D supplements like drops to help boost your moods.
If you live somewhere that gets much darker in the winter, consider a sun lamp. These lamps produce light which mimics sunlight and can help trigger Vitamin D production in our bodies.

