 You should have clean hands whenever you are touching the area around your band-aid to prevent the spread of bacteria and possible infection.Use clean water from a tap to wet your hands. Warm or cold is fine.
Turn off the tap and apply soap to your hands.
Rub your hands together to create a lather with the soap making sure to coat the back of your hands, between your fingers, and underneath your fingernails.
Continue scrubbing your hands for 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song twice in a row from beginning to end. Rinse the soap off of your hands with clean water from the tap.
Dry your hands with a clean cloth towel, paper towel, or you can air dry them.
As an alternative to washing your hands, you can use a hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol., Like washing your hands, cleaning the area around your band-aid can help prevent infection or the spread of bacteria during removal.


Fill a clean bowl with clean tap water and mild liquid soap. Warm or cold water is fine, although warm (not hot) water may feel more comforting.
Soak a clean washcloth in the soapy water and wring it out to remove excess moisture.
Gently wash the skin around and on top of the band-aid with the wash cloth. Avoid putting direct pressure on top of the band-aid as you do this. Instead, give it a quick wipe with the cloth.
Gently pat the area dry with a clean, dry washcloth.
 Warm air softens the sticky part of the band-aid and makes it easier to remove.


Using the warm setting will lower the risk of you burning yourself.
 This helps you achieve an even release of the adhesive and minimizes discomfort from the heat on your skin.
 How long this process takes depends on the size and strength of the adhesive area.


It’s easiest to slide a fingernail underneath an edge and gently pry it up.
If it's not ready to peel off, apply more warm heat with the blow-dryer.
Areas with more hair may take less time than band-aids stuck to smooth skin.
 You should feel minimal resistance from the band-aid. If it’s not ready yet, be patient and keep working at it with the heat.

