 Dogs that are blind from birth are very adaptable and do not need a completely unmoving environment, since they develop excellent mental maps and adjust, but they do need to be away from stairs and sharp objects that they may bump into.;
, Most sighted puppies rely on feel and smell as much as a blind dog. Puppies don’t have great eyesight.
 Chicken thighs are very inexpensive and a great luxury for dogs. Gourmet preparation is not required; just bake them until they’re not pink, then cut them into tiny pieces. Training pieces are not meals.
 Sighted dogs can see how happy or upset you are, but blind dogs need to learn it by touch or treat.


Condition “Good!” (Good boy, good girl, good puppy, good Fido) with either a soft pet or a small treat. The best treat is a tiny piece of chicken for a small dog.
Blind dogs can be trained for some actions far easier than sighted dogs, because they are not distracted. Easy words and easy training are even easier for a blind dog!
Condition something negative with a sharp sound. It can be a hiss, pst, “uh-uh,” or something very short. The sound alone should be enough to deter bad behavior, but steering them away from the behavior at the same time will help.
 Sighted dogs look at your face for affection. Blind dogs can’t. Touching, petting, and rubbing are their only signs that you are affectionate towards them.
 You may not think they can understand, but they will develop an understanding of what you are doing by what you tell them. If you walk away, tell them in a simple word about what you are doing. “Laundry,” “Dishes,” “Jammies,” “Potty,” and many more daily activities are all things they can come to understand.


You can even use made-up words for activities. “Hodeeho!” could mean you are going to the car and will be right back. Feel free to make up as many words as you want. Your sighted dogs will understand these too.
 Blind dogs (who have never had sight) are even better on a leash than sighted dogs. They don’t have the distractions that sighted dogs have. They will learn, much as a horse does, that a slight tension on the leash means to turn. Keep them on a close leash so you can steer them from things they may bump into, but let them run if it’s clear and they want to.


Be lenient on your walks. Blind dogs don't heel well, since they can't see where your heel is.
Because blind dogs are denied the visual stimulation of walks, let them have plenty of time to stop and smell. Do this either on the way out or on the way back, since they should have some good exercise time too.
 This can take time for a blind dog, so be patient. Sitting by a step with the dog can help. Say, “Step!” and then put the front paws on the step. They are naturally (and rightfully) afraid of stairs and steps. Never try to stair-train a blind dog. Disorientation can cause them to tumble and fall. Blind dogs should always be carried on stairs.
 They may require more touch and chicken treats than a sighted dog to get it the first time, but will reward you with far less disobedience once they understand.
 They have no idea, if blind from birth, that sight exists. They can be fearless and blissfully happy.

