 What do you like about yourself? Is there anything you would like to improve about your health? What would you like to improve about your appearance? Start making some personal goals that you can follow up on!;
, There are things such as your eye color, any genetic conditions, your natural skin color, your ability to run or walk if you use a wheelchair, or your height that you can't change. Remember though, if you are only 13, you may still have some growing to do height-wise so eat a balanced, nutritious diet and don't start smoking in order to reach your full height potential. Other things, you just need to accept as a part of who you are. If you don't like your hair color, you can change it. If you don't like your weight, you can change that too, but make sure you feel comfortable in your own skin and change it for yourself, not for others.
 Do you need to eat more, less or the same? Do you need to eat healthier, or start cooking some of your own meals? A little treat now and then is fine, but a Big Mac and fries every week is definitely not healthy! A good rule of thumb: Put good in, get good out!

, Preppy, classic, edgy, girly? Think about what you like, what looks good on you, and what to avoid. Take your height, weight, age and form into account. If you are an hourglass, for example, look up what clothing those with hourglass figures should wear to flatter their body. Make sure whatever you wear, you feel comfortable in. You can't feel good if you don't like what you wear.
 Wash your hair every 2 days with shampoo and conditioner, or less, or more. Do what works for your hair. Brush your hair whenever needed or at least 2 times a day. If your hair is heavy, you may enjoy a cut with layers. But don’t go too crazy if you're not used to it - they can take quite a while to grow back out if you don't like it. Be sure that the hair styles are cute.
 Nails are very important in your appearance. Keep your nails looking good by clipping them once a week to an even length; one popular choice is 3-6 millimeters above the skin. Clean under your nails everyday. You can also paint them if desired.
 Wash your face with warm water and facial cleaner or soap every morning when you wake up and at night before you go to sleep. After washing always use facial moisturizer. To keep the rest of your skin clean, take a shower every day using soap that won’t harm your skin, or have a bath or full wash. Lotion your body immediately after you get out of the shower. Drinking lots of water, (at least 8 glasses of water a day), will make your skin glow and keep it healthy. (It also helps prevent acne).
 Brush your teeth after every meal for 3 minutes, then floss, and use mouth wash to keep your breath smelling good. When you brush, make sure your getting your gums too. Brush your tongue about 1 minute every time your brush your teeth to keep it pink. If you have crooked teeth, get braces and do as your dentist recommends, or, embrace your individual quirks and only straighten your teeth if it has a medical benefit. There's nothing wrong with cosmetic dentistry, it's just not essential to looking and feeling great.
 Put on Chapstick/lip balm on when you’re at home, especially during the winter. Wearing chapstick in public is nice too, it gives a natural glow to your lips.
 Ask your doctor before starting any intense exercise routine, especially if you have asthma or any other chrome conditions. Don't over exert yourself to reach the numbers below. Use the times as a guide, and do what you can, gradually working your way up to longer distances and faster repetitions.
 You need at least 30 minutes of exercise everyday, even if you did 15 min cardio, then got up and played wii fit for another 15 min. Try to work your way up to these times and you will have your 30 minutes of exercise. Walking is great exercise.


Warmup (5 minutes): simple stretches for 3 minutes, light jog for 2 minutes
Cardio (15-30 minutes): jog a mile everyday or jog for 15-30 minutes a day. If you can't do this because you have a mobility issues, find your own way of keeping as fit as you can to look and feel great.
Toning (30 minutes): do 50 sit ups a day, do 20 push ups a day (if you can't do it all in a row, try at least 6 in a row at first) do 60 arm curls a day with 5 pound weights (at least 20 in a row)(hold one weight in each hand, hold arms to sides, then lift weights up to shoulders, then back down and repeat), 50 over head presses (hold 5 pound weights above shoulders with arms bent, then lift arms straight up over head and lower arms back to first position. Do 50 squats and 50 lunges.
Flexibility (10 minutes): hold splits on each leg for 2 min everyday, then straddle (middle) splits for 2 minutes (don’t force yourself to go all the way down at once, and don't bounce in any stretch), stand up with your feet shoulder width apart and reach for your toes for 1 minute, do simple stretches for the next 3 minutes.
 Try not to eat too many calories for your height, but enough to maintain a healthy weight. This number should be increased if you exercise regularly. Eating correctly will help your body keep or become a natural, beautiful shape. Always and only eat healthy meals which are breakfast, lunch, dinner, and a snack in between lunch and dinner. Skip the snack if you are not hungry. Don’t overeat – only eat until you are comfortably full. Minimize sweets and soda, but plan occasional treats. If you eat sweets, eat small portions.
 It's no secret that makeup can improve your appearance. All you really need to wear is a bit of concealer, powder, lip gloss, and mascara. But don’t make it too obvious, the point is to make people think that you’re not wearing makeup. You can wear your makeup during the day with touch-ups every now and then, but make sure you take it off once you get home to let your skin breathe. Remember that make-up appropriate for a thirteen year old may look a little odd for a young woman of 19, but if you think you look and feel good, go for it! .
 Wear deodorant every day. You may need to put it on more than once. The smell shouldn't be too strong, either. Find a perfume that matches your personality, and stick to it. Don't wear so much that it's overbearing, though.
 A warm smile and a friendly demeanor can make anyone more appealing and attractive. Smiles and friendliness also attract potential friendships and allies. No amount of makeup can replace the beauty of a warm smile, and when we smile, we feel better about life, others, and ourselves.

