 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the fries, set the temperature to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (220 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper and lightly grease it with non-stick cooking spray.You can substitute foil or a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper.
You can grease the baking sheet with canola or olive oil in place of the cooking spray if you prefer.
 Crack two eggs into a small, shallow bowl. Whisk the eggs together until they’re completely blended.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 Add 1 cup (125 g) of breadcrumbs and ¼ cup (25 g) of grated Parmesan cheese to a separate shallow bowl. Mix the two together with a fork to ensure that they’re well blended.You can use plain or seasoned breadcrumbs.
If you like, you can mix the seasonings of your choice into the breadcrumb mixture. Black pepper, cayenne pepper, paprika, garlic powder, and/or onion powder all work well. Keep in mind that you will be adding some seasonings to the fries before baking them, though.
 For the fries, you’ll need 3 to 4 large zucchini that have been cut into ½-inch (13-mm) strips. Dip the fries into the egg mixture, and then toss them in the breadcrumb mixture until they are well coated. Transfer the coated fries to the greased baking sheet.Make sure to allow the excess egg to drip off the zucchini fries and back into the bowl before coating them with the breadcrumbs to avoid clumps.
 When the fries are on the baking sheet, sprinkle them with ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of garlic powder, salt,and pepper to taste. Next, drizzle 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil over them.Feel free to incorporate your favorite seasonings with the garlic powder, salt, and pepper.
You can substitute canola oil or nonstick cooking spray for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the fries are seasoned, place them in the heated oven. Allow them to cook until they are golden brown and crisp, which should take 30 to 35 minutes.Halfway through the cooking process, use a spatula to turn the fries over so they cook evenly on both sides.
 When the zucchini fries are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Transfer them to a platter and serve while they are still warm.You can serve the fries with ketchup or your favorite dipping sauce.

