 When your baby gets into a hiccuping fit, write down the date, the time, and the circumstances. Which settings and feeding practices seem to trigger your baby's hiccups?


If your baby hiccups during and directly after breast- or bottle-feeding, she may be eating too quickly or gulping excess air. Review the following steps to prevent your baby from hiccuping while feeding.
If your baby hiccups at night, painfully, in association with painful vomiting, this may be a sign of acid reflux disease. Refer to Step 4 to learn about acid reflux.
 If the stomach expands too quickly or becomes overfull, it can trigger the diaphragm to spasm into a hiccuping fit. Thus, babies can begin to hiccup when they suckle too much milk, too quickly. Feeding your baby less milk at shorter intervals will ensure that she does not fill up too quickly. , Stop to burp your baby midway through a feeding, once she has suckled 2 to 3 ounces (60-90mL). This will break up the feeding and give your baby time to digest.


If you are breastfeeding: Pause to burp your baby as you switch from one breast to another. This may aid the digestion process. Wait a few minutes before resuming the feeding in order to give your baby time to digest.
If you are bottle-feeding: Pause halfway through the bottle to burp your baby. Finish off the feeding a few minutes later once your baby has had time to digest.
 Babies can also begin to hiccup when they swallow too much air during feeding. Listen for rhythmic, regular sucking. If your baby is nursing too quickly and sucking in air, you will hear her gulping and swallowing loudly.


If you are breastfeeding: Make sure that your baby's lips are opened wide and that they form a tight seal around your entire areola—not just the nipple. Avoid hunching or leaning forward when you breastfeed, as this may make it difficult for your baby to latch.
Aim your nipple at the top of your baby's mouth. Do this when your baby opens her mouth widely so that the nipple lays directly onto her tongue. If her mouth doesn't open wide naturally, encourage her by gently touching her lips and her mouth. Pull her towards you with pressure her back, not her head.
If you are bottle-feeding: Tilt the bottle to a 45-degree angle, bottom-up, so that your baby sucks in more formula than air. Consider using a bottle with collapsible bag inserts, as these are designed to reduce air swallowing.
 Plan feeding times at regular intervals, and learn to tell when your baby is hungry. A calm baby will eat more slowly than a hungry, upset baby.
 This will prevent air from settling in her stomach, expanding, and triggering hiccups. Hold your baby close so that his chest is close to yours--he should be looking straight ahead or up a little.


You may find it easier to sit down while feeding in order to keep your baby on your lap. Sit straight up, leaning back a bit, so that you feel relaxed and comfortable.
 This will relieve the pressure on her diaphragm, allowing her to burp and release the gas.
 If your baby begins to hiccup during a feeding session, stop feeding her and let her digest for five to ten minutes.Keep her sitting upright and try to feed her again, slowly, once the hiccuping stops.

