 You can build an underground labyrinth for yourself or even people on your server. If you want to make it extra scary, get a Herobrine mod and summon him in the labyrinth. We cannot be held accountable for what may or may not appear in your pants!;
, Make a temple to worship yourself! Of course, you can build a temple or church to anyone you want, but it's also fun to build one for yourself.
 Clever Minecrafters have figured out how to use a minecart system to build a high speed "interstate". Experiment with building your own scenic drive or look up plans online.
 Of course, the first thing you build in Minecraft is a shelter...so what better way to show that you've mastered the game than to build an epic castle? Bonus points for putting it somewhere cool, like on a mountain.
 Basic mob farming is useful, but boring. A more interesting way to go about it is to do mob breeding. Lots of tutorials can be found online for mob breeding, so find one that works for you.
 Start flying up in the air and building a majestic sky home! It doesn't need to be just a house, it can be a castle. No tutorials are needed for this great building, you just need some creativity and skills!

, Museums are very fun and easy to build. Look at pictures online that match what you're looking for, or look at official plans of museums!, For example, make versions of Five Nights at Freddy's or Clash of Clans!, Bilbo Baggins went on an adventure and now it's your turn. Build a complex world with all the standard fantasy environments, like a haunted forest or a dangerous mountain. When you're done, you can go on your own epic quest and write about your adventures.
 Build yourself a water environment with a big island, a pirate port complete with pub, and a pirate ship out on the high seas! You can even put interesting things on your island, like a Temple of Doom.
 Use obsidian blocks in creative mode to create a huge black space, then use plans or codes to generate huge spheres to make the planets. You can then make a spaceship floating between the planets to live in.


Fill a glass sphere with lava to make a sun!

, Make a huge volcano filled with lava. Bonus points if you build yourself an evil lair under the volcano. Glass can be used to hold back the lava and you can use it for lighting inside your lair.
 Build Avatar style trees in the biggest scale you can, and then fill the roots, trunk, and branches with homes and pathways. Then invite your friends over to have an Ewok style party!

, You can use tracks, carts, redstone and the in-game physics to build yourself a fully automated train system. You can set this up in a mine or even make an actual train and train station for the people visiting your world.
 You can use redstone and command blocks to build an elevator for your buildings. This is surprisingly easy to do and you can find many tutorials online.
 Using hoppers, you can build systems which organize your items quickly and efficiently. This is useful in mines but also for your home as well. You can find many tutorials online for different types of systems.
 Using daylight switches that have been inverted, you can build light sensitive street lamps that turn on when it gets dark. Use this to light major pathways to protect your players from spooky mobs.
 Mob traps are often very large contraptions which catch and automatically kill mobs, usually by drowning them. There are many different designs for all budgets, so do some research on your options. Many tutorials can be found on YouTube.
 Haven't you been griefed? Well start to build a griefer trap to catch the griefers! Look up some tutorials, there are many ways to do one!

, Create elaborate and detailed recreations of cool national monuments, attractions, and other famous buildings and sights. Set them up so that your players or family members can go on a trip around the world in just a few minutes if they want to.
 Take inspiration from your favorite TV show and build your interpretation of the environment or setting of the story. You can build the high school from Buffy the Vampire Slayer, or Finn's tree house from Adventure Time, for example.
 Recreate a walkable version of the neighborhood where you grew up. Include your school, local parks, your house, and other places where you spent a lot of time.
 Really stretch your imagination and recreate the environment from your favorite books. Make the Lonely Mountain from the Hobbit, or the wacky hills of a Doctor Suess book. Let your creativity fly!

, Take a single room or other small space and then recreate it on a grand scale. Make 1 block equal to 1-2". This will result in Skyscraper-sized doors. If you want, you can build yourself a home in the walls and live like a Borrower!

, You can find many plans online for mob cannons. These loud contraptions which use redstone and TNT can fire a sheep into the Nether! It's easy to really make pigs fly!

, You can use command blocks and careful counting to create this beloved TV Show device, a police box that is actually bigger on the inside. You can find helpful tutorials on YouTube and across the internet.
 Build yourself a to size copy of the Titanic and then have fun with your friends, relaxing on the ship. Of course, you can make a normal cruise ship too. In fact... maybe that's safer than getting your Titanic hit by an iceberg!

, You can harken back to the 8-bit beginnings of characters like Mario and Zelda and use Minecraft to make giant works of pixel art! Get creative and make a scene that you and your friends can enjoy! Top off the experience with one chiptunes!

, If you're willing to invest the time, many players have figured out how to make working computers and other complex mechanical devices. Find examples online of 3-D printers, working computers, and even a game of PacMan!

, Minedraft lets you mock up plans of your buildings and structures before you build them, so that you can keep everything straight. This is a very useful tool.
 WorldPainter lets you make entire Minecraft maps as easily as using MS Paint and then import them into your game and use them. This is another great tool!

, This is great for beginners that want to see how cool Minecraft stuff gets made.
 There are loads of Minecraft mods that you can find all over the internet. These can make your game much prettier and more fun and they cover a range of topics. A useful tool for builders is a new set of textures, which can make your builds much better looking.
 There are loads of talented builders on YouTube that put up tutorials on building all sorts of cool stuff. Find some popular channels and people that you like in order to get started. Just be careful not to waste all your time watching vids!

, Papercraft is like origami on steroids. You can print out and glue together all sorts of cool stuff from Minecraft, to use as decorations and even build in real life.

