 Everyone is entitled to make their own choices. While some people may dislike makeup, it is a personal decision everyone makes for themselves. It is your choice to wear makeup. If someone else makes a different choice, it does not make them superior to you.Be confident in your choice, and remind others when necessary that it's okay that you chose makeup. If someone tells you that you wear too much makeup, say something like, "I'm glad you choose not to wear makeup, but I love makeup and am making a different choice."

, Makeup can be a form of self-expression. You have the right to express yourself however you see fit. Think about why you choose the makeup you do, and what it says about you.Think about the colors you usually use. Maybe there's something about, say, pink eye shadow that feels fun and quirky, reflecting your personality.
Embrace makeup as your personal form of self expression. Just like someone may dress a certain way to express themselves, you do makeup to express yourself.
 Many people assume others do makeup due to insecurity or to impress other people. This is usually not the case. There are many reasons for someone to love makeup. The more secure you are with your personal reasons, the more comfortable you'll feel ignoring people who accuse you of being insecure and hiding something.Why do you love makeup? Many people simply find it fun to tweak their look slightly and bring out their best features. There is nothing wrong with wanting to look your best.
Learn to embrace why you wear makeup. Makeup has been around for a long time, and many people have worn it throughout history.
 Online communities can help you feel less insecure about how much you love makeup. On Instagram, for example, many people post pictures of themselves wearing makeup using hashtags about their looks and style.You can also check out communities, such as YouTube, where people post beauty tutorials. Finding others who love makeup, and embrace their love of makeup, can help you feel more secure in your own love of makeup.
Try typing something like "online makeup communities" into a search engine to meet likeminded people.

