 Talk to your friend and try to appreciate his or her position. Your friend may have genuine feelings for your crush that seem to be reciprocated. If they really are your friend, you should want to see things work out for them one way or another.If your friend really cares about your crush, the right thing to do may be to see how things go.
If your friend doesn’t seem to feel too seriously about your crush, he or she may understand if you tell them about how you feel.
If your friend has strong feelings for your crush and you interfere, you risk ending your friendship.;
, Your crush’s feelings should be paramount to you if you really care about him or her, so take a step back and consider the situation. Does your crush seem to truly care about your friend? Are there any signs that he or she may have been interested in you?


It may be difficult to accept that your crush may not have an interest in you romantically, but understand that it doesn’t mean you are any less valuable or attractive as a person. Maybe you two simply aren’t right for each other.
If your crush seems like he or she is interested in you and doesn’t care too deeply about your friend, you may want to consider being honest with each of them about your feelings.
 There are many different kinds of crushes one can have on another person. How deep are your feelings for your crush? How well do you know him or her? If you have strong feelings you fear you may not be able to push aside, you may want to tell them the truth.If you don’t know your crush very well, it may not be worth the damage honesty could cause to your friendship.
If you are uncertain about your feelings, take a step back and give yourself some time. There’s no reason to make any rash decisions.
Infatuation and love are different emotions that feel very similar. Infatuation often occurs when you are caught up in the excitement of meeting a person you like, but the feelings often lack longevity.
 After considering your feelings, the feelings of your friend and the feelings of your crush, you’ll have to determine what you think the best course of action is. You may feel the right thing to do is to tell them both the truth about your feelings, or you may think it best that you keep them to yourself.


If you decide to tell them how you feel, consider talking to your friend about it first. Depending on the situation, your friend may understand and step aside.
Prepare yourself for things to go poorly if you choose to be honest. While everything may work out, you also run the risk of losing a friend and still not being able to date your crush.
Remember to be sensitive to their feelings as well as your own in your decision.

