 The first step is to find a suitable meeting agenda template, because there is little use starting from scratch, when there are so many fantastic tools on the internet. A quick search will throw up a list of sites which can help you make a start. These websites contain various different kinds of agenda format, so browse until you find one that you are happy with.
 Once you have found the perfect template, select it and click the download button, after the preview screen provided.
 locate the template, by opening the Downloads folder on your computer, and then open the template file using Microsoft Word. This is the best choice of documentary software, as it is easy to navigate and simple to use. For the fastest, most efficient agenda template, you are recommended to use up to date Microsoft Word.
 Do not forget to customize your agenda. The template that you have downloaded will be filled with example information, so that you know what to write, and where to write it. This information needs to be replaced with data about your company. This includes the header; make sure that you add your logo, copyright text, and any other important details.


once you have filled in the basic information, it is time to turn to the agenda format. You are responsible for allocating time to each agenda, and for deciding which agendas are important enough to make it onto the schedule, so take care when filling out the slots. It can be useful to use the headings, Agenda Item, Presenter and Time – just to keep everything clear and well defined.
 You are recommended to not leaving any of the agenda ‘slots’ empty. If you have more spaces than you need, delete them. You should also feel free to make aesthetic modifications. There is no reason why you can’t switch up the color, headings, and format to match the essence of the company. However, you are recommended to not use dark colors, because they will make the document harder to read. Use of light and company color scheme will make it looks professional.
 The final step is to give your completed agenda a quick read through, whilst keeping an eye out for spelling mistakes and typos. Now, you are ready to have a great meeting.

