 Clothing should always be alegre (happy) in Brazil. You may arrive and be surprised to see grandmothers dressing boldly. It is important for Brazilians to embrace a bold, personal style regardless of their shape or age.;
, Brazilian are perfectionists: your clothes should always be cleaned and well ironed. Brazilians always dress up, even if they have to catch the plane. Even t-shirts should be clean and ironed in order to look new. Never dress down.
 Bright colours and bold patterns are a good start towards building your brazilian wardrobe. Avoid dull and neutral colours as much as possible.
 Unisex garments are not very popular in Brazil. In northern cities, it is rare to see women wearing trousers. Dresses or shorts paired with a stylish top are the usual attire.
 Clothing should be well fitted, not baggy or loose. You should feel comfortable in your clothes, not as though you are being swallowed in fabric.
 Wear ventilated clothing, and shower whenever possible. Brazilians take pride in smelling good.


Remember to clean your teeth (after each meal) and floss once a day. Spinach stucked in between your teeth will make you look silly.
 You have to dress smart in Brazil. Check your destination’s weather prior to packing your luggage. Brazil has seasons: winters can be cold, while summers can be hot and very humid. Beware, some areas are dry and dusty.
 Use a great bag, put on some bold jewellery, and have fun with your sunglasses! Accessories don’t need to be expensive, but they should make a statement about you. In some regions, wearing jewellery made from local natural materials such as seeds and wood, especially if well-made, will get you noticed and it will be taken as a sign of appreciation of the local culture.
 Dressing down will not help you blend in. Looking sharp shows respect to your host in social occasions. All events are opportunities to dress up, have fun, and dress accordingly. Feel free to ask for advice in case of doubt: you are better off safe than sorry.
 Your shoes should always be very clean. Flip-flops (chinelas) are appropriate in certain circumstances only. In Rio, they can be worn most of the time. In other cities, avoid flip flops unless you are heading to the beach. It will be obvious that you are a tourist.


Women should carry a pair of colorful sandals with fun details such as bows or flowers in their luggage, while men should invest in a good quality pair of leather sandals.
Toenails and fingernails must be scrupulously clean. It is normal for women to paint their nails, and men often manicure too.
,, You’re in Brazil, you have to accept and love your body! Take a sarong or white shirt to cover up if you are shy.



Be aware that different religious festivals will require different colours, white being a common one.
 Unless you are in the middle of the forest or bird-watching, don’t dress like you were going out on a safari tour.
 They should not be baggy or made out of heavy material (you will get sweaty). Wearing heels with tight jeans is considered elegant in Brazil.

