 Having free hands will help you break your fall more easily. Try to throw the items to the side so you will not fall on them. Don't throw them with too much force, as you may injure someone. Don't worry about breaking fragile items, like your cell phone. If you are falling headfirst, items in your hand are likely to strike the ground anyway. Your own safety is a more important consideration.;
, You should also turn your head towards the armpit you tuck your chin into. This will help keep you from striking the ground with your nose or mouth. Injuries to the nose and mouth are among the most common serious injuries resulting from a face-first fall. Tucking your chin will also naturally bring the stronger parts of your shoulder and back in line for a roll, should you choose to do one.
 It is a natural response to extend and "lock" your arms or legs during a fall. This should be avoided. Locked elbows and knees are much more likely to be damaged during a fall, since they will not "give" under the sudden impact of landing. Instead, allow your arms and legs to remain loose and bent as you fall. , It is far better to land on your buttocks or side than directly onto your arms and head. Turn your body in the same direction you have tucked your chin to further ensure your face doesn't hit the ground. Try to make this motion as fluid as possible, without twisting your back abruptly. If you can't turn on your side in time, you can still break your fall with your arms and hands.
 If you strike the ground with as broad a surface area as you can, you will be less likely to be injured. If you had time to turn your body, this means falling onto your buttocks or the fleshy part of your side, upper back and upper arm. , If you must fall on your arms and hands, remember to strike with as much surface area as possible. This means striking with both palms, as if you were falling into a pushup. Make sure your elbows are relaxed. Think of your arms like springs, which will allow your body to come to rest on the ground without striking it full force. Don't try to fully stop your fall with your arms. Just allow the force of your fall to bend your elbows as slowly as possible, lowering your body to the ground.
If you can't land on your palms, try to land on your entire forearm. Don't land on your elbow, though, as it is more fragile and presents less surface area to the impact.
 It is common to hold your breath while falling, and this should be avoided. Your body will naturally try to expel the air from your lungs as you land, and you should allow this to happen. Breathing out will allow your body to "give" to the force of the impact, potentially reducing the strain on your bones. , Instead of trying to halt your forward movement, allow yourself to roll with it. This is easiest to accomplish if you land on your side, since you will naturally tend to roll like a barrel. If landing on your arms or shoulder, you can attempt an intentional forward roll by keeping your chin and forward shoulder tucked, and tucking your knees in. Here are some guidelines for attempting a forward roll.Try to roll over the shoulder opposite to the side where your chin is tucked.
As you fall forward, roll over your shoulder on a diagonal line from your shoulder to your opposite hip.
Come to rest on your buttocks and feet at the end of the roll.
You should practice performing such a roll from a squatting position on a soft, stable surface before attempting it during an actual fall.
 If you feel a sharp, intense pain in a bone or joint, don't put any weight on it, and call for assistance right away. If you suspect you may be injured, call for emergency services, and ask the operator what you should do to avoid worsening your injury.

