 Sometimes, you may need to approach an aggressive cat in order to help her. In this instance, it is less about stopping the aggressive cat, and more about preventing her from injuring you or yourself while trying to help her., The best way to secure an aggressive cat that is in pain is to cover her with a blanket or towel. Its first important to keep the cat from attacking your legs and feet. To do this:


Shake out the towel and grip one of the long edges, placing your hands about a third of the way in from either end of the towel.
If the injured animal is on the ground, hold the towel at ninety degrees (or perpendicular) to the ground, with the long edge parallel to, and touching, the floor.
Hold the towel at arms’ length, acting as a vertical barrier between your legs and the aggressive cat.
 While holding the towel in between you and the cat, walk very slowly towards her and talk to the cat in the most soothing voice that you can muster. Talk quietly and in an even tone, making sure that you don’t make any loud sounds or sudden movement.


Don’t shout if the cat attacks the towel. If the cat is very scared, she may charge at the towel. Don’t yell, as this will only bring out more aggression.
 With a quick, confident movement, grip the cat’s chest firmly through the towel, one hand on either side of the rib cage, and lift her up off the ground. Hold the cat in a towel at arms’ length with her rear end dangling down, head up, and spine roughly vertical (the cat will attempt to curl up).


In this position, even if the cat turns to bite, your hands are protected by the towel. Likewise your hands and body are well away from her claws.
 Have someone open up a box or carrier cage for you to put the cat in. Move swiftly and calmly to the carrying box and, without removing the cat from the towel, place her and the towel inside the box. Make sure that the lid is secure.
 Rather than letting the cat deal with the issue on her own, you should immediately take the cat to a veterinarian so that the source of the pain (and the aggression) can be found.

