 Make sure your profile is complete with an avatar that shows your face and a solid bio. It's important that people know who you are and what you're interested in.


The simplest and most personal way to go for an avatar is a photograph of your face looking straight into the lens. Avoid funny angles or having anything else in the photo. Crop it into a square, but don't shrink it down. You want people to be able to click on it and see the larger version.If you own a company and want to use your brand as your avatar instead of a photograph, this is perfectly acceptable. However, using random graphics or images as your avatar can give the impression of a face or spam account, so they are not recommended.
Many people will read your Twitter bio before deciding whether to follow you. A good written bio can help you get much more followers than a poorly written bio.;
, Most potential followers will glance at your most recent tweets to see if you're worth following. Therefore, it stands to reason that the better your tweets, the more followers you'll gain.



Add variety. Make sure you're tweeting on a variety of subjects and not just your personal thoughts or what you're doing at the moment. Talk about your hobbies and interests, share a piece of insightful advice, or post a photo of something cool to switch it up.

Be interesting, transparent and provocative. Share intimate news about your life. If you can spin a good story, you might get readers addicted to the daily dramas of your everyday life.

Post interesting links. Find the man bites dog story. Search the web voraciously for a nugget you can spin into a good tweet. Guy Kawasaki, who has over 100,000 followers, goes as far as paying employees to find buzzworthy stories for him to tweet.There are many websites you can scour for prime Tweeting material

Post multimedia. Switching things up with pictures, videos and even sound clips here and there can make your posts more fun to follow.
 Nobody wants to follow someone who never tweets, therefore it's important to remain consistently active on twitter. You should have a minimum of one post per day and ideally two posts per day to maximize your visibility in the Twitterverse.


It's also important that you post your tweets at a time of day or night when the most people are active. No one will see your tweet or have the opportunity to follow you if you're always posting when they're asleep. The best times to tweet are before people go to work in the morning (pre-9am) and after they finish in the evening (around 6pm).
Make sure to take your time zone into account though. Most Twitter users live in the US, so you will need to tailor your tweeting times to either East coast or West coast schedules.
On the other hand, it's important not to inundate your existing followers with too many tweets, as this can fill up their feed and come across as spammy, which might cause them to unfollow you.
 Using hashtags is a great way to connect to people with similar interests and to increase the visibility of your tweets.


Add hashtags to your tweets and also create tweets based on hashtags that are popular on Twitter at the time (you can see these as "trends" on the left-hand side of your Twitter home page). This will maximize your tweet's exposure.
However, like everything on Twitter, hashtags should be used in moderation. Just pick one or two relevant or amusing hashtags which add to the quality of your tweet. Don't just add hashtags onto words that appeared in the rest of your tweet, or include them just for the sake of it.
 It might seem counter-intuitive to do this when you're focused on gaining followers, but it's a good practice because people who notice that you didn't follow them back might unfollow you. Like other social media sites, Twitter is a "you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours" type of environment.Also, when you follow back, some people might respond to you publicly, which will give you some added exposure to their followers.
If you're worried that you won't be able to keep up with that many people, you're right. Once you're following over 100 people, it'll be pretty much impossible to read all their updates. You'll become more selective in who/what you read.

