 If you’re playing this Jeopardy game as a way to study for your classes, use your school texts and notes to decide what the categories should be. Choose the major themes from the chapters that your upcoming exam will cover, for example.


If this is a recreational game, you can either decide on the categories as a group, or the host alone can choose them.
Whoever is playing the host of this round will be completing the rest of these steps.;
, Write one category on each index card and pin those 6 index cards at the top of a sturdy piece of poster board. Line them up in a single row. Make sure to write legibly (or type and print out the text, if you prefer).


You can also use a marker board if you don’t have poster board on hand.Write the 6 categories at the top of the marker board and draw lines between them to separate the columns.
 The point values range from $100 to $500 in each category, so you will have one card for each of these values – $100, $200, $300, $400 and $500.


Be sure to write legibly, or you could type and print it out if you want it to look extra nice.
 The $100 question should be the easiest one. For instance, if your first category is “Code Names” you could write something like, “James Bonds’ Agent number.” As the host, you’ll need to create a list with all of the answers on a separate sheet of paper. In this case the answer would be, “What is 007?”


Remember, in Jeopardy contestants are given the answer (the clue) and their response should be in question form.
Only the host should work on the answer key.
 Make sure to pin the card so that the $100 side is facing out. Before you pin the card up, you may want to write $100 on the board first, then pin the card over that.


When the host pulls the card from the board to read the clue, the spot will be empty but the point value will stay on the board.
Once you get pretty far along in the game, this will help to give the board a little structure.
 You will follow the same process as before. Remember, the higher the point value, the harder the question should be, so increase the difficulty for this next clue/answer.Pin the $200 card directly beneath the $100 card in Category 1.
The cards will go in ascending order, starting with $100 at the top of the column, and ending with $500 at the bottom.
Make sure to pin the card so that the $200 side is facing out. This will be the practice for all of the clue/answer cards.
 Then follow the same procedure for the rest of the game board until all of the categories have completed index cards pinned up. At this point, the game is ready to play.

