 Typing is recommended for most letters of permission, such as a letter of consent to travel or a letter of medical authorization. Write the letter by hand only in informal situations, or for short notes that only need to be shown once.
 A clear, short title lets the reader know the letter topic immediately. For example, write "Medical Treatment Authorization" or "Letter of Consent for Traveling Minor." Type this in bold font.


In American English, the subject goes at the top of the letter. In British English, the subject goes after the salutation., If the letter will be kept with the child and shown whenever necessary, open with "To Whom It May Concern:" or skip the salutation entirely. If you are sending the letter to a specific person, address them by their professional title and full name.
 Begin with a direct statement clearly stating the letter's purpose. Include the full names of yourself, your child, and the person you are granting permission to. If the child has another custodian or parent, write the letter together if possible. Here are a couple examples:



Medical authorization: "I, (full name), grant (full name of babysitter/teacher/etc.) the authority to obtain medical treatment for my child, (full name of child), as detailed below."

Consent to travel: "We, (full name of parents), are the legal guardians of (child's full name). (Child's full name) has our consent to travel with (names of people accompanying child), as detailed below."

, You may write this as a list, instead of paragraph form. Include all of the following information:


Your relation to the child (custodial parent, non-custodial parent, or legal guardian)
Child's full legal name and birth date
Child's current home address
(Optional) Child's sex, place of birth, and nickname (if commonly used)

, If the people reading the letter would find additional information useful, add it here. Here are suggestions for the most common permission letters for minors:



Medical authorization: Child's allergies, medical conditions, and current medications; doctor's name, address, and phone number; health insurance plan and ID numberConsent to travel: Passport number and date of issue, If the adults are close and trusted family members, you may grant permission for the adults to "(obtain and consent to medical treatment for the minor / travel with the minor) as they see fit." In other circumstances, list exactly what is and isn't allowed:



Example for medical authorization letter: "I authorize (adult's name) to give and consent to treatment for minor illnesses and injuries. In an emergency, (adult) should attempt to contact me. (He/she) may seek and consent to emergency transport, as well as treatment deemed advisable by and supervised by a licensed medical professional."

Example for consent to travel letter: "I authorize (adult's name) to take (child's name) to the Grand View Hotel in Oakville, South Dakota from January 12th through January 18th, and supervise (him/her) on excursions in the surrounding area."

, Note when the authorization expires, or state that it is valid until you revoke it in writing.
 Write "You may direct questions and concerns to me at:" followed by your full name, phone number(s), and home address.
 Ideally, have the document notarized, or find a lawyer or other official to act as witness. This makes people more likely to believe the letter.Otherwise, ask a neighbor, coworker, or other adult with no relation or close connection to anyone involved. Print and sign your name with the witness watching, then have the witness print and sign her name.


Clearly label the two signature lines "parent" (or other role) and "witness."
For a simple letter authorizing field trip attendance or absence from school, you do not need a witness. Just close the letter with "Sincerely" or "Regards," followed by your printed name and signature.

