 Wild living rabbits dining on a natural diet of grasses and fibrous vegetation do not develop dental disease.Pet rabbits that eat a commercial mix with little or no vegetables or hay are at high risk of dental disease.


Key to preventing dental problems is to feed a diet that better represents what wild rabbits eat.The ideal foods are fresh growing grass and good quality hay.
It is difficult to provide fresh grass to indoor rabbits, so the closest substitute is good quality hay. This is hay that has been slow dried in sunlight, and retains some green color, as well as some of the flat-bladed structure of the leaves. It should smell sweet, like a summer meadow, when you open the pack.;
, This is in contrast to poor quality hay with is dull looking, and a yellow, straw like color. Worse, some rabbit owners feed their rabbits hay that is a dull brown grey, and smells musty and dusty when you open the pack. Unfortunately, poor quality hay is low in vital nutrients, such as calcium, and good for little other than bedding.
 Good quality hay should be provided at all times. There should always be plenty available for the rabbit to eat.
 In addition to hay, feed your rabbit a variety of fresh vegetables, weeds and wild plants, as these are high in calcium. Ideal fibrous weeds include dandelions, brambles, and tree leaves.


A selection of fresh vegetable should be offered daily. Ideally, rotate what you give the rabbit and avoid giving the same vegetable every day for several days, as this could overload the system with certain minerals. The simple act of varying what you give prevents this.
 Commercial diets have a limited place on the menu, especially when it comes to teeth. If you feed your rabbit pellets then the rabbit can eat its daily calorie allowance with minimal chewing. This doesn't grind the teeth down but they keep growing. The result it overlong teeth and spurs.


If you offer a commercial food, only give a small amount per rabbit per day.
Also, choose extruded foods (where all the kibble look identical), rather than a muesli mix. The problem with muesli mix is the rabbits selectively eat the tastier parts, which are also the least nutritious elements with the lowest calcium content. This can lead to weak bones and unhealthy teeth.
 Sunshine is vital for vitamin D synthesis, which in turn is required to convert calcium into healthy teeth and bones. Experts believe there is a link between a lack of exposure to sunlight and dental disease.In an ideal world, the rabbit would be given some time to graze on fresh grass outdoors every day, hence fulfilling both needs for fiber and sunshine.
 To keep its teeth in good shape, a rabbit needs to chew for around 70% of the time they are awake. Problems start if the rabbit doesn't do enough chewing. If the teeth are growing faster than they are being worn down, then the teeth become overlong.This is perfect to balance the rate of tooth growth to the grinding down of teeth. Rabbit teeth are 'open rooted,' which means they grow continuously throughout the rabbit's lifetime. Constantly chewing wears the teeth down. If the teeth were closed rooted (like human teeth) within a few years the rabbit would wear their teeth down to useless pegs and starve as a result. Nature's answer is to have the teeth grow all the time and replace the dentine that was worn away by chewing.
Wild rabbits eat herbage that is extremely high in fiber and in order to get the maximum benefit out of a low nutrition food it needs to be grind it up a lot in the mouth before being swallowed. This allows the damaged cell of the herbage to be exposed to the digestive juices to get the maximum benefit.
 If your rabbit has slowed down its chewing, look for secondary symptoms. You should be suspicious that your rabbit has dental problems if you notice the following:A Wet Chin: Dribbling or drooling is due to the pain associated with moving the tongue to swallow. The rabbit finds it easier to dribble than to swallow.
Weight Loss: Dental problems always need to be considered for any rabbit that is losing weight. If the teeth are painful, the rabbit will be reluctant to chew and decreased eating leads to weight loss.
Messy Eating: If the rabbit starts becoming a messy eater, scattering food, or leaving partially chewed food on the floor, this can be a sign of dental discomfort.
Sticky Eyes: While it might seem strange, a thick, white discharge from the eyes is a common sign of dental problems. This is because the overgrown roots of the teeth in the top of the mouth can compress the tear ducts and prevent tears from draining from the eye in a normal manner.
Lack of Grooming: A rabbit with a sore mouth is less likely to groom, thus its coat will become dull and unkempt.
Jaw or Cheek Abscesses: Overlong tooth roots commonly become infected, which results in abscesses breaking out at the surface.
 Rabbit teeth can get overgrown in several ways. These include:Overgrown Incisors: These are the gnawing teeth at the front of the mouth. These can become overlong and curl around, interfering with the rabbit being able to eat. In extreme cases the teeth can grow around and dig into the lips.
Overgrown Molars: These are the cheek teeth that you are unable to see routinely because they are the back of the rabbit's mouth. If the molars grow too long they can interfere with the rabbit's ability to fully close its mouth.
Molars with Spurs: Uneven wear on the cheek teeth leads to the development of sharp spikes, or spurs, on the edges of the teeth. These can dig into the cheek or tongue and causes bleeding. In extreme cases the spurs can be so long they grow over the tongue and stop it from moving.
Overlong Roots: The roots of teeth also grow, which can result in the roots pushing downward through the jawbone, causing painful dental abscesses. Alternatively, the upper roots can grow upward and compress other structures in the head, such as the tear ducts.
 Problems that exist need professional remedial action, as they won't just go away on their own. This includes pain relief and procedures under anesthetic to remove sharp spikes and overlong incisors. In addition, where appropriate, the veterinarian will shorten overlong teeth.


Unfortunately, it is extremely difficult to do anything about overlong roots because they are enclosed within the skull. It is also extremely difficult to remove molars because of poor access to the back of the mouth. This is one reason why dental issues in the rabbit can carry such a poor outlook in the long term. By far the more preferable option is to prevent the problems happening in the first place.

