 Clean, dry laundry does not smell mouldy. Dry your laundry outside if possible. If you cannot dry outside on perfect breezy, sunny day, dry inside in a well ventilated, warm room or use a tumble dryer. You can dry laundry at the laundromat too.
 If your shirt got wet in the rain, you have wet dirty towels, your bathing suit is wet from a trip to the pool or your kid pissed the bed, wash this damp laundry as soon as possible.

Allowing damp laundry to sit in your laundry room can encourage mold growth and stains to develop on your cloth.



 



,

Soiled laundry is a prime place for mold to grow, even if it isn't wet. Mould can grow on even small food stains, apparently. Mould can also appear on clothes if the place where the clothing is kept is at a certain temperature and humidity.
 Remember bleach will lighten dark colours. Love your navy jeans? Don't bleach them.


Adding regular bleach or color-safe bleach to laundry loads can help remove and prevent the scent of mold on clothes.
 Simply run your washing machine like normal and, while the machine is filling up with water, add vinegar into your washing machine in lieu of detergent. If you prefer to use detergent in the wash, add the detergent as usual and then add vinegar during the cycle's final rinse.


If you've left your clothing in your washing machine for several days and find that they smell moldy, rewash your clothes like you normally would. Use hot water whenever possible.



Color-safe oxygen bleach, hydrogen peroxide, and borax, or combinations of these, can be used to soak and pretreat mold and mildew stains before they go into the washing machine for a wash. Pretreating with these items can ensure the success of mold smell removal from your clothes.
Applications of these solutions can be done with a sponge. Some clothing may be able to be soaked in the solutions for a period of time.
,, This will allow air to enter the machine and dry excess moisture. Look for products that clean your washing machine. Don't let the so as p drop get gunky.
 Instead of clothes, put bleach into the machine and run the cycle as usual.



Cracked mortar, inadequate drainage, and poor ventilation in a home can provide the conditions that encourage mold growth. Repair anything that keeps the humidity high and the moisture locked into your laundry room, and you might see a reduction in the incidence of mold smell.

