 Mix together the butter, brown sugar, white sugar, milk, and vanilla extract in a large bowl. Stir in the flour until the batter turns to dough. Fold in the chocolate chips.Make sure that you are using only the ingredients from the cookie dough portion of the recipe for this.
If you are sort on time or ingredients, you can use refrigerated, store-bought cookie dough instead.Simply roll it into balls and store it in the freezer.
 Aim to make the balls about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide. This will make the cookie dough chunks in your fudge.If you'd like, you can use a tablespoon, a melon scoop, or a small cookie scoop to make the balls instead.
 Arrange the balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Place the baking sheet into the freezer. The balls will harden as you prepare the rest of the fudge. This will help the balls keep their shape once you add them to the fudge base.You don't need to freeze the cookie dough balls for a specific amount of time. The time that it takes for you to prepare the rest of the fudge will be plenty.
 Tear off two large pieces of parchment paper. Lay them down crosswise into a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan so that the bottom and sides are covered. Leave some parchment paper hanging off the sides of the pan so that you can lift the fudge out later., Cut the butter into small cubes and put it into a large saucepan. Add the white sugar, brown sugar, and evaporated milk. Heat the ingredients together over medium heat until the butter melts., Allow the mixture to come to a rolling boil, stirring constantly. Once it comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low. Allow it to boil for 4 to 5 more minutes, stirring constantly., Take the saucepan off the burner. Stir in the semi-sweet chocolate chips and the milk chocolate chips. Keep stirring until they are completely melted and mixed in., Once the chocolate chips are melted and mixed in, add the marshmallow cream. Keep stirring with a rubber spatula until the marshmallow cream is blended and the mixture is smooth., Use a rubber spatula to distribute it evenly across the bottom. Save the rest of the fudge for later., Take the cookie dough balls out of the freezer. Place them into the baking pan with the fudge in it, spacing them evenly., Try to spread it as evenly and a smoothly as you can. Make sure that the cookie dough balls are completely covered., Place the entire baking sheet into the refrigerator. Leave it there until the fudge cools and sets, about 2 to 3 hours., Use the overhanging parchment paper to list the fudge out of the baking pan. Set it down on a flat surface. Cut it into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) squares using a sharp knife.