 Since major social media platforms limit marijuana-related posts and pages, a variety of industry-related platforms have emerged. Membership is increasing and will continue to build, so make sure you join, download their apps, and, if it’s affordable, advertise on networks like Mass Roots, Duby, and Social High., Whether you post on niche platforms or on major social media networks, always use a professional tone with proper spelling and grammar. While you want to represent your business in a credible way, you don’t want to sound like a robot. Try to humanize any content you post with warm, friendly language.For example, instead of writing a post that says, "Our hours today are 10 am to 10 pm. You should visit the store," post something like "Hey folks! We're at the shop all day from 10 am to 10 pm. Hope to see you!"
Find a balance between mixing proper grammar and spelling with slang, contractions, and idioms.
 You should set up profiles across as many social media platforms as possible, even if the major platforms limit marijuana-related business pages. That way, you’ll guarantee that your brand name is registered, even if you don’t develop your profile immediately.With the marijuana industry’s growing monetary value and public acceptance, there’s a good chance major social media platforms will go easy on their anti-cannabis policies.
 If you do choose to develop profiles on major social media platforms, go for Facebook and Instagram. Given the fact that medical and recreational dispensaries’ pages have been shut down (despite being located in areas where cannabis is legal), you should be cautious about the content you post.Use Facebook to post your business hours, location, and entertaining or informational content that would appeal to potential customers.
Post images of your products and business on Instagram, and use hashtags for greater visibility.
Familiarize yourself with the community standards of both platforms to avoid blatantly violating their policies.