 If you want to lower the amount of water weight you retain, you should keep drinking plenty of water. By keeping up your water intake, you will help enable your body to effectively flush out the excess salt that was causing water retention. If you consistently drink at least 8 glasses of water a day your body will learn that it does not need to retain as much water to deal with salt.Drinking plenty of water also helps increase your metabolic rate which will help you burn fat faster in the long run.It is possible to drink too much water and suffer water intoxication, which can be fatal. This can occur when someone compulsively drinks water or over-hydrates after a heat-related illness.Drink enough fluids so that you rarely feel thirsty and your urine is light yellow or colorless.If you are trying to lose a few pounds very quickly, then you might not consume any liquids for a day. This might see you temporarily drop a few pounds of water weight, but is not advisable for your health., The amount of salt we have in our bodies influences our level of water retention and in turn how much excess water weight we hold. Your body needs around 2000–2500mg of sodium a day to function and if you consume much more than that then water will be retained.If you limit your salt intake to between 500 and 1500mg a day, equivalent to around two teaspoons, then you may retain less water.You can replace salt with spices to season your food, such as ginger, and black pepper.
 Cutting down on the amount of carbohydrates and starchy food is a well-known facet to many diet plans. Sticking to healthy whole grain carbohydrates, and fibre-rich fruits and vegetables can help you to maintain a healthy diet and weight. Limiting your intake of refined grains and sugars can help you to stay healthy, but you should remember that carbohydrates are an important part of a balanced healthy diet.Starchy carbohydrates lead to water retention, water weight gain, and bloating.
 If you are trying to lose weight, even if it is to make a weigh-in for a fight, you should try to avoid rapid weight loss as the costs can outweigh the benefits. Boxing and wrestling coaches recommend that fighters always stay within five or 10 pounds of their fighting weight so they can safely and gradually lose any extra pounds before a weigh-in.Rapid weight loss is controversial even in these sports and should not be undertaken lightly or without expert guidance.The potential costs to performance, as well as health, can make rapid weight loss counter-productive.
To lose weight in a sustainable and manageable way, combine a healthy diet with plenty of exercise.

