 Fair Trade U.S.A. is a non-profit organization that helps identify brands that manufacture their products ethically outside of the U.S. They measure things like working conditions and wages. If a company meets their standards you will find their stamp of approval in the form of a little green, black, and white logo of a person holding a bowl in front of the world.You can also find the Fair Trade logo on food products like tea, coffee, spices, and sugar.
You can find the Fair Trade logo on brands like People Tree, Patagonia, and Eileen Fisher.;
, The first thing that you should look for on the label is the Fair Trade logo mentioned above. The label should also tell you if the material is made out of organic or recycled material. Keep in mind that just because a product is made from organic or recycled material doesn’t mean that it is ethically made., You should check the label to see where your clothing is manufactured. However, it is important to remember that the label doesn’t tell you everything about where the clothing is labeled. Even worse, sometimes the brand is dishonest with the country listed on the label. It is important to do your research instead of relying solely on the label.For example, a brand that lists the country as USA may source some of their materials from China.
According to the Fashion Transparency Index, H&M and Levi’s are excellent at reporting this information to customers.
 You can find secondhand clothing at a thrift or consignment store. When you shop secondhand you are extending the life of an article of clothing instead of purchasing it new from the company. You are also reducing the amount of cheap, unethically made clothing that a company needs to manufacture.Don’t forget to donate or resell your clothes when you no longer want them.
 You are much more likely to find ethical brands sold at a local boutique than at the mall. Chances are, the boutique owner can give you plenty of information about where they source their clothes and why they chose that company. They may even be able to give you information about the company’s practices and policies.You will also feel good about supporting a local company.
 Apps like GoodGuide and Free2Work can help you navigate brands while you are on the go. GoodGuide rates products on a scale of two to ten to help guide consumers to healthier choices. Free2Work is a tool that is used to increase transparency and give consumers the power to make informed decisions about their purchases.Keep these apps on your phone for use during your next shopping trip.
 Use The Higg Index, an assessment tool used by the fashion industry to evaluate their environmental and social responsibility, to do research about ethical brands while you are near a computer.You could also refer to the Fashion Transparency Index (FTI), which is an index published yearly to rank the world’s biggest fashion brands according to their level of transparency. You can see the FTI here: http://fashionrevolution.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/FR_FashionTransparencyIndex.pdf

