 Choose your name. You can use your real name, but you can also choose one based on an animal, clothing item, food, street name, location. (i.e. Mrs. Cheetah). Just use anything that appeals to your class.;
, Some things a circle should have:


a calendar
teacher books (books not accessible by the children during the day, but rather used only during circle or reading times with the teacher)
a CD player for any audio books, singing activities, or dances.
a cork, white, or felt board for placing your circle time items. Some things to put on the board:

a letter or sight word of the week,
a Spanish Word of the Week,
a Star of the Day
Daily Job List
a Class Constitution (list of rules, preferably child-directed)
a schedule for the day and/or week
a "Homework" Center (optional activities to do at home)
an emotions wheel
a weather wheel or chart
information about that week and/or month's theme(s).
 Names should be clearly displayed. You may choose to make a separate area for lunchboxes and water bottles to reduce clutter.
 Some of these include:


art supplies
books (organize by theme or author)
office supplies
organizing tools
dress-up clothes
cooking supplies
cleaning supplies
bulletin board materials
lesson plan book
curriculum guides.
 Add a STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) one to encourage early recognition of STEM, although you can do a math/science center instead. Treat the center like a "half-team".



Pattern toys, such as multicolored bears or shape blocks are great for spatial understanding. Melissa & Doug are a great resource for these.
There are various things you can do for a color mixing center, and there are many toys you can buy, but simply allowing access to watercolors and displaying a color wheel is enough for most kids to get pretty creative.
Use your weekly or monthly theme to your advantage; using ladybug spots to create an addition game or The Very Hungry Caterpillar to encourage patterns are examples of creative ways to incorporate your theme.
In the spring, catching bugs for a day or two can be fun; there are many companies that offer ants, caterpillars (and thus butterflies), and red worms (for classroom compost bins) for educational purposes.
 These can include:


Legos
Kinex
People and cars
Animals
Mr. Potato Head
Letters and numbers (magnets, felt, or plastic)
Lincoln logs
TinkerToys
Play-doh or clay.
 Try to keep the number of children allowed in this center to 2-3, as more than that can cause the area to become an imaginative play center. Keep well-stocked with age-appropriate, theme-based books.
 The different types of blocks you can get for this center are almost infinite, but just the classic wooden blocks are enough for most children to create everything from New York City to their own fantasy castle.
 In reality, there are days when the weather just doesn't let that happen. You need to make sure there are gross motor activities for inside, though this "center" may be kept in the closet until appropriate times, as it can be space consuming and difficult for children to not use during curriculum times. Some great indoor activities include:


Ask: Who wants to get outside? Hopscotch is great for a gross motor area.
Incorporate outdoor activities that you liked to do while growing up.
 Get the kids to be creative and make their own out of materials in the classroom! You can use hula hoops, balance toys (or simply a line made out of masking tape), and cones.
Hopscotch (this can be made out of tape).


You can also look up various exercises, such as stretches, easy aerobics, and easy yoga and do them in a center.
 For instance, it can be a puppet theater while learning about fairy tales, an airport with luggage and passports for Around the World, or a post office to learn addresses.


This may include costumes, makeup and props. Try to limit makeup, if you have any, as there is no need to instill this lesson so young.
 Daily projects are not enough! Children need access to art not only for their own enjoyment but for development of fine motors, letters, and creative expression.

Scrap paper and crayons are the bare minimum, but don't be afraid to give them access to age-appropriate scissors, markers, and even watercolor paint.






Try to limit the number of children allowed in the center at one time, or else it might get crazy.
You may even want to set up a 1-2 person easel center for free painting. This can encourage even the most stubborn child to practice letters and shapes.
 Having their projects on display is important to them and their families. Make sure each child displays at lest one piece of his or her work.
 Playing with various toys in rice or water is only fun for so long. Don't afraid to get messy - but use smocks or old t-shirts! Some creative ideas:


"goo" made from various household items (an easy one is simply corn starch, water, and food coloring)

,, There are games that emphasize patterns, math, feelings, dinosaurs, and pretty much anything you can think of. Keep this center rotating by putting out puzzles and games that are related to the theme and putting away either inapplicable games or those which the children are tiring of.

