 You can help protect your marriage from adultery if you make sure that you are making an effort to show your spouse that you love them.Be sure that you think about what matters to ‘’them’’, not you. Your spouse may want you to take a chore off their to-do list, not buy them a gift, or vice versa. It doesn’t have to be anything big or major, but taking the time to let your spouse know you care can keep you and them from straying. It’s also a way of reminding yourself that you care about your spouse.


Leave your spouse a small note in the bathroom or the kitchen that says “I love you”.
Do something special for your spouse just to show them that you care about. For example, give your wife a massage when she comes home.
Make a list of all the reasons you love your spouse and all the things you like about them. Mail the list to their job or give it to them one day.
 One of the best things you can do to support a healthy marriage and prevent adultery is to make sure you are spending intimate time together.Although most people think of sex when they see the word ‘intimacy’, there are lots of ways you can be intimate with your spouse. Think of ways that you can spend together, enjoying each other’s company and presence.


If discussing intimacy is an area of anxiety or dread for you, consult a professional to discuss it. Not discussing these concerns is one of the fastest ways to deteriorate a marriage.
If you need to, then schedule a night for intimacy. It might be as simple as a few hours of cuddling or even a plan for a romantic sexual evening.
Take the time to do things like hug, kiss, hold hands, and hold each other. Try to do these things on a regular basis.
 Even though you are married, you can still (and should still) set up dates with each other.Going out together allows you to spend time with each other outside of the house. Spending this time together will also keep the ‘spark’ and excitement in your marriage and help prevent either of you from having an affair.


Schedule a regular date night with your spouse. For example, every other Friday night could be date night for you two. Schedule a babysitter if you have kids.
Don’t just go somewhere together. Instead, take the time to put on a special outfit, dress yourself up a bit, and make it feel like a date.

