 Learn how to save and open files, use the help features, print and do other common Office tasks before learning more about how to use Excel 2007.;
, Enter desired text or numbers into the cell. Click another cell or press enter to finish.
 Click on a line between columns or rows and hold the left mouse key down until the pointer becomes an arrow. Drag to make columns or rows larger. To make all columns or rows larger, click on the top left hand square, which will highlight all the cells. Adjust the width or length in one column or row to make changes to the whole spreadsheet.
 Left click on the first cell in the spreadsheet. Hold down the mouse button and move to the last cell in the spreadsheet. All the cells will be highlighted, allowing you to make changes to all at the same time.
 Left click the top cell. Drag select all the cells in the spreadsheet. Click the Home tab at the top of the screen and select "Cell Styles." Choose a cell color and font color from the options. Change the font style and size for the whole selection. Click the drop down arrow next to the default font. Choose a new font. Repeat for the font size.
 Choose "Wrap Text" to make all data fit in a cell and automatically change its size.
 To refine it further, like changing the time format or the number of decimal points, select "More number formats" at the bottom of the menu. Under "Category," make a selection and change the options under "Type."

, To create a link to a web site or to another spreadsheet or document, use the "Links" option.
 Determine how gridlines--the lines around each cell--appear when viewing and printing under the "Sheet Options" selection.
 Click the "Fx" icon to insert a function. A drop down list of functions will appear, along with a link to get help and more information about the function. To quickly sum numbers in a column, highlight the cells to be summed and click "AutoSum." This can be done on multiple columns. The sum will show up in the cell below the selection.
 To filter a selection, click a cell and select "Filter." From the drop down menu in the top cell, deselect "Select All" and click the number or data to filter. Only cells with that value will be shown. To sort, click on a column and select "Sort." Choose "Expand selection" to sort all data in the spreadsheet so that it matches the sorted column.

