 Always look on the bright side of things and never be too sad or serious. Never let people think you're sad or not in a good mood.;
, If you think any one of your friends or family members is not in a good mood, cheer them up! Make them feel happy and safe. Be there for them. Crack a few jokes if you have to!

, For example, if you've got the news of someone's death.
 Lead it but make sure you hear everyone out when making a decision. Let everyone have a say (give equal rights).
 Be well aware of your surroundings and act according to situations.
 Be proud of who you are. Have self-respect and try not to embarrass yourself too much.
 Show your talents if you think no one has realized them. If you have something unique, show it to everyone!

, Wear accessories but in moderation. Wear hoods, hats, gauntlets and other hip hop things. Search up hip hop styled accessories if you have to. G-Dragon wears many neon, bright colors as well as sober colors. See photos of G-Dragon for inspiration!

, Search different types of these shoes and even see photos of G-Dragon for inspiration.
 G-Dragon loves dogs. Make sure you take proper care of it.
 Go for brown or blond.
 Show this quality to others. Take some dancing or singing classes if you have to!

, Dragon Ball Z is a Japanese anime and search it if you have to!

, A lot. G-Dragon is often smiling a very unique and cute smile. He does not hesitate to smile at all occasions. He often uses the power of his smile to win the hearts of his fans! You should smile too! Smiling will naturally make you feel more confident and it will help you to deal all sorts of situations, just like G Dragon. Although each one of us has a unique and distinct smile, we can make our smiling more effective by practicing in front of a mirror. If you need help in this regard, visit https://www.wikihow.com/Smile

, In the music video of "Heart Breaker" many empty cans of tinned apples are shown scattered all around G Dragon. He uses apples to demonstrate the concept of love. Apples are sweet and red just like love, which comes from the heart.

