 Crate training uses a dog's natural instincts as a den animal. A wild dog's den is his home and a place to sleep, hide from danger, and raise a family. A crate allows you to harness these natural instincts while training the puppy.The primary use for a crate is house training. Puppies will avoid soiling their dens for as long as they can manage to hold their bladders.
The crate can also limit access to the rest of the house while the puppy learns other rules, including not to chew on furniture.
Crates are a safe way to transport your dog in the car as well.
 Have your puppy’s kennel situated in the home before bringing the puppy home. The crate needs to be large enough for the puppy to comfortably stand, lay down, and turn around.You also don’t want the crate so large that the puppy can use one side of the crate as a bathroom before laying on the other side. If you buy a larger crate (so the puppy can grow) or if you cannot find a crate small enough for the puppy, partition off the back of the crate initially, enlarging it as the puppy grows.
 You should place the crate in a spot of your home where you spend a lot of time, and the puppy won’t be isolated.You should also place a soft blanket or towel inside.
 Leave the door to the crate open, speak to the puppy in an encouraging voice, and place several treats inside.Your puppy will start instinctually taking to the crate as its new den.
 To continue teaching your puppy that the crate is a safe place, begin feeding him meals near the crate.Gradually move the food into the crate over several days. Once the puppy is comfortable eating meals inside the crate, close the crate door for the duration of mealtime.


Open the door again immediately after the puppy finishes eating initially. Increase the amount of time you take to open the door slowly over several more days and weeks.
If the puppy starts to whine or cry, you may have increased the amount of time in the crate too quickly. Try using a shorter amount of time next time you crate the puppy. You should usually wait until the puppy stops whining before letting him out of the crate as often as possible; otherwise the puppy quickly learns that whining is all it takes to make you let him out of the crate., After the puppy is eating his meals in the crate regularly, start teaching him to stay in there for short periods of time. With a treat in hand, call him over to the crate. Give him a command (usually "crate" or “kennel”) to enter by pointing and tossing the treat inside.Praise him when he enters and close the door.


Start with short periods of time (5-10 minutes). Gradually lengthen the time period over a week or so.
 Puppies under six months of age should never be crated for longer than four hours as they cannot hold their bladders that long. You should never lock a dog of any age in a crate for long periods of time.
 Since the crate mimics a den, it should be a pleasant place for the puppy to stay and not used as a punishment.In cases where the dog has separation anxiety or other ingrained behavior issues, it is best to consult a professional before attempting to crate train.

