 Children with authoritative parents fare better in making friends than those with a more aggressive parenting style. Do not attempt to control your child’s every move, or else they will look to you for approval for even the smallest of tasks and they will have a hard time trusting themselves. Set limits with your children and have rational discussions with them. Avoid harsh punishments.An example of a rational discussion might be “Ben, do not throw your food on the floor. This makes a mess and mommy has to clean it. If you do it again, I will put you in timeout.”
Explain things to your toddler so they can understand and correct their behavior, rather than just getting immediately punished.
 Sometimes, your children might frustrate you, but you do not want to teach them bad habits that they could carry into their adult lives. Speak kindly to them so they will know how to speak to their potential friends.An example of speaking kindly would be to say “Josie, I know you are frustrated because you can’t have a cookie, but you cannot hit me, no matter how mad you are.” Keep an even, gentle tone when saying this.
An example of how NOT to speak in this instance would be “JOSIE! YOU ARE SUCH A BAD LITTLE GIRL! Never hit me again or I will hit you back!”
Avoid criticizing your child at all costs because they will not understand that the behavior was bad, they will just think that they are bad.
Avoid yelling or raising your voice often. Do not curse at your children.
 Children who are more empathetic find it easier to make friends than those who are more self-centered. Help your child develop a more people-focused approach and teach them that not everything is always about them. A few ways that you can teach them empathy are:Caring for their emotional needs; help soothe them when they are upset, but also allow them to soothe themselves occasionally
Showing sympathy and concern for others
Showing them physical affection
Showing positive interactions with others around you, including your partner or spouse

, Begin showing your toddler how to manage conflicts on their own by giving them the tools to do so. Helping them to build friendships won’t mean much to them unless you show them how to manage any issues that arise. Don’t force them to apologize, but do apologize for them so they learn that this is the right thing to do when they have hurt someone.For instance, if your child has made another child cry, say “Angela is crying because you took the toy from her. Angela, I’m sorry that Michael took the toy from you.”
Allow the toddlers to work out things on their own if the situation is minor and no one is getting hurt.
 In order to help your child develop friendships, you will want them to understand what a friend is. When you are with your friends, call them your friends so your child can begin to understand that concept. When your toddler is with a friend of theirs, they should call them their friend.For instance, you might say “Monica is mommy’s friend, and Joanie is your friend.”

