 The Civil Cover Sheet is required to initiate legal proceedings.Enter your name and address in the "Plaintiff Name and Current Address" field and leave the "Defendant" and "Docket #" fields blank.


Place an "X" in the box next to "Name Change" in the "Other Civil" section of the "Nature of Suit" section of the form. Leave the "Related Case(s) If Any" and "Amount in Controversy" fields blank and sign as Pro Se Litigant on the line at the bottom of the form.
Be sure to fill in the date as well.
 The petition will be filed in your District Court. You can leave the "Civil Action Case No." field blank. You will be assigned a case number when you file the petition.


Be sure to write in your current full first, middle, and last names in the correct field, then your desired full first, middle, and last names in the correct field.
Give your physical address of residence including county name where prompted. Do not give a P.O. box.
Include the city, country, state, and country of your birth where prompted.
Print your name beneath your signature and be sure to give a current phone number and address—you can use a P.O box here.
 This is the form that you will use to prove you published notice of your intent to change your name in accordance with Wyoming law. Leave the dates on this form blank.The newspaper will provide you with the dates.
 Get a notary public to notarize the Verified Petition for Adult Change of Name and the Notice of Publication. You can look for notaries in your city online or go to your bank—banks usually have notaries, and, if you are a customer, they often notarize for free.
 Call your county's Clerk of District Court's office to find out what the fee is—it may be $70-$100.Be sure to file the original, notarized forms, but do make copies for yourself.


The Clerk of District Court will put a date on your petition and assign you a case number. Keep this number handy, as you will need it to put on any other forms you file in your case.
 After filing your Verified Petition for Adult Change of Name with the Clerk of District Court's office in your county, you must take copies of the petition and your completed Notice of Publication to a local newspaper that circulates within your county. The Clerk of District Court may be able to direct you to an acceptable newspaper's office. A notice of your petition must run once a week for four consecutive weeks. You will have to pay the fee to publish the notice. Call the newspaper office to find out the fee.
 After successful publication of your notice once a week for four consecutive weeks, the newspaper will provide you with an Affidavit of Publication, which proves to the court you made public notice. Make copies of this affidavit for yourself.


You will have to wait 30 days from the last of your four publications of your notice before you can complete the process.
 Once 30 days have passed since the last publication of your notice, and provided no one has filed an objection, you can complete the Order Granting Change of Name form. Leave the date and the field for the District Court Judge's signature blank.Take the completed Order Granting Change of Name form and Affidavit of Publication that the newspaper gave you after successful publication of your notice to the Clerk of District Court's office.
 Provided the judge concludes that everything is in order, he or she will sign your Order Granting Change of Name. The Clerk of District Court's office will mail you the signed order.