 College Board (the company that controls everything AP) usually releases the AP schedule well ahead of time, around February/March, so go on the website and see which exams are first for you and start with those.


You could cram, at least for one class, for about two weeks, but this will lead to stress and may not be possible if you have stuff to do outside of school. It's much better to spread it out and do a little bit of review every day for a couple of months.
If you've been struggling with a class all year, start studying for that first. Spread it out to an hour, or even half an hour a day.
 This is usually due around late March. Tell your parents ahead of time (if they're paying) because AP exams cost a pretty penny--around $90. And with multiple, you could be paying $300 just to take a test! Remember though that this is better than better $1,000 for one class in one semester, which you would be doing in college.


The price should also motivate you to study harder for the exam. If you don't score high enough, all this work (and money!) won't count as any credit. Even if you took the class just for a challenge, it's pretty upsetting if you don't get some tangible credit for it.
 If you spread out your studying well, you can go over a section a day in the prep book, take the multiple choice, and then review it and what you got wrong the next day.


It's very important to not just practice multiple choice/free response, but go over what you did wrong and why. If you know why, there's a much lower chance you won't get the answer wrong again, and that's what practice is all about.
Take at least one practice exam before the actual one. Time goes by quickly taking the exam, and you'd be surprised how hard it is to cram in 70 questions into 50 minutes for some exams (that's less than a minute per question). You will also feel more prepared once you sit down on exam day, and that will calm your nerves.
 If you have to still study because of procrastination, don't study for more than an hour. Otherwise, you can flip through some pages on things that you're rougher on, eat a good dinner, shower, lay out your clothes (even if you usually don't), and go to bed early. 8:00 PM is the best time, but it can be 9:00 if it has to be.
 Don't look over your notes, don't flip through the prep book. Just wake up at a good time, get ready, eat something with protein, fiber, fruit, and juice or water. Also carry water with you to school. You're not allowed to drink during the exam, but you can drink before, afterwards, and between sections.


Consider wearing a watch so you can keep track of how well you're doing time-wise.



Pat yourself on the back for a good year and how well you conquered a new challenge. Then look forward to a nice, relaxing summer!

