 Food helps build up muscles, bone growth, a strong heart, and an active brain as long as you eat the right amount and type of food. For example, everyone should eat whole grains, vegetables, fruit, low-fat protein, dairy products, and drink plenty of water! These are the keys to be healthy and stay healthy!;
,, Be sure to try new things, you never know what you might like! You should try unusual kinds, like star fruit, for example.
 Eating too much junk food and sweets is not okay either. Moderation is key!

, Remember that the "right amount" isn't the same for everyone, depending on age, sex and activity level. You don't always have to eat the same kinds of grains, try adding variety to your diet.
 Water is great medicine, needed to maintain a healthy body, a clear mind, and a good balance within your tissues. There's more water in your body than anything else, with every cell containing mostly water. About 60-70 percent of your body is water, and you must constantly replenish the supply, as it's used up in the processes of life.
 Try to eat those leafy greens - spinach, broccoli, carrots, and sweet potatoes. Try not to force yourself to eat something you don't like. Unless you want to try something new, then dip the veggies you don't like in some non-fat dip. E.g: Thousand Island, Ketchup, etc.
 Try canned, frozen and dried fruits. It's okay to drink fruit juices, but remember they have a lot of added sugar if they are not homemade. You could also make your own fruit juice, without adding any sugar. If you want to sweeten it, you can add honey.
 Low fat products are good and so is skim milk. And almost sure everyone likes cheese so you can try some of that. Yogurt a is good source as well.
 Don't eat too much meat, it would become fattening. For all you meat lovers out there, try to remove the fat, then boil or grill it. You could eat it fried once in a while.
 Its ok to eat it sometimes, but you need to limit it, like every 1-2 months, pamper yourself.
 Jumble it up to make your own tasty and healthy muesli, or your own sandwich! Making your own food makes it more fun, and you will feel good about yourself for making your own tasty food

, You would want your family and friends to live a healthy lifestyle too.

