 The bag is a small but crucial detail. It will keep you from having to speak with the police, hand them anything, or open your car door or window in their presence. You’ll need something large enough to accommodate a letter sized piece of paper, your driver’s license, registration, and your insurance card.Get something transparent and fairly sturdy. A zip-top freezer bag should work well.;
, Cut a three and a half foot long piece from a spool of twine. At the top corner of the bag, poke a hole through one side, just below the zip-top. Insert the twine through the hole and tie a knot affixing the twine to the bag.Make sure the string you use isn’t too flimsy. It will be pinched by the window, so thread or dental floss won’t do.
 The Fair DUI Flyer states what your rights are and how you intend to exercise them. A creation of attorney Warren Redlich, it cites each section of your state’s legal code when apprising the police of your rights. It virtually eliminates the need for any spoken communication between you and an officer.Unfortunately, the state specific Fair DUI Flyer is only available for 31 states. However, you can print out a generic version. Find your state’s version at http://fairdui.org/states/.
All of the Fair DUI Flyers contain the following, although the state specific fliers are more detailed, citing to specific sections of each state’s criminal code:I remain silent.
No searches.
I want my lawyer.
 Put the flyer, your valid license, registration, and insurance card in the bag. Arrange them so that all of them can be seen clearly through the bag.Since the appearance of checkpoints is often unpredictable, you should have the bag and the flyer in your car already, as close to fully assembled as possible.
 When your bag is assembled, zip it up, roll your window down and place the bag on the outside of the window. The string should be inside the car. Roll the window up, so that the window pinches the string and holds the bag in place., Drive slowly as you approach the checkpoint. The officers will signal to you when to stop, which you should do without question. As they approach your car, they should see the bag. Allow them to examine its contents for as long as they need to.As long as you have no warrants out for your arrest or you aren’t egregiously swerving, you should be waved through without incident. However, if you are questioned in any way, say nothing.


