 While it’s probably impossible for you to spend every day in the pool, you can create a regular routine that will provide you with the experience needed to swim faster. Set a goal of swimming for one hour per day, at least three days a week.


Set time aside before or after work or school.
Spend part of a weekend day swimming., One of the most important factors in swimming faster is pushing yourself to beat your old records. As a result, you should constantly push yourself to improve the number of yards you swim for any given amount of time.


If you swim 1500 yards an hour, challenge yourself to eventually move up to 3000 yards an hour. While this may seem like a big increase, you’ll be able to do it over time.
Use a timer to challenge yourself to go further in a certain mount of time., Instead holding your hand out flat or cupped as you swim, make a fist. This will lessen the momentum you make with your hands, and force your arms to work harder. This will help train you to use your forearms more than you normally do., Swim underwater just as you would above water. This will get you used to having much more resistance as you swim. As a result, when you return to above water freestyle, you’ll be able to swim faster.


Mix up your normal routine by swimming underwater for some laps., Instead of tilting your head underwater as you swim, keep it above water the entire time. This requires you to kick harder and faster to move straight and quick. After doing it for a while, you’ll find you have better control of your body.Try this for a few of your laps when you practice swimming.
 Move your hand out to create some resistance in the water after you've made your big stroke. After doing this for a while, you’ll feel much more power when you swim normally.


Try dragging your hand periodically when you swim., Dolphin kicks are when you move both of your legs together as if they are the fin of a dolphin. This works because it’ll get you used to a certain rhythm.


Try swimming with dolphin kicks for half an hour at least once a week.