 Place a medium to large skillet on the stove. Add the butter, then turn the heat to high.


Preheat the skillet until the butter melts. Turn the skillet periodically to evenly distribute the melted butter over the inner surface.
You can use olive oil instead of butter for a healthier option. Heat the oil for at least 30 to 60 seconds before continuing. The oil should be hot, but it should not be hot enough to produce smoke.
 Use kitchen scissors to cut out the backbone of each quail. Push down on the back of the bird, working along the length of the body, until it lies flat.


Insert two skewers along the width of each quail to help it remain flat during the cooking process. Each skewer should go through both legs of the quail.
 Evenly rub both sides of the birds with salt and pepper.


Note that you do not need to brush the quails with butter or oil when using this method. There should already be plenty of fat in the skillet.
 Place both quails, breast-side down, in the hot skillet. Cook them for 4 to 5 minutes or until the breast-side browns.Do not rotate, flip, or otherwise move the quails during this step. They should remain relatively undisturbed so that this side browns well.
 Use tongs to flip the quails over to their back-sides. Continue cooking for another 4 to 5 minutes or until the birds feel firm and tender. The juices should also run clear.


After flipping them, spoon some of the hot butter or oil over the newly exposed sides of each quail.
Do not turn or rotate the birds as they finish cooking. You can, however, spoon additional butter over them to minimize the risk of drying out the meat.
 Transfer the quails to a serving plate, then pour the pan drippings on top. Allow the meat to rest for 5 to 10 minutes before serving.


Form a loose tent with aluminum foil and place it over the resting quails. Doing so should allow them to retain more heat, so the juices can be redistributed without the meat cooling down too much.
Serve the quails with their pan drippings, or prepare a separate wild game sauce. Quails also taste great with lemon juice.

