 Be sure it is an area with few people where you can have an open, honest conversation. Let him know that you need to have a conversation about your relationship, but try not to elaborate on the phone. Still, preparing him, at least a little bit, is common courtesy.


Refrain from breaking up with your boyfriend on a date. You should make time to end things instead of trying to tack it onto an otherwise happy night., Avoid beating around the bush, as this will only aggravate you and increase tension. You may also lose courage and change your mind. Breaking up takes 30 seconds of intense, extreme courage. But, at the end of the day, it's only 30 seconds.


Take a deep breath and count to three in your head. Know that, when you get to "zero," it's time to break up with him.
 If you're breaking up with him, you need to make it clear that you're breaking up. Do not leave him guessing or open up the floor for conversation. If you've made your decision, it's time to move on. Make sure he knows that you still love him and would love to be good friends, but you can't continue this relationship any longer. There are some good conversation starters in the guides below for specific breakups, but the main idea is to end things with simple and direct language:


"I'm ready to move on from our relationship."
"It's time we saw other people."
"I think we should break up.", Breaking up is hard enough without having a fight or argument. You may have a laundry list of reasons to break up with him, but that doesn't mean you need to point out all of his flaws and the problems in the relationship. That just adds insult to injury, and it can lead to a fight or argument that makes everyone feel even worse ("what do you mean I didn't support you -- I always support you!" or, "That's not my fault, it's your fault for moving away!"). That said, he'll likely ask you why you are doing this, and it is best to have a calm, truthful, but non-judgmental answer ready.


"I've realized that we're growing apart. We've grown together for so long, and I cherish all of the time, but I need time to grow on my own now."
"I don't feel like we treat each other with the respect we used to. Some of that is my fault. But we still need to move on to people who will treat us how we deserve."

, If he's still in love, he may ask for a second chance, come up with a way to salvage things (like a temporary break), or convince you to change your mind. But once you've made your decision, you need to stick with it. Remember, what he says now will not change your relationship, or the problems that led you to break up.


"I understand, but I think we need to go our separate ways."
"I don't want to take a break and leave things uncertain. We need to break up."

, To soften the blow a little, give him a gentle hug and leave. Don't linger or wait to see what his reaction will be like - you want to avoid tangling yourself up in the emotional fallout of the relationship. Know that this is going to hurt, and there is no way to make it easy or perfect. You will not be happy with each other in the immediate aftermath, no matter how long you stay or what you say. The best thing to do is leave politely.