 Writing ƽ can throw many people off at first because of the loop in the middle of the character, so feel free to practice if necessary.


Draw a medium-length horizontal line, starting on the left and going to the right.






Start drawing a vertical line in the middle of the horizontal line. Shortly after the lines connect, loop your line up into a circle, then bring it back down.





;
, After writing ƽ, you're going to need to write "ki" (Ʊ) in order to make it into a word, and not just a sound.


Draw a short horizontal line going from left to right.






Draw another horizontal line below the first one, making it slightly longer than the first horizontal line. Again, go from left to right.






Starting above the center of the shorter horizontal line, draw a vertical line that slopes slightly to the right. After you've crossed both horizontal lines, swoop the line to the left and curve it back to the right, stopping once you're about a third of the way from connecting to the vertical line.
, Writing Ʀ isn't nearly as simple as it looks. If you need to, practice a few times to get it right.


Draw a short horizontal line, going from left to right.






Draw a longer vertical line, starting from top to bottom.






Draw the loop. Start a small amount up, next to the vertical line you just drew. Loop downwards, then up, and then to the side. Make sure to cross the vertical line with the upper part of the loop.
 ƨ is fairly simple to write, as it only consists of two lines.


Starting from the top, draw a slightly curved vertical line, and curve it back up at the end.






Start parallel from the first line and draw a shorter vertical line.
, Ʒ is easy to write, as it's only two lines.


Start with the top line. Writing from left to right, draw a line of medium length. Sometimes, the first line will curve slightly and "hook" back, as shown in the picture above.






To write the lower line, curve the beginning of the line so that the line looks somewhat like a curved "Z" with the center line missing. This line is often slightly longer than the line above it.
 Like "ko", ƨ is only two lines, making it a simple character to write.


Start from the top. Draw a slightly curved vertical line, and "hook" it back up once you've reached the end of the line.






Parallel from the first line, draw a vertical line roughly about half the size of the original line.
