 You will need eye protection, a lab coat or heavy long sleeve shirt to protect yourself from splashes, and acid-resistant (latex or nitrile) gloves. You should also keep a box of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) on hand to neutralize any acid spills.


Sulfuric acid is highly corrosive. Be careful not to spill or splash it.
If you get sulfuric acid on your skin, immediately flush your skin with soap and cool water for at least 15 minutes, and seek medical attention.
If you splash sulfuric acid in your eyes, flush your eyes for at least 30 minutes with cool water and seek medical attention. WEAR GOGGLES to prevent this from happening!
If you spill acid on a surface, cover the spill with baking soda. Wait for the bubbling to stop. Then carefully wipe up all affected surfaces with a sponge or paper towels, and wash all of the material collected down the sink with plenty of water.;
, You will need a glass beaker or jar to perform the experiment in, and a glass measuring cup with milliliter gradations, or a glass eyedropper. You may also need a glass stir stick or spatula for retrieving excess copper pieces from the solution, and a scale to weight the copper.


Do not use metal or plastic measuring spoons, as they will react with the acid.
 This experiment will put off hydrogen (h2) gas, which is extremely combustible, and should only be done outdoors or under a laboratory vent hood, away from any open flames or ignition sources. You should also set up your experiment on an acid resistant surface, preferably one that is glass, or specifically chemical resistant.If you don't have a chemical-resistant surface to work on, you should at least put a sheet of thick cardboard under your work area. The sulfuric acid will dissolve the cardboard, but slowly enough that you can neutralize the spill with baking soda before it eats clear through.
 For this you will need 30% hydrogen peroxide, and concentrated (98%) sulfuric acid. Both of these can be purchased at a scientific supply company, although the hydrogen peroxide can also be ordered from major online retailers. You will also need a few inches of copper wire, or some chunks of copper pipe, available at any hardware store., Place 10ml 30% hydrogen peroxide in a beaker. Then add 3ml concentrated sulfuric acid. This is called "Piranha solution" and will heat up quickly, so be extremely careful.Never attempt to cover a beaker or vessel containing Piranha solution; it can explode.
 Carefully place about 3g of copper wire or metal chunks into the solution.


Do not use pennies for this experiment, as they contain a lot of metals besides copper and may cause unexpected reactions., Bubbles will begin to form around the copper, and the clear liquid in the jar will begin to turn blue. Leave the copper in the solution until the bubbles stop forming. This can take several minutes, depending on the temperature and concentration of your solution. Carefully lift out any remaining copper with a glass spatula or stirring rod. You should now be left with an aqueous copper sulfate solution., If you wish to collect the copper sulfate crystals, pour the copper sulfate solution into a shallow glass dish and leave it exposed to air for several days while the remaining liquid evaporates. Remember that the solution is still caustic, and use care in handling it.You can then use your copper sulfate crystals in various experiments, or to grow larger crystals., Copper sulfate is toxic to fish, plants, and other wildlife and should not be poured into lakes or streams, or rinsed down the storm drain. Copper sulfate is a common ingredient in many drain cleaners, and small quantities, like what this experiment will yield, can be safely diluted with water and rinsed down the sink.

