 Often, kids will get the pronunciation of a word wrong. In turn, they won't spell it correctly. At a spelling bee, though, the person calling the words will be careful to say the word perfectly. Teach your child to listen to the pronunciation and spell it in turn.Try working with hard words with her that are often mispronounced. For instance, "jewelry" is often mispronounced as "jewelery" or "jewelry," which could lead to misspelling.
Say the word clearly and have her repeat the pronunciation before trying to spell it.
 Online, you can find a wide variety of word spelling games. Some of them even let you input a set of words, so you can focus on the words your kid needs to learn. Others will let you set words by grade level.Be sure to check out the website first to see if it's safe for kids.
These games help her practice her words over and over, solidifying them in her memory, while keeping it fun at the same time.
 When preparing, try to note which words are giving her issues in particular. Once you note which ones are making her stumble, focus on those for some of the mnemonic devices listed in this article.For instance, if she always messes up on "cleaver," try making up a silly phrase for it.
Also, if your kid gets frustrated when she's having trouble spelling a word, the silly phrase can help diffuse the tension.
 Divide a piece of paper into three columns. The first column is the "trace" column, where your child traces over the word. The second column is the "copy" column, where she writes the word herself but is able to look at the first column. The third column is the "remember" column. Once she's done the first two, she folds the paper over on itself so the first column is covering the second column. Then she tries to write the word from memory. You can also fold back the "remember" column and flip the paper over to that side.In the "trace" column, fill in a list of words she needs to learn for the spelling bee, writing carefully.
While she's tracing the letters, have her practice spelling it as she would at the the spelling bee. For instance, if the word is "simple," have her say "simple," then name the letters as she's tracing them, then say "simple" again. Have her do it again each time she writes it., Even if your child knows all the words, it won't do her any good if she gets up in front of the room and freezes. She needs to practice her words, spelling-bee style.


Use her list of words that she needs to spell. Make sure to have definitions ready if she asks.
Gather the family or a few friends. Have her stand up in front of you. Give her a word to spell. You can even make it a family event by having a family spelling bee.
Make sure she uses the correct format of stating the word first, spelling it, and then stating it again.
 When it comes to practice, try giving her a few words that she hasn't practiced but may be able to spell because of their similarity to words she knows. She's likely to come across a word she doesn't know in the spelling bee, and she needs to learn how to work it out.


If she says, "I don't know," encourage her to sound it out. If she gets it wrong, tell her it was a good try, and give her the correct spelling. Help her see how it connects to other words she knows.
Praise her for trying to work it out, whether she gets it wrong or right.
If she freezes, try to talk her through it. Say things like, "Now what word does that sound like?" For instance, if the word is "night," another hint could be, "It sounds awfully like another word we've been practicing that begins with an 'r.'"

