 If the angle’s measurement is not already given, you need to measure it  using a protractor. Angles are classified by their size, and so before you can classify the angle, you need to know its degree measurement.
 A right angle is created by two perpendicular lines or rays and is exactly 90 degrees. Right angles are often shown by a box in the corner of the angle., Acute angles are less than 90 degrees (that is, 0 to 89 degrees.)Many people remember the term for an acute angle, because these angles are small, and so you can say to yourself, “My, what a cute little angle!” There is no symbol that denotes an acute angle; the only way to know if an angle is acute is if you measure it, or if the measurement is given.

For example, ∠DEF{\displaystyle \angle DEF} measures 40 degrees. Since 40 is less than 90, it is an acute angle.
 Obtuse angles are between 90 and 180 degrees (that is, 91 to 179 degrees).You can remember the term for an obtuse angle by linking the word “obtuse” with “obese,” since obtuse angles are larger than acute and right angles. There is no symbol that denotes an obtuse angle.

For example, ∠IHJ{\displaystyle \angle IHJ} measures 125 degrees. Since 125 is between 90 and 180, it is an obtuse angle.
 A straight angle is a straight line. It measures exactly 180 degrees.Note that 180 is half of 360, which is the measurement of a complete turn, or circle. So a straight angle is an angle that is open exactly halfway.
 A reflex angle is an angle that is greater than 180 degrees.You need to be careful when identifying these types of angles, because they can look like acute or obtuse angles.

Think of an angle opening to a complete rotation. When it is open half way, it is a straight angle. If the angle opens beyond that, it is a reflex angle.

Take, for example, a right angle. A right angle really makes two angles. One is the 90 degree angle inside the square corner. However, if you think of the angle opening the opposite way, you can see that it could also makes a 270 degree angle.
 If you are struggling with angles, don't be afraid to ask your teacher for additional instruction. If your teacher is unavailable, he or she will likely have an anchor chart in the classroom that describes the type of angles and shows examples of them. If not, your textbook will explain these, and you can always look for more information online. If you still struggle with angles, you might need to find a tutor.

Some good online resources include Math is Funand Khan Academy.To find a tutor, speak to your school counselor. You can also find a tutor online through sites like WyzAntand Varsity Tutors.