 You will need corn starch, a measuring cup, a lighter or matches, a candle, a ceramic bowl, a knife or paintbrush, and a mixing bowl.The mixing bowl can be glass, plastic, or ceramic. However, you can’t substitute the ceramic bowl for another kind of bowl. The process of making the fingerprint powder can crack glass and melt plastic.


If you decide that making your own powder is too much trouble, you can buy it from science and hobby supply stores or online.;
, First, use the lighter or the matches to light the candle. Next, hold the bottom of the ceramic bowl over the flame. The candle will burn a layer of soot onto the bottom of the bowl.Move the bowl over the flame so that every part of the bottom touches the candle.


Wear an oven mitt or use a dishtowel to protect your hand from the heat.
Always be careful when working with an open flame. Children should have adult supervision.
 Hold the soot-covered bowl over the mixing bowl. Next, use a dull knife or a paintbrush to scrape the soot off of the ceramic bowl and into the mixing bowl. You will have about a teaspoon of soot. The more soot you have, the more fingerprint powder you will be able to make.


Repeat these steps to make more soot as many times as you’d like.
Scraping soot is very messy. If you want to avoid getting soot on your fingers, wear gloves. Similarly, cover your workspace with a towel to keep it clean.
 Use a measuring cup to evaluate how much soot you have gathered. Next, add an equal part of corn starch to the soot.Mix the two powders together well with a whisk.


For example, if you collected a ¼ cup of soot, you would need to add a ¼ cup of corn starch.
 Place the fingerprint powder in a plastic food storage container with a lid. Alternatively, store your fingerprint powder in a plastic re-sealable bag. These containers are airtight and won’t allow any moisture into your powder.


Keep the container on a shelf in a low-traffic area. Otherwise, someone may knock the powder over and create a sooty mess.

