 There are several options to consider when making a choice of a license.;
, Modifications are known as derivations. The "ND" designation prohibits tweaking, changing, or modifying your work.
 If you use the Creative Commons license builder, you can restrict the locations that may share your work. You can designate that your work can only be shared in your home country, for example.
 There are 6 licenses available and all are "Creative Commons By Attribution", written as "CC-BY" with variables added. The number is not required, but it tells the version the license was created under. All works must be attributed to you in the manner that is prescribed by its creator. Licenses are written as follows:


  CC-BY: Creative Commons By Attribution. This means that your work can be tweaked, remixed, and built upon, and is even open for commercial sharing. If you don't want your creation changed or commercialized, you should specify using the designations.
  CC-BY-ND: Creative Commons By Attribution Non-Derivative. This means that your work can be shared, but must not be changed in any way.
  CC-BY-NC: Creative Commons By Attribution Non-Commercial. This means that your work can be shared, and must not be used in any way for commercial means.
  CC-BY-SA: Creative Commons By Attribution Share Alike. This allow users to remix, tweak, build upon, and share for commercial purposes under the same original license terms. This is closely related to "copyleft", which is free and open source for software. Most all of the wiki projects are licensed this way.
  CC-BY-NC-ND: Creative Commons By Attribution. This allows only download and sharing in its original form with full credit attribution and in no way used for commercial purposes. This is the most strict license, allowing sharing of the original, only.
  CC-BY-NC-SA: Creative Commons By Attribution. This lets others remix, tweak and build upon the work and share it provided it is not for commercial purposes.
 The copyright symbol is not necessary because the use of the CC means the same thing.

