 Purchase fabrics that will hold up to the demands of being on their feet. However, avoid synthetic fibers, as they will not let your baby's feet breathe.


It is a good idea to get several types of fabric for this project. The soles can be made from a bonded fleece, soft leather, or other heavy material, while the uppers can be made from any light weight fabric.You can also get a several colors of fabric if you like.
 In addition to fabric, you will need fusible interfacing (about a square foot) and 1/8 inch wide elastic (18 inches long).


You will also need to use scissors and a sewing machine, or a needle and thread, as well as an iron, to finish this project.
 Making cloth baby shoes requires three pattern pieces, the top, the heel, and the sole. Begin by making the pattern piece for the sole. Trace your babies foot but then round out the front half, around the toes, so that the pattern piece is symmetrical from side to side. Then add a 1/4 inch all around the outside, for seam allowance.


For the top piece, copy the front half of your sole piece, making a straight line across what would be you babies arch.
The heel is the hardest piece to make. The heel is basically a rectangle, with one of the long sides slightly curved out and one end of the short sides pulled in a bit because of the curve. Measure around the back of the sole pattern piece, from where the arch starts, around the back, and around to where the arch starts on the other side. This will be the measurement of both long sides, although you will need to give a slight curve to one of them. The width of the piece will be determined by how high you want the side of the shoe, so that's up to you.
It may be easiest to find an existing pattern online, download it, and then print it out. This is especially true if you have had no experience making sewing patterns in the past.
 For each shoe you will need one sole piece, two top pieces, and two heal pieces. The second top and heel pieces will form the lining the lining of the shoes.


Because the pattern pieces are symmetrical, you will not need to flip over the pattern pieces to make the lining fabric pieces.Consider using a contrasting color for the lining of your baby shoes. This will add interest and color to your little shoes.
Once you have fit and pinned all the pattern pieces onto your fabric, cut them out.
 Only sew them along the straight edge of both. Make sure to line them up exactly.


For the heel piece, once sewn, iron the seam open. Then iron the edges of the short edges in toward the wrong side of the fabric. This will make sure that you have finished edges instead of frayed ones. Once the short edges are folded in, fold along the first seam you sewed, but so that the wrong sides are facing each other. Once ironed into place, you will need to sew along both of the short edges, top stitching 1/4 inch from the edge.For the top piece, once sewn, iron the seam open. Then fold over at the same seam, so the wrong sides are now facing. Iron and then top sew 1/4 inch below the seam.Finally, make two small slits on the lining side of the fabric, right below the last seam you sewed. The slits should run perpendicular to the seam, as they will create an opening to run your elastic through. Be sure not to cut through both layers of fabric. Use a seam ripper to accomplish this.
You can either sew your shoes with a sewing machine or by hand. However, it may be easier and quicker to complete this project with a sewing machine.
 Fold the top seam of the heel piece, the straight long edge, over onto the lining side of the piece, so that it creates a casing for the elastic. Stick the elastic into the casing and then sew along the bottom, making sure not to sew into the elastic., With right sides facing, line up the top piece and the sole piece and then pin them together. Sew around the edge, making sure to stay close to the edge.
 You will need to pin the curved long side of the heel piece to the sole piece. Line up the center point of the heel piece edge to the center point of the back of the sole piece. Pin it there and then pin around both sides, making sure that they line up all along the edge, before sewing all around the edge.


Remember to have the wrong side of the heel piece facing the wrong side of the sole piece.
 Run each piece into the hole, cutting off any excess after you have pulled it tight. To secure it, put in a few stitches across both ends of elastic.


The top of your heel pieces should be slightly scrunched once the elastic is tightened.
Be sure that the opening for your baby's foot is big enough but will not allow the shoe to slip off easily. It may be a good idea to slip your baby's foot in the shoe to check the fit before you secure the elastic permanently.
 Push out all the edges from the inside, making sure that all seams are sitting as they should.
 There are endless ways to decorate these little shoes. Add some embroidery or other types of embellishment, anything that will give your little baby shoes a little decorative interest.
 They should fit snugly but not too tight.

