 To make an initial contact, email is fine. If you don’t receive a response or if you’d like to talk to them directly, a phone call is then a good option. Be aware that you may have to call and leave message multiple times before hearing back. This is normal, especially with part-time breeders.If you leave a message simply give your name and phone number as well as your desire for a puppy of a certain breed. It also helps if you can state how you found out about this breeder.
 Either over the phone or through email conversations you must get more information about the breeder’s background. You can ask why they entered into this process. You can find out how long they’ve been in business in the same location. You can ask how many puppies they’ve successfully placed and how many ‘returns’ they’ve had and why., A good breeder should be an expert of all things related to the dogs that they breed. Request that the breeder tell you about the good and bad characteristics of your potential pet, as a group. Ask about the breed’s care requirements and any immediate suggestions that your breeder can offer. A good breeder will be happy to share their knowledge (and show off a bit!)A good breeder will not possess an encyclopedic knowledge of all dogs. Instead, they will focus solely on 1-2 specific breeds and that is it. Be very wary of breeders who promise that they can get you any type of dog that you want., A good breeder will only sell puppies that they’ve bred and raised personally or in-house. These means that they may not always have puppies instantly available to sell and that is a good thing. In fact, it is generally better to find a breeder with a bit of a wait list as it shows that they are in demand.You can ask a breeder how many litters they raise per year in order to get an idea as to the scope of their operation. This is a good way to avoid “puppy mill” operations. A good breeder should just raise 1-2 litters a year to give enough time for care and proper placement., Most breeders will not let you take your puppy home until it is somewhere between 8-12 weeks old. This allows it to play and socialize with its littermates and mom, creating much happier, healthier dog in the end. A breeder should inform you of this timeline and provide information as to the number and overall health of litter., Most purebred dogs will come with some type of health documentation attesting to the dog’s overall genetic well-being. Look for documentation from stand-alone groups, such as the Canine Eye Registration Foundation. This will show that the dog’s relatives were tested and cleared.Do some research on your own to find out what specific health documentation you should request. Certain breeds are prone to particular genetic issues. German Shepherds, for example, are genetically predisposed for hip dysplasia and can be tested by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals.Also, be aware that a good breeder will wait until a dog pair is 2-3 years of age before attempting breeding. This is because some genetic conditions wait a few years before manifesting.
 Your breeder should be able to have a clear conversation regarding their general approach regarding breeding and care. You want a breeder that lives closely with their animals, as opposed to boarding them in a distant garage. You want a breeder that emphasizes socialization and frequent handling of the puppies.You also want a breeder that is passionate about purity and a particular breed. Don’t give your business to breeders who promise the unusual or bizarre. Breeding to get extreme sizes, for example, can lead to dogs with a variety of serious health problems., A good breeder wants their dogs in the best possible homes. They, therefore, will often make you sign a contract promising to return the dog (at any stage of life) if you no longer want it for whatever reason. They will also be willing to refund your money if your dog manifests a genetic illness as an adult or gets sick as a young puppy., A breeder should be able to provide you with tons of personal references. They can give you the names of other people who’ve purchased from them recently and in the distant past. They can put you in contact with local vets who can provide records of treatment of care. The best breeders also have other breeders who will provide references for them., Good breeders will ask you a wide variety of questions before even placing you on a waitlist for a future puppy. They will want you to explain your motivation for owning a dog. They will also ask about your daily care plans for the puppy and the composition of your household. Be as forthcoming as you can with all information as it will lead to a better experience overall.Similar to some rescue organizations, a good breeder might also request documentation from your landlord (if you are a renter) stating that you can own a pet of this breed.
 The breeder will provide you with a contract that specifies what each party owes the other. Make sure that you get this contract well in advance and that you carefully read it, noting any questions that you may have. The contract will contain details regarding payment, delivery of the puppy, care of the puppy, health guarantees, among other information.Your contract may also contain a clause specifying your agreement to have the puppy spayed or neutered. This is a good sign of a breeder trying to avoid pet overpopulation.