 This is available at Best Buy, Walmart, Michael's, and other craft and office supply stores. Make sure that the paper that you choose matches the kind of printer you have, so that you are not using an laserjet printer to print on inkjet transfer paper..


Pay attention to details listed on the package. Most iron-on transfers require cotton or cotton blend fabrics. If your garment or item is dark colored, look for 'Transfer to Dark' paper.
 Upload your photo to your computer, and use Paint or a photo program to adjust the size of the photo to suit your needs.


When you cut out your image, round the corners of the photo. That way, the corners will not peel after multiple washings. If you have a graphic, cut as close to the edges as possible, and round your corners. Never have sharp edges on your transfer.
Keep in mind that any white spaces in the photo will be the color of your garment or item.
 Apply the transfer face-down on the fabric, so that the printed side is against the fabric.


Take care not to tear the image as you peel the backing off.
 Make sure that your iron is very hot, and is not emitting any steam, as this will ruin the transfer. Iron on a hard, non-porous surface instead of an ironing board.


Most irons have a setting that you can alter to stop them from emitting steam, but you can also make sure there’s no water in the iron.
 You can peel one corner to check your image first. If it is spotty, you can carefully put it back and iron some more. Some people like the distressed look of half-transferred images, so feel free to experiment if this is something you might like.


Do not wash your item for 24 hours.
 If your iron-on transfers did not work as well as you hoped, try doing things differently the next time.You may have printed on the wrong side of the paper. If your image faded, you may have washed before waiting 24 hours. If your image peeled off, you may not have rounded your edges very well.


You need to iron on a hard surface, keep your iron at maximum heat, and apply a great deal of pressure when ironing. Transfers require a lot of heat and pressure in order to stick, so if you do not apply enough hot, even pressure, parts of your transfer may not stick.
 Letting the garment air-dry also preserves the transfer.


Use a gentle soap.Don’t mix any bleach into your wash.

