 As with any plant, trees need homes that will promote healthy growth. Analyze the surroundings of your planting site to make sure it fits all the requirements necessary for your tree to flourish.


Consider the tree’s future height and canopy spread. Make sure there are no objects in the way that will deter the tree from growing to its full potential.
Consider the tree’s characteristics. If the tree is deciduous, make sure the location allows for piles of leaves. If the tree will bare fruit make sure this will not create a hindrance for you or your neighbors.
Consider the proper amounts of soil, sun and moisture. Consult experts either at an arboretum or nursery, even your community’s local tree board, in order to confirm you are planting the correct tree for your environment. , The area should be loose enough that the tree roots can easily penetrate the soil.
 It should be slightly shorter than the height of the root ball. You will form a mound with the soil.
 Lay the seedling or young tree on its side. Hit the bottom and sides of the container with a flat palm. Do this in gentle but firm strokes until the roots have been loosened.
 Take caution not to damage the seedling or the roots.
 This is a sign that the tree has overgrown the container. Loosen the circling roots and uncurl them so they are extending away from the trunk.


Trees with hardened circled roots may need to have them cut. However, this should only be done when there are few circling roots and a fairly large root ball.
 The root ball should extend one half to one inch (1.3 to 2.5cm) above the level of the ground to discourage rot. If it does not, lift it from the bottom and introduce more soil.


Adjust the tree’s position in the hole by lifting from the bottom of the root ball. Never lift using the trunk.
Ask someone to help you determine if the tree is straight and sitting properly in the soil.
 This will boost the nutrient content of the soil and provide the tree with a healthy environment for growth.
 Mound some soil above the ground level, but don’t cover any of the trunk. Pack the soil in toward the root ball with the heel of your hand.


The uppermost portions of the tree’s roots are the most vulnerable to flooding. Make sure you create a mound about 6 to 12 inches above the soil depending on tree size. , A berm not only adds design interest to your garden, but helps create the drainage necessary for your growing tree.


Fill the entirety of the existing hole with more soil, continuing to mound, adding a definite ridge around the circumference of the circle.
A berm should generally be 4 to 5 times as wide as its height.
 Keep two inches (5cm) of space between the mulch and the base of the trunk.
 This is not always necessary, but often young trees can be unsteady and need a little help. Be sure to move the stakes around the perimeter so they don’t go through the root ball.
 New trees should be watered with approximately 15 gallons (56.8 L) of water once every week for the first month.
 Follow specific care instructions for your new tree and watch it flourish and grow.

