 See the instructions under "Adding a Photo From a File" for how to set up a picture frame or placeholder in your version of Microsoft Publisher.
 Follow the instructions that come with your scanner or camera for connecting it to your computer and for having the image ready to be scanned or taken.


If you have more than one scanner or camera attached, select which device you're going to use to transfer the image to your publication.
, This displays the Insert Picture from Scanner or Camera dialog box. If you have more than one scanner or camera attached to your computer, you can select which device you're going to use to transfer the image to your publication from this dialog.


In Publisher 2007, you can also click the "Insert Picture from Scanner or Camera" button on the Picture toolbar.
If you have more than one scanner or camera attached to your computer, you can select which device you're going to use to transfer the image to your publication from this dialog.
 If your photo is coming from a digital camera, or if you wish to customize your scanner settings, you can customize your settings by clicking "Custom Insert." If your photo is coming from a scanner and you don't wish to customize your settings, click "Web Quality" if your publication will be published digitally or "Print Quality" if your publication will be printed out, then click "Insert."


If your scanner doesn't support an automatic scan, you'll have to use the "Custom Insert" button.
When customizing your settings, follow the instructions that accompany the scanner or digital camera you're using.
 For a photograph being scanned, this means perform the scan. For a photograph on a digital camera's memory card, find the folder that contains the photo you want and browse for the picture itself. Click "Get Pictures" to transfer the photo to your publication.


Your scanner or camera needs to be either Windows Image Acquisition (WIA) or TWAIN compliant to allow you to transfer images into Microsoft Publisher, and you must have installed the interface software for your device before you can transfer images directly.
Many newer desktop and laptop computers come equipped with memory card readers, as do printers capable of printing copies of digital photographs. If you don't want to connect your camera to your computer, you can instead insert its memory card in the card reader and follow the instructions under "Adding a Photo From a File" to insert the photo in your publication. If your computer doesn't have a built-in card reader but does have a USB port, you can buy a separate memory card reader that connects to the USB port.
Microsoft Publisher 2010 does not support the direct input of photographic images from a scanner or digital camera. Instead, you can transfer images from your scanner or digital camera into the Clip Organizer and bring them into your publication from there. While this sacrifices the immediacy of direct transfer into Publisher, it can be beneficial if you decide to use the digital image later in another publication.

