 Wash your entire face and scrub your hands well, since you’ll be using your fingers during this process. If you’re wearing any lipstick or lip gloss, remove it before proceeding. You want to begin with completely clean lips. Take a damp washcloth and rub it gently over your lips, going back and forth over them several times. This will remove any dead skin cells.;
, You can use Vaseline, Aquaphor, or even your favorite lip balm for this. Apply a thin layer on your lips, making sure to get full coverage. Stay within the lines of your lip during application. Doing this will protect your lips from over exfoliation and give your lips a dose of moisture before applying the ground cinnamon.
 Take a clean bowl and mix half a teaspoon of ground cinnamon with a pea sized dollop of Vaseline until you have a paste. Load some of the paste onto your clean finger. You can also use a soft-bristled toothbrush, if you’d prefer.


You can use cinnamon sticks, if that’s all you happen to have in your kitchen - just make sure to crush them first. You don’t have to pulverize the sticks into a powder – the consistency of sea salt or table salt will do the trick.
A modification to this method that will provide additional exfoliation is adding salt to the mixture. Take a clean bowl and mix half a teaspoon of ground cinnamon with a half a teaspoon of salt. Then add a tablespoon of Vaseline and mix well.Proceed with the remaining steps of this method (there are no other changes to the process).
 Using your finger (or soft-bristled toothbrush), coat the entirety of your lips with the mixture. Once your lips are fully coated, press your finger (or soft-bristled toothbrush) softly to your lips and rub gently with small circular motions all over both the top and bottom lips for 30 to 40 seconds.


You’ll feel a slight tingling sensation, which is normal. Cinnamon mildly irritates the skin on your lips, causing them to redden and swell slightly.Take care not to swallow any of the cinnamon because it can irritate your throat.
 You’ll want to leave the mixture on your lips for approximately 3 to 5 minutes. After the time is up, use a damp washcloth to gently wipe the mixture completely off your lips. You’ll notice that your lips now appear rosy, fresh and plump.


Do not leave the ground cinnamon mixture on your lips longer than a few minutes. The plumping effect happens within this time frame. Leaving the mixture on longer than a few minutes or overnight does not increase the plumping effect and increases the likelihood of swallowing and over-irritation.
 Vaseline or Aquaphor will also work for this. Make sure you don’t skip this step – your freshly plumped lips need the moisture after going through this process, and moisturized lips look even lusher!

