 Your friend may be suffering, so be a good friend and find out why. See if you can help him.


Think about what’s going on in his life and how you may be able to help him overcome it.Don’t play counselor, but do listen and share with your friend. He may just need someone to talk to., Know that her situation is unique and not strange. Reserve judgement and act fairly.


Do not judge. It's okay for her to go through a difficult time.Encourage your friend to seek help from a doctor or a mental health professional. She can get help or treatment that can be beneficial to her well-being.
 Make sure to take care yourself first and foremost.


Don't be overwhelmed by your friend’s needs.

Set limits or boundaries on what you'll tolerate and the time you spend with them if your friend is mistreating you.Recognize the signs of an abusive friendship. An emotionally abusive relationship may involve name-calling, constant criticism, threatening you, making you feel guilty or as though you are doing something wrong, embarrassing you on purpose.
 Know that any situation can become more dangerous


Don't stick around if you feel unsafe.
Find someone who can help you or your friend.
 Take any threat seriously. Make sure you are cautious when dealing with potentially suicidal people.


Tell your friend's family or another trusted adult or mental health or medical professional immediately.Call a community police officer or crisis center if anything gets out of hand or seems dangerous to you or your friend., It's important to take care of yourself as well. Don't let yourself be overwhelmed by your friendship.


Join a support group, see a therapist, and do good things for yourself.
Talk to your other friends. They may be able to help you through this difficult time.
 Even if you can't be friends anymore, don't let the end of your friendship dictate how you think of them forever.


Know that those memories are still important and valuable, even if your friendship is over.
Don't cut all ties. Maybe your friend will grow and change. Keep an open mind about being their friend again in the future.

