 Inactive women are at a higher risk of hypertension than those who exercise. So whether you are already pregnant or plan on conceiving, talk to your doctor about starting an exercise program.Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes a day or most days throughout the week.
If you are a beginner, try low-intensity walking or swimming.
Always talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program and ask if it is safe for you to do certain activities.;
, Being overweight is a risk factor for hypertension and thus, you need to take caution to keep your pregnancy weight gain within healthy limits. A proper diet and regular exercise are ways to manage your weight gain during pregnancy.Preeclampsia is associated with hypertension and weight gain during pregnancy, so it is important to avoid gaining too much weight and to avoid gaining weight too quickly. Preeclampsia can lead to kidney and liver problems for the mother and complications for the baby.Being overweight also increases the risk of other health conditions during pregnancy, such as back aches, exhaustion, leg cramps, hemorrhoids, gestational diabetes, heartburn and aching joints.
 Being stressed can cause elevated blood pressure whether you are pregnant or not. Try eliminating known triggers for stress if possible.


Do not overwork when pregnant. If you work over 41 hours per week, this can increase your risk for high blood pressure.Try relaxation techniques such as meditation, visualization and yoga. These can bring serenity to your body and mind and help reduce your stress level.
 Breathing techniques, such as diaphragmatic breathing, can help calm your body and mind and provide stress relief. In addition, by engaging the diaphragm (the muscle at the base of your lungs) you can make your breathing more powerful and reduce the strain to the other muscles in your neck and chestLie comfortably on your back or sit on a chair. If lying down, place a pillow under your knees to keep them bent.To feel your diaphragm move, place your hands on the chest and below the rib cage.
Slowly inhale through your nose so that you feel your stomach move up.
Slowly exhale through your mouth by counting to five while tightening your abdominal muscles and letting them fall inward.
Repeat and keep your breathing regular and slow.
 Studies have shown that listening to the right type of music while slowly breathing for at least 30 minutes a day can lower blood pressure.Listen to calming and relaxing music such as Celtic, classical, or Indian or if you have a favorite slow music that inspires and relaxes you, listen to that.
Avoid loud and fast music, such as rock, pop and heavy metal, as these might have the opposite effect on you.
 Hypertension is a side effect of some medications. Talk to your doctor about your medications and find out if they are safe to use while pregnant., Besides being a danger to your baby, smoking can also raise your blood pressure. If you are pregnant, you should quit smoking immediately.Talk to your doctor about methods to stop smoking that are safe for you and your baby.

