 If you have only a few hours to cram for a test, every minute counts. A smart plan of attack will allow you to learn the most important concepts for your test. You’ll have to save learning the little details for the next test, when you plan ahead enough time for studying.

Look at any information the teacher has given you about the test: study guides, the syllabus, etc.
Divide your time according to each unit or chapter you’re responsible for knowing. If one is much bigger than another, adjust your time accordingly.
Jot down where to find book chapters and personal notes for each chapter.
If you know ahead of time what concepts you need to learn, jot them down quickly so you have a goal for each section.
 Try studying for 45 minutes out of every hour, then taking a break. This will help you stay focused and keep your brain performing optimally. Get up and walk around, straighten your back, and don’t look at a computer screen. Try eating a slice of apple or two for a little energy boost., Your brain normally associates your bed with sleep. The first problem with studying in bed is that you will feel sleepy and learn less effectively. The second problem is that you’ll gradually reconfigure your brain, making it associate bed with staying awake. This will make it more difficult for you to fall asleep when you want to.


If you don’t have a desk or workspace, try a kitchen or dining room table.
Couches may be a comfortable place to work, but they may be too comfortable. If you find yourself less alert studying on a sofa, move to a table.
 You might think that studying all night will help you learn more for your test, and therefore it’s a good idea. However, learning every fact in the book won’t help you if you’re too sleepy to take the test. You’re much better off learning what you can and getting a good night’s rest. After all, you may have to accept the fact that you aren’t getting a 100 on this test. Getting enough sleep will help you get the best grade possible.
 You don’t want to wake up so late that you’re rushing to get ready and stressing yourself out. However, you also don’t want to wake up with enough time to overthink the test. Do all your studying the night before, get some sleep, wake up the next morning, and get to school on time.

