 Paul Airport and pack your own items of entertainment.


Bring a deck of cards for a quick game of solitaire or a competitive game with strangers or your traveling group.
Pack your electronic devices such as your mp3 player or your computer. Use your computer to hook up to wifi and surf the web, or use it to watch a DVD.
Remember a book or an e-reader to get caught up on your reading.;
, Paul International Airport.


Get ice cream at Ben & Jerry's or Dairy Queen.
Buy breakfast or coffee at Dunn Bros Coffee, La Brea Bakery Cafe, Harvest Market or Starbucks Coffee.
Go to a restaurant chain like TGI Friday's, Wolfgang Puck Express or Houlihan's.
Try a bar or pub like Rock Bottom Brewery & Restaurant or Ike's Food & Cocktails.
, These include:


Get a haircut at the airport barber and stylists.
Massage chairs for a relaxing encounter.
Try one of the many shoe shine locations.
 From gifts to clothing to books and more, you can find a wide variety of options right within the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport.


Go to one of the 17 different news and book vendors to pick up the latest best seller or a new magazine.
Check out one of the many clothing or jewelry stores throughout MSP International Airport.
Pick up a gift or novelty item at stores like Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory or Bose.
 Paul International Airport.


Bring a camera and document as the hours go by. Have people photograph you in various places throughout your terminal.
Start up a conversation with another traveler. Find out where he is coming from and/or where that person is heading to.
People watch. Sit and observe the nuances of the people in your line of site.
, Rates are cheaper if you book online instead of at the door. They offer complimentary snacks and some complimentary drinks including alcohol.
 It has undergone renovation and opens back up in January 2011.
 Allow 15 minutes commute each way plus walking time to the train stops and security re-screening when returning to airport. There are many more shopping options and food choices at MOA, plus you get to stretch your legs a bit.


Take the light rail train from the airport to MOA. The fare is ~$2.

