 Some behaviors are disruptive, but not dangerous. A student may, for example, talk during class or refuse to participate. These behaviors can be dealt with more gently than dangerous behaviors. Dangerous behaviors should be dealt with directly and immediately.If a student is hurting another student or him or herself, intervene immediately.
If a student is making a threat, intervene. Even if a student is unlikely to follow through with a threat, it is better to be safe than sorry.;
, If a student is becoming dangerous, you may need to separate him or her for the safety of others. If a student is physically lashing out, you need to keep the other students safe.It's best to have another adult escort your students out of the classroom. This may be easier than removing the violent student. If you have a teaching assistant, have him or her take other students to a safe area.
You can also move the violent student to the hallway and escort him or her to the principal's office, the nurses's office, or the guidance counselor's office. Make sure someone can supervise your class as you do so.
 You may be able to prevent an angry student from becoming violent via distraction. Students, especially young students, may not know how to appropriately deal with emotion. Distracting them from their anger may prevent an outburst.Acknowledge the student is feeling mad, while talking to him or her softly. For example, "James, I understand you're upset that Jane took the toy you wanted."
Then, try to change the subject. Distract the student by directing his or her interests elsewhere. For example, "James, you like to paint, right? Maybe you could play with the fingerprints with Mason while you let Jane have a turn with the Legos."

, When a student acts out, immediately refer him or her to the rules. You want to make sure the student understands the rules in your classroom will be enforced.If you don't already, have a list of basic classroom rules pinned up somewhere on your wall. This way, you will have something to refer to right there when a student acts out.
As soon as a behavior occurs, remind the student of the rules. For example, "Mason, remember rule number four? You're not supposed to talk out of turn."

, Students often act out for attention. It may be a good idea to simply ignore problem behaviors if they're not dangerous.Try not to react if a student does something like doodle during a lecture, talk out of turn, or other behaviors that can easily be ignored. A student may learn to behave better if he or she is not getting attention for acting out.
However, never ignore dangerous behaviors. If a student is doing something that could hurt his or herself, or another student, it needs to be addressed right away.
 A student should understand what will happen if he or she continues a problem behavior. You want to state the consequences while the student is acting out. If he or she continues to act out, reinforce the consequences.For example, say something like, "If you don't do your in-class activity now, you will have to do it during free period." This may cause the student to stop the problem behavior and follow the rules.
However, not all students will respond to consequences. Some students may continue to act out. If this happens, make sure you enforce the punishment. Students need to make a connection between negative actions and consequences.
 An apology can help repair any conflict caused by a negative behavior. After a student acts out, make him or her apologize.Who the student apologizes to depends on the behavior. If a student hit another student, for example, he or she should apologize to that student. If a student disrupted class, he or she should apologize to the class. If a student disrespected you, you should require him or her to offer you an apology.
 Physical restraint can be risky. You do not want to accidentally harm a student. You should only use physical restraint if a student is hurting another student or his or herself. Always use the least amount of force possible when using physical restraint., Recording behaviors as they occur can help you see a pattern. You can see when a student is most likely to misbehave. You can identify any triggers that may be causing the difficult behavior.Keep a notebook to record difficult behaviors. Note all the details of the behavior, when it occurred, and any circumstances surrounding the incident.
Look for patterns. Does the student seem to act out at a particular time during the day? Maybe a student acts out just before recess. This could be because the student is anxious to get out of the classroom. This student may need help regulating his or her energy.
 Once you know when problem behaviors occur, increase supervision during this time. This can help you eliminate behavior issues.You can monitor your class more closely during certain times of the day. Group work just before recess, for example, may require additional supervision.
If you have any classroom assistants, ask for their help here. Have them monitor students closely when they're likely to act out.
 Students often respond better to positive reinforcement than negative reinforcement. Instead of always scolding students for poor behavior, work on praising students for positive behavior.Always praise students for following rules. Do so immediately after the good behaviors occur. A lot of students crave praise and approval from their teacher. Students with behavior issues may be more likely to change if they see they gain favor by following rules.
For example, you can say something like, "Harper, I really like how you waited for me to finish explaining before asking a question. It makes the classroom run smoother when everyone takes turns talking."

, More often than not, students are acting out for a reason. You want to make sure you identify underlying problems so they can be dealt with appropriately.

A student who is behaving poorly may have a health problem, an issue at home, a mental health issue, or may be acting out due to academic difficulties. If a student's behavior does not improve with regular intervention, there may be something else going on.
You may have to have a sit down talk with a student whose behavior is not improving. Ask him or her open-ended questions, like, "Is there a reason you're having trouble concentrating." This gives the student the opportunity to open up on what is preventing him or her from achieving academic success.
 This can help encourage good behavior from the first day of class. You do not want to start off the school year with your students confused about appropriate behavior.

Go over your rules on the first day of class. Take time to explain everything clearly. Give students a chance to ask questions later on.
Hand out a syllabus that includes a list of classroom rules. This way, students can review the rules on their own.
 If an atmosphere is depersonalized, students may feel more comfortable engaging in problem behaviors. Work on making sure every students feels they have a one-on-one relationship with you. This will make students more likely to respect you and follow your rules.

Make sure you know all your students' names. You can use a photo roster if necessary until you have all the names down.
Make small talk with students as they come into your classroom. Ask students about their weekends or their plans for after school.
Have office hours. Encourage students to come in and talk if they need help with a homework assignment or want to talk over another issue.
 Students often act out when they're confused or angry. Fostering a system of open communication allows students to tell you about their issues directly.Be kind to all your students. Greet them as they enter the classroom and say goodbye at the end of the day.
Be courteous and kind to your students. If your students feel comfortable with you, they may be more comfortable opening up about issues they're having.
 Try not to get angry or frustrated by troublesome behaviors. Often, a student engaging in problem behaviors is struggling with something. A student may be struggling at home, or unable to keep up academically. Students who act out are rarely trying to be malicious, so stay empathetic. You want to make sure students get the attention they need to thrive.