 For example, "ace of spades" or "seven of hearts."Do this part of the trick out of sight of the audience. It will be more convincing if you pull the cards straight out of your pocket and go directly into the demonstration.
 Make sure your audience sees the cards facing down before you place the handkerchief over it.









For the best effect, make sure the handkerchief is as opaque (non see-through) as possible.
Using a handkerchief is a means of distraction. People will assume that the trick is based on visual cues and will dismiss the possibility of you having memorized the card prior.
 Be sure you do this while the cards are concealed. Turning the cards too soon will reveal the truth behind the trick.









Try to do this as stealthily and quickly as possible. Make placing the handkerchief and flipping the cards one fluid motion so that people only see what is happening on the surface.
 The volunteer will place the top half of the deck on the other side of the bottom half. Be sure you keep track of which is which and keep the cards concealed.









Ask the audience member to only cut the deck in half, not shuffle it.
Turning the cards face-up makes the bottom half of the deck become the top. This is important because when you ask the volunteer to cut the deck in half, they will mistakenly believe they are removing the top half when actually it is the bottom.
 The real top half should contain the top card that you memorized earlier. This is slightly tricky but should be convincing if you make the focus all about the handkerchief.









Only remove the top half of the deck. Leave the handkerchief over the bottom half of the deck, which will still be face-up.
Wave the hand that will be holding the handkerchief. Try to use fancy gestures to distract the audience from your other hand, which will be turning the cards over.
 Instruct them to show other members the card without showing you.









This is secretly still the top card of the deck, but the audience will think it came from the middle.
 Listen as people gasp in disbelief.
 Do this while the audience is still figuring out how you did the trick.









Chances are people will want to inspect the other half of the cards after the trick is done. Give them no reason to question whether or not you flipped them under the handkerchief.

