 Attending LGBTQ events is a great way to support a cause that you're passionate about and will give you the ability to meet eligible singles.Choose an event or cause that you can support, and go with a positive mindset to meet new friends and to have fun. Make it a point to get out there and talk to people. If you see someone you're interested in, go up to them and start a conversation.


There are Pride events that happen all throughout the year in most major cities.Search online for LGBTQ events coming up in your area.
Some of the largest LGBTQ events include Madrid Gay Pride, NYC Pride, the São Paulo Gay Pride Parade, and Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras.;
, There are many online dating sites that you can use to find eligible singles that live around you. These websites require you to create an account and answer questions to fill out a personal profile. Dating websites are more in depth and are better for starting a serious relationship. You can also try dating apps on your mobile device to find singles in your area. Apps are designed to be quicker and more to the point. If you are looking just to have fun or meet new people, apps are a better way to connect with a higher number of people in your area.


Some of the best sites for gay men include Zoosk, BeNaughty, and Match.com.Some of the best apps for dating include Grindr, Scruff, and GROWLr.When creating a profile on a dating app, make sure to concentrate on the quality and variety of the pictures that you use.
For gay men, shooting a photo outdoors or showing off toned arms will increase the chances of someone liking your profile.Don't try to start a lengthy conversation via text before meeting someone in person. It's good to meet on dating sites, but it must translate to a real date.
 Do a search online and find the most popular gay bars in your area. Read reviews on each of the bars and choose an ambiance that best suits your personality. If you are the quiet type, a subdued, relaxed atmosphere would probably be the best fit for you. If you're more of a party animal, look for dance clubs in your area.


Gay bars will be filled with eligible gay men that may also be looking for a relationship.
Some of the most popular gay bars in the U.S. include Roscoe's in Chicago, Bourbon Pub in New Orleans, and Boxers in New York City., Volunteering for an LGBTQ organization will allow you to meet other gay men that hold similar beliefs and have similar passions for activism. This is also a great way to network with other gay people in your area. Try to tap into different circles of friends so you can find other eligible gay men.


Look for volunteer groups like GLAAD and The Center in New York.
Find local community centers that work to advance gay rights.
Volunteer opportunities may include helping the set up for marches, protests, or events, taking calls, assisting staff, doing digital media, and performing community outreach., Just because you're a gay man, doesn't mean that you need to go to exclusively gay events or establishments to meet a mate. Remember to keep a positive frame of mind, and get out and be social in the world. Take a community class or join a gym if you are having trouble interacting with other people. Take opportunities to attend social events with groups of friends and be kind and welcoming to people that you meet. A genuine and positive attitude will naturally attract other men to you. When you find someone you're attracted to, put in additional effort to spend more time with them.


Avoid being vindictive, mean, or dismissive to people that you meet.
If you find someone that you like, ask them out by saying "Hey, I think you're cool. Would you like to grab a drink or coffee sometime?"
If you're unsure of the guy's sexuality, pay close attention to his body language. If he's closed off, seems uninterested, or pulls away when you make physical contact, there's a good chance he's not attracted to you.

