), the cost of purchasing bids, the auction rules, the number of Free Bids that you get, the number of bidders per auction, etc. Focus on the one site that has the products that you want and the right mix of factors to increase your chance of winning.;
, Note the user names of frequent winners. These “whales” often win because they are willing to throw a large number of bids at a particular auction item, so you don’t want to get into a bidding war with them if you can avoid it. Conversely, you will see that some winners are able to win using very few bids and at very advantageous prices. Was it time of day, type of item, time overlap with another auction that ran long? Look for patterns that will give you the advantage.
 Use them before considering the purchase of a Bid Pack. Clustering them in one auction is usually more successful than spreading them out across multiple auctions.
 Wait till the auction clock reaches the last few seconds to start bidding. Keep in mind that waiting too long can cause your bid to not make it to the site’s server on time due to your internet connection and other factors, so generally 5 seconds or so is as late as you may want to be.
 The auction item is usually of lesser value, or a Bid Pack, but there are fewer bidders and no “whales” to compete against. Here’s where you can test strategic approaches against other newer bidders.
 There will be a lot more bidders for the Jimmy Choo Bag than for the Rachel Leigh Earrings. Don’t bid on items that you really don’t want but don’t throw away your bids hoping beyond hope that you will win a $1,500 item with just a few bids either. Work the system to your advantage.
 You have got to be willing to put a sizable number of bids behind your involvement in an auction to ensure that you outlast other bidders. Buy plenty of Bids in advance to make sure that you don’t run out mid-auction.
 You can input the price at which you’d like the Concierge to start bidding for you, the price at which you’d like the Concierge to stop bidding for you and the number of bids you would like for it to place. Many of the “whales” have learned to use the Bid Concierge effectively. On many high value items, the highest bidder frequently engaged the Bid Concierge to secure the win.
 The Free Bids give you a chance to get a taste of the action and a feel for how it all works without risk. Winners buy plenty of bids and are willing to commit when they select an auction they want to win. They don’t win every time, and didn’t necessarily win in the beginning, but they continued and developed strategies that have paid off for them. You can be a winner too if you learn how to work the system to your advantage.

