 Try not to talk to much to others. Practice listening instead of sharing your thoughts and feelings with a lot of people. Instead, talk only to those closest to you.Stay quiet. If you have to respond, talk as little as possible. Try to observe the "one sentence rule" where you speak.
Listen while others are talking. Pay attention to what they say and nod. This will encourage them to talk more while you can talk less.
Share your feelings and emotions with those closest to you. Avoid oversharing with those you don't know well. Don't be afraid to open up to those close to you.;
, Try to sound minimally interested in anything anybody's saying. Speak in a monotone voice and never get excited about anything.Avoid getting excited about what's being said. When you're listening to others, temper your response. This way, no one can tell if you care at all, but are instead just constantly gloomy.
Speak in a monotone. Make sure your voice has little to no inflection. This will make it clear that you are gloomy and you don't care.
Keep your body language closed off and avoid eye contact. Do not show that you care at all about other people besides yourself.
 Listen to dark or depressing music. Look into bands that express your dark soul. Genres like heavy metal, gloomy pop, or punk rock can be very gloomy. Even country music can be gloomy sometimes. Listen to music in a minor key. Anything that sounds too happy can disrupt your gloomy mood.
Look for bands that dress or act gloomily. Watch interviews or live concerts online to see how they act or appear when performing.
Investigate bands that other bands admire. You may find that your favorite depressing band has a number of interesting influences. There may be a lot of gloomy music out there for you to listen to.
 It can be helpful to get your thoughts down and can be a useful spark to creativity. If you journal everyday and focus on your emotional response to things, you may be able to create art from your writing.


Write in your journal every day. Try to write about the worse things that happen everyday. Focus on the most negative events of daily life.
Focus on your feelings when writing. Mention how each event in your life makes you feel. Staying focused on your responses only can help you to stay gloomy.
See if you can use anything from journaling for a creative project. Don't let your gloomy thoughts go to waste. Instead, see if you can use that gloominess to spark a creative project.
 Explore the ways you can use your gloominess to fuel your creativity. Not all gloomy people are creative, but creativity can be a great way to express your emotions.Sadness makes us more focus better and be more attentive to detail. Use your gloominess to make you focus on what you’re doing and ways you can to do it better.Being gloomy can also make us less likely to follow rules. The best art is created when artists refuse to follow rules.Try out different art forms. Write, draw, paint, sculpt, and play music. See which one's right for you.
 There is plenty of art that may appeal to your gloomy side. Try watching films and reading books that emphasize the gloomy side of life.


Know that melancholy or gloomy works of art have a harmony that we respond to. It is based in mature reflection and can draw out more complex emotions from us than happier works of art.Watch gloomy or gothic films. Tim Burton is a film director that many who enjoy gloomy art respond to. Be depressed while you watch these films and think about how dark life is. Try out gothic horror films. If you like the darker emotions, than horror films may be for you.Read gothic or gloomy writers. Edgar Allan Poe is often a favorite writer for those who prefer gloomy art., Being around other gloomy people can show you that you're not weird. Be careful to not let your gloominess become too negative and harmful to your health.


Join groups or clubs of people with similar gloomy interests. Consider some of the gloomy art that you respond to. Maybe even start a club yourself.
Don’t try to cheer each other up. Instead, try to affirm the feelings of other people as legitimate.Be aware of the dangers of being around gloomy people. It can sometimes encourage negative thinking that can lead to illness.