 Your steering wheel is likely locked because there was a bit of force on the wheel as you turned the car off last. Unlocking it will require using the ignition key in the same way you would when starting the vehicle.Insert the key into the ignition and see if it will turn.
If the key will turn and start the vehicle, the wheel will unlock with the ignition cylinder.;
, If the key and wheel both remain locked in place, you will need to apply pressure to the key in the direction you would usually turn it. Be careful not to apply the pressure too high up on the body of the key, as that may cause the key to twist or even break while inside the key hole. Instead, apply firm but gentle pressure until the ignition comes unlocked.If you do need to contact an automotive locksmith, it will be much more expensive to repair an ignition cylinder with a broken key inside.
If the key doesn’t turn with slight pressure, applying more will not increase the likelihood of it turning. Instead, maintain light pressure on the key and move on to the next step.
 The steering wheel is locked in place using a pin on one side. When locked, the wheel will not be able to move in either direction freely, but one side will not allow any movement whatsoever (the side with the locking pin). Determine which direction the wheel cannot move, then apply pressure in the other direction while turning the key with your other hand.It is the process of turning the key while applying pressure to the wheel simultaneously that will unlock the steering wheel.
The wheel will only move slightly in the direction opposite the pin, but won’t move at all in the wrong direction.
 You may be tempted to shake the wheel back and forth while attempting to unlock it, but doing so will actually decrease your chances of successfully unlocking the wheel. Instead, apply steady pressure in one direction on the wheel until it unlocks.Shaking the wheel back and forth could damage the locking pin and likely won’t unlock the wheel.
 If the key is beginning to wear out it may not be able to turn in the ignition. You may still be able to engage the pins needed to start the vehicle by inserting the key in all the way, then pulling it back out slightly. Try to pull the key back out 1/16 of an inch, or approximately the width of a nickel, then attempt to turn it again.If this works, the key is likely over worn.
You should still replace the key as soon as you can before it stops working.
 It may take a few tries, but if you apply pressure to the wheel in the right direction while simultaneously turning the key, it will unlock both, allowing the wheel to move freely and the vehicle to start. While it may take a fair amount of pressure, do not force either the wheel or the ignition to turn if they seem like they won’t. It may result in breaking the steering pin, your key, or other internal components.Once the two are unlocked, the vehicle is able to be driven.
If the steering wheel does not unlock, you will need to trouble shoot the problem.

