  Clear colored plastic can work well for this project, too.;
,  Fill them with water tinted with food coloring.
  Place it in either landscape or portrait orientation.  Just plan to place the vases high enough in your composition to allow for space to show the cast shadows.
  Watercolors in either tubes or pans work fine.  Add an assortment of all purpose or watercolor brushes, water, a pencil, eraser, masking fluid/frisket, lined composition paper, scissors and tissues.  Place all supplies on the side of your dominant hand to avoid dripping on your painting as you work.
  Use a few glass vases or jars in varying colors and shapes.
,  Try various light sources; strong day light coming from behind, light from a lamp placed on one side, or use "artistic license" and make up a dramatic light source by using your imagination.
  They will most likely be found at the object's edges.  These darks and lights will define the shape of your objects.
  Things behind might be distorted.,  Be careful to keep each side of the vases even and having the exact curvature.  Make perfect agreement your goal and make refinements as needed.
  Fold a piece of lined, school paper in half lengthwise and draw one side of the vase.  Cut through both layers to create a template of each vase or jar.
  Try various compositions.
  Remove the templates and refine your drawing.  Add thickness at the bottom and mouths of the jars, finish the ellipses at top and bottom, too.  If there are swirls or decorations on the vases, draw that, as well.
 This rubber medium will reserve the white highlights on the edges of the objects. Allow it to dry thoroughly.
 Paint a transparent, sheer wash of color over each vase. Let the brush skip over the vase to create some lively white shapes on the vase. Let this first layer dry thoroughly. Use a hair dryer if you wish.
 Mix a darker value of each color and paint the dark highlights. Each pure white highlight must be accented with a very dark highlight. Let your strokes skip and be broken to avoid outlining., Use a ruler and have the line go right through the vases. This will help with the illusion of transparency.,, Dark gray or even black is a great way to show off the colored vases.
 Mix the same color you used for the vase and touch a brush loaded with that color to the bottom edge of the vase. Run a splashy expanse of plain, clean water in the foreground and allow the wet paint to fill the wet area without helping it. Keep each shadow separate by drying it before attempting to do another. If they overlap slightly as you paint them, they will remain separate, clear shapes if done on dry paper, next to a dry painted area. Dry the piece thoroughly., Stand up the piece and step away from it to view it with a critical eye., Follow that with a swiggle of plain water to create a light shadow., Remove the masking fluid with a piece of honeycomb, rubber carpet backing, a rubber cement lifter, or your finger., Try this project again. Possibilities are endless and after your first attempt your confidence will grow and it will show in the painting.

