 Before you pursue a career as a Californian highway patrol officer you should learn the minimum qualifications required by the position. Knowing these qualifications will let you learn if a career as a CHP officer is possible for you. Review the following qualifications before you begin pursing this position:Must be between 20-35 years of age.
Have obtained at least a high school diploma or GED equivalent.
Must be a U.S. citizen.
Must not have any past felony convictions.;
, Being a CHP officer will require you to be in good physical condition. Any condition, either mental or physical, that could prevent you from performing the required duties of the position may exclude you from consideration. Review the following physical requirements to see if you can become a CHP officer.Overall good physical condition and ability.
Normal range of hearing.
Must not have any physical or mental conditions that prevent you from fulfilling the duties of the position.
If you wear glasses or contact lenses your corrected vision must be 20/20 and your uncorrected vision must be 20/40.
 Currently the California highway patrol is continuously hiring officers. However, there is still a rolling deadline that you will need to meet when applying for your entry and application test. This information can be found on-line at the CHP's official website.


Visit https://www.chp.ca.gov/CHPCareersSite/Documents/CADET_TEST_SCHEDULE_2016.pdf for a detailed list of upcoming test dates.
 After your application to become a California highway patrol officer has been accepted you will be required to undergo and pass the physical ability test or PAT. The PAT will determine your level of physical fitness and will show if you are capable of meeting the demands of the position. Review some of the following tips to do well on the day of your PATDon't drink alcoholic beverages before the test.
Don't eat three hours before the test.
Avoid heavy physical exertion two hours before the test.
Get a good night's rest before the test.
Talk to your doctor before undergoing the PAT. Stop taking any non-prescription medications before the test.
Wear loose-fitting clothing or athletic gear for the PAT.
 There are four parts to the physical ability test that you will undergo. All four of these tests will need to be passed in order to successfully complete and pass the entire PAT. Review the following four physical tests that you will need to pass to gain an understanding of what physical abilities you will need:Run 1.5 miles under 13 minutes and 35 seconds.
Run 300 meters in under 70 seconds.
Perform at least 31 sit-ups in under a minute.
Perform at least 24 push-ups in under a minute.
 In order to pass the PAT and perform well during it you will want to begin training for the test. Conditioning your body to meet the standards required by the PAT will allow you to perform well and stand out during the examination. Focus your training on the following aspects to prepare for the demands of the PAT:Increase your cardiovascular endurance. Try jogging or running to improve your heart health.
Build up physical and muscular strength. Weight lifting can help build muscle and strength.
Improving flexibility and range of motion. Stretching or yoga can add flexibility to the body.
 Gaining an understanding of the written examination can help you better prepare before taking it. You should know that the written examination will not test your knowledge regarding law enforcement policies. Instead, the test will allow you to demonstrate your reading and writing skills, qualifying you for the position of a CHP officer.The test will be multiple choice and fill in the blanks.
There will be around 125 questions.
You have 2 hours and 30 minutes to complete the entire exam.
 Before you take your written examination you may want to prepare for the test. Your level of preparation will vary depending on your current level of skill with reading and writing. There are a few main methods that you can use to get in some practice and increase your score during the written portion of your CHP examinations.Study material that reviews English spelling, grammar and composition.
Some books will focus specifically on how to study for law enforcement tests.
Take a class that helps hone your writing and reading skills.
 Working everyday to practice you reading and writing skills can help you pass your writing examination during the entrance test. By using these skills everyday you can help keep them sharp and constantly work to improve them, allowing you to take your written examination confidently.Keep a journal that you can write in everyday.
Use a dictionary or thesaurus to broaden your vocabulary and help you use words correctly.
Review your writings and read them out loud. Pay attention to the differences between your writing voice and your speaking voice. Work to improve your writing style as you do so.
 After you pass your written and physical examinations you will be required to appear before an interview panel. This panel will ask you questions that will further determine your qualifications for the position of California highway patrol officer. Keep some of the following things in mind when undergoing your interview:Arrive five to ten minutes early.
Dress professionally and have a clean personal appearance.
Speak clearly and confidently during the interview.
 Even though you may have succeeded during your interview and initial tests you will still have to pass further examinations. These final examinations will evaluate your physical and mental health condition as well as investigate your background. Passing these final examinations will finally qualify you for a position at the CHP academy.You will undergo a physical examination to make sure you are in good health.
A psychological examination will ensure that you are mentally prepared for the position.
Your background check will make sure you are in good moral standing.
 After you have passed all the tests and examinations required by the CHP you may be offered a position at the academy. The academy will give you the formal education and training required to become a fully fledged California highway patrol officer. Successfully complete the academy will fully qualify you to become an officer.Training will usually last 27 weeks.
You will receive your invitation letter two to four weeks before your classes begin.

