 If you don't have a Weebly account yet, you can create one for free at the Weebly website. You can use your Facebook or Google+ accounts to create your Weebly account.;
, You'll find this to the right of your site name, next to the "Edit Site" button.


If you are in the site editor, the "Upgrade" button can be found in the upper-right corner, next to the "Publish" button.
 There are three different membership options available, with different features. All three packages will allow your site to be found on search engines, come with unlimited pages and storage, offer free hosting, and remove the Weebly footer at the bottom of the page.


Starter - This is best for personal pages and blogs. You can sell up to ten different products, but Weebly takes a 3% cut.
Pro - Pro gives you access to advanced site features such as HD Video, Audio, and Site Search. You can also sell more products (up to 25), and create membership groups for special access.
Business - If you're planning on focusing your website on eCommerce, this is the option you want. You can sell an unlimited amount of products from your own domain with Weebly taking a 3% cut.
 Weebly charges you for a year of service at a time, so you won't actually be paying monthly. You'll need to enter a valid credit card or use your PayPal account to make the purchase.


There is currently no way to get Weebly Pro, or any paid version of Weebly, for free.
 If you upgraded to the Pro or Business package, you can add HD video to your site. Open your site in the editor and drag the HD Video object onto the page. You'll be prompted to select a video file from your computer. Videos are limited to 1GB each.


Weebly will upload and encode the video so that it will play in HD on your site. This may take a while for longer videos. You cannot do anything else while it is uploading, but you can work on other elements of the site while it is encoding.
 A Pro or Business subscription gives you access to the Audio Player object in the site editor. This will allow you to upload audio tracks such as music or podcasts that your visitors can play. Drag the Audio object from the toolbox onto your page. Click the "Upload File" button to find and upload an MP3 from your computer to your site.


Weebly only supports the MP3 format. See How to Convert iTunes to MP3 for details on converting audio files.
You can upload multiple audio files to the player, which will allow visitors to pick what they listen to.
The audio player is HTML and should work in all browsers and devices.
 If you have a large site with lots of content, a Search Bar can help your visitors find exactly what they're looking for. The Pro and Business packages allow you to use the Search Bar object in the site builder. Drag and drop the object onto the page you want it to appear on, or into your header so that it appears on all pages.The Search Box will allow users to search through content, titles, page names, descriptions, image captions, and eCommerce listings on your site.
If you don't want a page on your site to appear on the search results, you can de-index it. Click the Pages tab and select the page you want to remove from the search index. Open the Advanced options and check "Hide this page from search engines". This will hide it from all search engines, not just your own site's search.
 A Pro upgrade allows you to add up to 100 members to your site. You can restrict access to specific content based on membership status. The Business package allows you to have an unlimited number of members.


To allow users to register as members, open your site's Settings page and click the Members tab. Check the "Allow people to register on your site" box. If you'd prefer, you can manually add members yourself instead of allowing people to register for memberships. This is a better option if you want users to pay for membership first.
 You can have your new members automatically added to a certain group after joining, such as a "New Members" group. Use the "Members" tab of the Settings page to choose the default group.
 Groups allow you to quickly customize who has access to what. You can create groups from the "Members" tab of the Settings page.


Click the "Add Group" button at the bottom of the window. You'll be able to give the group a name and select which pages they have access to on the site.
Select the members that you want to move to this group. All of your currently-registered members will be displayed, allowing you to select which users you want to add.
 You cam limit access to specific pages based on group membership.


Open the Pages tab and select the page you want to limit access to.
Click the Visibility option and select "Members or Groups".
Use the "Select Groups" option to select which groups have access to the page. You can also select individual members, but this may be unwieldy with lots of members.

