 Like all piercings, cheek piercings carry a risk of infection if performed without regard for proper sanitation. Do not attempt to perform a cheek piercing at home. Only go to reputable, qualified professionals - ones that have the training and tools necessary to minimize your risk of infection or complication.

Most professional body piercers will refuse to perform a dimple piercing on anyone under the age of 18, even with a guardian's permission. The precise age cutoff, however, differ based in the laws in your state or country.

Note - many professional body piercers discourage dimple piercings at all ages. While ear and nose piercings only cut through skin and cartilage, dimple piercings cut through muscle. As a result, there is a greater risk of nerve damage than with other complications.
 If your piercer is a qualified, reputable one, s/he will clean your cheeks carefully before proceeding with the piercing.The exterior of the skin must be cleaned with anti-bacterial soap, sterile alcohol wipes, or similar method of sterilization to eliminate harmful microorganisms that can cause complications with the piercing.

The body piercer may also ask that you rinse your mouth out with bacteria-busting mouthwash to minimize the risk of harmful bacteria from the inside of your mouth infecting the piercing.
 Reputable body piercers will use a piercing gun that uses disposable one-use needles, one that's washed in a sterilizing autoclave, or a single-use disposable needle on its own (no gun). The needle used to pierce your cheek must be sterile beyond a shadow of a doubt. Never, ever receive a piercing using a dirty needle. In addition:

The needle may also be heated before use to further sterilize it.
The hands of the body piercer should also be washed thoroughly with anti-bacterial soap. The body piercer may or may not wear disposable gloves.
The jewelry should also be cleansed in anti-bacterial solution.
 The body piercer will use the needle to quickly puncture the skin at the exact location where natural dimples would fall. Immediately after piercing the skin, the body piercer should place the jewelry into the holes and treat the punctured area with more anti-bacterial solution., New piercings require special care to reduce the risk of infection or complication. Ask your piercer for instructions - you will probably need to clean the pierced area with saline solution several times each day until the piercing heals.

The body piercer may provide you with a solution, but if not, you can make one by adding 1 tsp (5 ml) of salt to 8 oz (250 ml) of pure distilled water.
Apply the saline solution with a sterile cotton swab. Swab the area next to the jewelry rod and gently clean beneath the head of the jewelry.
Avoid playing with the jewelry as it heals. Fiddling with your jewelry can transfer bacteria from your hand into the wound, and also causes the piercing to shift from its original location, irritating the wound.
 It will usually take at least this long for the piercing to heal. The piercing needs to heal with the jewelry in before it can be safely removed. Removing the jewelry prematurely may allow the piercings in your cheeks to close up. Waiting at least one month (and up to three) should provide your cheeks ample time to partially heal.

As soon as you remove the piercings, your skin will begin the process of healing itself. Until the skin heals, you will have two small holes in your cheek. After the skin heals, however, you should be left with two dimple-like indentations in your cheek.
Take care, during this time, to keep track of the types of jewelry you are wearing in your dimples. Some people can have allergic reactions to certain types of metal used in jewelry, especially cheaper varieties.

Note - piercings are semi-permanent! Your new "dimples" will be in your cheeks at all times, regardless of the expression on your face.

