 If you feel pain on the right side of your body, try changing your position by lying on the left side, or vice versa. Sometimes the discomfort experienced on one side will disappear if no additional pressure is applied to the area., You can alternate between a hot and cold pack in order to reduce the pain you are feeling. Some people, however, prefer to only use an ice pack or a heat pack--try both to see which remedy works best for you.


If you do not have a heat pack and don’t want to purchase one, you can also try soaking in a hot bath with the same effect.
 If you are suffering from sciatica, you should wear shoes that have no heels, if possible. If you still want or need to wear heeled shoes, wear shoes with small, low heels. It is important to avoid shoes that direct your body weight backwards, like high heels, as this places tension on your lower back and limbs.
 Try not to overeat, as the weight gain will bring more stress upon your spine, which will make you more uncomfortable. Drinking a lot of water with each meal will keep your body hydrated, especially the spinal discs and spinal joints, thus relieving some of your pain. Make sure to get enough calcium. The diet recommended to pregnant women with sciatica includes:


1,200 mg of calcium a day. This can be accomplished by eating calcium-rich foods like cheese, yogurt, milk, and eggs.
You should also get a recommended dose of 600 IU of vitamin D each day, either through food or with the help of a supplement. , Swimming is a very effective way to get rid of some of the pain. When submerged in water, the body will experience a feeling of weightlessness, thus diminishing the pressure being placed on your nerves. If you do not feel comfortable swimming laps, stay in the shallow end of the pool and walk back and forth through the water.
 There are several stretches and exercises that you can do to help reduce the pain you are feeling. It is important to stay mobile and change positions frequently. You can visit a chiropractor to discuss the exercises that would work best for you, or you can try the following:


Lie on your back, one knee bent and the other one rested on it. Press against your back’s hollow while exhaling, until the spine comes in contact with the floor. Relax while inhaling. Repeat as desired.
On the floor, on your hands and knees, bend your back like a hump while dropping your head. Then slowly drop the spine back while your head returns to the initial position. Repeat 2 or 3 times.
 Although not very fashionable, these accessories can help you decrease the amount of pain you are experiencing by helping you to hold the additional weight of your body. You can choose to wear it all the time so that you pain is always kept at a minimum, or you can wear it only when you are in the privacy of your own home if you don’t really like the way it looks.
 If at all possible, avoid lifting any kind of heavy object while you are pregnant. Ask others to help you if you are faced with a heavy object that needs to be moved. If you simply can’t avoid doing the work, make sure to use the proper lifting stance. Keep your back straight and bend and lift with your knees. This will make sure the pressure is placed on your knees, rather than on your back., Chamomile tea is recommended for pregnant women with sciatica because it helps to keep them calm and relaxed, while also helping them sleep at night, even if they are feeling pain caused by the sciatica. Boil a tablespoon of chamomile in 8 oz of water and let this combination steep for 15 minutes before drinking.
 Some doctors recommend that pregnant women who are experiencing sciatica pain should take drops of passion flower extract. This extract works as an antispasmodic and an anti-depressant. Talk to your doctor before using passion flower extract.

