 Your risk of yeast infection may increase if you are taking antibiotics, or if you are pregnant, overweight, diabetic, or have an impaired immune system. Symptoms of candidiasis may include:itching, irritation, soreness, or a burning sensation in the vaginal area
an odor-free white, lumpy discharge
skin rashes, patches and blisters in the groin;
, You should see your doctor if you think that you may have a yeast infection, if you are experiencing symptoms for the first time, or if you develop other symptoms. Your doctor may take samples for testing, such as a vaginal wet smear, CT scan or test of your stool in case the infection has spread. If you have frequent candidiasis, your doctor may test you for an immune deficiency or some other disease. You may have a complicated yeast infection if you are:experiencing severe signs and symptoms, such as extensive redness, swelling and itching that leads to the development of tears or cracks (fissures) or sores
having recurrent yeast infections — four or more in a single year
dealing with an infection caused by a type of candida other than Candida albicans
pregnant
diabetic
using certain medications for a condition such as HIV

, Your doctor may prescribe antifungal medication to help cure the infection or advise you to use an over-the-counter (OTC) medicine. A true yeast infection is caused by a fungus, so over-the-counter antifungal creams are one of the most common treatments used.If you don’t improve within 3-4 days, call your physician for advice
Do NOT use OTC products if you are pregnant or if you have had recurrent infections. See your doctor for help treating your yeast infection.
Make sure to use an antifungal cream specifically marketed for use as a yeast infection treatment. Other anti-fungal creams may not be formulated for use around the vaginal area.
OTC creams are used over the course of one to seven days. Follow the instructions on the package to learn how often that cream should be used.
 Like an antifungal cream, an over-the-counter vaginal suppository treats the infection by coming into direct contact with the fungus causing it. The ingredients may vary a bit, but usually contain antifungal medications like clotrimazole, butoconazole, miconazole or tioconazole.Over-the-counter suppositories are also available as one to seven day treatments. Read the instructions that come with the suppository to learn how often you should use it and how to insert it properly.
The suppository is usually conical, rod-shaped or wedge-shaped, and they are inserted directly into the vagina.
 Over-the-counter oral tablets do exist, but they are not as common as topical treatments and may not be quite as effective against stronger infections. Consult your doctor before trying new medication, as some medications can have side-effects when taken with other medicine, herbs or supplements. Read the package label to determine the correct dosage and frequency. Treatment by over-the-counter oral tablet usually takes one to seven days.
These tablets consist of an antifungal medication that is safe to ingest.
Avoid overusing antibiotics as these can kill the friendly bacteria that normally keep Candida in check.
 Anti-itch medication should be applied only around the vulva but not inside the vagina. Vaginal creams can be combined with low-strength corticosteroids to reduce inflammation and itching and usually come with an applicator for accurately measuring the amount of creams used.Consult your doctor before using any over-the-counter creams.
Creams are thicker than lotions, but they can leak, so consider using a sanitary pad or panty liner. But don’t use a tampon because it will absorb the cream and decrease its effectiveness.
An anti-itch cream will not treat the infection, but it will ease the itching, irritation, and general discomfort associated with yeast infections. It should be used along with an anti-fungal cream, vaginal suppository, or oral tablet.
Only use an anti-itch cream formulated for the vaginal area. Other anti-itch creams could upset the pH balance of the area, thereby making the infection worse.

