 This plan should be a formal and detailed description of your goals, how you plan to achieve these goals and your current financial status. Not only is this business plan a tool for you to keep yourself on track, but if you are looking for financing in this endeavor, you will likely need to submit a business plan to the financial lender.;
, You may need to register your company name and license your business. Learn the requirements that are expected of you and make sure that you adhere to them.
 You should meet with an accountant and discuss the best way to manage your tax obligations and deductions.
 Ideally a store front spot that benefits in high traffic would give you the exposure you need in your industry. Opt for a mall, strip mall or plaza where other businesses can bring in traffic. Before securing a location, research neighborhood businesses to make sure that you are not located near competition.
 You need to cover your store and what's inside. Since you are working with client's property, you should find out whether you need property damage coverage. Additionally, since you and your potential staff will be working with machinery, you may also need personal injury coverage. Meet with an agent and discuss all the areas of your business that may need coverage.
 This will also determine the machinery you will need to invest in, such as a curve needle-outsole stitcher, a heel popper, finisher, heat lamp or any other piece of industry equipment. Opt to start small and then build upon your services and machinery as business picks up.
 You may need to set up a line of credit or request a loan to get your business in motion. Your choice will be dependent on what you need to borrow. Start-up expenditures typically include leasing a location, machinery, equipment, office supplies, paying bills and compensating your staff. Consider setting up a business credit card for purchases.
 Establish a list of vendors that you can set-up credit with and get what you need when you need it. Invest in a realistic inventory too.
 The methods you use to sell your business will have to be consistent with this budget. You can consider advertising in a local paper or industry magazine. You could also offer discounts and coupons for first time services.

