 Whether your opponent has high damage or not, it will always inflict lots of damage and KO them a lot of the time. Jumping toward your opponent, pressing B, then unleashing it on them is a great way to do it. NOTE!!! Falcon Punch is a very slow attack and if your opponent sees it coming can easily dodge it, or counter by hitting you. It is best used when your opponent is holding a box, or when they come drifting back after being knocked off the platform. Anther use of Falcon Punch can help save yourself while falling. When hit off the edge AND way up in the air, it can be advantageous to "punch" your way over instead of using valuable jumps. Its tricky, because the punches are slow, but if used right can be the difference in being KO'd or saving yourself.;
, This move is called the Falcon Dive. Use it mostly when your opponent is falling, or is right above you. It will send them flying similar distances caused by a falcon punch. Be careful though, as they might counter it with a down kick. After you complete a Falcon Dive, it allows you to use the move once more. It's a jump reward for landing the move. It can also be more fun if you insert a comment such as, "Come a little bit closer!" when the move is completed. If they are human, this might demoralize your foe. However, we do not endorse any type of bullying. Remember to have constructive fun while playing.
 If there is an obstacle in your way, jump, and then use it. Follow it up with another attack once they get up. The only word of warning is to be careful when near the edge of a level. It goes a prescribed distance no matter if you go off the edge or not. Avoid Self Destructing by Falcon Kicking toward the interior of a level and staying away from the edges.
 If they have enough damage, they will be KO'd. However, a word of warning. Throws are a useful tool to changing the tempo of a fight, but they are not main attacks. Using throws as your main offense is a true sign of a beginner. As you gain experience you will see that combos and "Hard A" attacks are more efficient.
 They can be very helpful when your opponent has low damage. There are two types of "A" moves: Hard and Soft. Soft A moves do not cause as much damage nor do they hit your opponent as far as Hard A's, but they are quicker. Hard A's are generally your Kill Shots. They produce high damage and strong hits which send your opponent flying. to execute a Soft A point the analog stick in the direction you want to attack and then follow up with pressing A. For example, you can point the analog stick Up in a way that makes you not jump and repeatedly press A to do multiple Soft hits to rack up damage. Once your opponent is approaching 100% damage, execute a Hard A by directing the analog stick in the direction you wanna strike while pressing A at the same time. It takes timing and a more forceful analog movement, but if the direction and A are pressed at the same time, it should yield a Hard A attack.
 B moves are characterized as Special Moves. Unlike A Moves, B Moves only have 3 variations: Up+B, Down+B, and Neutral B. Note that there is no Horizontal B. Neutral B executes the attack in the direction you are facing. Usually Neutral B attacks are weaker yet faster attacks, but Captain Falcon, DK, and Samus have powerful Neutral B's which either charge or take time to develop.
 Constantly move around and make it hard for opponents to inflict damage on you. And, when you strike, just dive in and attack. It can be highly effective if you Dodge. Do this by pressing Z and then pointing the joy-stick to the right or left, depending on the direction that best suits the situation.
 Poke balls, hammers, beam swords, etc. can give you the upper edge, no matter what character you are. Once you get more advanced, Items become trivial and some might even call them "cheap." Use with discretion, and judge your competition beforehand. Set the rules to the match before you play and enjoy. The hammer is generally considered the "cheapest" way to kill. Never rely on items as your means of victory, because you will gain few friends and little respect. Item Hogs, as they are affectionately known, are people who spam Items. Spamming Items is a sign of a beginner player.
 When one of your enemies has been thrown or knocked off of the edge, it is the perfect time to Smash them to their doom. Once they have expended all of their jumps, position yourself above them in the air by jumping. Time your Down A right and you will Smash then to their DOOM. The timing is tricky and you do not want to use more than one jump to position yourself. If you miss, saving yourself can be an issue. With timing and practice the risk will be worth the reward, and your foes will be demoralized for sure.

