 The myth of early retirement savings is you need to save somewhere between $5 – $10 million dollars to never have to work again. But this is a general number that may not apply to your financial situation or your lifestyle. A more accurate formula is to take your annual spending and multiply it by somewhere between 20 and 50. The large range allows you determine how much you need to save, based on your particular lifestyle.


For example. If you make $30,000 per year, you might need between $600,000 and $1,500,000 in savings
The safe withdrawal rate is how much you can afford to take out from your savings and investments every year, if you no longer work. So if you multiply your annual spending by 25, you’re using a 1 – 2% safe withdrawal rate. You will have 1 – 2% of your investments to spend annually, possibly forever, once you retire.Withdrawal rate, in order to avoid invading corpus, must be less than returns plus any taxes owed.
Inflation and changes in the market are hard to predict and will affect how much your savings will be worth by the time you are in your 30s and ready to retire. But according to the Trinity Study, which looked at how much a person would need to save to weather possible inflation, market crashes, or other financial issues, the 1– 2% withdrawal rate is a safe bet for most individuals looking to retire early.;
, Using the 1 – 2% safe withdrawal rate, decide how much money you will need to save to retire successfully and comfortably. This will depend on other factors, such as how many individuals there are in your household (are you saving on your own? with a partner who also earns an income? for a family?), and your lifestyle choices. Sit down and choose a rough amount, higher than you might need, and work towards that goal.Consider lifestyle factors like how many individuals will be supported by your savings, your living situation (do you already own a home? an apartment?), and your standard of living (do you enjoy an expensive lifestyle that you don’t want to give up, or are you willing to live more frugally?)
For a family of three, with two earners in the household, your retirement goal could be $600,000, plus a fully paid off home. Using the 1 – 2% safe withdrawal, your family might then have $24,000 to live off of every year once you retire in your 30s. Remember that this depends on things like your life span and investment returns each year. , It is not necessary to hire a financial planner to help you figure out your investments, as you can look on several online sources and check out library books on managing your finances. But a financial planner can help you work toward your retirement goal and organize your investments.Ask your financial planner about your asset allocations. Asset allocations are how you distribute your savings among different types of investments, such as stock funds, bond funds, and stable value or money market investments. How you distribute your savings will also affect how much risk you are taking on your returns. For example, a portfolio that holds 80% bonds and 20% stocks will provide a return and risk pattern that will be different from a portfolio holding 15% bonds and 85% stocks.
You should be investing aggressively when you are in your 20s and 30s, especially if you are aiming to retire early. If possible, allocate up to 80 percent or even 90 percent of your assets in a diverse array of stocks and bonds.A good strategy may be to make higher-risk investments during this accumulation period, as you will in theory have a longer period from which to recover from any risky investments that didn't pay off (10 to 20 years). When you are getting ready to rely on that money and you have met your goals, you will want to convert to safer investments.
 Most employer retirement plans offer a 401(k). This means that your employer sponsors a fund where your employer matches the amount of money in this fund. For example, if you have $1,500 in your 401(k), your employer may match this amount with $1,500. There are maximum annual contribution limits for these funds and as you move up the career ladder, these maximums get larger. Put raises into your retirement savings and don’t spend them.You can also gradually increase contributions to your 401(k) over time if you can’t afford to stash all your pay in a retirement fund. You won’t miss this money if you increase your savings slowly.
To retire in your 30s, you should increase your 401(k) contributions to a higher percentage to accelerate your savings and how much your company will match. Keep in mind you will have a much shorter period of time in which to contribute to your 401(k) and that there are penalties for accessing your 401(k) early — before you are 59 1/5.

