 The way you present yourself on the outside is a big indicator of how you feel about yourself on the inside. You want to show your guy that you are worth it and you want to catch his eye. Looks aren't everything, but they are the first thing a guy notices about you. No matter how awesome your personality is, a guy isn't going to see that from across the room!


Groom yourself. Keep your hair neatly combed and your nails clipped.
Practice good personal hygiene by brushing and flossing your teeth and taking daily showers. Wash and moisturize your face on a regular basis. This helps give you a healthy glow.Try lotions and perfumes that smell nice. Just don’t overdo it! You want him to notice it when he passes by you, not from across the room.
 Don't go crazy and dye your hair pink, but doing some little things can help. Experiment with flat irons, curling irons, clips, bobby pins – anything that is different might get his attention. Try out different styles the night before school or before the event where you'll see the guy.


Straightening your hair with a flat iron can give you a more casual look.
You can use a curling iron to give your hair some extra bounce.
Are you a ponytail person or a hair down kind of girl? Whatever you are, try changing it up!
Try a different part in your hair, or consider bangs. Have fun with it!

, The ways to do this are many, and range from the simple to the complex. Focus on the basics! When you take care of yourself, it shines through without you needing to say a word.


Get enough sleep.
Exercise regularly.
Make healthy changes to your diet.
 Some may say that clothes don't make the girl, but we all know they have some impact! Wear clothes that fit well and make you feel good about yourself.If you aren’t comfortable in the clothes you're wearing, your discomfort will show through in the way you carry yourself.


Try incorporating flattering colors to spruce up your wardrobe.
Accentuate your assets. This doesn’t mean wear skimpy clothing! If you have toned arms, try wearing a tank top, for example.Make it work for your guy. If you’re tall, try wearing flats around him more so that he feels comfortable.
If you usually wear jeans, change it up and try a dress.Try to develop your own sense of style. Everyone notices this, not just guys!
Experiment with jewelry or other accessories. Sometimes it’s the little details that really catches someone’s attention.

