 Family focused therapy can be a very effective means to treat bipolar disorder in children. Many times, parents do not understand how to deal with symptoms of bipolar disorder such as mood swings and extended crying sessions. Consulting with a therapist as a family can help both parents and children learn how to address the disorder.


Family therapy will help you address communication and problem solving as a family. A skilled therapist can teach parents how to recognize when a bout of mania or depression is coming on and how to help their child during this time.You can ask for a referral from your pediatrician for a family therapist. You can also see what's covered by your insurance provider. It may take awhile to find a therapist who works well with you and your family. It's not unusual to go through a few therapist before finding the right match, so have patience and keep trying.;
, Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is another option. CBT has been used with success to treat bipolar disorder. The focus of this kind of therapy is recognizing and addressing negative thought patterns that lead to troubling behaviors. CBT often involves "homework" for the patient. For example, your child might be told to engage in some calming activity 5 nights a week and write down his or her thoughts in a journal. If you're interested in CBT, ask local clinics if they provide this as a treatment option and talk to your pediatrician about finding a CBT therapist in your area., This form of therapy focuses on maintaining better relationships with other people. Children with bipolar disorder often develop antisocial tendencies due to their inability to regulate their mood. If you feel your child is becoming isolated form others, interpersonal and social rhythm therapy may be a good option for you.


You can find a therapist who does interpersonal and social rhythm therapy by asking for referrals from your pediatrician and other therapists and doctors. Most psychiatrist list the types of therapies they conduct on online profiles, so you can check here as well.
Routine is important to this brand of therapy. Children will be taught how maintaining regular routines revolving things like sleeping and eating can help regulate manic and depressive episodes. The therapist may occasionally want to consult with you to discuss how you can keep your child on a routine.