 This is the number that allows you to dial outside of the country that you are calling from. Its important to keep in mind that each country has a different exit code. For instance, if you are placing an international call from inside the United States you would use 011 as the exit code while, if dialing from Argentina, you would use 00 as the exit code.


Run a simple search through your search engine of choice to find your country’s exit code. You can find your country code by running an online search with the query “--Your Country’s Name-- Exit Code”.;
, The country code is typically 1-3 digits long and identifies the country to which you are placing a call. The Chinese country code is 86., This number can be 1-3 digits long and will narrow your call geographically in the country you are calling. China utilizes 2-4 digit area codes. For example, the area code for Shanghai is 21 while the area code for Zibo is 533. Some of the other major area codes for major cities are:


Baicheng Area Code: 436
Baoan Xian Area Code: 755
Baoding Area Code: 312
Baoji Area Code: 917
Beihai Area Code: 779
Beijing (Peking) Area Code: 10
Bengbu Area Code: 552

, This is the direct phone number of the residence, business, or mobile phone that you are contacting in China. China uses 6 to 8-digit local phone numbers.
 China is a vast country encompassing a geographic expanse of the equivalent of five time zones, yet it maintains only one time zone due to a political decision reached by the People's Republic of China after the Chinese Civil War in 1949. China's single time zone is China Standard Time, or Beijing Time, which is Greenwich Mean Time, plus 8 hours (GMT+8). It is important to check local time prior to placing your phone call to ensure convenience for both parties.
 Once you have gathered the required numbers, dial and wait for a ring to signal a proper connection. The following example represents the dialing sequence of a phone call to Shanghai, China from New York, USA: (For the purposes of this example, the local phone number is 55-5555) 011-86-21-55-5555

, International phone calls can be very expensive. You may want to contact your phone service provider for information on international calling plans or use a prepaid calling card to offset the cost.

