 You should get important property records pulled together to show an attorney. These documents will help the attorney understand whether you can seek partition of the property. Look for the following:Tax records
Title to the property
Deed
Copy of each owner’s will
Maintenance records;
, You generally have a right to partition, which can only be limited by the law. You should read your state or local law to find any limitations.For example, you might own part of a piece of property because your mother died without a will. However, some states give her spouse the right to stay in the house, so you won’t be able to force a partition of the property.Many states put their property laws online, so you should begin your search there. Search “your state” and “partition real estate.”
If you can’t find anything online, then you might want to visit your nearest law library, which might be at your local courthouse or at a nearby law school.
 There are two ways that the court can divide the property between the joint owners: “partition in kind” or “partition by sale”:Partition in kind. The court will divide the asset physically based upon your ownership interest. For example, if you and a joint owner equally own 10 acres of undeveloped land, then the court will give each owner five acres.
Partition by sale. The court will order a sale when it isn’t realistic to divide the property in half. For example, if you own a single unit condominium, then the court cannot divide this property in half. Instead, you sell it and split the proceeds, or one owner buys out the other half.
 You have the right to split the property yourselves, without getting the courts involved.Since you have a right to partition the property, you should talk to the other joint owners and ask if they would willingly divide up the property so that you can avoid an expensive lawsuit.


If you jointly own real estate, then you could draft new deeds, splitting the property evenly.
Other property can be physically divided, if possible, or sold with the proceeds split.
 You should definitely meet with an attorney to discuss your options. A qualified attorney can look over all of your documents and advise you whether a petition action is desirable or available to you.


You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.When you have the name of someone, you can call them up and schedule a consultation. Ask ahead of time how much the attorney charges.
 You can start a lawsuit by filing a petition for partition with the court. Your state may publish printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can use.Check with your court. If you need to draft your own petition, then remember to include the following information:State that you and the other parties are “joint tenants” and that all parties with an interest in the property have been joined in the lawsuit.
Describe the property. Get the legal description of property off the deed.
State the nature of the ownership interest for each joint owner.
Allege that you desire to hold your interest “in severalty” and that you are entitled to partition for that purpose.
 You have to file the petition in the county where the land is located, since only that court will have the power to split up the property. If the property is in more than one county, then you can file in any of the counties where some of the land is located.Make copies of the petition and take the copies, plus the original, to the court clerk. Ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.
You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on the court.
 You will need to serve the joint tenant with a copy of your petition and a summons, which you can get from the court clerk.The court may also issue a “citation” for publication. This citation is used to notify all other people who might have an interest in the property that a partition suit is being brought.


Generally, you can serve your notice on the joint tenant by hiring someone 18 or older, not a party to the lawsuit, to hand deliver it.
 Other joint tenants can respond to your lawsuit, usually within 30 days.In the response, they will explain why the property shouldn’t be split, typically pointing to some law that prevents it.


The joint tenant might also defend by claiming “ouster.” This is somewhat rare, but it is essentially like adverse possession. The other joint tenant will claim that they successfully prevented you from possessing the property for a specific amount of time, and for that reason they are now the sole owner.
Your joint tenant might also raise a counterclaim for expenses. As joint tenants, you should split expenses, so if one person paid for everything they can sue for reimbursement. Expenses include things like taxes, interest, or charges., An action to partition property is pretty straightforward. There shouldn’t be many factual disputes. Instead, the judge or master appointed to your case will look at the law to make sure nothing prevents the partition. If there is a countersuit for expenses, then the judge will look at documents to calculate how much was spent.


The judge may ask each owner questions. You should listen quietly, and don’t interrupt the judge.
Always call the judge “Your Honor” and the other owners as “the joint owners” or by their names, e.g., “Mr. Smith.”

, After the hearing, the judge will decide whether to partition the property. He or she will sign an order directing partition if you win.You should then take the court order to the Recorder of Deeds office, where separate deeds will be created for the property.
 When physical partition is not possible, you may have to sell the property and divide the proceeds. In some courts, the court master appointed to oversee the dispute will arrange the sale and then distribute the proceeds.The costs of the sale will probably be deducted from the sale price.
 A mediator is a neutral third party who listens to your dispute and helps both sides come to a mutually-agreeable solution. You should consider mediation if you think you can resolve any dispute with the joint owner. To find a mediator, you can look in the following places:


Contact your local courthouse. Some courthouses run mediation programs or have a list of mediators you could contact.Call your bar association. Your bar association may offer referrals for mediation.
Look online or in the phone book. You can find mediators by searching “your city” and “mediator.”

, If you want to mediate, you should propose mediation before people have invested too much in the legal dispute. You could propose mediation shortly after receiving the joint tenant’s answer or even before filing your petition. If mediation is successful, you might end up not partitioning the property.


Talk to the other joint tenant about the problems you are having. Also suggest that it would be cheaper to come to an agreement than to go through with the lawsuit.Mention specific costs associated with a lawsuit. For example, if the court orders a sale of the property, then the court will deduct the costs of conducting the sale from the proceeds.
Also propose splitting the cost of the mediator equally. Mediators typically charge $70-400 an hour., The best preparation is to first consider what you want and why. For example, you may want partition because you can no longer stand being around the joint tenant. Alternately, you and the other tenant might disagree about how to develop a piece of property, so you could be open to other resolution than splitting the property.


Consider alternatives to partition.For example, you and the joint owner could agree to occupy the property at different times in the year. You could draft an agreement that lays out each person’s schedule for using the property.
 Mediation might take more than one session, depending on the extent of your dispute. The key to mediation is listening.You should strive to understand why the other side doesn’t want to partition the property.


Remember that mediation is voluntary. If you have tried your best but cannot reach agreement, then you can walk away from the mediation.
 Mediation might be successful, depending on your dispute. For example, you and the joint tenant could agree to occupy the property at different times of the year. In this way, you won’t have to split it up or sell it.


You should formalize any agreement in a settlement agreement. The mediator can help you draft it. The agreement becomes a contract between you and the joint tenant.

