 Treat your mom to a spa day, or recreate the experience at home. Whether it's a massage, a facial treatment, or a manicure/pedicure, your mom will love getting pampered with you.Make a home-made foot soak. If going to a spa is out of your budget, consider giving your mom a spa treatment at home. Mix one cup of Epsom salt, along with one peppermint tea bag and one chamomile tea bag, into a basin of warm water. Soak your feet for 30 minutes, and spend that time chatting and catching up with one another.Make home-made face masks. Another great way to bring the spa treatment to your home is to make a relaxing face mask for you and your mom. Papaya makes a great face mask, as the enzymes in papaya have a similar effect as alpha hydroxy acids.Use a blender to combine three tablespoons of papaya pulp, 1/3 cup of oatmeal, and one tablespoon of honey. Lather the papaya mixture in your hands and apply to the face, keeping the mixture out of your eyes and nostrils. Leave the face mask on for about five to ten minutes. Then rinse the mask off with warm water., Seeing a movie with someone is a great way to bond, as experiencing the film together helps people feel connected by their emotional responses to the film.Most people have a tendency to feel empathy and sympathy for characters whose situations mirror our own.Watch a movie together about a mother/daughter or mother/son relationship, especially a light-hearted comedy.
 Walking with someone is a wonderful bonding experience.Not only do you both share a workout, you get to explore a park or neighborhood together, all while talking and sharing your thoughts and feelings with one another.


If you and your mother are both physically able to walk, try going for a long stroll together in a quiet, scenic area. Use the experience as an opportunity to catch up on what's been going in both of your lives while you walk together.
 Playing games is an important habit, as it allows for unstructured fun time with others.Games have the added bonus of bringing back memories of years past: board games are often the focus of family fun nights, and are commonly played on family vacations when the weather turns sour.


Play board games or card games with your mother to bring back fond memories of years past and create new memories together.

