 It's an app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.;
, It's the section at the top of the menu that contains your name and image, if you've added one.


If you are not signed in, tap Sign in to (your device), enter your Apple ID and password, then tap Sign In.
If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 Do so by sliding the buttons next to the apps listed under "Apps Using iCloud" to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position.


Scroll down to see the complete list of apps that may access iCloud.
 It's near the top of the "Apps Using iCloud" section.Turn on iCloud Photo Library to automatically upload and store your camera roll to iCloud. When enabled, your entire photo and video library will be accessible from any mobile or desktop platform.
Turn on My Photo Stream to automatically upload new photos to iCloud whenever you're connected to Wi-Fi.
Turn on iCloud Photo Sharing if you'd like to create photo albums that friends can access over the web or on their Apple device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section.
 It will turn green. Doing so makes stored passwords and payment information available on any device that you've logged into with your Apple ID.


Apple does not have access to this encrypted information.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section.
 Doing so allows you to locate your device by logging into iCloud on a computer or mobile platform and clicking on "Find My iPhone."


Turn on Send Last Location to enable your device to send its location information to Apple when the battery is critically low.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section.
 Do this to automatically save all of your files, settings, app data, pictures, and music to iCloud whenever your device is plugged in, locked, and connected to Wi-Fi. iCloud Backup enables you to restore your data from iCloud if you replace or erase your device.
 Doing so will allow apps to access and store data on your iCloud Drive.


Any app listed below iCloud Drive will be able to access its storage if the button next to it is in the "On" (green) position.

