 Some people view failure as a reason to quit. They've failed; it's time to stop. However, people with a growth mindset view failures as simple mistakes. The difference is a mistake is something that can be learned from. Once they've learned from their mistake, they can move on and do better in the future.When you have a setback, spend some time reflecting on the mistake. What went wrong? Could you have done something differently to prevent it? Write down your findings so that you can review them and be mindful of them the next time around.
For example, say you tried a new recipe that didn't go well. You could declare yourself a bad cook and not try again. Alternatively, you could analyze what went wrong and try to do better next time. Maybe the dinner burned because you weren't paying enough attention to it. Next time, you'll know to be more attentive.
 Another problem you may have with failure is letting it define your sense of self. When you do that, you start seeing yourself as a failure. The problem is, that tends to push you towards a fixed mindset, rather than a growth mindset. Mistakes are something you do. That aren't who you are as a person. When you can learn to separate the two, you'll find it easier to grow and learn from your mistakes.For example, maybe you made a big mistake at work, such as screwing up a major order. One possibility is seeing yourself as a screw-up, as someone who can do nothing right. However, if you view it just as just a mistake, you can move on.
That is, you made a mistake: screwing up the order. But it was just one mistake, and now you know better. You'll do better on the next order because you've learned from the mistake.
Take a moment to identify all the things you've done well or right in the situation. For instance, maybe you did a great job smoothing things over with the client once you realized your mistake. This can help make the mistakes easier to accept.
 Part of developing a growth mindset is always working to grow and challenge yourself. That means that you must try new things. However, when you try new things, you're bound to make mistakes, which keeps many people from even attempting new things. The important thing is to keep trying and challenging yourself.That includes taking on things that seem too challenging. You'll make mistakes, but you'll learn from the experience and realize what you can do.
For instance, maybe you've always wanted to learn a new language, but you've been afraid you won't be able to understand it. Take on the challenge, anyway. Even if you don't become fluent, you'll still learn more about yourself and another culture.

