 Before you jump into the specifics of becoming a destination wedding photographer, you must become familiar and comfortable with all the technical aspects of being a photographer. Enroll at a professional photography institute or take classes as your local community college.


Don't assume that you have to attend a top photography school. Learn the basics, regardless of where you go, and practice constantly to improve your skills.;
, If you think you'd love to become a professional destination wedding photographer, travel and photograph as much as you can. This will give you valuable practice with photographing in new places. It will also help you become comfortable with traveling with your expensive photography equipment.


While you probably won't need different photography equipment to shoot destination weddings, you will need to practice traveling and storing it. Consider using durable cameras, tripods, and flashes. Travel with plenty of backup equipment.
Putting your photos on a blog will show clients that you genuinely love to travel and can work in a variety of settings.
 Work locally for a while and build up a client base. Be available to photograph any kind of event (graduations, senior photos, engagement shoots, etc). Not only will you get technical photography experience, you'll also create a network of potential clients.Avoid jumping right into destination wedding photography. You'll need lots of experience to become just a wedding photographer without the added pressure of travel as well.
 Offer to photograph weddings for friends and relatives. Tell them you'll do this at a free or reduced rate. Photographing local weddings for friends and relatives will give you a chance to practice your craft and gain experience. You'll be able to use some of the images in your professional portfolio.If you don't know anyone needing a wedding photographer, find out if any friend or relatives still have their wedding dresses and would be willing to put on a mock wedding for you to photograph.
 A second shooter is essentially another photographer hired by a professional photographer to work the same event. You might talk with other wedding photographers and ask if any of them are looking to hire a second shooter for an event. This will give you valuable experience about what goes into shooting a wedding. You may even be asked to travel for the event.If no photographers are hiring second shooters, ask if you could apprentice under any of them.
 Once you've been taken photographs for a while, you'll probably begin to develop your own style. This is important to work on since it will help you attract and connect to clients. It will also help your potential clients decide if you'd be a good fit for photographing their destination wedding.For example, you might find that you enjoy shooting artistic or creative photographs. Or you might try to tell a story using a photojournalist style. You'd be considered traditional if you take very formal, posed photographs.
 You'll need to create a portfolio of wedding photos, just like any other wedding photographer. But, you should highlight the destination wedding photos you've taken. If you've worked in many places, try to showcase your range by including pictures from all over the world or photos taken in different styles.


If you don't have many destination wedding photos, keep the portfolio minimal, but include your absolute best work.Show your portfolio to potential clients. This helps them judge if they like your style and want to work with you.
 Your website is one of the most valuable ways to attract and connect with clients. Most potential clients will do internet searches for wedding photographers who specialize in traveling to cover weddings. You should also include information about yourself so clients feel like they know you. This will develop a comfortable rapport which will make it easier to photograph their events. Your website should include:


Information about you (your experience, training, hobbies)
Packages you offer
Locations you'll travel to
Prices
A gallery of your work
Your style
Contact information (including social media accounts)

, Every time you travel somewhere to photograph a wedding, develop a local network there. Talk with wedding planners, bridal boutiques, and other wedding vendors (like resorts, wedding cake bakers, and tux providers). Have plenty of business cards to distribute and offer fliers that showcase your work.Talk with management at the location you're photographing to see if you can be listed in their brochures as a recommended or featured wedding photographer. Many couples rely on photographer recommendations when getting married away from home.
 You'll often need to travel far to cover a single wedding. Even though you may only be hired to spend one day just shooting the wedding, you'll have to schedule time to travel to and from the event. For a single day's work, you'll have to schedule several days to travel and prepare.


It may be difficult to schedule destination weddings as well as local events throughout the week. For this reason, many destination photographers only work as destination photographers.
 Try to offer a few options to clients, but try not to overwhelm them with details. Give simple options that you know clients are looking for. For example, try to offer 3 or 4 packages in a variety of price ranges. You should also only offer what you feel comfortable providing. For example, don't offer videographer service if you don't want to be filming throughout part of the ceremony.Each package option should list a price and what it includes (like a certain number of hours coverage, prints, online galleries, videographer services, or second shooters).
 Along with each package you offer, you need to decide how much to charge. Will you charge an hourly rate or per package? Since you'll be traveling, you should also decide if you'll be charging travel expenses or if you'll include that as part of your overall package fee.


You might want to consider a minimum hourly rate or package. For example, if you'll be flying to a wedding, specify that the couple must purchase 6 hours or your travel package. This ensures that you'll be covered for your time and effort.
 Talk closely with your clients to find out if there are any images that they must get. For example, many clients will want a group wedding photo. Talk with the couple to decide if they want a formal, posed shot or if they want a casual photo of the group acting natural.


It may be helpful to come up with a list of the "must-have" photographs. This way, your clients will get exactly what they want.
 If you'll be traveling overseas, check with the country you're flying to to learn about any work permits or visas you'll need. Ensure your passport is in order and you're prepared to fly at short notice.If you're flying, check to see if your photography equipment should be checked or stowed in the cabin. Prepare accordingly so you don't have to leave equipment or have sensitive equipment or film damaged during the flight.
 While there's a lot of flexibility with traveling to take destination wedding photos, you can do some preparation. Research the location before you travel there so you can get ideas for settings or backgrounds. Once you're there, try to take some time checking out the venues for photo opportunities.


Specifically, pay attention to angles you could shoot from, lighting, and the mood of the space. Keep these in mind when fulfilling your couple's style expectations.

