 If you want to address your jealousy, take steps to consciously let it go. This can be hard, at first, as abnormal jealousy is often all consuming. Jealousy is toxic to relationships. It's important you learn to manage it better.When you find yourself feeling jealous, try to think to yourself, "I need to let this go." Before reacting or lashing out at another person, pause.
Instead of reacting, take a deep breath. It can also help to imagine the jealousy flowing through you and then being released in the air.
 People who are abnormally jealous may struggle deeply to control emotions. You may react instantly to feelings of fear or anger spurred by jealous thoughts. Work on being mindful of your emotions, and allowing yourself to experience them without reacting in a negative manner.Practice mindfulness. This is where you tune into your body, taking your mind off of troublesome thoughts. When you're feeling angry or sad, pay attention to your breathing and your sensations. If you have bad thoughts coming in, acknowledge them and let them go.
It's okay to talk about feelings of jealousy. In a healthy relationship, you should be able to tell your partner how you feel. Wait until you calm down, however. When you've had time to think, then you can address how you feel in a respectful manner. Instead of saying something like, "Why didn't you answer my last text?" you can try something like, "I felt a little stressed when you didn't answer my last text." You should also explain any underlying issues that fuel your jealousy. For example, if you were abandoned by a parent as a child, this may contribute to feelings of jealousy in the present. The more of your history your partner understands, the more patient he or she will be with you.
 If you're experiencing abnormal jealousy, it's important to see a therapist to work on ways to manage. Jealousy can damage relationships over time, so it needs to be curbed if you want to live a healthy and happy life. A qualified therapist can help you work through the issues driving your jealousy and help you find healthier ways to cope.


You can find a therapist by asking your regular doctor for a referral. You can also go through your insurance provider by finding a list of therapists covered in your network.
If you are a college student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your university.
 What causes your jealousy? Sometimes, you can better address irrational thoughts by understanding their cause.When you're feeling jealous, ask yourself why. Are you worried your partner will leave you? Have you been cheated on or abandon in past relationships? If so, this may be why you feel jealous easily. Try to understand that is not rational, and your current relationship is different than past experiences.
Identify moments where you're most likely to get jealous. For example, you may respond with jealousy going into a social situation. If this is the case, try to prep yourself ahead of time. Remind yourself about the root causes of your jealousy. This can help you see how jealousy is irrational.
 While you may not be able to completely control your emotions, you can control your actions. If you're feeling jealous, try not to react. For example, your partner may be busy at a social event and he or she may not have time to text you back. Do not react by calling and texting incessantly. Instead, do something to distract yourself.It can be very difficult to control your actions at first, especially if you're a chronically jealous person. This is where seeing a therapist can help. A therapist can help you manage your emotions so they do not affect your actions.

