 This will be the nose cone of the rocket. Feel free to use colored or patterned paper to design the rocket., This will have it stronger and more water-resistant.


If you want to add a bit of color to your rocket, you can use colored duct tape to wrap the nose cone.






You can also paint the plastic bottle if you’d like to decorate it further. Feel free to also add a design or logo to the plastic bottle (or body of) the rocket.
 You can glue it or use duct tape.


Try to put it on a straight as you can onto the bottle and make sure it is secure., Since these will be the fins of your rocket, try to cut them at perfect right angles so they can help the rocket stand straight.


Use cardboard, construction paper, or manila folders as material for the fins. Sign boards, such as the ones that say “For Rent” or “For Sale” are also very good fin material.
Place the fins on the lower part of the rocket.
Bend “tabs” into the sides of the fins so that they can attach to the rocket body more easily. Then, tape or glue them on.
If you line up the bottoms of the fins with the bottom of the rocket, it should be able to stand on its own.
 Ballast can be any material that provides weight for the rocket and ensures the rocket can coast once it is launched.


Use Play Doh or clay as ballast as it is soft, malleable, and unlike pebbles or marbles, won’t fall out or scatter when the rocket launches.Mold about half a cup of Play Doh or clay into the ridges on the bottom of the bottle to form a rounded end on the outside of the bottle.
Cover it with duct tape to keep it secure.
 Pour 1 liter of water into the bottle., Make sure the hole is the same size as the valve of your bicycle pump valve.
 You can also wedge it in with pliers for a tighter squeeze.  

, Make sure it fits into the cork tightly.
 Hold it by the neck of the bottle onto the bicycle pump valve, and aim it away from your face.
 Make sure you are in an open, outdoor area. The rocket will shoot up quite fast and high so remove any obstructions and warn anyone around you before you launch it. To launch the rocket:Hold the rocket by the neck of the bottle and pump air into it. The rocket will go off when the cork can no longer withstand the pressure building up in the bottle.Let go of the bottle. The water will shoot out everywhere when the bottle rocket takes off, so be prepared to get a bit wet.
Do not approach the rocket once you start pumping, even if it appears that nothing is happening with the launch, as this can lead to injury.