 Fescue grows when the soil temperature is above 60° F (15° C). The air temperature will be between 70-80° F (21-27° C). The ideal climate occurs in spring before the temperature starts to climb for summer. It also occurs again in autumn as temperatures fall.Planting fescue in fall is the best bet for a healthy lawn.;
, Fescue does best in slightly acidic soil. Get a testing kit from a garden center before planting time. Perform the test before planting so you don’t waste time and money on a disappointing growth. The proper soil for fescue has a pH between six and seven.Treat acidic soil with garden lime. Treat alkaline soil with compost or other soil conditioners.
 Unless you are reseeding a fescue lawn, get a weed killer that lists glyphosate on the label. Glyphosate will kill all plants, including grass. Spray the weed killer over the area once or twice to remove all vegetation.When reseeding, you may try a gentler herbicide safe for grasses. To protect the fescue, it is better to mow or pull out the weeds by hand.
 Get a garden tiller or tractor tiller. Move back and forth from one side of the planting area to the other. The tiller should reach six inches (15 cm) deep, and you may wish to go back over the area a second time to make sure the soil is turned enough. Finish by leveling the soil with a rake.Rent a tiller from a home improvement store if you don’t have one.
 Fertilizer can be added before or after you lay the seeds. Choose a starter fertilizer, which provides a balance of nutrients for a new lawn. Fertilizers that are high in nitrogen and include phosphorous and potassium are best for the fescue., You’ll need about five pounds (2 kg) of fescue seed for every 1,000 square feet (93 square meters). Use a seeding device or spread the seeds evenly over the area by hand. Don’t be afraid to spread plenty of seed over the area. This will ensure the lawn looks full once the fescue has grown., Go back over the area with a rake. Drag the rake over the entirety of the soil’s surface to mix in the seeds. A hand roller may also help you smooth out the area., Use an irrigation system or a hose to cover large areas of fescue seed. Apply about an inch of water (2 cm) so that the top inch or two of soil stays moist. This should be done once a week to keep the soil moist until the seeds sprout., Get mulch such as wheat straw or paper straw. You’ll need about 60 to 80 pounds (27-36 kg) per 1,000 square feet (93 square meters). Spread the mulch so it forms a light covering over the soil. Mulch helps the soil retain moisture, causing the fescue to grow faster., Cut the existing fescue down to size so that new seed reaches the soil. Set the lawnmower to cut the grass one to two inches (2-5 cm) high. Remove any lawn clippings with a rake., Rent a core aerator from a garden center. Move up and down the area, applying the aerator every step or two. Pass over the area from side to side, repeating the process. Pull up soil with the aerator until you have about ten holes for every square foot (1/10th a square meter)., You’ll need about three to five pounds (1.3-2.2 kg) of fescue seed per 1,000 square feet (93 meters). Spread the seed over the lawn, making sure to cover the areas that look thin. Overseeding the lawn is a plus and will lead to a thicker lawn., Raking the area will help get the seeds safely into the soil. A hand roller is also useful and will even out the soil without damaging the grass. In a pinch, an object such as a piece of carpeting or chain-link fence will also work. Drag it along the area to smooth the soil., As time passes, continue mowing the lawn as necessary to about three inches (8 cm) tall. Add nitrogen-rich fertilizer as needed to encourage growth. Also, keep the soil moist. Give the fescue up to an inch (2 cm) of water a week.