 Lipsticks with a glossy finish are the most hydrating of all lip color formulas. If you’re currently suffering from dry lips, avoid matte and go with a glossy finish. The glossy sheen will help to disguise the dry appearance of your lips and hydrate them at the same time.Skip the matte color when you have chapped lips; it will accentuate every flaw and flake.
Even though glossy lipsticks are hydrating, you should still apply a moisturizing lip balm to your lips before adding lipstick on top.;
, Matte formulas are very drying. Even if your lips are in good shape before you apply it, the formula tends to suck all the moisture right up. To combat this, start off with freshly scrubbed and well-moisturized lips. Use a lip scrub or extra toothbrush with soft bristles to gently exfoliate your lips. Finish up with a long lasting lip balm.To protect your lips, you may want to rub on a little Vaseline before scrubbing with the toothbrush. Be sure to rinse it off, though – otherwise, it will leave a film behind.
It’s a good idea to exfoliate and moisturize before you apply any kind of lip product, but when it comes to matte formulas, it’s essential.
 Matte lipsticks are highly pigmented and draw attention straight to your mouth. If your lips are on the thin side, you may not want to accentuate that with a matte color. Glossy formulas, on the other hand, highlight lip curves and create a more three-dimensional effect. Your lips will appear plumper and healthier with a glossy sheen., If you love your lip shape and want to highlight that feature, matte formulas are perfect for you. They are highly pigmented with zero shimmer, drawing eyes straight to your lips. Start off with a lip liner to provide a little extra dimension, since matte finishes can make lips look less plump and slightly flat., Matte formulas are notoriously difficult to apply. The intense pigmentation requires a skilled hand – one small mistake outside your lip line can be difficult to remove from your skin. Glossy formulas, in contrast, are a breeze to apply. They glide on smoothly and don’t require the precision that matte formulas demand.If you’re a lipstick pro but short on time, skip the matte and opt for a gloss. They can be applied in a few seconds, unlike matte formulas, which take time and preparation to get right.