 In some states a surviving spouse might be liable for the medical debts of the other spouse if the decedent's estate cannot pay the debt itself. If you, as an administrator, have done an accounting and determined that the uninsured medical expenses might go unpaid because the decedent's estate is insolvent, you should contact a lawyer. Probate lawyers will quickly be able to advise you on the possibility of the medical debt being pushed off on a surviving spouse. To find a lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few general questions, you will be put in contact with various qualified lawyers in your area.


The lawyer will be paid with assets from the estate and you will not be personally responsible for paying the lawyer for his or her services. However, if the fees are unreasonably high, the probate court may reject them and you may be responsible for paying them on your own. Also, it may be difficult to hire a lawyer if there are not enough estate funds available to pay him or her.
 Next, ask the lawyer about the common law necessaries doctrine. Under this doctrine, if the medical expenses were incurred by a spouse who was still married to the other spouse when death occurred, and the deceased spouse does not have the assets to pay the debt, the surviving spouse would be liable for them.


This doctrine is exceedingly uncommon in part because of its discriminatory nature against women. This is the case because the original doctrine only flowed one way (i.e., women had to pay for the man's medical expenses but not the other way around). For example, Alabama found the doctrine unconstitutional and does not apply it anymore.
However, some states have modified the doctrine so that it is gender neutral and flows both ways (i.e., both a husband and a wife can be liable for the other's unpaid medical expenses). For example, in New Jersey, both spouses are liable for the necessary expenses incurred by either spouse. The income and assets of the surviving spouse will only be exposed if the deceased spouse does not have assets of his/her own to satisfy the debt., Ask the lawyer if the necessaries doctrine applies in your state, and if so, to what extent it applies. If the lawyer tells you there is a distinct possibility the surviving spouse could be liable for the remaining medical expenses that can't be paid by the decedent's estate, you might have to (or want to) take certain actions to inform the surviving spouse.
 If the doctrine applies, you should tell the surviving spouse about it. This will give them a chance to consult an attorney about the debt, the doctrine, and how it can be handled.

