 You can go with realistic coloring, like browns and greys, or pick a fun pattern like polka dots. Keep in mind that some types of fabric are easier to work with than others.Great fabrics for beginners include cotton quilting fabric, which comes in many fun patterns, and felt. Felt works especially well if you don’t want to sew your stuffed animal.
If you choose patterned fabric for your project, pick a pattern that looks nice when connected randomly. Sometimes patterns like stripes or chevron can be difficult to line up.
You can buy fabric at most craft and hobby stores.
If you’d rather not go out and buy fabric, consider repurposing some old fabric. You could easily use an old dress shirt, tablecloth, or towel to create your stuff animal.;
, Before you begin creating your pattern, you’ll want to decide what animal you want to create. As you are brainstorming, try to choose an animal that has a distinct shape and a simple silhouette.Some possible options include: a cat, a bear, a rabbit, a monkey, an owl, or a fish.You can also make things that aren’t animals like flowers or stars.
 For this simple project, feel free to use any type of paper that you have on hand. Since you will only have two pieces of fabric to connect, your pattern is basically just a simple template for cutting out those pieces.


Decide how large you want your stuffed animal to be when it’s finished. You’ll need to make your pattern one-half to one inch larger all the way around.
Simply draw a two-dimensional outline of your animal.If you’d rather not freehand your pattern, you can find many free, printable animal patterns online.Once you’ve drawn your pattern, cut it out along the edges.
 After you’ve made your pattern, you’ll need to transfer it onto your fabric.Make sure the fabric you’re using is ironed or steamed and free from creases. This will make it much easier to work with.


Lay your pattern on top of your fabric. Draw around its online with a dark marker or a piece of white chalk. Do this twice, one for each side of your stuffed animal.
Cut your fabric along the line you drew. It’s best to use sharp sewing scissors to cut fabric, if you have them.

