 Whenever you can, go to a priest for confession -- they have the knowledge and skills to help you the most. While everyone has their own special connection with God, but most Christian leaders suggest confessing sins to another. This gets the weight off your chest, provides someone to offer guidance and advice, and allows you to make things better with the help of a friend. If there is no priest around, a trusted confident will do.


If you've sinned against someone, you should first go and confess to them. Make things right with them and the rest will follow.
Confessing to another person is not a necessity -- it is only recommended. You can confess your sins alone to god as well.
The reasoning for confession can be found in John 5:16: "Confess your sins to one another ... that you may be healed."

, You can usually find them in the church bulletin, on the door of the confessional, or by asking a priest or church staff member.
 Both of you begin with "In the name of the Father, the Son, etc..." before the priest says a few brief words. He may read a short passage, or he may say something along the lines of, "May the Lord be in your heart and help you to confess your sins with true sorrow." Once he has stopped speaking you may begin your confession., Begin by saying, "Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. It has been _________ day/months since my last confession." This is considered the beginning of your actual confession.Don't worry if the words aren't exactly right -- asking for forgiveness and stating your last confession are the crucial parts.
Some people prefer the less judgmental-sounding, "Bless me Father, for I have sinned."

, Do not feel like you must hold back, feel embarrassed, or lie. Nothing you say in a confession can be repeated outside of the confessional -- even if you were to threaten to murder someone (including the priest himself). The point of a confession is to unburden your soul with the help of another. This sacred bond of trust, known as the Seal of the Confessional, is there to protect you and help you freely open up., Determine that those sins should not be what you are or what you do, and repudiate them.Resolve in your heart or inner being that you have repented and will not return to them. This is a deeply personal moment, and one that requires strength and courage to follow through with. This, however, is why you come to confession after examining your conscience.
 He will absolve you of all your sins, and tell you how much the Lord loves you. If you need, ask questions, add small details when needed, and engage with the priest. This is a conversation, not some a car wash, and you should feel free to engage in the process and work through issues with your priest.


At the end of the confession, the priest gives you a "penance." This is a task or tasks that you must complete for forgiveness.
 Do not put this off. Whatever the priest has assigned for you to do, get right to it while the memory and feelings of spirituality are still hot. Penance is a way to bring you closer to your sins, helping you learn from them. It is not punishment. When you start looking at it as a chance for self-improvement, the ability to complete your penance is much easier.

