 A common cause of rowing blisters, especially for those just starting out, is improper handle grip on the oars. If your grip is too tight, you're likely to develop blisters. If it's too loose, though, you could lose your hold on the handle altogether.


Maintain a loose, relaxed grip, but keep proper form and a correct grip on the handle.It can take a long time to learn how to properly hold on to the handle. Don't get discouraged. Just keep with it, and ask your coach or a more experienced rower for advice on your technique.
 A dirty or greasy oar handle will not necessarily cause blisters in and of itself. However, it can make it difficult for you to maintain the proper grip on your handles, which in turn may cause blisters.Use an abrasive cleaning product and clean paper towels to scrub down the oar handles after every workout.
 If you're comfortable rowing in gloves, a good pair of non-stick rowing gloves can help you keep on top of your rowing without the risk of blisters. You can find these at many sporting goods stores, or by searching online., If you're not comfortable wearing non-slip gloves while you row, you can try taping your hands instead. Use regular, store-bought duct tape for this, but make sure the tape is clean to prevent irritation or infection.


Use a pair of scissors to cut a piece of duct tape. It should be slightly larger than the spot on your hand(s) that is prone to getting blisters.
Apply the piece of duct tape to your palm. Press down in the center and smooth the tape in outward strokes to remove any lumps or wrinkles., It may be painful and frustrating in the meantime, but eventually your hands will get tougher in the spots that are most prone to blistering. This can take time, and it's important to be patient while your skin toughens. Do not let it deter you; it's important to keep rowing until your skin builds up a tolerance to the motion.Increase your rowing time or intensity gradually. If you rush to lengthen the time you spend rowing or your intensity, you will easily cause blisters.Figure out a schedule for yourself that will allow you to increase your time and intensity slowly over several days or weeks. This is something you will have to determine for your own abilities and endurance.
Don't be afraid to push yourself, but know your own limits.

