 Adults with ADHD may engage in various risky behaviors. Being able to recognize in adults the risky behavior related to this condition can help you identify any risky behavior in yourself so you can get help. Risky behavior may include:Inability to follow through with commitments or responsibilities
Difficulty finishing tasks or showing up for appointments
Lack of motivation
Impulsive behavior, such as overspending or getting into fights
Difficulty with relationships
Dangerous driving habits
Alcohol and drug abuse
Risky or unsafe sexual behavior

, ADHD affects adults differently, so your risky behavior may be different than someone else's behavior. Take a look at your life and figure out where you engage in the riskiest and most impulsive behavior. Try to figure out what things are leading to negative consequences in your life.Make a list of things you think are causing problems in your life. For example, you could list any time you've gotten into legal trouble, been grounded by your parents, gotten written up at work or missed a promotion, or damaged a relationship. Read about ADHD and look at the list of symptoms. Are there things you are doing that you didn’t even realize?
For example, you may impulsively spend money, have casual sex and be unable to hold a relationship, or miss deadlines and meetings at work.
 With some practice, you can figure out how to identify the beginnings of your urges so you can combat them. This means you have to be aware of how your body and emotions feel throughout each day. At first, you probably will only notice the urge after you’ve been impulsive. This can help you figure out how you felt before the impulse.Talk through the situation with a friend or journal about it to help you understand it better.
Once you figure out how your body and emotions feel before an impulse, you can take a step back and take control of your urges.
Tell yourself, “This is an urge to spend” or “This is an urge to be angry at someone.” After you identify the urge, talk yourself through the urge. Say, “I am in control of myself. I should relax and stay calm.”

