 When you're at any kind of party or gathering, or even a one-on-one conversation, it can be difficult to get away. Learning to recognize good opportunities to leave will make a short-term goodbye much easier.


Notice if the crowd seems to be dwindling. If more than half the people have left, it might be a good time to leave. Find the host, or your friends, give a wave to the room, and leave. Try not to add too much emphasis to your leaving - this could make them feel as if you are desperate to get out.
Leave when you want. If you know you won't be able to stay until the end then you could perhaps speak to them beforehand or at the beginning of the party. You don't need to wait for any special signal. If you're ready to go home, or ready for the conversation to move along, say, "Well, I'll be going. See you all later!";
, Overstaying your welcome is rude, but it can often be difficult to distinguish. People don't like telling you that they'd like you to leave, so try to watch for signals. This may be some other family members starting to pack up or the fact that there is hardly anyone left.


If the host of a party starts cleaning up, or withdraws from the conversation, gather your friends or belongings and make your exit. If someone starts checking their watch, or seems otherwise restless, it's also time to leave.
 Even saying, "See you at school tomorrow," or "Can't wait to see you again at Christmas" keeps the goodbye light and focused forward. If you haven't already made plans, use it as an opportunity to make them. Even saying, "See you soon" suggests just that.


Set up a coffee date or meet for lunch later in the week if it makes the goodbye easier, but don't commit to anything you don't want to. It's ok to just leave.
 It can be tempting to come up with a "good excuse" when you're ready to leave. You don't need to (lying could also make them feel hurt if they find out you didn't mean it). If you want to leave, just say, "I'm going to go now, see you later." It doesn't need to be any more complicated than that. If you want to extract from a conversation you're ready to end, "I'll talk to you later," is likewise plenty.

