 Go to the FrontierPages request page and fill out the form to request your phone book. They will ask you for your name and business name (if applicable), your address, city, state, and zip code, plus your phone number and your email address.


FrontierPages is starting to remove residential white pages listings from their directories. To request this specifically for your area, be sure to click the box beside the message that says “Yes, Please send me a Free copy of the White Page Residential Listings Supplement for my local FrontierPages market.”;
, To order your Frontier telephone directory by phone, you can call 1-800-900-7524. If you want the supplemental residential white pages listing, be sure to ask for it specifically.When you call, you will need to provide your name, address, phone number, and possibly an email address.
 You can use the FrontierPages online directory to search for people and businesses, to get directions, and to perform reverse phone call searches.


To find a person, you'll need a last name (and preferably a first name as well), and the zip code where they live.
 Go to the Dex Media directory store. You can either select your state from the map, or put in your city, state, and directory type to search for different directories they provide, such as the SuperPages, which is a directory that combines yellow pages (the business directory) and white pages (residential listings).
 Dex Media provides one free directory to landline subscribers with Verizon,FairPoint, and Frontier. You can order one by calling them at 1-800-888-8448.When available, be sure to indicate if you want the English or Spanish version.
 Dex Pages is another phone directory, and they provide an online version of their print directory, which can be access from the Dex Media website. Select your state from the map, and then select your specific region. You can then scroll through the online phone directory just like you would flip through the print version.
 Dex Knows is an online search tool you can use to look up residential phone listings and businesses, as well as to perform reverse phone and address searches. Simply put in the last name and zip code for the person you wish to find, and then click Search to look through all the results.
 There are several publishers of yellow page directories (some of which also include white page listings), and the most popular of these is YP Real Yellow pages. You can go to their my directory site to request a free copy or additional copies of the Real Yellow Pages business or residential directories. If you're an AT&T customer, you will be directed to this request page to order a phone book.Step 1 will ask you to choose if you want to order your first free copy or additional copies.
In step 2, you'll have to provide your name, delivery address, phone number, and email address.
 You can also order a free print or CD copy of the YP Real Yellow Pages or White Pages directories by phone, by calling 866-329-7118.


The Real Yellow Pages has also started removing White Pages listings from some of its print directories, so you may have to call to request a copy of the White Pages specifically., Visit Yellowbook’s order a directory page. In the fields provided, input your name, address, phone number, and email address, and select how you heard about Yellowbook. Click Submit to request your copy, and they’ll send you a free phone book.

