 Reliable food service distributors play an important role in the success of your business and you will want to choose a distributor who provides good quality products with prompt, consistent delivery.


You can find food service vendors online, in the Yellow Pages or by attending restaurant conferences or trade shows .
Ask other restaurants in your area who they get their products from. Ask which suppliers they like in particular and why.
 Restaurants using high-quality, locally-sourced ingredients are becoming increasingly popular. Approach local farmers and food manufacturers about buying food in bulk. Farmers can supply your restaurant with produce by the bushel, as well as fresh meat and dairy products. A local manufacturer, such as a bakery, can supply large quantities of breads, rolls and other baked goods.
 Make sure to shop around before signing any agreements with food suppliers. Getting a good deal does not necessarily mean choosing the supplier with the lowest price. The quality of the food and service provided are just as important.


Look for references and contact other restaurants the supplier has worked with.
Negotiate the details of food specifications, delivery times and terms of payment. Choosing a vendor with whom you can forge a good working relationship will be helpful in the long run.
 A well-trained and professional staff is essential to the success of any restaurant. Before hiring, decide how many employees you will need, what the job description for each position will be and what the pay scale will be. Take the time to thoroughly interview each applicant. You also need to ensure that they are aware of exactly what their role will be within the restaurant, and what you expect of them. You will need to hire:



A manager. Choosing a manager for your restaurant is one of the most important decisions you will have to make. A good manager will have a wealth of experience (hopefully managing a similar type of restaurant), excellent leadership skills, and an in-depth knowledge of the ins and outs of running a successful business. They should also share a similar value system to you and be enthusiastic about embodying the style and character of your restaurant.Cooks. A restaurant is nothing without great food, so getting your hands on some excellent cooks should be a top priority. Local cooking schools can help point you in the right direction, and placing the ad in the paper can yield promising results. Depending on the size of your restaurant, you'll probably need at least three cooks to begin with, one of whom will be part time. When hiring cooks, besides producing great-tasting food, you are looking for consistency and attention to detail.Servers. Servers will have the most interaction with your customers, so you will need to hire friendly, capable people who can multi-task and work well under pressure. You will need to train any new servers, whether they have experience or not, to reflect the serving style of your particular restaurant.To determine how many employees you will need, consider how many tables, seats and service stations you will have. Think about what your busiest hours will be and ensure they will be adequately staffed. You will also need to consider your budget, this will influence how many employees you can afford to hire and at what rate of pay.

