 Dips are made with eggs, so they will spoil outside the refrigerator even while unopened. Any fresh-made condiments, particularly those made with eggs and dairy, have to be kept cold at all times.


When in doubt, err on the side of caution and refrigerate.;
, Store-bought mayonnaise is fine outside the refrigerator until it is opened. Once it is opened, bacteria accumulates and the product spoils within a day at room temperature. Properly covered and stored mayonnaise will last at least two months., All opened dressings spoil outside the refrigerator. Ranch dressing includes dairy. Others, such as Italian, include vegetables and fruit juices. Keep it cool and a bottle of dressing will last at least a month., All pasta sauces are made with some combination of vegetables and other products that spoil, such as dairy. Contain them after cooking and put them in the refrigerator. They will last six months but can be frozen for longer.This includes other fruit and vegetable-made sauces such as marinades, barbecue, and cocktail sauces.
 Standard bottles of these condiments contain enough preservatives that they can be left outside the refrigerator. However, keeping them inside lengthens their shelf life. These will stay good when cold at least a month. Ask yourself how much you will use the condiment before you leave it out.Other mustards than standard yellow, including dijon, preserve their flavor better when refrigerated.
 Unlike other cooking oils, oils made from nuts, including almond and sesame oil, should be kept cool after opening. Nut products don’t have many preservatives and the oils can separate, causing the product to turn rancid. These will last six months when stored.Natural peanut butters also need to be stored in the refrigerator due to their oils.
 Many homemade jams and jellies are sealed in containers and left out of the refrigerator. It is also possible to do this with store-bought product too, since the included sugar has a preservative effect. Still, it’s best to be safe and refrigerate, ensuring the product lasts at least six months.