 Give the school a ring and ask to make an appointment with their class teacher. To prepare for the meeting, review notes from your conversations with your child, as well as their school history (e.g., past struggles, school changes). Consider what questions you want to ask their teacher. For example, you might want to ask the following:“Why do you think my child is struggling this year?”
“Have you noticed any changes in my child’s behavior recently?”
“What advice do you have in terms of getting my child back on track?”
“Do you think my child has a learning disability?”
“How could we determine whether or not they have a disability?”

, If you suspect your child has a particular learning disability, you might want to get a recommendation from your doctor for professional help. Common types of learning disabilities include ADHD, dyslexia (i.e., difficulty with reading) and dyscalculia (i.e., difficulty with math). To determine whether or not your child has a learning disability, you can ask your family doctor for a recommendation for a child psychologist, educational psychologist or other professional. Your family doctor may refer you to one of the common professionals who deal with learning disabilities.Educational psychologists, child psychologists, school psychologists and developmental psychologists are a few of the professionals that deal with learning disabilities.
 You should be able to get your child assessed within their school.Your child will be assessed by a multidisciplinary team including educators, psychologists and professionals from a variety of fields. The team will produce a report on your child. This report will be used to create a learning plan for your child.The evaluation will be based on observations of your child in the school setting, standardized tests, interviews, school history and other data.Your school will invite you to talk to another team of professionals to discuss the report and whether any special education program is needed., If there is a long wait for a learning disability assessment at your school, you might consider a private assessment.Your child will be evaluated in a private clinic away from the school. The private evaluations are not as standardized and may or may not include classroom observations.To determine whether or not it is worthwhile, you should ask what the evaluation looks at and whether classroom observations and school history are considered.