 Develop a logo and a slogan for your business. These both need to be eye-catching and memorable, yet simple. Your brand’s image should be something that customers are drawn to and that stays with them. Consider working with a marketing firm or a graphic designer to develop engaging logos. A marketing firm will also be helpful in crafting your logo. Your logo will be instrumental in developing a customer’s first impression of your business.
 Developing strong professional connections is an essential part of marketing your business. Aggressive networking can introduce you to new customers and untapped markets for your business. Attend professional conferences, local chamber of commerce meetings, and other professional gatherings in order to meet potential clients as well as those who have the resources to forward your business. Consider joining regional and national organizations that are geared towards your business.
Become a member of your local chamber of commerce and be an active member.
Print business cards so that you can quickly share your information with potential clients and other contacts.
 Partnering with other organizations introduces your business to new customers and allows you to share the expense of marketing. By working with other organizations, you are able to engage with its membership while sharing resources. Reach out to local groups in an effort to develop these partnerships, or contact regional and national organizations. Consider partnering with a non-profit organization or a charitable group.
Share your resources with a regional or national organization that will market your business broadly.
 A satisfied customer is the best marketing tool a business can have. Many businesses attract new customers through word-of-mouth referrals from other happy customers. Customer satisfaction can be maintained by ensuring your products quality, creating helpful customer service, and facilitating an accommodating atmosphere. Consider ways in which you can make the customer’s experience as hassle free as possible. For example, offer mobile services that can allow your customer’s to engage with your business from home.
Encourage customer feedback. Customer reviews can be a great marketing tool that reflects their level of satisfaction.

