 If you have oily skin, you may be more susceptible to ending up with orange looking foundation. This is because the oils in your skin can interact with the foundation and change the shade. You can counteract excess oil on your skin by using a mattifying primer on your face before you apply foundation.








Use a clean makeup brush to apply the mattifying primer on clean, exfoliated skin. This will ensure your foundation goes on smooth and is less likely to change shades.
 It is also important that you let each product you use dry well on your face before layering or adding more product to it. Having excess moisture on your face can cause your skin to react with your foundation and lead to a change in the foundation shade.Once you apply a makeup primer or a face moisturizer, let the product dry. Use your fingers to lightly touch your face to make sure the product has dried before you apply any foundation.
You can also use blotting paper or a clean tissue to lightly dab away any excess moisture on your face, particularly on your T-zone area. This would be your forehead, your nose, and your chin.
 Always apply your foundation properly and evenly so it appears fresh and clean on your face. Dabbing the foundation on with clean fingertips or using a clean makeup brush to stipple on the foundation will ensure it dries properly. It can also help to reduce the likelihood of the foundation appearing cakey, thick, or orange.








Try to apply one even layer of the foundation by dabbing or stippling it onto your skin. Blend the foundation in with clean fingers or a clean makeup sponge. Never sweep, rub, or smear on the foundation.
 You can try using a setting powder to help keep your foundation looking fresh and to avoid an orange tinge later on. Look for a setting powder that is the same brand as your foundation, as this will ensure the two products will react well with each other. Using a setting powder made by a different brand can lead to a negative reaction on your skin and oxidization, which can lead to an orange look.








Check that your foundation is dry before you apply setting powder. Use a clean makeup brush to apply the setting powder and make sure the setting powder sits on your skin in one, even layer.

