 If you are having trouble sleeping, try to incorporate some kind of noise into your environment to help drown out the silence or other ambient noises. This will act as a diversion for your brain and give you something to focus on instead of your anxieties or your efforts to fall asleep.


Sound machines are great for this. They have multiple different kinds of soundscapes, such as ocean waves or thunderstorms, that can help you fall asleep.
This can also be helpful if you live somewhere where there is a lot of outside noise that constantly wakes you up. If this is the case, you may also want to consider ear plugs to help you sleep., When you are trying to create the best environment to sleep in, you need to make sure the lighting is low in your room. This means you should avoid turning on overhead lights or bright lamps too close to bedtime. These lights will lower your production of melatonin, a hormone that helps you sleep.You should also turn off all lights when you go to bed.


If you can’t control the light in your bedroom because of external sources of light, try using blackout curtains, blinds, or an eye mask to help block the light so you can sleep.
If you have to have a night light or similar light to show how to get to a hallway or bathroom, try using a red bulb, which has been shown to disrupt sleep less than normal light bulbs.
The opposite is true for getting up in the morning and trying to stay awake. The brighter the lights, the more awake you will feel., In order for you to sleep well, you need to be comfortable. Temperature regulation in your bedroom is key to getting a good night’s sleep. Find the temperature that you are most comfortable at when you sleep. Try to keep it constant, as extreme temperatures in either direction can disrupt your sleep patterns.


This may be warmer during the colder months and cooler during the summer months.
If you live with other people and you like the temperature at varied levels, try to find a comfortable medium temperature that makes you both happy.
Picking the right sleep clothing can also help you stay at the right temperature at night. Be sure to wear more clothes if you are prone to being chilly or wear breathable fabric if you overheat., When you are having trouble sleeping, you may want to stay in bed all day and try to get more sleep. Avoid doing this because you will start to associate your bed with restlessness and frustration instead of sleep. Instead, if you haven’t fallen asleep within 15 to 30 minutes of going to bed, leave your bed and do something else until you get sleepy again.


Avoid doing anything too stimulating or exciting, which may make it even harder for you to get to bed.
Don’t take your insomnia as a sign of defeat. Thinking like this will only make your depression worse. Instead, just try to relax and do something boring until you get sleepy again., If you are constantly tired, you may be tempted to sleep any place you can fall asleep. This, however, can make it difficult to get your body regulated to a normal sleep pattern. Try to avoid falling asleep on your couch or in a cozy chair in your living room. These places should be for relaxing and wakeful activities and not for sleep.


If you feel as if you can’t keep your eyes open anymore, move to your bed. This will help you sleep better and lower the risk of you being disturbed by inadequate sleeping surfaces or disruptions from others in communal spaces such as living rooms.