 This will help keep your work area clean. It will also catch any loose bits of powder. If you don't have any plastic, resealable bags, cover the broken powder with a sheet of plastic wrap. Make sure that it is wrapped firmly over the edges, or the powder will escape.This method will use rubbing alcohol. The rubbing alcohol will evaporate, and leave behind the hardened powder.It is considered safe, but if you have very sensitive skin, you might want to consider the method.;
, Use a spoon, mini spatula, or the base of a makeup brush to do this. Keep smashing the powder until you end up with a fine dust. Make sure that there are no clumps or chunks left, or your compact will be very grainy.









This may seem like you are only making things worse, but it will help give you a smoother finish in the end.
 If any powder got out, try to carefully tip it back into the compact. Break it up into a fine dust, if necessary.
 Depending on how big the compact is, this could be as little as a few drops, to as much as a capful. Use enough rubbing alcohol so that the powder is damp, but not so much that it starts to float.








Try to use at least 70% rubbing alcohol.The higher the percentage, the faster it will evaporate/dry.If you added too much rubbing alcohol, dip the corner of a tissue into it. The tissue will soak up the excess rubbing alcohol.
 Keep smooshing the powder around until you get an even, creamy consistency. There should be no clumps or chunks.
 The plastic wrap will help keep your finger clean while you work. You can also smooth the powder down with a spoon, the base of a makeup brush, or any other smooth object.
 Make sure you use a tissue that will not easily break when wet, otherwise you risk getting tissue particles in your compact. Avoid pressing too hard, or the powder may crack. This will help remove any excess rubbing alcohol.








To get that brand-new, pressed look, use a scrap of cotton fabric instead. It will leave behind that fabric-like texture many brand-new makeup powders have., If you'd like your work to be neater, take an eyeliner brush, and run the point around the edges of your powder. This will help give you those nice, crisp edges.Don't worry about cleaning up the compact case itself just yet.
, If this bothers you, dip a q-tip in some rubbing alcohol, and wipe the dried "mud" off.
