 When the snow starts piling up and it becomes clear that you're stuck on the road or your campsite, your best bet is to stay there. Venturing out in the snow increases the mortality rate in this type of situation, since visibility is usually close to zero and the temperature and wind are unpredictable its not worth the risk. Hunker down and plan to wait out the storm.If you're with other people, do not send a person out for help. This is extremely risky and is not likely to end well. It's important to stay together until the storm has passed or you're rescued.
If you're stuck outside without a car or tent, it's imperative that you find some sort of shelter. Seek out a cave or an overhang, or look for a tarp or other materials you can use to fashion a shelter. If all else fails, build a snow cave to serve as insulation.;
, Keep the windows rolled up or the tent flap closed while you're inside. Wrap your coat, blanket, tarp, or any other type of material you have with you around your body to stay warm and to prevent frostbite. If you're with another person, use each other's body heat, too.


If you're out in the wilderness, build a fire close by to keep warm and serve as a signal to attract attention.
If you're in the car, let the engine run with the heat on to stay warm. However, it's very important that you don't keep the engine running if the exhaust pipe clogs with snow; this could lead to carbon monoxide poisoning, which is deadly.
 This is a very important way to keep your body healthy while you're trapped. If you don't have a water supply, stay hydrated by melting snow and drinking it. Put some in a container and melt it using the fire you built or your car's heater.


Do not eat snow. This is harmful to the body. Melt the snow and drink it instead.If you have food, ration it to make it last over several days. Do not eat full meals.
 When the snow stops falling and the sun comes back out, your physical state will help you determine what comes next. You may be able to dig your way out of your car or tent or walk away. If that seems impossible, wait for help to arrive.


If you're on a road, you can be fairly sure help will come soon. People have survived for over a week waiting for help in the car, so sit tight.
If you're in the wilderness and are afraid no one will find you, you may have to hike to safety on your own. Get your bearings and set out in the direction of civilization.
 If you or someone in your group gets hypothermia, remove cold, wet clothes immediately and use hot water bottles and warm fluids to warm up. Read How to Treat Hypothermia for detailed instructions on handling this serious condition.

