 Paddleboard yoga can be a change for even experienced practitioners. To help you get balanced and used to your board, start by getting into child's pose.Stand toward the back end of your paddle board. Keep your feet about hip width apart to help maintain your balance.
Squat down until you're on your hands and knees. Slowly ease your butt down towards your feet so that it's resting on or very close to your heels.
Your knees should be pointing out slightly away from your body. Drape your torso forward and rest your forehead on the board.
You can keep your arms extended straight out in front of you or rest them next to your body.
Stay in child's pose for a few deep breaths. Get accustomed to the ripples of the water and the feeling of being on a paddle board.;
, A great pose to practice on your paddle board is Warrior 1. Being on the water will force you to concentrate during this pose in order to maintain your balance.Stand toward the backside of your board. Lunge your left foot forward. Keep your toes pointing straight ahead of you. Angle your back right foot out towards the side of your body at about a 45 degree angle.
Lower your body down so that your left thigh is almost parallel to your paddle board.
Extend your arms up over your head and slightly arch your back. Point your face up to towards the sky. Take a few deep breaths and then switch sides to perform with your other leg.
Focus on your hands or on the sky and take a few deep breaths to hold this pose.
 Another great pose to try on your paddle board is tree pose. Again, being on the water makes this balancing pose slightly more challenging.Stand in the middle of your paddle board. While focusing on an object straight ahead of you (maybe a particular tree on the shore line), slowly bring up your right leg.
Rest your feet on the inner thigh of your left leg (above your knee joint) or on the inner part of your left shin (below your knee) joint.
Try to press your foot into your left leg and vice versa. Sweep your arms up over your head so that your fingers are extended towards the sky.
Balance here for a few deep breaths and then alternate sides.
 This classic yoga pose is another great one to try on the paddle board. It can be a little challenging since your view is upside down. However, it's great to practice your balance.To start this pose, position yourself on your hands and knees towards the center of your paddle board. Get comfortable and balanced here.
Plant your hands firmly into your board. They should be about shoulder width apart.
Then, curl your toes under and push your butt up into the air. Your body should be forming an upside down "V" shape.
Push up through your arms and hips towards the sky. Also, try to pull your heels as close to the board as you can.
Stay here for a few deep breaths before moving onto another pose.
 Most yoga classes will end in corpse pose. It's a closing pose that allows your body to relax after a challenging workout. This pose is exceptionally calming and restoring when you're floating on your paddle board.Corpse pose is performed by laying on your back. Try to center your body, with your face pointing up towards the sky, on the paddle board.
Typically, your arms and legs should be slightly splayed out from the sides of your body - at about a 45 degree angle.
Yoga paddle boards are large enough that you don't have to dangle your limbs into the water. However, allowing your hands or feet to dangle in the cool water can help you relax and feel one with the water and board.
Stay in corpse pose for several minutes. Just allowing your body to relax and reconnect with nature.
 Paddleboard yoga is becoming more popular. However, you may need to do a little digging online in order to find a local class.


Do a quick online search for paddleboard yoga. Classes will most likely be offered near lakes, rivers or other bodies of water.
Make sure to check the timing of the class, the schedule, required equipment or clothing and the cost.
Even if you cannot find a class that's in your town or city, look for a class in a fun destination. It might be fun to take a trip with friends or family and as part of your trip include a paddleboard yoga class or two.
 If you can't find a local paddleboard yoga class, but live near a body of water, consider asking a yoga teacher to venture out to teach one of these unique classes.


Paddleboard yoga isn't offered as frequently as traditional yoga. If you're interested in taking a paddleboard yoga class, consider asking your current yoga teacher if they'd be interested.
Tell them you'd may be able to help them get together a group of people that would be willing to pay a fee to attend the class.
You may want to consider asking local yoga instructors around your area if they'd be interested in teaching a class if you don't currently have a yoga teacher or don't know one personally.
 Like any new fitness class, it might be wise to show up early. This will help you get acquainted with the teacher, your board and the equipment that's used.


If you've signed up for a paddleboard yoga class, plan to arrive to class at least 15-20 minutes early.
When you're there, get to know the instructor a bit. Ask about what to expect from the class and mention that this is your first paddleboard class.
Also get acquainted with the equipment. The paddle boards can be heavy and difficult to get into the water. Ask the instructor for help if you need it., Paddleboard yoga will require you to bring the right type of equipment and wear the right type of clothing.Make sure that you have:


Water proof clothing. A swim suit, yoga clothes or other fitness clothes that you don't mind getting wet are key. Although it's not planned for you to fall in the water, it could happen if you lose your balance.
Water proof shoes. Little flat, slip on water shoes are great. You can walk into the water and they can help keep you from slipping on your board.
Dry clothes and a towel. Just in case, keep an extra set of clothes and a dry towel for when you're done with your class.
Water bottle. Keep this filled with ice cold water so that when you're finished with class, you can rehydrate.
Sun glasses, hat or suntan lotion. Since you'll be outside, it's important to stay protected from the sun. Any of the items would be good to have for a sunny day.
 Since paddleboard yoga is done on the water, it's possible that you can drop something and lose it. Instead, make sure you have things secured to your body.


It might be wise to bring a hat and sunglasses. However, make sure they are either securely fitted on your head (like a tight fitting hat) or your glasses are attached to a chain around your neck.
If you want to bring a cell phone out in the water with you (maybe to play music if you're alone), keep it in an arm or wrist case that's securely fastened to your body and is completely water proof.
 Like many types of fitness classes, there is a cost associated with paddleboard yoga. Make sure the class fee is feasible for you and fits into your budget.


Each paddleboard yoga class will have a cost associated with it. Depending on where you go, the cost per session could be anywhere from $30-$40.Many yoga teachers or studios do offer a discount if you purchase a class series, you're a student or military. Look for these if you want to cut down on the overall cost.
Since there is a higher cost associated with this specialty form of yoga, this may be something you can only do once in a while - like once a month.
 All types of exercise, even yoga, require you to be safe and smart. Talk to your doctor before starting this class and make sure it's an appropriate class for you.


Always get a clearance from your doctor for physical activity. Although yoga is fairly good for any fitness level, being out in the hot sun on the water may present some issues for certain people.
Also, even though it's not likely you'll fall into the water, make sure you're OK and feel safe in water. Knowing how to swim or at least how to tread water is essential.
Many classes insist that students wear small flotation devices. If you'd feel more comfortable with one, make sure to ask or bring your own.

