 For a fun arts and crafts project you can do with your younger kids, gather some simple materials and turn ordinary candy canes into adorable, zany reindeer faces. Stick on googly-eyes, tie a ribbon around the middle like a bow tie and twist a brown pipe cleaner onto the top to serve as the antlers. Hang the candy cane reindeer from the Christmas tree or display them as separate decorations.Let your kids or students personalize their reindeer with string, pipe cleaners, glitter, glue, ribbon, construction paper and other materials.
Pick one reindeer to be Rudolph and glue a red fuzzy felt ball onto the end of the hook to make a shiny nose., Place two candy canes side-by-side with the hooks facing up, layer fun-sized candy bars on top from largest to smallest and tie it all together using multicolored ribbon. Mini candy sleighs are perfect for presenting a bundle of loose sweets. You could even use them as a creative way to present gift cards or other offerings that are too small to wrap.Hand out candy sleighs as unique party favors, or use them as stocking stuffers.
 Holiday cheer isn’t just for the homestead. When tied together and stood on their hooked ends, two candy canes can make a nifty seasonal business card holder. Switch out the normal card holder on your desk or service counter with this easy DIY Christmas-themed version.Run a thin line of glue between the shafts of the two candy canes to help hold them together.
When stood upside down, the hooks will be just wide enough to hold a stack of regular business cards.
 Another way to make room for candy canes on your Christmas tree is by using them to craft handmade frames for a photo ornaments. Glue the ends of two candy canes together to form a heart shape. Then, find a photo of a loved one or special memory, trim the edges to fit the frame and stick it to the backside of the candy canes. Your fondest memories will be preserved forever when hung proudly from your tree.The candy cane frame will be tall and slender, making it a perfect fit for most wall-sized picture portraits.
This is a thrifty way to use candy canes while also finding a purpose for any old photos you’ve got lying around.

