 Find out if your company is already on board with celebrating the day. Talk to your human resources professional to see if this is day they plan to recognize. If it’s a completely new concept, ask him or her if you can direct them to the “Take Your Dog To Work” day (TYDTWD) website and try to get their impression of how they feel about celebrating the day. If there are no major concerns, take the next step and talk with your boss.;
, The official TYDTWD site has several ways to “win over” your boss. However, a few simple steps you can take include planning what you will say to him or her ahead of time, addressing any concerns about having dogs roaming the office during work hours and liability drawbacks. Inspire your boss with talk that emphasizing how productive it can be to have dogs at work and how dog-owning employees will embrace this opportunity and see the workplace as inclusive of their pets.

Share the benefits of participating in the day, such as the stat that 55 million Americans believe that having a pet in the workplace leads to a more creative environment and 38 million people find that the work environment is more productive if a pet is present. You could also show your boss how some offices, like Red Balloon, actually own an office dog that is cared for by everyone and even taken for walks by employees at lunchtime, all in the name of making work fun and therefore, more productive.Download the TYDTWD Action Pack. Of course, you can participate and celebrate the day without registering your company. However, the organization offers special tips and ways to make the day run smoothly.
 One of the best ways to show your affection for your four legged friend is to promote adoption through rescue. Show your support by either asking representatives to come to your office with adoptable pets or bring information about their organization to be handed out to employees and clients.


Contact your local humane society. Every county has a chapter of the National Humane Society, so conduct a quick Internet or phone book search for a location near your office.
Sponsor a national adoption group. Organizations such as Adopt-a-Pet or the ASPCA are always in need of support.
Reach out to local rescue groups. Some local rescue groups specialize in certain breeds so if your office is full of Labrador Retriever lovers you may want to sponsor a local Lab rescue organization.
 Although many dog owners may contend that they have a very well behaved, adaptable dog, a room full of dogs that do not know each other can create pandemonium. Before inviting employees’ dogs to work, establish some clear cut rules to minimize the insanity.

Leash rule. Unless your dog is in your office with either the door closed or the area blocked off, consider asking each dog owner to have their dog leashed in order to minimize any chances the dogs could fight or run away.
Inspect offices. Many dogs will eat virtually anything so have each employee inspect their office for any poisonous plant and foods that are bad for dogs, hanging electrical cords or any small items a dog may want to chew or eat.
Ask each pet owner to come prepared. This means employees should bring dog food, bowls, treats, toys and even bedding. Additionally, ask owners to bring a pooper scooper and baggies to remove waste from your grounds. Also, pet owners should bathe and groom their dogs before the big day at work to minimize shedding and bad odors.
Inquire about each dog’s temperament. Some dogs may love to interact with other dogs and humans, whereas others may become frightened or even aggressive. If an employee has a dog that has emotional issues, ask the employee to leave the dog at home and bring pictures and videos of the dog to prevent trauma for the dog.
 In addition to providing employees with enough time to get their pup ready to come to work, promote your support for local animal rescue efforts.

Send emails and post flyers. Depending on how your company communication works, send a detailed memo or email describing why you plan to celebrate the day, what each employee can do to support the cause and rules and regulations surrounding pets at work.
Find fun ways to celebrate employees’ dogs. From inviting a photographer to take family pet photos or holding a cutest dog contest to holding a doggie relay or dress up, consider adding a fun event that involves both dog and owner.
Choose a slower time during the day to have a dog party. Pick up a dog-friendly cake from a local dog bakery along with snacks and plenty of water to celebrate and mark the day.
Set up an area in your office to accommodate your sponsor organization. Depending on how you plan to sponsor your dog rescue or adoption organization, set up a designated area for rescue professionals to disseminate information and/or keep animals on-site for adoption.
 Pin photos of each dog participant and employees on a bulletin board to remind everyone of what fun the day was. Add photos to online newsletters or the Internet. Try to keep the connection with dogs alive in everyone's minds - you just never know, this may become a more regular event than once a year!
