 To do so, press the ⊞ Win key, or click the Start icon in the bottom-left corner of the screen.
 This will bring up a list of search results, one of which is Groove Music.

On Windows 10, with the Start menu open, simply begin typing "groove" on the keyboard and a search will start automatically.
 Doing so will open Groove Music, which is a music player to which your computer and Xbox 360 both synchronize. If you sign into Groove with your Xbox 360 account, you'll be able to view your Xbox 360 purchases.

You will need a Groove subscription on your Xbox 360 to play music on it.
 You'll see this option in the lower-left side of the "Groove" window.

If you're already signed into a different account, click your name here instead and then click Sign Out.
 This will open a page on which you can enter your Xbox 360 account's email address and password., These must be the same credentials you use to sign into the Xbox 360 account you're trying to link., It's a blue button at the bottom of the page. As long as your password and email address are correct, you should now be able to play your Xbox 360's music on your computer (and vice versa)., Press ⊞ Win or click the icon in the bottom-left corner of the screen., Doing so will bring up the "Movies & TV" app as a result., This app is where all of your Microsoft account's purchased movies and TV shows appear., It's in the top-right corner of the screen. You'll see a drop-down menu appear.

If you're already logged in on a different account, click your account email and then click Sign out before proceeding.
 Like Groove, this will open a page for you to enter your Xbox 360 account's email address and password., These must be the same credentials you use to sign into the Xbox 360 account you're trying to link., Doing so will open your Xbox 360's video library; you'll be able to watch any purchased movies or TV show seasons here.

This process goes both ways: signing into your Xbox 360 with your default Windows account information will allow you to access your Windows' media on your Xbox 360.

