 An effective, well-planned modular kitchen has the following benefits:


It is able to offer a lot of storage space, even in the smallest of kitchen areas.
Repairs are easily done.
Individual components can be replaced if required, without affecting other kitchen components
Installing it does not take much time or effort.
Cleaning it requires less effort.
It can be highly durable, when made with high quality materials.;
, The shape of the kitchen plays a crucial role in space utilization. The most common kitchen shapes are L-shaped kitchen, U-shaped-kitchen, straight/galley kitchen and parallel kitchen. Moreover, if your kitchen is very large or you wish to go for an open kitchen, you could also opt for an island design. However, this design has a shortcoming if it includes the hob in the island and your house lacks underground pipelines, so bear that in mind when designing.


For example, Indian houses don't generally have underground pipes, so an island design with a hob would not work.
 Consider the heights of cabinets and the depths of counter tops. Kitchens must be designed ergonomically to avoid back pains. Ask your kitchen designer if they can customize according to your height and also check if the design suggested is ergonomic.
 Base units are the main storage spaces for your kitchen utensils. Some options include: cutlery and utensil units, plain shelves units, multi-utility shelves, sink unit, spice rack, cooking unit, oven unit, corner units, L-shaped and corner units.
 Kitchen wall units are used to store groceries and kitchen equipment. Remember to leave space for the chimney/vent while you’re designing wall units of the kitchen. Some of the most commonly used wall units include: Horizontal unit, corner shelves unit, chimney/vent unit, crockery unit, spice unit and containers unit.
 Colour reflects the state of mind. Choosing a kitchen colour is important as a lot of time is spent there cooking for loved ones. Choose your favorite colours or shades that match your walls.
 Look and feel matter a lot and this comes down to the quality of the material used. Things to bear in mind include:


Check to see whether the material used is waterproof.
Do not only consider how the kitchen looks from outside. Bright, flashy and decorative finishes can be given by any brand.
Test things in the showroom. Open shutters, pull out the units and look at the insides.
Know what is used for modular kitchens: Generally, pre-laminated MDF, pre-laminated particleboard or boiling waterproof (BWP) plywood with lamination are used. Of these, boiling water proof (BWP) plywood with lamination is the best body material available in the market because it stays unaffected, even in the worst moisture-ridden conditions.
 When designing your kitchen, consider what type of cabinet doors to use. Boiling water proof (BWR) plywood with lamination, pre-laminated particleboard, MDF with acrylic finish, MDF membrane and pre-laminated MDF are the best available options in the market. Of these, MDF with acrylic finish is the best door type if a high glossy look is required. However, for a simple look, boiling waterproof (BWR) plywood with lamination and MDF membranes are the best options.
 These days most homes come with an in-built granite kitchen counter top. However, if you're looking to customize the kitchen counter top, the best available options are solid surface top, granite-LITE, granite-premium quality and boiling waterproof ( BWP) plywood with lamination. Premium quality granite is the best option as it resists heat, scratches and stains and protects against mold and mildew. It also offers an endless variety of different patterns of veins, specks and swirls.
 Price matters a lot to everyone. Check if you’re getting the best price in the market. If the company has a kitchen price estimator to check prices, make use of it. Some companies may offer lowered prices for taking factory-direct supplies. Decide what you need in your kitchen, and customize the component and material type depending up on your budget.
 Standard appliances in a kitchen include the sink and the faucet. Sinks must have good width and depth so that all your cookware can fit in straight without having to be angled. Faucets must be tall and long-handled for ease of use.
 You can add many accessories to the kitchen for your convenience. A few useful accessories to have include: Waste disposal unit, kitchen D carousel, detergent holder unit, bottle pull-out unit, double corner pull unit and kitchen carousel unit.

