 Get instructions from a qualified person on use of the safety equipment needed for the planned procedure before you do any lab work. If you are not told about safety equipment for your procedure, ask. It is best to know about what might go wrong before it actually does. That way you will be able to respond quickly and correctly. Typical safety equipment includes:eye wash stations
overhead showers
fire blankets (to suffocate fires)
fire extinguishers for different types of fires
vent hoods
solvent cabinets and containers
lockouts for moving apparatus
aprons, goggles, neoprene gloves, asbestos gloves

, Heat the test tube slowly to avoid rapid boiling and liquid splashing out of the tube. Never heat a plugged or stopped tube because pressure can build up inside and cause the tube to shatter.Pointing the test tube away from your face will avoid injury in case the tube does boil or splash over.
 The reaction between water and acid is exothermic meaning it releases it heat. Acid must always be added directly to the water because if you add water to the acid it can explode.The acid can splash and get in your eyes and on your person causing serious injury.
 Making sure everything is tidy will help you avoid spills. A clean workspace also ensures no contamination between experiments.Clean and disinfect your workspace at the end of every lab session.
 Once a chemical has been removed from its container, it cannot go back in. This is to avoid contaminating the chemical with other chemicals, dirt, or dust.If you do have excess chemical, properly dispose of them using procedures detailed by your teacher.
 A Bunsen burner is an open flame and must be treated with extreme caution. Make sure there is nothing flammable near the burner and you don’t bend over the flame. Turn the flame off immediately when you are finished using it.


If your clothes catch fire, remember to STOP what you are doing, DROP to the ground, and ROLL until the flame has been smothered.
 Many chemicals emit noxious fumes that are extremely toxic if inhaled. Working in a fume hood allows you to open the chemicals and not be exposed to the fumes.


If you are unsure if you need to use a fume hood, err on the safe side and use the fume hood just in case.
 At the end of every experiment, it is essential that you wash your hands before leaving the lab. This ensures that you have washed any chemicals or contaminants from your hands.Wash hands after removing all of your PPE.
Wash them with warm water and scrub with soap for at least 30 seconds.

