 It's easier to make a decision on something when someone else is giving their opinion too. Bring along a friend or family member who your trust; not only for their opinion, but to keep yourself safe. Besides, it's more fun shopping with a friend than alone.;
, It's hard, but its always better to set a budget and stick to it. It's better in the long run. If you have trouble doing this, leave your credit card at home and only bring cash. Bring an amount of cash that you're comfortable spending - if your spending limit is $50, bring $50 to spend! This ensures that you won't blow your money in one day.
 This will prevent you from overspending or wasting time. Before you hit the stores, go on-line and look at the websites of your favourite stores. Find items that you like there, then write them down and find them in the store.
 Popular teen stores include Forever 21, Claire's, Urban Outfitters, Abercrombie and Fitch, Hollister, Aeropostale, PINK Victoria's Secret, Delias, American Eagle, and H&M. You should consider trying different stores (like boutiques). You never know what you'll find in that little unknown store. Maybe some new clothes or something you'd like to improve your style with. Just because "everyone" doesn't shop there doesn't mean it's a bad store; it might become one of your favorites! Thrift shops also have some surprises in them, if you really take the time to look around.
 Be careful before you buy them, though. Read the next steps for some pointers of what may or may not work well.
 If you're buying something that you don't try on, like socks, always touch them before buying. Stick your hand in it, and see if it's itchy, or just right. Maybe there's a stain? Ask for another one that looks in better condition. Or perhaps it looks flimsy, or as if it will fall apart within months? It's better not to consider it. If you are allergic to some materials, read the label to see what it is made of beforehand.
 Make sure the things that you're buying fit you properly. You should feel comfortable and yourself in your clothes. Try on many sizes before making a decision.


Check yourself out in the mirror. If the store has a three way mirror, it's always best to stand in it before purchasing. The jeans you're trying on could look great from the front, but saggy in the back.
 Love the shirt, but can't find your size? It's their job to help you, so don't be shy about asking the salespeople.
 Only buy something if you really love it and are willing to wear it. It's helpful to try to think of at least two things that you can wear it with too, just so that you know you'll have something to wear it with. If you aren't sure about that top, don't buy it. It's better to leave it rather than buy and regret it.

