 Have warm and open body language as you shake hands with the person and introduce yourself. Tell the person a bit about yourself and show that you're just a regular person instead of an intimidating interviewer. Tell the person whatever will help him understand who you are and why you're conducting the interview.


After you introduce yourself, you can say a bit about how the interview will go -- say how long it will be, if there will be time for more casual conversation at the end, or anything else the subject will need to know beforehand.
 This is the most important thing you can do before you officially give the interview. After you've introduced yourself, you can make the person comfortable with some small talk, some light jokes, and by making eye contact and using your hands to gesture or keeping them at your sides. Keep your body open and posed toward that person without invading his personal space.


Before you even start the interview, thank the person for taking the time to meet with you.
If you're at the person's home or office, look around the room for some objects, such as paintings, photographs, or souvenirs that are displayed. The person put them up because he's proud of them, so ask some basic questions to make the person open up.
If the person is meeting you in your home or office or even a coffee shop, make sure the environment is comfortable by providing comfortable seating, relative privacy, and some tea, coffee, or snacks if you can. Make the person feel at home.
 Maintain eye contact as you ask the question and listen intently to the answer. Don't say, "My first question is..." or "My next question is..." Make the person feel like you're just having a natural conversation, not firing questions at him like a detective.
 Don't say "Uh huh," every two seconds in an exaggerated manner. Just nod intently from time to time and really focus on what the person is saying at that moment instead of thinking about his previous response or about the next question. If your mind wanders, the person you're interviewing will be able to tell right away.Pick up on important words or phrases that the person says. If they trigger something, you may be able to ask a completely new question that you hadn't planned on.
Listening intently will also make it easier for you to notice when the person is veering off track.
If you don't understand something the person says, don't be afraid to ask. Getting back on track is better than having a potential miscommunication.
 Don't dominate the conversation. While occasionally interjecting relevant personal information can make the person feel more comfortable, you should only talk 10-20% of the time. After your all, your goal is to interview the person, not to talk about yourself as much as you can.


You should also be comfortable with some pauses or moments of silence. Let the person think for a minute before you jump in with more talk.
 Wait out the person's nervousness and canned phrases and keep digging until you get the person to open up and say something informative and maybe even surprising. Remember that you want to walk away from the interview with information that you didn't already know and a new insight into that person's character or ideas.If the person just isn't giving you a real answer, keep rephrasing the question or find a new mode of attack until you start to seeing the person being honest and forthcoming.
 Remember your original questions and your list of questions. Though your questions shouldn't be read like a shopping list and you can ask similar questions based on how the interview is going, you should always meet your objectives. If you notice that the person is drifting off and completely avoiding your real questions -- whether it's intentional or not -- you'll need to veer the person back on track.


If the person doesn't respond much to a question, you can rephrase it a bit by saying, "Can you think of another example to illustrate what you mean?"

, Though the person should do most of the talking, don't let him take over your interview. Make sure that you're still in the position of asking questions and directing the conversation without being obvious about it. If the person is talking so much that you can't ask your questions, or even asking you questions instead, you should politely but firmly steer the person in the right direction.


Remember to keep things professional. Don't get angry if the person is gaining control of the interview; just be calm and collected and you'll be more likely to get things back in control than if you're visibly upset.

