 Go ahead and line your cupcake tins with paper cups while you wait for the oven to preheat. Then combine the almond milk and vinegar in a small bowl and set that aside for now., Measure out the ingredients. Put them into the mixer bowl and cream the ingredients together using the standing mixer. Keep pulsing the mixer until the mixture looks fluffy and light. Then add the applesauce. Pulse until well-mixed., Measure out the flour, spices, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Whisk them together in a large bowl until they are fully combined., Alternate by adding 1/3 of the dry ingredients mixture to the mixer bowl. Pulse the mixer until the ingredients combine. Add 1/3 of the almond milk/vinegar mixture. Pulse again until well-mixed. Repeat until you’ve added all of both mixtures. Mix well.

You will probably need to stop mixing and scrape down the sides of the bowl several times during this process.
 Chop off both ends of the squash. Remove the skin with a potato peeler. Cut the squash in half right at the neck. Use a cheese grater to grate the flesh of the squash into shreds until you have 1 cup. Make sure you don’t grate the seedy, pulpy center.

Carefully fold the squash and nuts into the mix with a spoon.
 Fill each paper cup about ¾ of the way up with the batter. If preferred, use an ice cream scoop to fill the paper cups with batter., Place the cupcakes in the preheated oven. At the 15 minute mark, check on the cupcakes. Insert a toothpick or knife into the center of one – if it comes out clean, they’re ready to be removed from the oven. If your toothpick/knife comes out sticky, put them back in for about 5 more minutes.

Remove the cupcakes from the oven carefully. Allow them to cool completely on a wire rack.
 Beat the cream cheese and margarine in the bowl of an electric mixer on medium speed until the consistency is light and fluffy. Turn the mixer down to the low setting. Add the powdered sugar, maple syrup and almond milk. Keep mixing on low until it appears smooth and has a creamy consistency., Allow the cupcakes to cool completely, then apply the frosting to each cupcake with a spatula or spoon. Once frosted, they’re ready to serve. If you don’t plan to serve the cupcakes immediately, keep them in the refrigerator until serving time in a covered air-tight container.