 You may wish to pace your new relationship with your children. For example, you might casually introduce your children to your partner as a friend, or if your children are prepared, as a date. While a casual introduction may be appropriate for a new date, don’t blend children and your partner unless you feel confident in the possibilities of your relationship. When meeting your partner’s children, use the same rules in introductions and spending time together.Say, “This is the person I told you about. We’re spending time together.” You can also say, “I told you I was dating someone, and I’d like you to meet Chris.”
Be sure to consider where you’d like to make the introduction. For example, a neutral location, such as a coffee shop or park, may seem less threatening to your child. Or, your child might feel more comfortable in an environment that is familiar to them, such as at home.
 Children may respond to meeting you by being excited, resentful, fearful, happy, and sad. Children may struggle with loyalties to their other parent and feel like liking a parent’s new girlfriend or boyfriend is turning their back on their other parent. If your partner’s children don’t accept you immediately or are hot/cold toward you, recognize that this is normal. Be friendly and open with them, yet give them time and be available to them.The same goes for your own children. If you feel disappointed that your children aren’t warming up as much as you’d like to your partner, relax and give it time. Don’t push them into a relationship and accept their feelings.
Do not shame them for whatever they are feeling. Let them process their feelings however they normally do and then ask them later how they are feeling.
 Instead of arranging large get-togethers with both your date’s children and your own, focus on spending time with each other’s kids first. For example, spend a day with your partner’s kids one weekend, then with your partner and your own kids the next weekend. Get to know each other’s kids separately before putting them all together. This can add a level of comfort for your children instead of them feeling thrown in to socializing with many strangers., If you choose to spend time with both your and your partner’s children together, find a new activity that can become special to all of you. Creating something together can bring a sense of unity and teamwork to the dynamic. Doing something new for everyone can encourage everyone to interact and get to know one another in a unique and fun environment.Go to a trapeze school, explore indoor climbing, or work on an art project together.

