 Many dealerships list their inventory online. Look through their website and make a list of vehicles that you are interested in.


There are also dealership aggregator websites and apps, such as autotrader.com that compile and list cars being sold by dealers throughout the country.This is helpful if you already know what make and model of the vehicle you are interested in and want to compare prices.;
, You can either email or call the dealership to inquire about a vehicle you are interested in. The dealer will generally email you back with an offer.


You can also use a live chat option if offered on the dealer’s website.
The quote should include any fees or surcharges included in the online price. If any features come at an extra cost, the salesperson should include this information along with the price to buy a new car.
Email more than one dealer when buying a new car online to get several quotes so that you can compare different prices for the car.
 You will want to compare the quote for the new car with the market value of the car to make sure you're getting a good offer before you buy a new car. Several online sources provide this type of information. You can look up the market value of a car based on the condition of the car, the age of the car, the mileage on the car and your location. The industry standard for this information is Kelley Blue Book.The National Automobile Dealers Association is a great source for this as well.Print copies of the quotes you received from any online car dealer. This will help you stay organized and remember the different prices offered for the vehicle.
If you don’t receive a quote for what you were hoping for, be prepared to negotiate for a better price by conducting research on the vehicle with the exact trim that you are interested in. You may need to leverage how much the dealer paid for the car and the competing quotes from other dealerships. In order to effectively do this, you will need to have done your research on the car and come prepared with quotes from other dealers., If you don’t already have the funds to purchase a vehicle outright, you will most likely need a car loan. While many dealerships offer financing, it may be in your best interest to talk to your bank or talk to online lenders.


Visit your bank or credit union and inquire about a car loan. Find out what the rate will be and whether or not you will qualify.
You can also look into online lenders, through websites such as RoadLoans.com or LightStream.
You can search for a car loan through a big bank, such as Bank of America or Capital One.
 If it is possible, negotiate the price of the vehicle with the dealer. Researching the car's price will help you determine whether or not you have room to negotiate.


If you are looking to negotiate, make sure you get up-to-date quotes from the online car dealer. This may mean going back to the dealers you previously contacted to ask for a new quote. Print the updated offers to take with you when you visit the local dealership.
Conduct extensive research on the vehicle with the exact trim that would like. You can look at Consumer Reports car model pages to learn about the latest pricing on the vehicle.Always be aware of the local MSRP and/or what the dealership paid for the car. You can do this by asking to see the dealership’s invoice for the car.Begin the negotiation with your lowest price.
Conduct yourself as someone who is confident but not argumentative. Explain that you do not want to waste anyone’s time with lengthy haggling and that if you do not come to an agreement on a fair price, you will leave and go to another dealership.Do not mention how you are financing the vehicle or whether or not you have a trade-in until the price of the car is lowered and agreed upon., This is the time for you to test drive the car and make sure you enjoy driving it before you make the purchase.


Carefully look over the car’s interior to ensure that there is no damage. Look at the engine to make sure that is in shape.
Test drive the vehicle to make sure that it is running smoothly and that the brakes are in working order. This is also the time to see if you enjoy driving the vehicle or not.
 Before purchasing the car, you will want to make sure that the car has the features you want by examining the car and comparing what you see to the features listed on your quote.


Many features are not standard in vehicle packages. It is highly likely that you will have to pay more for these features.
Some commonly requested features include sunroofs, moonroofs, navigation systems, heated seats (great for those who live in colder climates), and a leather interior., This process varies from state to state and from one dealership to the next. In almost every case, you'll need to fill out paperwork to arrange for the payment of the car.


The dealership may require certain documents, such as proof of insurance, before you can complete the purchase. Ask the dealer what you will need to bring with you before you go to the dealership to finalize the purchase.
 This is generally handled by the dealership or they will generally provide instruction for how to do it in your state.


Dealerships are able to handle most of the paperwork for you if it is a new car.Depending on state requirements, you may have to fill out a title transfer for your state if you are purchasing a used car. You may also have to include an odometer reading, the vehicle identification number (VIN), and receipt for the sale.These requirements vary from state to state, so it is best to refer to your state’s DMV or Secretary of State website to obtain this information.

