 If you have a steady hand, you can outline the crown and letters, and then fill them in using paint. Here's a list of what you will need:


Rectangular sheet of paper
Pencil
Eraser
Ruler
Acrylic paint
Paintbrush
Paper plate or palette

, You can use poster or construction paper. If you want a poster that has a pattern on it, then use scrapbooking paper. You can find it in the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store. If you choose to use scrapbooking paper, you will have to cut it down to make it a rectangle.
 Use a long ruler and a pencil to lightly sketch lines across the poster where you want the crown and letters to go. This will help you keep everything even and straight.
 Try to make it as centered as possible. The crown should be about one third of the width of the paper. Try not to press too hard with the pencil, and don't worry about making it too clean. You will be erasing the pencil later.
 If necessary, use a ruler to help you make the lines straight. Try not to make the lines too dark, or you won't be able to erase them fully.
 If the paint is very thick, you might get some visible brush strokes. Consider adding a few drops of water to it and mixing it. It should have the consistency of cream.
 If you are left-handed, start painting from the right side of the poster. If you are right-handed, start painting from the left. A flat-tipped brush will be the best for the letters, as it will give you the crispest lines. A pointy, round-tipped brush will be the best for getting into corners and creating details.


Try to use a synthetic/taklon or sable hair brush. Camel hair will be too soft, and a boar bristle brush will be too stiff.
Try to paint in many, but thin layers. This will help reduce brush strokes. If you apply the paint too thickly, you'll be more likely to get brush strokes.
 It will take about 20 to 30 minutes for most types of acrylic paint, but you might want to check the label on the bottle just to be sure.
 Make sure that the paint is completely dry first, then gently erase any visible pencil marks.

