 Practice writing it in something no one would find. In sense it is made with your own imagination and you are aware that it is not 100% likely to work, it actually has more chances of working. Just make sure the spell has something to do with being near water or being in/touching water..it works better that way.
 Imagine that the meaning of your name has something to do with your destiny. The meaning of your name could also be your mermaid-name, but remember if the meaning of your name is something from the earth it can't be your mermaid name so look up mysterious ocean-like names, such as Kailani and Serena.
 If you're a mermaid on land then you're probably living a double life. To be a true mermaid, you shouldn't reveal too much about your life underwater and should keep your other identity to yourself as much as you can. However, there are some things you can do to be mysterious in just the right way:

, Mermaids, are always at awe of the Earth, be optimistic and always look on the bright side of things.
 Have a mermaid notebook where you write down your deepest mermaid thoughts. Always write the Month, Number, Year, and Day, and start with the words, "Dear Mermaid Diary," to make sure the person who is reading it can see you're being a mermaid. You can get some ideas for a mermaid journal at Write a Mermaid Journal.


Write longingly in the notebook. When anyone approaches, pull it to your chest like it's a secret!
Reference your under-the-sea friends and then act embarrassed for bringing them up.
Say things like, "No one understands the ocean like I do," or "I could never eat a fish. Fish are our friends!"

,


Excuse yourself to go outside saying you left your purse outside. Secretly bring a purse, or leave a purse underneath a car if it's outside.
The next day pretend the spell is broken, and that you had no idea what happened after you stared at the moon the night before.
Become a mermaid for a long time - become a Siren.
Try to show people your mermaid secret - anything that is not like you.
Run off unexpectedly without explanation. Just say something like, "I'm wanted" and then run toward the ocean.
 Watch some mermaid movies and shows, like "The Little Mermaid" and "Aquamarine". And watch mermaid television shows. Like "H2O" and "Mako Mermaids (An H2O Adventure). Mermaids love to watch other mermaids swimming in the water, and transform.
 A true mermaid sings beautifully and skillfully, whether to herself or for an audience. This is the most distinct feature of a mermaid and you should play it up whenever you can. You can even try and sing to attract a guy's attention (mermaids are known for that).

Even if you're not naturally a good singer, practice singing as much as possible.
Sing to yourself all the time. Pretend to be caught off guard when one of your friends walks in while you're singing.
If it's not the right time for singing, hum to yourself.
Have a look of longing and melancholy when you sing as if you're thinking about your life in another world.
 Learn how and practice swimming. You can even buy a monofin (a special fin made to swim like a dolphin. You can even look for companies online that make special underwater, swimmable costumes.


Swim like a fish. A true mermaid should have impeccable swimming skills. She should be more comfortable in the water than on land. Make swimming your second nature.

Make a point of swimming as much as possible. Use swimming as a form of exercise. If you're a great runner, learn to be a great swimmer instead.
Mermaids can breathe underwater. Practice going underwater for a reasonably long time without coming up for air. When you do come up for air, don't be obvious about it.
When you swim, put your legs and feet together. Remember that you don't have separate legs! You can also purchase a mermaid tail, such as Fin Fun or Mertailor.
 Mermaids are at home in the ocean and are slightly confused by and afraid of life on land. To act like a mermaid, you need to act confounded by perfectly ordinary things, or find strange uses for normal items. Here's what to do:

Act confused by technology, especially computers, cell phones, and televisions. You don't have those underwater.
Always be a little confused by how your legs work, and walk with uncertainty. Trip if you can do so safely.
 Being a mermaid on your own can be lonely, and if you find some fellow sea creatures, not only will you make some friends, but your act will be more convincing.

Ideally, find a few other mermaids to hang out with. You'll look more convincing in groups.
Find a merman to call your own then spend most of your time together in the water.
Find other sea creatures, such as starfish, crabs, or tropical fish to add to your coterie.
Get a Mermaid tail and wear it. How can you be a mermaid without the tail of a mermaid?
Get a pet fish or starfish or any other sea creature and call it your best friend.

