 If you don’t have a supply of teacups already in your cupboard that you’re willing to sacrifice for this project, you’ll need to purchase some. You can find inexpensive cups at your local thrift or secondhand store.Or, look in antique stores for older, delicate teacups or sales at department or home-ware stores; the sales can be especially useful for mismatching and loose teacups sold at discount prices.

Purchase teacup and saucer combos. You can use the saucer as a drip tray to catch water that leaks through the drainage hole that you’ll drill into the bottom of the cup later.The saucer can be sourced from somewhere else, provided it complements the teacup nicely.;
, Place a small X of masking tape in the center of the bottom of the cup. Lightly tap a drill bit at the center of the X with a hammer until a small dent is created.Ensure that this tap is very light, or the cup can shatter., Before drilling, protect your eyes with safety glasses. Insert the bit into the drill. With moderate pressure, drill at the dent at a low speed until the drainage hole is formed.

Be patient while drilling. This process may take up to five minutes or more. Applying too much pressure could cause the teacup to crack.
Place a piece of scrap wood under your cup while drilling. This way, if you suddenly punch through the cup, you don’t accidentally drill into your work surface.
To reduce friction and the chances of damaging the teacup, irrigate the hole with a little water, as you're drilling. Spray bottles and eyedroppers work well for applying water in this fashion., Prioritize plants that are resilient and hearty. Generally, alpine plants and succulents work well for teacup gardens.These require little water and can thrive even in small containers. Suggestions for suitable alpine and succulent options include:Alpine plants: Thrift (Armeria juniperifolia), winter aconite (Eranthis cilicica), fritillary (Fritillaria uva-vulpis), primrose (dwarf Primula marginata), saxifrage (Saxifraga), stonecrop (Sedum species), and others.Succulents: Moon cactus (Gymnocalycium mihanovichii), aloe, small hens and chicks (Sempervivum tectorum), baby jade or hobbit jade (Crassula ovata), zebra plant (Haworthia fasciata), blue waves (Echeveria), and similar small succulent varieties., Alpine plants and succulents have adapted to severe, often arid or semi-arid climates, so too much water can be harmful to them. Fill the bottom third of the teacup with small pebbles, to prevent the buildup of excess water., Add soil to the teacup until it is about three-quarters of the way full. Remove plants from their containers gently. Brush excess potting mix off the plant root balls. Create a small hole in the soil with your finger, then insert the plant's roots. Fill in additional soil as necessary.The ideal depth for the root holes of specific plants should be indicated on the care instructions that came with your plant. When in doubt, look this information up online with a keyword search for the relevant plant.
To ensure that the plant has enough nutrients in the teacup garden, mix potting soil with fertilizer separately before adding it to the teacup. The amount of fertilizer needed should be indicated on the fertilizer's label directions (and possible also the plant's label).
When topping off the teacup with soil, refrain from adding too much soil. The soil should not cover the bottom foliage of the plants, as this can cause disease or rotting., After planting, water your plants well, but do not saturate the soil. After watering, check the care instructions for the plants, to determine how frequently they need to be watered. Different plants have varying watering needs.

If you don’t plan on using a drip tray, move teacup gardens to the sink when watering and replace them when they’ve drained completely.
 While this section is optional, adding miniature items does create a sweet atmosphere that draws the viewer's eye in for closer observation. You can add already made small items, or you can make some from modeling clay and craft items. The following steps give instructions for making your own miniature mushrooms and houses to add to the teacup., Open the modeling compound and separate off roughly a marble’s worth. Roll this into a ball with your hands. Pinch the ball at one end and pull the compound away from the central ball to form a stem.

Insert a small piece of floral wire through the stem into the cap of the mushroom to extend the wire out of the bottom of the stem.The length of the floral wire will vary depending on the size of the mushrooms. Generally, there should be enough emerging from the bottom to allow you to handle it easily.
You can make longer lasting, sturdier decorations using polymer clay. Follow the clay's directions for the best results. In most cases, polymer clay must be baked for it to harden., Double the amount of compound you used for mushrooms and roll it into a ball with your hands. Shape the ball into a rectangular box for the base of the house., Create little squares for windows with the toothpick. Even small indentations made with the toothpick will appear like tiny windows. Add a central rectangle shape for the front door., Take a marble-sized amount of compound and form it into a triangle or cone for the roof. Push floral wire through the bottom of the rectangle into the roof to connect both pieces.

Extra wire should emerge from the bottom of the house similarly to the sculpted mushrooms.
If the house is connected by floral wire alone, it may be unstable. Increase the stability by adding more floral wires or attaching the top and bottom parts using a dot of hot glue., The floral wire of models can be stuck into floral foam to make painting easier. Add a small amount of paint to a palette or paper plate. Dip your brush in the paint and apply your base layer. For example, for mushrooms this will likely be red. Once the red base layer is dry, you can add white spots.

Add accents to your teacup garden models. Attach Spanish moss to the roofs of the houses with a little hot glue.
Feel free to experiment with different colors. Coordinate your color schemes with the natural colors of your plants., Simply stick the floral wire into an open patch of dirt in the teacup garden to add any model to it. Arrange several houses together to make it look like you have a miniature village tucked away in your teacup garden., It can be either an indoor or an outdoor garden, although it needs to be sheltered if outside, to prevent breakage or over-drying of the plants, since they're growing in only a little soil. Most teacup gardens are kept indoors but there is no harm placing them on a sheltered patio, balcony or even in a herb or kitchen garden area., One teacup garden alone is fine but you can create even more impact and interest by arranging several teacup gardens together. Some ideas for doing this include:

Use a tiered cake stand. Place one teacup garden on each tier of the cake stand. Decorate the cake stand as preferred, such as with dried flowers and moss.
Place a row of teacup gardens together, such as along a shelf or on a table. Either keep to the same pattern of teacup or vary the teacup patterns but ensure they complement each other well.
If the teacup is on its own attached saucer, include it on a coffee table or other display table atop a strong, strategically placed pile of books you're purposefully displaying. This can help to suggest the "eclectic country cottage" look.
If placing on the patio, display on planter shelves or some other shelf place. As this is delicate, it should be somewhere safe from being bumped or trodden on.
Add one or two teacup gardens to your fairy garden, if you have one. The fairies will love it.

