 There is usually one precipitating event, and most people feel a significant amount of pain around the shoulder area at the time of their injury.


Shoulder dislocations (partial or complete) are quite common, as the shoulder is a very mobile joint. It is essentially a "ball-and-socket" joint, where the top of the arm bone (the "ball") fits into the shoulder (the "socket").
Because the shoulder facilitates such a great range of motion for the arm, the joint is looser than most other joints in the body, making you more prone to dislocation or subluxation.
Examples of ways you can dislocate your shoulder are falling on an outstretched hand, falling on the shoulder itself, a forceful blow from the front pushing your shoulder backwards, or a vigorous twisting of the upper arm. You should also avoid carrying a heavy bag (like a backpack, purse, diaper bag, or messenger bag) on one side of the body. Consider lightening your load or carrying things in a backpack — with both straps on and properly adjusted.;
, had a crooked shoulder) once or more in your life, the probability of it occurring again is significantly higher.
 Common symptoms include:Pain
Swelling and/or bruising around the shoulder area
Difficulty (and likely pain) when attempting to move your arm
Deformity of the shoulder
Possible numbness, tingling, or weakness in your arm or hand (if you have this, it warrants immediate medical attention and a prompt visit to the emergency room)., If you are on a sports team with trained personnel such as physiotherapists who are comfortable re-aligning your shoulder, you can let them give it a try. However, it is a risky procedure if done by someone who is inexperienced, so your best bet is to go to your local emergency room for help from a doctor.


If your shoulder is not dislocated but your it still looks crooked, or one shoulder is higher than the other, you may have overactive muscles in the upper neck area on one side. Talk to your doctor about stretches and exercises to release the muscle. This may be caused by cold drafts, posture with shoulders hunched up, sitting a computer, a seat that is too high, or muscle knots and trigger points.

