 Fruit gives a water a mild sweet taste that makes it more appealing, especially for those with a sweet tooth. For delicious water, add things like melon, blueberries, apples, and other sweet-tasting fruits to a pitcher of water in your fridge. As you get used to sweet-tasting water, you may find yourself craving that over soda.


Some water sold in stores comes enhanced with natural fruit flavors.;
, For a tart twist on water, try adding lime or lemon juice. You can also chop lemons or lime slices and submerge them in your water to flavor it. This will give the water a mild citrus flavor that may make it more enjoyable.
 Not everyone loves an ice cold glass of water. If you find yourself turning up your nose to water, experiment with different temperatures. Water may taste better to you lukewarm than cold, for example, or you may prefer your water only slightly chilled. If you have a sensitive mouth especially, ice cold water may bother you. This can result in you rarely craving water when you're thirsty.
 Vegetables and herbs can give water a savory taste. If you crave savory beverages like beer instead of water, try giving your water a savory flavor by enhancing it with veggies and herbs.Add some fresh basil and tomato to your water to mimic the flavor of a Caprese salad.
Chop up some fresh mint and add it to your water. This will give your water a refreshing, minty flavor.
Add some cucumber to your water for a mild, fresh flavor. To add some extra flavor to your cucumber, mix in some bell peppers as well.
 Cinnamon is a naturally sweet spice that will not add any unwanted sugar or calories to your water. Mix a small amount of cinnamon into your water for a delicious, sweet taste that you will come to crave.If you want some added sweetness, add apple slices as well. This can give your water the taste of an apple pie.
 You can purchase flavored waters at the store. People have a tendency to crave foods and drinks they spent more on, as you unconsciously want to get your money's worth. If it's within your budget, spending money on fancy brands of bottled water or carbonated water may make you crave water more.