 Before you go further into planning your pet sitting business name you will want to consider which pets you are going got be working with. This can help you fine tune your name to convey to customers what services you are specifically offering.


If you are only going to watch dogs try to focus on that aspect and have your business name reflect this.
If you plan on watching all types of pets you should have a broad name that encompasses all pets.;
, People remember and retain very clear and short business names as opposed to longer ones. Short names are noticeable and can be readable at a glance, making it easy for potential clients to think of your business when they need their pet cared for.Using less words is generally the best idea when creating your business name.
Make sure the words you want are important and are playing a role in the name.
Don't include any words that aren't absolutely necessary in the name.
Try to use short words or names. The entire name should only be a few syllables long.
 The name you pick for your business will need to be exciting and convey the qualities of your business to customers. Take a moment to consider what tone you want for your business and how you can incorporate that into your business name. Keep the tone of your name in mind. Try to find a nice balance between professional and personal.
Naming the business too literally can cause it to feel dry or uninteresting.
Think about other qualities that you want to include in your name. These might include words like “safe”, “home”, “family”, or “care”.
 There are many pet sitting businesses that are already in operation. Picking a unique and original name can help you stand out and build your business over time. Think about what's been done, what other local pet sitting services are doing and then try to come up with something that stands apart.Try to avoid using elements that you find your competition using.
Don't get too original. Names that are hard to understand or ambiguous can hurt your business.
Feel free to play with words and spelling.
 Picking a name for your pet sitting business is not a race. Taking your time and giving a name plenty of consideration will help you determine if it's the best fit for your business. Don't be afraid to test a name out for a while and see how it feels before deciding if it's the best one for you.Share the name with colleagues and friends to see how it feels over time.
Don't be in a rush to pick a name as you will stuck with it for a long time.
Imagine how the name will influence customers thoughts and opinions.
Ask yourself if the name conveys what you want it to.
 Once you do decide on a name for your pet sitting business you will need to stick with it. Changing a business name is possible. However, changing the name of your business can hurt your business and be a difficult process. Avoid future troubles by planning ahead and choosing an name that you are comfortable with keeping.Think about the future of your business. Will your name still be a good fit as your business grows?
Realize that changing a business name is a very involved process and can hurt your company.
Once you choose a name stick with it.

