 Don't go goth all at once. Gradually ease into the style and subculture.;
, Some people like a romantic look with tailored velvet jackets, lace and period items, while others prefer punk, with bondage pants and a spiked collar, and still others go cyber/futuristic with goggles, yarn extensions, latex, and big industrial boots. There's not one single goth fashion, there are many branches.
 Look around and try to see what you want to incorporate into your wardrobe. Avoid copying someone else unless it is Halloween.
 Even mainstream clothing stores have basic pieces, (like pinstriped pants, black sweaters, and such), that will become the staples of your wardrobe much less expensively than specialty store buys.
 You can get a good deal at a thrift store, but the cheapest clothes to buy are the ones already in your closet. Go crazy; make it artistic and unique.
 Guys, do not try wearing tight clothes unless you like looking a bit more feminine. Also always make sure it fits your body right and looks good. Be warned, tight pants may get you called "emo," but keep in mind that the stereotypical "emo" male wears women's skinny jeans. Gothics and deathrockers don't fall for that stuff, they buy cheap black jeans and alter them to fit tightly or buy quality looking/fitting black stretch tight jeans from Lip-service, DogPile clothing or Tripp Clothing brands. If it doesn't work for you, stick with normal or loose fit clothes.
 Try shirts by bands such as Siouxsie and the Banshees, Christian Death and Bauhaus. (Only bands you ACTUALLY like and enjoy listening to, buying band shirts JUST because the band is "goth" makes you look like a poser). Many goths and deathrockers also cut their shirts up to make them hang off one shoulder, or cut the sleeves to allow them to sit lower on the arms and show the shoulders.
 Many goths have high, tall, black boots, the most popular type is men's platform boots. There are many different styles of boots, look around and choose a style you like! Or don't - boots are not required, goth is all about being original. However, some romantic goths wear dress shoes every day.
 Contrary to popular belief, you do not have to dye or even excessively style your hair to be goth. There are many who represent the epitome of dark goth fashion yet keep their natural hair color. If you do chose to Dye your hair start by figuring out what colors look good on you. Not all colors will look good on everyone! Next, try looking at examples of hair styles used by various goth bands for inspiration. Some like to spike, clump or make their hair messy. Remember, goth is an offshoot of Punk, so many goths do backcomb their hair into huge explosions, or style their hair into mohawks or huge frizzy spikes or whatever else they can think of. No matter what color you choose to have your hair or how you chose to style it, remember that it is all about expressing yourself, so be creative!

, Black isn't the only color that exists in the goth lifestyle. Dark reds, violet, blue, green, gray and white are often used as side colors to the general color black. Cyber or industrial goth accepts neon colors, but goth is what you make of it, not what others tell you it is.
 Goth make-up is often dramatic; black heavy eyeliner, red lips, and dark shades with heavy application. Colors such as black, red, and purple around and on the eyelids. Cat-eye eyeliner is practically a cliché, but it looks fabulous. Black lipstick is much less popular than it used to be. Regardless, there are no rules.
 It could be an elegant choker, lace gloves, an SM bracelet, goggles, bat earrings, ribbons, etc.

