 The most basic Punnett squares are quite simple to set up. Begin by drawing a good-sized square, then dividing that square into four even boxes. When you're done, there should be two squares in each column and two squares in each row.;
, On a Punnett square, columns are assigned to the mother and the rows to the father, or vice versa. Write a letter next to each row and column that represents each of the mother's and father's alleles. Use capital letters for dominant alleles and lowercase for recessive alleles.


This is much easier to understand with an example. For instance, let's say you want to determine the odds that a couple's child will be able to roll its tongue. We can represent this with the letters R and r — uppercase for the dominant gene and lowercase for the recessive. If both parents are heterozygous (have one copy of each allele), we would write one "R" and one "r" along the top of the grid and one "R" and one "r" along the left side of the grid.
 Once you've figured out the alleles that each parent is contributing, filling in your Punnett square is easy. In each square, write the two-letter gene combination given from the mother and father's alleles. In other words, take the letter from the space's column and the letter from its row and write them together inside the space.


In our example, we would fill in our squares like this:
Top left square: RR

Top right square: Rr

Bottom left square: Rr

Bottom right square: rr

Notice that, traditionally, dominant alleles (capital letters) are written first., Each square of a filled-in Punnett square represents an offspring that the two parents can have. Every square (and thus every offspring) is equally likely — in other words, on a 2x2 grid, there is a 1/4 possibility for any of the four possibilities. The different combinations of alleles represented on a Punnett square are called genotypes. Though genotypes represent genetic differences, the offspring won't necessarily turn out differently for each square (see step below.)


In our example Punnett square, the genotypes that are possible for an offspring from these two parents are:

Two dominant alleles (from the two Rs)

One dominant allele and one recessive (from the R and r)

One dominant allele and one recessive (from the R and r) — notice that there are two squares with this genotype

Two recessive allele (from the two rs)

, An organism's phenotype is the actual physical trait that it displays based on its genotype. Just a few examples of phenotypes include eye color, hair color, and presence of sickle cell anemia — all of these are physical traits determined by genes, but none are the actual gene combinations themselves. The phenotype a potential offspring will have is determined by the characteristics of the gene. Different genes will have different rules for how they manifest as phenotypes.


In our example, let's say that the gene that allows someone to roll their tongue is dominant. This means that any offspring will be able to roll their tongue even if only one of their alleles is dominant. In this case, the phenotypes of the potential offspring are:
Top left: Can roll tongue (two Rs)

Top right: Can roll tongue (one R)

Bottom left: Can roll tongue (one R)

Bottom right: Cannot roll tongue (zero Rs)


, One of the most common uses for Punnett squares is to determine how likely it is that offspring will have specific phenotypes. Since each square represents an equally-likely genotype outcome, you can find a phenotype's likelihood by dividing the number of squares with that phenotype by the total number of squares.Our example Punnett square tells us that there are four possible gene combinations for any offspring from these parents. Three of these combinations make an offspring that can roll its tongue, while one does not. Thus, the probabilities for our two phenotypes are:
Offspring can roll its tongue: 3/4 = 0.75 = 75%

Offspring cannot roll its tongue: 1/4 = 0.25 = 25%


