 Open up the application drawer and and scroll through until you find Google Settings. It should look like a small gray gear with a “g” in the middle. Tap to open.;
, From the menu below, select “Security.” It should be located on the bottom of the list.
 Under the “Android Device Manager” subheading, the two options listed here will allow you to turn on remote location, and the lock and the erase options for the ADM. There should be two checkboxes next to these. Check both the boxes to enable these options.
 From your computer (PC or Mac) navigate to the Android Device Manager website.
 Before continuing, on you will be required to log in using the same email address and password used on your device.


If you are visiting this page for the first time, there may be a pop-up that basically just tells you that data will be collected and used to locate your device and that the location may not always be accurate. Click “Accept” to continue.
 The page should show a map with a box in the upper left-hand corner. Inside this box are 3 buttons: Ring, Lock, and Erase. Clicking any of these buttons will enable that specific option.



Ring—This option can be used if you have perhaps lost your phone somewhere in your home. Selecting this option basically does what it says: ring the device. However, it will ring at top volume for 5 minutes. Tap the Power button on the device to silence the ringing.

Lock—This feature can be used if your device is lost or stolen. Locking the device will create a new password on the device lock screen to prevent the device from being used. It also has the ability to display a message on the lock screen for the person who has taken or found the device (example: “If found please call ###-###-####).

Erase—This option will perform a factory reset on the device, completely erasing all information. That includes pictures, videos, apps, and settings. Please note this is NOT reversible. If the device is currently offline, the procedure will begin as soon as the device is brought back online.
 If you would like to locate your device, there is a small icon with a dot in the upper right-hand side of the small window. Clicking this will remotely activate the device GPS and will update the location information using your device GPS. If the device has moved from its previous location, the map being shown should change and focus on the devices new location.


Please note that the accuracy of the GPS will be based on the device. Some devices have more advanced GPS systems and the location can be narrowed down (example: Accurate to 5 meters). This can be noted in the small box in the upper left-hand corner. Once the phone has been located and is indicated by a mark on the map, the second line down in the box will indicate a basic location and accuracy (example: Portland, OR, USA - Accurate to 17 meters).

