 Keeping track of your artists’ schedules, what venues you have contacted, when you have events coming up, and records of the contracts you make are important parts of being a successful agent. You also have to manage your time efficiently so you keep on track. If you are an independent agent and not part of an agency, no one else will be telling you what to do. It’s up to you to stay on it. If you are in an agency, they will want to know you are doing your job well.Start organizing your personal life now to practice for when you have to organize other people’s. Make a schedule for what you do each day and try hard to stick to it. Evaluate at night how well you did on keeping to the schedule. If scheduling ahead doesn't work out well, keep a time log each day of exactly how you spent your time. This will show you if there are any ways you are wasting time and can become more efficient.
 Being an agent is a relationship-heavy job, so you need to have great communication skills and feel comfortable making connections with people. You will spend a lot of you time talking to your talent, to venue owners, and potential talent. You’ll constantly be meeting people and discussing with people in person, over the phone, and via email and social media, so get comfortable with these aspects of communication.


Ask your friends or employer if you are already good at these aspects. If not, consider whether this type of career is right for you.
Develop these skills by starting conversations with people more often. Not just ones where you talk the whole time, but actively try to get them to talk more and draw information out of them. If you struggle with talking to people, the only way to get better is to keep pushing yourself to do it more.
Practice calling businesses to ask them about services or products. It will help you become more comfortable with the cold calling experience.
 You will face all kinds of rejection as an agent, and you need to be equipped to deal with it. People will turn you down a lot and you have to keep going despite the setbacks. You also need to be flexible and willing to make things work when things are falling apart.Shows will fall through when venues cancel. Your talent will get sick right before an engagement. You will have travel troubles. You have to learn to accept all this with patience and keep on going forward.
Start planning for all the possible outcomes of situations you are in. If you are about to take a trip, think about what could go wrong and consider your options to handle those things. Thinking ahead about how you'll face problems that arise will help you be more flexible and get past them.
When something comes up that seems to waste your time or hold you up, take the opportunity to breathe and recoup. Traffic jams and long waits can be more than a time to get angry. They can be a time to plan for what is next and relax. Use those specific setbacks to practice being flexible.
 You want to earn good money and make a career of being an agent. So you need to succeed at booking your talent and making them big. They need to do well at shows/events so the venue likes them and wants them back. By seeking the success of your talent and the venues you book, you will achieve your own success.


In your day to day life, practice solving tricky problems, especially where multiple people are involved. Find ways that everyone can get what they want from the situation.
When a friend or family member has some type of event coming up, think about what would be the best possible outcome for them and do anything you can to make it that way. If a friend is in a play, encourage lots of people to go see them. Someone has a job interview? give them pep talks leading up to it and offer to go with them to help keep them calm.
Being a booking agent often means wanting other people to succeed above wanting yourself to succeed. So learning to put other people first is a must.

