 Whether it's having a computer, having friends, having a good supply of food, a bed to sleep on, family that loves you, having a decent education or simply being born in this world. Remember that the point of life is for you to enjoy it. Be happy, and life will reward you. Remember that these are the last few years you will be able to enjoy yourself without having to worry about the responsibility of an adult, but make sure you prepare yourself for when you do become one. When you actually become an adult, you'll learn to love that responsibility and you probably never want to go back.;
, Unlike what many articles state, you don't have to be popular and have a gazillion friends to be happy. In fact, many of the "friends" you have when you are popular are not true friends. Try to have friends that like you who you are, not just because you are wearing a certain brand of shoes or something like that. These are people who shop at the same store as you; not someone who will sympathize with you when your dog dies.
 Having a healthy body leads to a healthy and happy mind. Being confident in your appearance makes you more confident in other areas.
 Participating in clubs, activities, and sports increases your chances of meeting new friends. While you only need 4 or 5 close friends, that doesn't mean you shouldn't try to meet new people. Participating gives you something to do instead of sitting bored at home and wallowing in self-pity.
 If you have a special girl/guy you want to ask out, dance with, etc. just ask! You probably won't be rejected but if you are, remember that there will always be someone else that likes you for who you are. Don't go to sleep that night wishing you would have asked them. About 90% of the girls or guys you talk to will like you back, only about 10% probably will reject or badmouth you.
 There is nothing more satisfying than seeing your hard work pay off in the form of A's and B's (but mainly A's). This also sets you up to get into a college you want to go to, which in turn prepares you for a career you will enjoy, improving your quality of life in the future. You'll get cheap car insurance as well if you have at least a B or A average.
 Video games, for example, are good if you're the type who can get into that kind of thing. You should also find a hobby that is meaningful or practical. Use your "hobby time" to either A) Volunteer (to gain practical skills for college apps, job resumes, and scholarships) B. Learn an instrument, or get into something else in the creative field like painting or dance, because this is the time to start developing and uncovering passions that might otherwise lie dormant.
 Working is a great way to gain experience and to meet other people. When you do get out of college, interviewing companies will look at your prior work experience. This will look great on your resume. If you can't find work, especially in this hard economic time, volunteer or make your own job.
 But remember to give yourself a break when you fail.
 You always regret the things you don't do.
 You'll still be going to games for free like the jocks if you are in pep band, and you have as many opportunities to meet new people as the jocks. Band and choir sometimes involves going on trips, and are great memories to have for high school and college. If you are not good at either music or sports, you can join other activities, start other hobbies, or get a job.
 Even though you want to enjoy your teen life as best as possible, don't slack off in school. It will pay off in the end. Plus, doing well means no angry parents.
 By doing this you will always have something to look forward to. If you're feeling down, if you have something to look forward to, then it will help pull you through this tough spot and get you excited about the future.

