 If your husband already knows how to cook, he might be avoiding cooking for other reasons. He might feel insecure about his cooking skills, or unsure of interfering with what he perceives as your role.He might not even notice that you do all the cooking. He might take it for granted, genuinely unaware of the hours you spend in the kitchen.
Perhaps his father had strong feelings about who should be responsible for cooking. Maybe he grew up being told that men who cook aren't manly, or had feminine attributes. It might help him to hear that most of the most famous chefs in the world are men. Introduce him to Anthony Bourdain, Jamie Oliver, Levi Roots, or others.
Some men have had other people provide for their needs their whole lives. They're used to it, and it seems normal to them. Understand that changing this perspective may take time.
 It may seem simple, but sometimes all a man is waiting for is to be asked. If there are simple steps to be done in preparing a meal, asking him to do one or two of the steps is an easy way to start your husband's involvement in the kitchen.Remember that asking for his help is an invitation, not a demand. Be friendly and encouraging.
There is usually a certain amount of household entropy that occurs in a home, where a couple or a family get used to having things a certain way. Changing these routines will take time, so keep it simple.
 A common way to get husbands more involved in the kitchen is to trust him with dinner once a week. Plan it around your existing schedules, and it will become part of your weekly routine.Decide ahead of time who's doing the shopping. Planning a meal includes knowing ahead of time what ingredients you'll need, and shopping for them.
Provide lots of praise. The rule is, if he's cooking, you're not allowed to complain. The reverse is also true.
 If you really need your husband to do more cooking, you might need to talk to each other honestly about your household responsibilities. If it seems like both of you work long hours, but only one of you is coming home to spend additional hours cooking, this can develop into a resentment that undermines your marriage.Schedule the talk for a time when you're both relaxed and open. Don't launch into an angry tirade when you're frustrated and overwhelmed.
Prepare to listen to his perspective. Assume that your husband wants to help you, that he's on your side.
Come up with ways that you can work together to make your husband's cooking easier for him. Ordering groceries over the internet, eating off paper plates that don't need washing, using the grill, or something else.
 Some people, both men and women, respond well to competitions. Knowing that he might win something can motivate your husband to try new things, including cooking. Make cooking seem like a sport, and he may be more motivated to spend time in the kitchen.Try holding bake-offs with his male friends, or chili competitions.
Get him interested in watching other cooking competitions on television, such as Top Chef, Chopped, or other reality cooking shows.

