 Flexibility in these joints is crucial for your back handstand. You can do these stretches every day, and always do them before practicing your handstand.


To stretch your wrists, sit on the floor and place your palm flat on the ground at a 90-degree angle to your arms. Gently bend your elbows and feel the stretch through your inner wrist. Then cross your arms in front of you, putting your hands on the ground with your fingertips pointing towards each other.
To stretch your ankles, make several circles with your foot (moving from the ankle joint) clockwise and counterclockwise. If you like, you can sit on the ground and do this – extend one leg in front of you, cross the other over it and hold your foot in your hand to gently increase the intensity of the stretch.;
, The bridge is a fundamental pose for practicing handstands. Not only does it help stretch out your shoulders, it is also your beginning pose for the back handstand.Lay down on your back with your feet flat on the floor, knees bent. Your feet should be touching your bottom.
Place your hands on the ground next to your ears, fingers pointing towards your shoulders.
Raise your hips into the air as high as you can, extending your elbows as much as possible. Let your head hang down so your neck is relaxed.
Push your weight onto your hands so that your shoulders are over your hands in a vertical line.
Walk your feet out in front of you so your legs are straight, keeping them parallel.
Rock the bridge back and forth. Bend your knees, shifting the weight onto your feet, then back onto your hands by straightening your legs. This helps to stretch out your shoulders.
Come out of the bridge by bending your elbows and knees, gentling lowering your back to the floor. , To execute a perfect back handstand, you need strong central muscles. These include your abdomen, pelvis, lower back and hips. The bridge is an excellent exercise for this, so practice every day.In addition, many basic exercises involve core strength, such as weight-lifting, sit-ups and push-ups. Systems like Pilates or yoga also have many exercises to help develop strong core muscles.
 Headstands are basic, stable inversions that allow you to work on things like strength, balance and form.


Start on a yoga mat on your hands and knees.
Lower your elbows to the floor.
Make a semicircle with your hands by interlacing your fingers and tucking your lower pinky under the other so the outsides of your hands rest flat on the floor.
Lower the crown of your head to the floor so the back of your head is cradled against your palms.
Straighten both legs and walk your feet towards your face as much as possible.
As you do that, shift your hips so they are vertically aligned over your shoulders.
Lift your right leg up into the air, and then the left leg.You can practice this against a wall to begin with, and then gradually move away from it as you feel more secure.
 Before you can do a back handstand, you need to be able to do a handstand. Starting against a wall helps you perfect your form as you gradually get comfortable with the pose.


Place your hands on the floor just in front of the wall. They should be about shoulder-width apart, with fingers spread out.
Kick your legs up to the wall.
Move the top of your head to touch the wall so it's pressing against it and your face is parallel to the ground.
Move your legs away from the wall.
Make sure your shoulders and hips are vertically stacked. This is the proper alignment.
Hold the position as long as you can to help build muscle strength., Now you're ready to do a freestanding handstand. If this is scary, ask a friend to spot you as you get the hang of how far to kick. Visualize making a vertical line with your toes, hips and shoulders.


Place hands on the ground in front of you, shoulder-width apart.
Kick your legs up over your head, making sure your shoulders and hips are vertically aligned.
As with the wall handstand, your face should be parallel to the floor. Fix your gaze on a spot on the floor to help you balance.
Hold as long as you can., This is the way to get into your handstand. It can be a little scary at first, so recruit a spotter if you like.


Stand with feet parallel, shoulder-width apart.
Raise your arms high into the air and lift the torso upwards.
Start arching backwards at the waist, pushing your hips forward and keeping your arms extended beside your ears.Land into the bridge, palms flat on the ground with fingers pointing towards your toes.As you get more advanced, you can bring your feet together.
Have a spotter hold their arm behind your lower back if you need a little more security.
Come out of the bridge position by lowering your back slowly onto the ground.
 This helps you get ready for your back handstand. Follow the steps described above. When you're warmed up and ready, follow the next steps for your handstand.
 The back handstand essentially starts with a bridge from standing position, but with the difference that here you kick your legs up into the air for a handstand.


Stand with your feet parallel, shoulder-width apart.
Raise your arms high into the air.
Start arching backwards towards a bridge position.
 At this point, two things need to happen virtually simultaneously.


Make sure your shoulders are over your hands. The momentum you gather here helps you get into the position.
Push off from both feet, kicking your legs over your head into handstand position.

Keep your eyes focused on a spot on the ground to help you balance.
 Do this by bringing your feet back down in front of you towards your hands. Ta-dah!

