 Try everything on separately first to make sure it fits. Make any necessary adjustments before putting your costume on. Make sure you have everything you need to become Darth Vader. This includes: padding (optional), helmet, black long-sleeve shirt and pants, black cape, black gloves, and black boots.
 While padding is not necessary, it adds bulk and gives the impression of muscles. You can use old football or hockey gear, such as shoulder and chest pads, shin guards, and/or an athletic girdle. To avoid chafing, you should wear a t-shirt and briefs under the pads.If wearing one, put the athletic girdle or shapewear on first.Next, position the shoulder pads so they are comfortable and have someone help you secure them in the front and back.Finally, tie or strap-on knee of shin guards.


Pads can be bulky and make it difficult or uncomfortable to move around in. If you are not used to them, practice wearing them around the house for a few hours over several days.
Use duct tape (attached to clothing - not skin) to help secure pads that feel loose or shift too much.
Sports equipment is expensive. If you do not have pads of your own, ask to borrow them from a friend or check a second-hand store or consignment shop for clean used items.
 You pants and long-sleeve shirt or sweatshirt should fit snugly but not be too tight. If you decide not to wear pads, but still want to create a bulky look, consider wearing a thick sweatshirt or layer several shirts. You can do the same for pants - wear two pairs of sweatpants, or pull black sweatpants over a regular pair of jeans.


Layering clothing is also a good idea if you will be wearing the costume outside in cold weather.
 Pull your boots up over your pants or tuck your pants into your boots. If necessary, lace-up and tie your boots before putting on your gloves. If you made boot covers, you can simply pull them over your sneakers. Try walking around. Stamp your feet when you walk so you look more intimidating.
 Tie or Velcro your cape around your neck. Adjust it so it is comfortable and not too tight. For the final touch, put on your helmet. Make sure your helmet fits properly and you can comfortably see and breathe. Try walking around your house to get a feel for the costume before going out.
 If you have a lightsaber, carry it around by tucking it into a belt. You can also make your own lightsaber using a foam pool noodle.Use a knife to cut the pool noodle in half. Wrap silver duct tape about a quarter of the way around one of the ends. Finally, use black electrical tape to wrap three horizontal rings around the top of the silver tape, and two vertical strips between the horizontal rings and bottom of the silver tape.
 Darth Vader wore a control panel on his chest that monitored his vital signs and bodily functions.You can complete your costume by painting or spray-painting a cardboard box black. Next, create buttons and switches by either drawing them on with different colored metallic paint pens, or gluing buttons, beads, game pieces, or toothpaste caps to the front of the box. Use black duct tape to attach the control panel to your shirt, or tie black yarn or rope to each side and wear around your neck .
 Darth Vader was equipped with mechanical lungs and a ventilator following his near-fatal battle with Obi-Wan Kenobi. As a result, his breathes are very loud and raspy. In Episodes Iv, V, and VI, Darth Vader was voiced by the actor James Earl Jones. Despite his heavy breathing, his voice is deep and commanding.Prepare yourself by watching the movies in which Darth Vader appears. These include: Star Wars Episodes III, IV, V, and VI.Record yourself talking like Darth Vader. When in full costume, practice walking, talking and moving like him in front of a mirror.

