 There is no single correct way to wear a slide, but the most common position by far is on the little finger. While this can feel awkward at first, it frees up your other 3 fingers for fretting patterns behind the slide. It also makes it easier to fret chords while keeping the slide out of the way. There are several notable musicians, however, who play with their slide on a different finger.;
, Once you know which finger you will be using, try on the guitar slide. It should fit just snugly enough so that if you hold your hand relaxed at your side, the slide will not fall off. A loose slide will cause you to exert your muscles to keep the slide in place, which can lead to fatigue. You can adjust the fit of a loose slide by padding it with rubber, leather, or foam.
 The general rule when assessing a slide's weight is that heavier slides will produce a fuller sound with longer sustain. Thick, heavy slides will absorb less of the string's energy, a process that robs the sound of your guitar by converting that energy into heat. Heavy slides also minimize the dampening effect on the strings caused by your other fingers.


If you play an electric guitar, the effect of a slide's weight is much less noticeable. Even the thin sound produced with a lightweight slide can be adjusted through amplification and compression.
 Hardness is perhaps the most crucial aspect of a guitar slide, because its effect on tone is so great. Slides made from hard materials will have increased volume and sustain, but will emphasize high frequencies and string noise. Softer materials yield a more muted tone with a quicker decay, but also produce a balanced timbre with no over-emphasis of treble.


Soft slides, like those made from copper, are well-suited to playing styles that use a lot of strumming. Heavy strumming works well with the quick decay caused by these slides.
Heavy slides, like those made of stainless steel, are best used for soloing, and suit playing styles that utilize long, sustained notes.
The most versatile slides are those with a medium hardness, such as those made from brass, glass, or ceramic. These slides are a good choice for beginning slide players who may not know yet where their preference lies.

