 College drinkers like to say that a heavy, fat-filled breakfast will soak up unwanted toxins and add needed sugars into your depleted system. While pretty much any food does deliver sugar to the bloodstream, doctors say that heavy food will only contribute to heartburn and stomach upset, something you are working to get away from with a hangover.Instead, look for low-fat foods to restore blood sugar, like crackers and cereal.
 The famous “hair of the dog” treatment for hangovers is actually a very bad idea. This solution swears that drinking more alcohol the next morning will keep you from feeling sick. While this does continue your alcoholic buzz, it actually makes the headache when you do stop drinking even worse., Many people swear by the fizzy antacid known as Alka-Seltzer, but ultimately this remedy may irritate your stomach more than it relieves nausea symptoms. The active ingredient sodium bicarbonate, or baking soda, neutralizes stomach acid, yes, but other ingredients like citric acid can irritate your stomach at the same time., Keep in mind that some pills promising to help with headaches and hangovers do more damage than good. Tylenol (made of acetaminophen) can cause liver damage when paired with alcohol.Most pills on the market claiming to relieve hangovers have been proven to be completely ineffective, so save your money., Although many people like the idea of turning to coffee for a quick pick-me-up when they are feeling groggy from a hangover, the truth is that coffee can contribute to dehydration and cause headaches. It can also contribute to stomach problems., Since alcohol metabolizes in your system in about an hour, purposefully inducing sweat the next day does nothing but make you more dehydrated. Going to a sauna can actually be dangerous, especially if you haven’t had much water to drink since you woke up with the hangover.


Even though sweat does wash toxins out of your body, by the time you get to a sauna, few toxins from alcohol exist in your blood, making a sauna an ineffective solution for hangovers.

