


Use the "Sign in" link to log in if you are an existing eBay member.
Fill out the registration form by clicking on the "register" link if you need to create an eBay account. You can then return to the eBay homepage to sign in.;
,, You will see a list of various outdoor activities including fishing, hunting, camping and hiking.
 Another pop-up menu will appear showing the types of items that are on sale related to bicycling. The menu options include the following.


Accessories: this shows a long list of cycling accessories including lights, pumps, bike locks, bags and water bottles.
Clothing, Shoes and Accessories: you can find hats, footwear, helmets and sunglasses to match your bicycle brand and colors.
Books and Video: learn more about bicycling by reading books and watching videos.
Bicycles and Frames: shows a list of the types of bicycles that are sold on eBay.
Bicycle Parts: you can buy parts that are specifically for your bicycle or buy universal parts that can be used to repair most bicycles in general.
 Options include mountain bikes, BMX bikes, folding bikes and road bikes, among others.



Brand: you can opt to only see brands such as "Cannondale", "GT", "Mongoose", "Schwinn" or "Trek".
Frame Size: select the frame size that matches your body height. Options include extra-small (XS), medium (M), large (L) and extra-large (XL).
Condition: you can buy a bicycle on eBay that is new, used, or not working (but can still be used for parts).
Frame Material: options for frame material include alloy, aluminum, carbon fiber, steel and titanium.
Suspension: the suspension is the spring near the wheel that gives you a smoother ride over bumpy paths. Your bicycle can have front, full or no suspension.
,, You can see the status of your bid on the Bids/Offers page, so if another buyer has outbid you then you will need to place another bid. If you remain the highest bidder when the bid closes, you will see the status showing that you have won the bid.
 You will have to select one of the payment methods that is accepted by the seller and follow the on-screen instructions to make the payment.
 The receipt acts as proof that you have made the payment and also tells you when you can expect the bicycle to arrive through shipment.

