 Most fruits are sweet, and best used to decorate desserts, or salads when used in small quantities. Citrus fruits, such as lemons and limes, are excellent for adding color and flavor to dishes containing fish and lightly flavored meat, as well as other fruits and desserts.


Citrus fruits can be made into attractive garnish simply by cutting them into thin circles, wedges, or twists. See below for advice on preparing other fruit.
 Choose a firm fruit with segments or a varied internal appearance, such as an orange or kiwi. Cut out a rectangular block from the center of the fruit, then slice this into flat squares.Use several fruits of different colors for variety. Some of these can be fruits with a plainer appearance, such as cantaloupe or mango, cut into squares or scooped out into spheres with a melon baller.
 Wash and dry a strawberry. Using a paring knife, make four or five slices from the tip of the strawberry toward the top, but leave a small piece around the stem intact. Gently fan out the slices of the strawberry on the plate you wish to decorate.
 Cut a cherry two-thirds of the way through the fruit. Turn the cherry and make two more cuts, dividing the cherry into six "petals" without cutting them apart from each other. Spread the petals carefully apart and press them flat.Optionally, add a small piece of candied fruit or other edible material to the center, and place one or two mint leaves underneath it.
 Wash any firm fruit, then blot dry with a paper towel. Separate an egg white into a bowl and beat it until it becomes foamy. Brush the egg white onto the fruit in a thin, even coat, then sprinkle with white granulated sugar for a frosted appearance., If you have a little more time and a sharp knife, try making a swan design out of an apple, as described in the linked article. Large radishes or other hard, large fruit or vegetables can be used instead.


Other complex designs can serve as centerpieces or garnishes for special occasions. You can find many of these online by searching for Thai fruit carving instructions, or for "food art."

