 Plyometric exercises such as box jumps are a good way to build your fast-twitch muscle fibers and increase your explosive power, giving you more speed. Box jumps are one of the simplest vertical-oriented plyometric exercises, and a good way to incorporate plyometrics into your exercise regimen.If you have access to a gym, you'll probably find plyometric boxes there. At least at first, it's advisable to do plyometric exercises with an experienced trainer. Doing them with incorrect form can place too much stress on the joints and lead to injury.
To do box jumps, choose a height that you can jump onto from a standing position on the ground and land in the same position that you started.
Use exaggerated arm swings back and forth. As you swing your arms forward, propel your body up and onto the box. Step back to starting position rather than jumping back down. Do three sets of five repetitions of this exercise.
 When you do broad jumps, you are mimicking the same movement you would make when you accelerate from a standing position. Broad jumps train you to drive your legs into the ground for explosive power to generate speed.Start from a relaxed position with your knees slightly bent. Swing your arms backward in a broad, exaggerated movement, then immediately swing them forward. As your arms swing forward, explode up, driving your legs into the ground.
Propel your body forward as far as you can. When you land, bend your knees slightly to absorb the shock and return to your starting position. Do 5 to 10 broad jumps in a set, completing one to three sets of this exercise.
 The explosive force used in jumping builds fast-twitch muscle fiber to give you power that will improve your speed and acceleration. Use big, exaggerated movements to jump as high and as long as you can.Repeat the jumps as powerfully as possible, focusing on power and good technique over speed.
 Bounding is one of the most common plyometric exercises to help you build powerful force and increase both your speed and acceleration. Since it's an exaggerated running motion, it also builds your sprinting muscles.Jump from one leg to the other, fully extending your back leg as you raise the knee of your front leg to hip level or higher. Aim to move as far forward as possible.
Do three repetitions of this exercise, bounding about 20 meters with each repetition.
 Single-leg training with plyometric exercises can build strength more quickly than doing the exercises with both legs. Single-leg variations also help build your core and improve your overall balance and agility.When doing single-leg variations, make sure you're alternating legs so that you're developing each leg equally. An imbalance where one leg is stronger than the other can lead to joint strain and injury.

