 While you’re still mounted, walk for ten to fifteen minutes on a loose rein at the end of your ride.Especially if you have been cantering or jumping, make sure that your horse has time to cool down his muscles.


Just like runners walk to cool down after a long run, a horse needs time to cool down before he stops working entirely. You can never walk for too long. Horses that have worked hard deserve to cool down as much as they need to! When you finish walking on your horse, he should not be breathing heavily or still actively sweating.;
, Take both feet out of the stirrups at the same time and get off your horse from his left side.Roll up your stirrups. Loosen your girth by one or two holes. Put the reins over his head so that you can lead him more easily.


Put your hand between your horse’s front legs. If he feels extremely hot or is still actively sweating, keep walking him by hand. Make sure that the horse is not breathing heavily. If he is, keep walking him by hand.
 Fill a bucket with lukewarm or cold water and offer it to him. If he drinks a whole bucket of water, give him another. It is a myth that “hot” horses, or horses who have just worked, cannot drink water after a ride.A horse can lose between two and four gallons of sweat per hour if it’s hot and he is working hard, so he will need to drink to prevent dehydration., Put your halter in your left hand. Put the reins over your horse's head, as though you are going to ride again. Undo the nose band and the throat latch. Slip your horse's bridle over his head, putting it in your right hand. Put on his halter, which should still be in your left hand. Put the bridle aside so that you can clean it later., Attach the horse to cross-ties if you’re in a barn or a hitching post if you’re outside. If you’re using cross-ties, attach the small metal buckles of the cross-ties to either side of the horse’s halter, through the metal loops closest to his mouth.


If you’re attaching him to a hitching post, attach the buckle on the lead rope to the loop on the halter that is underneath the horse’s cheeks. Attach the lead rope securely to the hitching post.
 Take off the horse’s saddle, girth, and saddle pad. If there is no saddle rack in the barn, you can put the pommel (or front) of the saddle on the ground, leaning it against a wall. You can also leave it upside down.Flip the saddle pad upside down so that the sweat can begin to dry.


Make sure that you can access your lead rope easily. Keep your grooming area clean and organized.
 Your horse should have his own set of brushes, which should include a curry comb, stiff brush, soft brush, hoof pick, towel, and sweat scraper.
 Curry comb your horse for, ideally, ten or fifteen minutes. The curry comb brings up dust, dirt, and sweat that is matted inside the horse’s hair., Brush from nose to tail, or with the direction of the hair. Don’t be afraid to be vigorous. Focus especially on areas that are sweaty or have touched the tack. If your horse doesn’t mind, use the stiff brush on his face, especially around his ears, which will be sweaty from the bridle., Use a damp towel on his face if it is sweaty.
 Make sure that there are no rocks in his feet and that you do not scrape the frog of the horse’s foot, which is the softer triangle in the middle of his foot. This area is sensitive., If your horse is hot, sweaty, or still has sweat marks on his body, you can hose off the areas of his body that are still sweaty. It is important to get all the sweat off of his body before he goes back in his stall; imagine sleeping in your own bed after you’ve run four miles and haven’t showered!After you hose down the sweaty areas of your horse, use a sweat scraper on those areas to rid your horse of excess water so that will dry faster. Instead of sweat scraping his legs, dry them off with a towel.
If your horse is only mildly sweaty in a couple of places, dip a stiff brush in a bucket of water to “wet brush” him. With the wet brush, brush the sweaty parts of the horse. This is like a miniature bath. When you’re done grooming your horse, there should be no sweat marks on his body. He should look either well-brushed or well-bathed!

, Put on anything that he needs to wear in his stall, such as bell boots or a cribbing collar. Apply any medications, like thrush medication for your horse's hooves, if it is necessary.
 Attach the lead rope to his halter and lead him into his stall or paddock. When you lead a horse, you should put your right hand near the end of the lead rope, near the horse's chin, and have your left hand holding the excess lead rope. Do not wrap the lead rope around your hands, though. The horse should walk to your right., When you enter the stall, turn around so that you are both facing the stall door. Remove his halter, exit the stall, and close it behind you. Put the halter away; there is usually a hook right next to the stall door. Give him a peppermint or a slice of apple to reward him!

, Pull excess hair away from your brushes and throw it away. Place all of your brushes back in your grooming box, and put your grooming box back in the tack room. If your horse pooped in the barn, scoop up the poop and put it in the poop bucket.
 Wipe down your saddle, girth, and bridle with saddle soap, removing any sweat or dirt. To do this, take a sponge, dip it in a little bit of water, and then apply soap to the sponge. Sponge all parts of the saddle, bridle, and girth thoroughly. Work the soap into the leather so that there are no suds on the saddle.The leather should look clean and feel soft. Rinse and clean your horse’s bit with water. Put the tack back where it belongs in the tack room.

