 While in the shower, make sure to condition your hair. Conditioner not only promotes healthy hair, but also helps repel water. Conditioners include coatings that stick to your hair and help the water slide off instead of being absorbed.If you have curly hair, smooth leave-in conditioner over your hair. This helps fight frizz during the air drying process. If you have fine hair, put some oil onto any dry ends.;
, You can start the drying process before you even step out of the shower. Gently squeeze the excess water from your hair. After you squeeze as much water out of your hair as you can, take your fingers and comb through the strands. Fluff your hair so the strands separate. This helps your hair dry faster.Try not to get your hair wet again after you rinse your hair. Pin it up as you finish your shower, or keep it out of the spray. This decreases the water in your hair.
 After you get out of the shower, flip your head upside-down. Shake your head around for a few minutes. Use your fingers to lift the roots to speed up the drying time.Shaking your hair gets air flowing between the strands. This helps it dry faster than letting the strands stick together.
 Use a towel to remove water from your hair.Make sure to use a microfiber or other super absorbent towel instead of a regular towel. A regular towel can make your hair frizzy and cause breakage.Use an absorbent towel to soak up moisture. Try to remove as much water as possible.Place your hair in sections. Squeeze the hair in the towel for a few seconds. Release and move on to the next section. Go over your hair and blot again as many times as needed.


Use a different section of towel each time you dry a new section. This ensures you are not placing water back onto your hair.
Don't rub your hair too vigorously with the towel. You can cause damage to the cuticle even with a microfiber towel.Instead of a towel, try using a soft cotton shirt or a pillowcase. The cotton will absorb the moisture and protect your hair. You can also try blotting with paper towels. This helps reduce frizz., While drying your hair, focus on the roots instead of the ends. The ends will dry faster than your roots. To make your hair dry faster, remove as much water from the roots as possible.Blot or gently squeeze the roots multiple times with your towel. Use a smaller towel to get closer to the roots as a large towel will not work.
Fluff the roots of your hair continuously. Turn your head upside down and run your fingers through the roots. You want to get as much airflow to the roots as possible to make it dry faster.
 Hair experts say you should never use a brush on wet hair. Instead, untangle your hair using a wide-tooth comb.This helps keep frizz down and reduces damage done to your wet hair.


After combing, make sure to use your fingers to separate the hair strands or shake your head. Keep the strands loose to promote airflow.
Add hair care products either before or after you comb your hair. Your hair needs products in it so you can style it when it is dry. Depending on what you want, try curling lotion, anti-frizz serum, or sea-salt spray.
Use the comb to set your part. Then try not to touch with your hands. This can lead to frizz., After blotting all the water and loosening the strands, let your hair air dry. The time it will take to dry completely will depend on the thickness of your hair, how much water you removed, and the weather.


If it is taking a long time to dry, flip your head upside down every few minutes. This gives the air access to more surfaces of your hair, allowing for a faster drying time.
Another option is to run your fingers or a comb through your hair every 10-15 minutes.

