 Turn the oven on to 325 degrees F (160 C). Take a 12-cup (3 liter) Bundt pan and thoroughly spray it with cooking spray. Or you could grease and flour it. If you're using a tunnel insert, you'll also need to spray or grease the insert., Open one 15.25-ounce (432 g) package of German chocolate cake mix. Pour the powdered mix into a mixing bowl and add 3/4 cup (180 ml) of water, 2/3 cup (160 ml) of vegetable oil, and 3 eggs. Use a stand or hand mixer to beat the batter on low speed for 30 seconds. Turn up the speed to medium and beat it for 2 minutes.You may want to stop and scrape down the sides of the bowl to ensure that all of the mix is incorporated.
 Add 1/2 cup (40 g) of flaked coconut to the batter and stir it until it's combined. Scoop the batter into the prepared Bundt pan., Set the greased tunnel insert into the Bundt pan, so the empty tunnel part is facing you. Put the cake in the preheated oven and bake it for 38 to 44 minutes. Insert a cake tester or toothpick in the center. If it comes out clean, it's finished baking.The tunnel insert will allow you to fill the cake with the coconut cream cheese filling once it's baked.
 Take the cake out of the oven and immediately use a serrated knife to slice away the cake that's baked up and around the tunnel insert. Loosen the tunnel insert and lift it out. Let the cake cool for 10 minutes in the pan. Then turn it out of the pan and let it cool with the tunnel side down.It will take about one hour for the cake to cool completely.
 Open one 8-ounce (225 g) package of softened cream cheese. Place it in a mixing bowl with 1/4 cup (50 g) of granulated sugar and 1/4 cup (20 g) of flaked coconut. Use a mixer or spoon to stir the filling together until it's completely combined., Once the cake has cooled completely, turn it upside down, so the tunnel is facing you. Spread the macaroon filling evenly through the tunnel. Turn the cake right side up and set it on your cake stand or serving place. Chill the cake for 10 minutes, so the filling hardens a little. Slice the cake and serve it.Consider drizzling the cake with melted chocolate or dusting it with powdered sugar before you serve it.
Store leftover cake in the refrigerator.

