 If your inflammation is caused by sunburn, an allergic reaction, or is simply dry and itchy, there are many ways to treat yourself at home. Your kitchen is a great place to find ingredients that can help soothe and heal your irritated skin.For example, you can apply cucumber slices to red, irritated areas for almost instant relief.Honey is another great home remedy because it is a natural anti-inflammatory. Rinse your skin with warm water, then apply a thin layer of honey. Rinse after 30 minutes. Your redness and irritation should be reduced.
If sunburn is the cause of your inflammation, you can make a paste using the gel from an aloe vera plant. Mix a small amount of the gel with equal parts cider vinegar and white vinegar and smooth onto irritated skin.
Avocado is another option. If your skin is inflamed due to extreme dryness, apply mashed avocado to your skin. Rinse with warm water after about 10 minutes. Your skin will feel refreshed.
 Essential oils are an inexpensive and effective way to heal your skin at home. Most oils can be purchased at your local health food store. Some pharmacies and grocery stores also stock them.Essential oils should often be placed in a carrier oil (like almond oil or coconut oil) and not directly applied to the skin as this can cause further irritation. Instead follow recommended guidelines for essential oils, staff at health food stores can be a good resource for mixing essential oils for topical use.


Frankincense is one of the most popular essential oils for skin treatments. It is a natural anti-inflammatory, so it is great for reducing redness and irritation. Apply small amounts to each of your trouble spots.
Geranium oil promotes blood circulation, which speeds healing. Apply this oil for help soothing eczema, dermatitis, and ringworm.
Myrrh oil is another natural anti-inflammatory. It is great for soothing rashes and dry skin.
 You can help heal your skin by making sure that every product you use is good for your skin type. This applies to any moisturizer, cleanser, or cosmetic. Pay attention to medicated creams, but also look at the ingredients for all of your skin-care products.Dermatologists report that one of the most common causes of skin irritation is that people are using too many products on their skin. Doctors suggest a simple regimen of a mild cleanser, chemical free sunscreen, and fragrance free moisturizer.
Look for products that are labeled "gentle" and for "sensitive skin." These typically contain less potentially irritating ingredients.
Ask your dermatologist to recommend products that are right for your particular skin type.

