 When you're having problems with people, you should start by identifying what those problems are exactly. If the problems are serious problems that need to be addressed, such as someone being a jerk or doing something dangerous, then this is something that you should call out and work to fix. You should not accept or ignore bad behavior. However, if someone is just annoying or different and that makes you uncomfortable, then it's a good idea to move on to other outlets.
 Develop your patience to help you deal with people who piss you off. A good starting point is to remember that, as the great Joseph Campbell so liked to quote, "this too shall pass". Everything is temporary in this world, including that annoying guy in your office. You have to learn to not let yourself get caught up in the negative feelings you have and instead push them aside so that you can focus on creating more positive feelings.


Try distracting yourself with work if you're struggling with this step.
 If someone's annoying you, try singing a song in your head in order to keep yourself calm and keep your behavior appropriate. You can sing any song you like! "Let it Go" from Disney's Frozen is a good start, assuming the song hasn't already driven you insane.
 Another tactic is to pretend that you're somewhere else while you're dealing with frustrating people. Pretend that everyone driving you crazy is a cat that's just meowing constantly. Sometimes cats get annoying but they're usually cute later, right? You can also imagine that you're somewhere else altogether, like floating down a river in summertime. Just imagine the sound of the cicadas and the bubbling of the water.
 A good way to keep your cool in tough situations if you're having to concentrate too much to distract yourself is to just promise yourself a reward for being a good sport. For example, tell yourself that if you remain polite you get an ice cream. If you help the person, even though they're driving you crazy, then you get a double scoop of the good stuff!

, Forgive people when they do make mistakes. Sometimes you just have to stop and give people the benefit of the doubt. They might really be sorry or they might really not know that what they did was bad. You have to forgive them so that you can move on yourself to happier feelings. No one wants to get stuck thinking about how mad they are at someone.

