 Different disciplines have different cues, and between riders there are tons of different cues they'll use. Below are some of the most common ones; try them and try to determine which cues work best for your horse.


Hugging your legs around the horse, sometimes rocking forward in the saddle
Connecting with the horse's mouth, getting his attention, then lifting the reins up and forward
Making kissing or clucking noises (careful: this is also a cue for a horse to speed up into a trot or canter)
Looking forward. Horses are incredibly sensitive animals and can tell where you're looking and where your focus is from the subtle difference your body position will have.;
, Are you pulling the reins back or leaning back while asking the horse to move forward? Make sure you aren't sending confusing cues to the horse.


Once certain that you aren't sending confusing cues, move on to the next step.
 If you ride Western you can lift the reins up and forward towards the horse's head. When you hug the horse with your legs, keep your legs long and squeeze with your calves. You may need to give the horse some mental inertia by rocking forward in the saddle a bit.
 Try backing up the horse and then having the horse move forward, or turning the horse and then riding in the direction you originally wanted to go. Once your horse becomes more willing to go straight, and to go where you're asking, begin asking your horse to walk off straight.


The #1 rule of riding horses: the horse can't go any farther than the tip of his nose. If he will not move, tighten the reins on one side to make your horse turn his head. While doing that, hug your calves around the horse and ask the horse to move forward. First, make your horse move in small circles. Then, let your rein out a little bit, just enough to make the circles he is making a little bigger. Continue doing this until the circles are large. Then, straighten the horse out. There you are! Just try to teach your horse out of this step quickly or it may become a bad habit.
 This process should quickly train your horse, and you, teaching you both good habits.

