 Once you have found someone to assume the lease, you need to work with your leasing company to ensure everything is properly agreed and all the paperwork is complete. Each financial institution has its own procedure for lease assumption, but the procedure generally includes:


Submission of credit application by the new owner. When taking over a lease, a potential owner/lessee will have to fill out a credit application and be approved for the total amount remaining on the lease.Payoff or transfer of the current lease. Once the new owner/lessee is approved for purchase/lease of the vehicle, the lease or title will be transferred to him or her.
Creation of new lease in new lessee name. When lease for the vehicle has been opened or transferred, the new lessee becomes responsible for the remaining payments on it.
If you are operating through a lease trading company they will guide you through this process., The buyer will no doubt want to take a test drive in the car before completing the deal. They will also want to inspect the vehicle to verify that is in the condition you stated in the listing or advert.This is important for both buyer and seller, as you will both inspect the car together and agree on its condition. Having a clear and recorded understanding will avoid potential disputes down the line.


The seller should always accompany the buyer on the test drive.
Be sure you are present for any independent inspections of the vehicle. It can be helpful to take photographs to ensure that you have proof of any minor blemishes or damage., When turning over a vehicle to a new owner, you will want to be sure to remove all personal items. That means taking out your iPod, gloves, charger cord, and any other items of personal property out of the vehicle. After this, be sure you clean the interior of the vehicle. Wipe down the dash, doors, and steering wheel, and clean the inside and outside of all the windows. Take the vehicle through the car wash or wash it yourself. Be sure to put a nice wax on it when you are through.
 Depending on the arrangement you have reached, you will pass the car on to the leasing company, lease trading company, or directly to the person taking over the lease. Follow the instructions you have been given by your lease company to turn the vehicle over. Most companies will pick up the vehicle and handle turning it over to the buyer.


If you are in possession of the title to the vehicle, you will need to sign it over to the new owner or your financial institution. Check with the lease company for instructions on whom to sign over title to.
Contact your state's Motor Vehicle Department to transfer ownership. This will eliminate the possibility that you might be held liable for any damages after the transfer.
Once the paper work is all complete, and you have handed over the keys, the process is complete.