 Cool-season grasses, like fescue, do best in cooler temperatures, but can struggle to survive in hot summers. There are planting maps available online that show color-coded regions for cool, warm, and transition zone grass.Some grasses, such as fescue, will turn brown and go dormant in order to survive more extreme temperatures. It isn’t dead and will usually come back when the temperature is more moderate.;
, Warm-season grasses, like Bermuda, do best in the summer and spring, but need mild winters to thrive. Consider where you live when deciding which grass to plant or you could end up with a bald yard in certain seasons., Glance over your yard and see how many structures or trees you have that will block out the light. Observe it throughout the day and determine whether your yard is mostly sunny, shady, or a mix of both. Some grasses, like St. Augustine, need full sun, whereas others are more tolerant of shade.Be aware that most grasses will require at least six hours of full sun each day in order to thrive.
 If your soil is prone to becoming waterlogged, look for a grass that grows well in wet conditions. Other seeds, such as Zoysia, have been developed to be more drought resistant and hardy. You can change some of the drainage conditions of your lawn by leveling, but it is still a good idea to start with a seed that is rainfall appropriate., This is really a question of lifestyle. Think about whether or not the grass will be played on by children, used for sports, have contact with pets, or other high use activities. Fescue and KY Bluegrass both do well with heavy foot traffic. If the grass will have little to no foot traffic, then that opens up your options., Measure the length and width of where you plan to plant the grass seed. Then, multiply these two numbers to get your total square footage. This will help you to determine how much seed to buy. Every type of seed provides a different amount of coverage; in some cases one pound of seed will cover 200 square feet, and in other cases it will cover 1,000., Go to your local home improvement store or order grass seed from a reputable source. Getting a blend of at least two different grass strains of the same type, such as Windward fescue and Spartan fescue, will help with disease resistance and hardiness. Check the packaging date on the seed as well., Buy a soil test kit from your local hardware store, county extension office, or online. Collect the required soil samples, mix them with water as directed, and send them off to the address listed. You’ll generally need to wait about two weeks for results, so it is important to do this step well before planting. The test will tell you if your soil has the right pH (acidity and alkalinity) balance to grow grass.Grass will do the best in dirt with a pH that falls between 6.0 and 7.5. If you fall below 6.0, then add some lime to boost your numbers. If you are above 7.5, then some peat moss should lower it.If you are short on time, there are also DIY testing kits available. These kits let you mix water with your soil and a testing capsule to determine the levels of nitrogen, phosphorous, or pH. However, be aware that the reliability of these home tests is often debatable., Make it possible for your yard to get a bit more sun by cutting back or thinning out any large trees. Or, if you decide to plant trees prior to putting down your grass seeds, choose ones that have upright, controlled canopies., You can pull up sod with a shovel, but it will take a great deal of time and may result in a very uneven final surface. Instead, rent a sod cutter from your local hardware store. Run the cutter over your lawn and it will cut away and roll up the existing sod.Some people prefer to kill off their existing sod by applying a non-selective herbicide. The downside to this method is that is can impact the quality of the soil and you’ll have to wait longer before planting for the chemicals to die off.
 Compacted soil can suffocate grass seedlings and prevent them from growing. Use a rotary tiller or pointed shovel to dig up and remove any rocks or debris. Keep going until all of the soil on the surface, and a few inches deep, is marble-sized or smaller.If you are using hand tools, get ones with fiberglass handles as they are less likely to break than wood.
 Add about one inch (2.54 cm) of sand across the entire planting area. Then, do the same thing with an inch of compost. Use the tiller or a shovel to mix everything together. Run a rake across the surface of the ground, filling in any holes that you see until it is level. This will keep water from pooling in any one spot.This is also the time to add in any soil amendments, such as peat moss, lime, sulfur, or a starter fertilizer to the area., Planting in the late summer and early fall generally gives your grass the best chance at survival. Avoid planting when you know a heat wave or frost is about to hit. Temperatures in the mid-70s Fahrenheit (21-25 degrees Celsius) are generally good for both cool weather grass seedlings, whereas warm grasses prefer the mid-80s Fahrenheit (26-32 degrees Celsius)., Add the seeds to a spreader and walk your lawn for application. Use a drop spreader for smaller lawns and a broadcast or rotary spreader for larger areas. The goal is to place between 15 to 25 seeds in each square inch, depending on the grass type. When you are finished take a rake and try to push the seeds about ¼ inch (.6 cm) deep into the soil.Use only as much seed as you need. Over-seeding an area will result in thinner grass, since seedlings will have to fight for nutrients if an area is overcrowded.
 Use a fan or oscillating-style sprinkler to apply a gentle coating of water to the entire planted area. Water for about 10 minutes or so. The goal is to dampen, not saturate, the soil. Repeat this level of watering two to three times per day for the first 8 to 10 days, until the seedlings are initially established., The seeds and sprouts are fragile during the first few weeks of growth, and they won't grow properly if they are trampled by people or pets. Put up a sign or yard flags, rope off the yard with string, or erect a temporary fence to protect it from harm.
 When the grass is over an inch tall, you can water just a few times a week. Aim to water in the evening or morning to avoid evaporation. Adjust your watering schedule depending on the weather. Don’t water right after a storm.Once the grass has sprouted above the soil, reduce your watering to once daily for 15 to 30 minutes.
 When your grass reaches 3.5 inches (9 cm) high, it is time for the first mowing. Adjust your blade so that you only cut off about 1 inch (2.54 cm) of grass. Check that your blade is sharp or you may be tearing the grass out by the roots, instead of trimming it.Consider leaving the grass clippings where they lie, rather than bagging them and throwing them away. The clippings act as a natural mulch and encourage better grass growth.
Never cut more than one-third of the grass height. The blade is needed for photosynthesis and removing more of it can weaken or kill off your grass.
 You can spray a weed killer directly onto the problem areas, but it is even better to simply dig them out yourself. Get a spade and dig to a depth of around 2-3 inches (5-7.5 cm) around the weed. Remove the soil and weed in one large clump. Wait for the grass to fill in the area., This is the general rule unless you run into extremely high or low temperatures. In that case, wait until the next season to start fertilizing. Use a starter fertilizer with a high ratio of nitrogen. Expect to fertilize between one to four times a year, as directed on the package., Keep a close eye on your grass and note any insects that are present. Some pesticides, such as grub killer, can help stop these infestations if applied carefully and at the right times. Notice if your grass changes color or texture as well. Random brown or white patches can be a sign of fungus, whereas browning often indicates a lack of water.