 The angel of wisdom. It is important to train thoughts of peace, love and happiness. Positive thoughts lead to positive emotions. Positive emotions make the body healthy and the spirit happy. It is better to be happy than to live unhappy. For that it is necessary to do every day physical and mental exercises. Become a golden angel of happiness. Success with the both helpers wisdom and endurance.;
, Inner peace is the result of good thoughts work and adequate relaxation (breaks, meditation, recreation). The angel of peace. What do you want to accept? What do you want let go? "I take ... I release ..." Which idea helps you to come to inner peace today? Which spiritual exercises do you need now? Give it to you!!

, What is the meaning of life? What are your goals? What is the way in which you reach your goals? How do you become a winner in your life? The angel of power. Self-discipline is your key to success. Get the victory!!

, What is the abundance in your life? How can you make the people around you happy? The goddess of wealth and happiness Lakshmi. First care good for yourself (your own happiness), and secondly give your happiness to the world. Then you'll transform your world into a paradise. Success. "I send light to ... May all people be happy. May the world be happy."

, Get up into the light with your spiritual practices. Do yoga, walking, thought work and meditation. Take things as they are. Take external things not too important. Concentrate on the positive in your life. The angel of joy. What is your positive thought? What is your deed of joy today? Success.
 Today there are gifts. Nicholas has come. What gift has he brought to you? Recognize the gifts in your life. See the grace in your life. The highest grace is to know the spiritual path and to practice consistently. Then we one day will live in happiness and all-comprehensive love.
 Do not give up. Despite all the difficulties. Blessing. The light is with you. Stay true to your spiritual goals, "My goals are ... (inner harmony, happiness, enlightenment, holiness, paradise after death, a good next life, successfully doing good, helping others, helping to create a happy world)." A big success is waiting for you. Who is blessed with the light, one day will live in the light.
 You can think about your life (self-reflection, get inner peace or positivity), meditate, consult an oracle (inspiration), read a spiritual book, pray or do something good for the world. Regularity is the way to victory. Without perseverance and regularity, there is no breakthrough into the light. Mother Mary. Day of grace. Grace comes from wise living. What you start today, one day will bring a great blessing. "My decision (good intention, vow) today is ...".---> Video Hail Mary

, You possess the knowledge of inner happiness and of embracing love. So you can give a significant contribution to creating a happy world. You can increase the inner and outer happiness in the world. The master. What is your spiritual task in your world? What skills and capabilities do you own? What do your family, your friends and your country need? How can you give your fellow man successful your spiritual knowledge? Save the world from suffering. The angels are with you. Success. --> Video We are the world

, Live in God and with God. The main path is to develop a consciousness of unity . The Yoga God Brahma has four faces. He looks at the same time in all directions and sees the entire universe at once. Thus he reaches a consciousness of unity . God can be found in the silence, in the love to all beings and through visualization. Look at yourself as an angel in paradise. See your world as a paradise. What is your paradise thought today? --> I got all to be happy, because therefor I need only myself and a little bit of wisdom (the philosophy of happiness). --> Argue-for-the-Existence-of-God

