 Benzoyl peroxide kills the bacteria responsible for acne, so applying it to your forehead will help get rid of the acne there. It also has the added benefit of removing dead skin and excess oils, which will unclog your pores.


Look for over-the-counter products that contain benzoyl peroxide, which can be in concentrations of 2.5% to 10%.
It may dry out your skin, make it scale as it dries, or cause stinging, burning, and redness at the site of application. Use it only as directed on the package.;
, In addition to benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid can be found in over-the-counter cleansers and other facial products to help with your forehead acne. Products contain between 0.5% to 5% concentration of the acid.


Side effects can include skin irritation and stinging.Apply a small amount to the skin as wait three days to see if your experience irritation.
Do not use for longer period of time or do not use more than prescribed — apply only as directed by your doctor or the directions on the packaging.Salicylic acid is intended for use on the skin only — avoid applying it too close to your eyes, nostrils, or mouth.
 Use a Q-tip or a cotton ball to spot-treat areas on your forehead. Essential oils may irritate your skin, so dilute one drop of essential oil with one drop of a carrier oil, such as jojoba, olive, or coconut. If your skin is sensitive, introduce the oil slowly. You can leave the oil on the skin or use warm water to rinse it off. Essential oils to try are:


Tea tree oilOregano oilSpearmint or peppermint oilsThymeCalendulaRosemary oilLavenderBergamot oil, Steam opens up your pores and helps get out the impurities. It’s also simple and cheap. To make a steam treatment:


Fill a pot with water and heat it on the stove until it starts producing steam.
Place the steaming water into a bowl and place it on the table. Lean over the bowl, keeping your face at least 12 inches from the bowl. Steam can cause severe burns, so be very careful.
Cover your head with a towel and stay over the steam for 15 minutes. Dry your face afterwards.After the steam treatment, you can exfoliate or use a mask to help reduce the oil.
You can add a few drops of an essential oil to your steam treatment.
 Egg whites help with discoloration while firming and toning the skin. When preparing an egg white mask, make sure to whip the egg whites until they are foamy, like a meringue. You can add things like lemon for bleaching or honey for antibacterial properties.Mix three egg whites and one tablespoon of fresh lemon juice in a bowl until it’s white and foamy with peaks.
Apply the mixture to a clean face with clean hands. Do not allow the mixture to enter your mouth, nose, or eyes. Leave for 15 minutes. Then rinse with warm water. Pat skin dry.
Make sure you wash your hands after handling the egg whites.
Apply moisturizer.
 Mix one tablespoon of vinegar with two cups of water. Apply it to your face with a cotton ball. Apple cider vinegar is believed to help even out skin tone and reduce acne.Be aware apple cider vinegar may irritate sensitive skin. Start with a larger ratio of water to vinegar if you have sensitive skin.

