 Check that your software (including the Windows OS itself) is fully up-to-date. In general the most recent software versions run the smoothest.


Check on and install Windows OS updates by accessing Windows Update>Check for Updates>Install UpdatesMany software programs will notify you of updates as they become available, but you can also search for the latest versions online or look into software update tools which periodically check for updates and deliver a report.
 Multiple programs running off screen can take up a significant portion of your computer's operating memory and thus slow it down. To see which programs are running at any given moment, check the icons along your application panel or open the "Task Manager" application., Access the "startup configuration" tool by searching for "msconfig.exe" and then running the program. Click the "Startup" tab to toggle which programs automatically run upon startup.


Alternately, Microsoft offers a software download called "Autoruns" that provides similar access and a few more options for software that automatically opens when Windows begins., Windows has around 20 visual effects (e.g. shadow effects or the way menus open and close) that may also be slowing you down. You can toggle each of these on and off or allow Windows to choose the optimal settings for performance (recommended).


Access the visual effects settings through Control Panel>Performance Information and Tools>Adjust Visual Effects.
 To uninstall a program, enter the control panel and click "Add/Remove Programs," select the program you want to uninstall, and click "Change/Remove".


For more detailed information read how to Remove-Unwanted-Programs-from-Your-Computer.
 The built-in utility "Disk Cleanup" searches for unnecessary files in order to keep your hard disk uncluttered and improve performance.Access Disk Cleanup through Settings>Control Panel>Administrative Tools.
Remember to empty your recycle bin regularly! Files continue to be stored there unless emptied and can sometimes create slow down.

