 Toddlers love to stand up on the bed, and having two walls near your bed helps to reduce the possibility of your toddler falling off.;
, If your bed has this, put something in there to prevent the potential for your toddler to get stuck in this gap. It will also stop things from dropping behind the bed, such as the sippy cup or a bottle. No one likes having to scoot the bed around to get the sippy cup out. Use spare pillows or towels to put between the headboard and the mattress.
 This prevents the toddler from crawling under the sheets and getting entangled or potentially suffocating.
 It can also prevent the rest of the room from getting the air circulation that it needs. Catnaps are always happier when the bedroom stays "temperate".
 Never put breakable objects in the bottom drawers of your dresser. It's best to keep things that are easy to break or not to be messed with in the higher drawers so that they're out of reach. Try to keep toddler-things in the bottom drawers, such as teddy bears, toys or books, things you feel comfortable with your toddler messing with.


Put breakables at the back of the dresser. This includes knick-knacks and mirrors. Keep breakables away from the edge.
 Toddlers always enjoy climbing, and that isn't always a good thing, especially if they upend the dresser when climbing.
 Consider buying a mini-dresser made out of clear plastic and put all of the toddler's toys and such in it ,so that the child can mess with their own things. Play bins and toy-boxes work, too.
 Toddlers love to yank down the clothes, so be sure to move the pole (if possible) up a notch to keep the clothes out of reach from small hands. If you can't move the pole, when hanging up your clothes, fold them in half, like you do when hanging pants, so that the clothes are still out of reach.
 While it is adorable to see your child prancing out in high heels, it can easily cause them to trip and fall. Instead, keep your stuff out of reach. Put a shelf up for storing your shoes higher up. It'll keep baby from wearing them and scuffing them up, or just plain out ruining them.
 They can be anywhere in the room, and especially near your bedroom TV and bed. The plastic plug-ins are easy for toddlers to pull out, and then they try to plug them back in. If you are not using the electrical outlet, put stuff in front of the outlet. Out of sight, out of mind, right? Put a toy bin in front of them, maybe a chair, love seat, dresser, table, shelf, all that stuff. Also, you can plug in childproof electrical outlet covers for unused outlets.

When you are using the outlet, try not to make it visible. If you have a bunch of wires sticking out of the wall, the toddler may wonder what it is. You can place things in front if it, but not pressed up against it, or else it's a fire hazard. Keep your things plugged in but still try to cover it. For example, if your TV is sitting on a shelf, make the shelf in front of the outlet but leave room for the plug to stretch from the outlet to the TV. You can do this with all the other plugins around the room.

