 First, cook and mash the yams. Then mix in milk, white sugar, beaten eggs, butter, salt and vanilla extract. Add a sweet and/or crunchy topping. Bake your casserole in a baking dish at 325 degrees F (165 degrees C) for 30 minutes, or until the topping is slightly browned.Try using four cups of cubed sweet potato, 1/2 cup white sugar, two eggs, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1/2 cup milk, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, and four tablespoons of softened butter.
For example, make a topping with 1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/3 cup flour, and three tablespoons of softened butter. Alternately, make a marshmallow topping.
 Peel and shred the yams. Mix the shredded yams in with your favorite recipe for pancake batter. Serve your pancakes with a sweet topping!Try using six cups of shredded yams, 1/4 cup of flour, and 1/2 teaspoon of baking powder.
For example, you may want to use an apple walnut topping with cinnamon and honey.
 Make a bread pudding with yams and whole wheat bread. Use candied yams or sweet potato puree. Top it with complimentary flavors, such as chopped pecans and crystallized ginger. Bake the pudding in a baking dish at 350°F (175°C) for twenty-five minutes, until it is set and somewhat puffed up.For example, mix two eggs, three tablespoons of honey, 1/4 cup milk, one slice of crustless wheat bread, and two cups of yams.
 Wash and peel the sweet potatoes. Blend them with softened butter, sugar, milk, and spices. Fill an unbaked pie crust with the mixture. Bake it at 350 degrees F (175° C) for about an hour, until a knife pressed into the middle comes out clean.You can use your favorite pumpkin pie recipe and substitute sweet potatoes for pumpkin.
Try using one pound of yams, 1/2 cup softened butter, a cup of white sugar, 1/2 cup milk, two eggs, 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg, 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, and one teaspoon of vanilla extract in a nine-inch pie crust.
 Peel and slice the sweet potatoes, or use canned yams. Cook the yams in a skillet with a sweet sauce, stirring occasionally. Candied yams have a glaze, typically made with butter and brown sugar. You can serve candied yams alone as a dessert, or pair them with a holiday meal.Try cooking the following ingredients in a skillet at low heat for about an hour: six yams, 1/2 cup butter, two cups white or brown sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon ground nutmeg, and salt to taste.
Stir in a tablespoon of vanilla extract before serving. The yams are done when they are tender but slightly hard around the edges.

