
Flat cushioned (carpet) - Be careful when pivoting because, carpet is a very grippy surface.
Outdoor on grass - Look down. The cushioning is easier on the knees, ankle and foot.
Sand - Tiring. If running barefoot, there might be small bits of glass (from beer bottles) on a lot of beaches.
Uneven. With uneven surfaces, look at the ground or you could get hurt.;
,


Move backwards. Since running backwards is awkward, try this agility drill: run forward and backward in the same line several times. You can do this is a yard or basement without worrying about tripping and falling. Imagine, you were in a basement hallway, you would run forward and backward, many times and have no side movement.
Move sidewards. Move sidewards in a crab-like fashion without crossing your legs. This movement is tiring. Do a sidewards ladder movement, see YouTube and choose one that you would enjoy. You could do this with an imaginary ladder on the ground. This exercise also does not need a lot of space and can be done indoor or in a small yard. For aerobic work, do a lateral movement, constantly in a crouch, and going side to side continuously.
 Run zig-zag, stop to look at something and go, bound, skip, do a fancy move, spin, do a few side steps, run backwards for two or three steps, etc.
 This builds speed, keeps the knees up and the builds the calves. Running in place can only be done on the balls of the feet. In jogging a heel to toe roll is used, so running in place is an excellent supplementary exercise for joggers. "First steps" are another exercise you could do and this exercise requires little space.
 Double leg hopping front/back and side to side and rope skipping are two good choices. Do not be put off by the high level of plyometrics that elite athletes do, just do rope skipping in seconds or do hops for just a couple inches.
 Or do wind sprints or some kind of speed work. The complete package for an athlete is speed, strength, flexibility, endurance and agility. This articles fills in the gap of speed and agility, but not at a high level and just for short durations. The serious workouts are for professional and elite athletes, keep your energy for work

, A suggested, minimal wind sprint routine is: warm-up, jog 10 seconds, rest, run 10 seconds, rest, and sprint 10 seconds.
 For runners, who do a lot of walking in their jobs, develop a short program of say 10 minutes a week.
 Keep the cycling program very minimal also. With the cycle, you can track the rpm a very useful measure component that you can apply to running. Speed is stride length and strides per minute.
 Include the date, what you did, how much you did, where you did it and comments.

