 Heritage, standard and old fashioned true breeds will grow slower than the commercial, fast growing breeds.

Option 1: Contact a hatchery that sells English or Indian Game Birds (heriitage/standard/old fashioned).
Option 2: Contact a breeder directly and buy good stock from a reputable, disease-free breeder.
Option 3: Purchase the fast-growing commercial Cornish Cross varieties which are genetically designed to grow to market Game Hen weight within 2.5 weeks (under ideal conditions).;
, When using a stackable battery style brooder be sure to clean out the poultry litter trays daily. Most stackable, battery style brooders are equipped with an automatic thermostat which regulates the temperature that you set.,

Allow at least 1/4 square foot of floor space per bird during the first 2 weeks.
Increase square footage by 1/4 square foot for each bird, every additional week until they are fully feathered.
Grown chickens on open range need at least 4 square feet per bird.
 Stackable battery brooders do not require bedding since they are equipped with fall-through droppings trays.

When floor brooding, provide soft, dry and non-toxic bedding such as pine shavings or rice hulls.
Apply the shavings or hulls at least 6" deep.
 Drafts and cold air can cause day old chicks to chill and die.
, It is very important to keep the brooder heat at the correct temperature and it should be stable at least 24 hours before the chicks arrive. When using stackable battery style brooders, set the automatic thermostat to ideal temperature and check the temperature daily. All brooding methods require that you visually inspect the temperature and adjust as needed by using a thermometer.

Option 1: Heat brooder with a red 250 watt heat lamp (1 bulb for every 50 chicks).
Option 2: Heat brooder using a gas or propane hover brooder. Large hover brooders can brood about 75 day old chicks for up to 16 days at which time the chicks need more room.
Option 3: Heat stackable battery brooder using the automatic thermostatically controlled regulator.
To adjust the temperature using a heat lamp, move the heat source away from the floor to decrease the temperature and move the heat lamp closer to the floor to increase temperature.
To adjust the temperature of a gas or propane hover brooder, dial the regulator to the left to decrease heat-flame and dial the regulator to the right to increase heat-flame.



Pre-Heat: Proper temperatures in the brooder make the difference between life or death of the chicks. Day old baby chicks are very delicate and require monitoring.
Pre-heat brooder to 100 degrees (F) for at least 24 hours prior to the arrival of the day old baby chicks.
Place a thermometer at the floor level to ensure proper temperature and adjust as needed.


For the first week, maintain the floor of the brooder at 100 degrees (f).
Lower the temperature in the brooder by 3-4 degrees (f) every 8 days until ambient temperature is reached.
If using a heat lamp, adjust the height until it reaches ideal temperature.
If using a gas or propane hover brooder, lower the heat-flame at the regulator.
 Shallow water trough lined with pebbles, marbles or stones will help prevent drowning, dunking and soaking. It takes a few days for the chicks to understand how to drink water without getting too excited. *Wet, cold baby chicks = dead chicks.

Using a very shallow dish, add a few large marbles and then fill with clean, fresh water.
Most stackable battery brooders are equipped with a shallow water trough.
 Game birds require high protein levels in their food and they need taurine. Taurine is present in most organic meat (liver, kidney, heart). Game birds are not vegetarians and when they are provided a vegetarian blend, it must be 100% complete to meet all the necessary requirements of game birds.

Provide fresh, clean, well balanced high protein, baby chick fodder at all times.
Allow the chicks (heritage, standard and old fashioned true breeds) to eat as much as they desire.
Fodder can be soaked with fresh, cool water to aid in proper digestion.
Provide chicks with access to grit, sand or crushed shell to aid in crop grinding.
When raising fast growing, commercial varieties, withdraw feed every night at 6:00 P.M. (otherwise they may eat until they over-eat (to death).
 This will help them understand where the water supply is., Or, until they are comfortable and stop chirping loudly., Attend to their needs as required, until they settle down. At this point, it is far more critical that the chicks consume water, more so important than consuming food. If you do not see them eating within 24 hours take the following steps,,,,,, one egg for every 5 chicks). Let them cool. Crush the entire egg, including egg shells until it is mush and offer to the baby chicks., Pasty butt is a common condition in baby chicks where hardened droppings are stuck to the vent of the baby chick and will block the vent. If pasty butt is left untreated, the baby chick may die.,,

Do not rub or irritate the vent.
 When the game hens (heritage, standard and old fashioned true breeds) reach ideal weight and size, they:


1. Can go into an open free range.

2. Can be processed for poultry meat.

