 Choose a name that works in service of revealing the identity of your roleplaying character. Your roleplaying character’s name should reflect some of your character’s traits.


Select a name based on what you know about your character. The name should help to build the identity of your character so that when you’re roleplaying other players might think, Yes. He looks like a “Boris.”;
, Select a name (as well as personality and backstory) specific to your roleplaying environment. Are you roleplaying at a convention? Are you roleplaying with friends? Are you roleplaying online?


Online, you’ll be typing the name so how your handle looks when spelled out is important.
In person, the name will be spoken so sound is important.
 A harsh-sounding name like Thor would be suitable for a tough, bold character. A funny, or bumbling character might be called Jethro. A graceful and elegant character might be called Grace. In each case the name works to show who your roleplaying character is.
 Famous names have associations—character traits you think of when you think of the name. If your character is honest and upright, Abe might be associated with Abe Lincoln. A dynamic (and slightly raunchy) female character might be called Madonna.
 Think about time period/place/status. A high class woman in Victorian London would not be named Haru Takahashi. A Japanese warlord would not be named James Walker.
 Choose a name that’s the direct opposite of your character’s profile. Ebenezer for a character that’s generous and spends lavishly would be an example. Grace for a klutzy character would also work.
 Don’t choose a name that can be turned into a nickname you don’t like. Don’t select a name that will rhyme with an unsavory word. You might end up with a nickname that’s works against your roleplaying intentions., Consider the time/place you are making for your character. A princess in a medieval setting won't be running around in men's clothing (unless, of course, she is a run away and this is important to her character!) Robocop would choose black over pink dress wear. He wouldn’t wear tights. Robin Hood, on the other hand, would.
 Slicked-back hair suggests a slick character. Messy hair, a laid-back and, perhaps, confused character. Hair that’s arranged unusually or dyed pink or blue might suggest a character who has a flair for being original or off-beat.
 Why does your vampire wear a chain around his neck? What’s up with the lightening scar on the forehead of your roleplaying Voldemort character? These accessories ask a question that begs an answer. They make your character interesting.
 The obvious choice, of course, is to select your own gender for the gender of your roleplaying character. But roleplaying is about breaking boundaries. Why not try selecting the opposite gender for your roleplaying character? You might find an avenue into creating an inspiring and original character.
 Leave your character room to grow so that the character will continue to interest you and even surprise you. Characters shouldn’t be predictable. They should be complicated, multi-dimensional, a bit mysterious.


If your mage is the best in his academy, maybe he is incredibly bad at hand to hand fighting.
Is your high school prom queen very pretty? Consider making her incredibly insecure, as well. No one is perfect. Make sure that your character is not.
 The more you know about your character’s backstory, the more solid the character will be. The more solid the character, the more generous the character will be in the personality he/she reveals to you and to others.


Where did your character come from?
What is your character’s age?
Does your character have a middle class background? Upper class?
Did your character’s father come from a poor family and work his way up?, Who are they? Where did they come from? What happened to them to make them who they are?


When you're forced to make a quick decision, this elevator pitch will quickly sum up the personality of your character so that you’ll know what to do.“I am Rollo from the planet Venus, forever mourning the loss of my magic ring.”

, Your roleplaying character shouldn’t only be strong and charismatic. He/she should be believable.


Is your character brave? Then perhaps your character could also be shy, afraid of social gatherings.
Is your character talkative? Then allow your character to be drawn to the works of Mozart to suggest some depth and underlying layers.
 Was your character raised in a tough environment and taught to take care of her/himself? Then perhaps your character believes in survival of the fittest. If so, then your character might be power-hungry, aggressive,the loudest roleplaying character in the crowd., Roleplaying can be a near-art form, creative and inspiring. Cut loose and enjoy yourself! Make dynamic choices for your character so that you'll be interested in the role and will play it convincingly.
 These can have an effect on their behavior.

