 Mulan’s original outfit has a floor-length, cream-colored skirt, and a hint of whitish fabric showing underneath her top. There are two ways you can achieve this look. If you can find a long, off-white dress with a square or boat neckline, you can wear that underneath your costume. Alternately, you can wear a floor-length off-white skirt and a camisole.The camisole should have a neckline that reaches about up to your collarbone.
Look for a dress or skirt in your closet, online or at a second-hand store. If you like to sew, you can make the skirt.;
, Preferably, the body of the shirt will be more fitted than the sleeves. You’ll be adding another layer of clothing over your torso, so you don’t want the green top to be bulky. Look for a light apple green color.
 If you can find a tank top or short dress with a royal blue body and thick teal straps, that would be ideal. You’ll be more likely to find a close match by shopping online. However, that’s quite a specific look to track down, so you may want to improvise instead.


To recreate this garment, get a strapless tube top or dress that reaches about hip-length. The length can be a little longer or shorter – it doesn’t have to be exact. Wear a turquoise tank top with wide straps underneath it, or sew wide teal ribbon straps onto the strapless piece.
This piece should go around your torso as a middle piece rather than being worn like a regular tank top.
 You can use a long piece of fabric, a sash or a scarf. Keep wrapping it around your waist until there’s a bit of fabric left hanging in the back. Tuck that fabric underneath and secure it with a concealed safety pin.
 Little Brother is Mulan’s small beige dog with dark brown spots, long ears, and a black nose. He wears a blue collar. If the toy dog you’re using doesn’t come with a blue collar, use a blue ribbon around its neck. There are a few ways you can incorporate Little Brother into your costume.Simply carry the stuffed toy around with you.
Have the toy dog peeking out of your purse or tote bag, if you’re bringing one.
Attach it to your costume. You can sew it to the front of your dress with a simple stitch.
 Mulan’s skirt is floor-length in this look and covers her feet. Opt for whatever comfortable, neutral flats you like. Avoid wearing heels as they might show underneath your bottom hem.
 Look for a wig with a center part and without bangs. Put the wig on. Arrange the hair in a low ponytail with a hair elastic. Then take a small piece of hair and wrap it around the ponytail at the base.Pull at the elastic underneath the ponytail and slide the section of hair through the gap. Secure it with a bobby pin.
You may want to wear a wig cap and secure the wig with bobby pins and/or wig adhesive tape.

