 Assigning chores is one of the best ways to teach work ethic and responsible behavior. Chores should be age-appropriate and based on their interests and talents. If your child likes being outdoors, assign them to work in the garden or rake leaves. If your child is interested in cooking, let them help you prepare dinner and wash the dishes.;
, The earlier you start the better. It will be more difficult to get children on board if they are older. Most children can begin having chores around the age of two or three. Young children respond best to positive encouragement and are focused on doing the task well. Older children are able to grasp the concept of working hard and the satisfaction that comes from hard work., Age-appropriate chores will keep your children engaged and keep them from getting frustrated by tasks that are too challenging. Chores for children ages two to three include putting toys away, putting their clothes in a hamper, and wiping up spills. Children ages four to five can make their bed, empty small trashcans, bring in the mail, and help clear the table. Children ages six to seven can sort laundry, sweep floors, and help make their own lunch. Children eight to nine can load the dishwasher, put away groceries, help make dinner, vacuum, and make their own snacks.Children ten and up can load and unload the dishwasher, wash the car, change their bed sheets, fold laundry, and cook with your supervision.
Teenagers can have a summer job to contribute to their personal expenses.
 Your expectations should be clear so your child knows exactly what to do. Instead of telling your child to "clean their room," let them know all of the tasks that are involved. Should they make their bed? Put away their toys? Hang their clothes in the closet?Your instructions should also include expected deadlines as well. Should the bed be made before school? What days of the week are they expected to wash dishes?

, Time management is another aspect of having good work ethic. Your child likely has homework, extracurricular activities, and leisure time. They must learn how to balance all of their priorities. Sit with them and create a calendar and/or daily schedule to keep them on track. If your child needs to make their bed every morning before school, teach them to set aside five or ten minutes every morning to complete the task.Use a large calendar, chore wheels, dry-erase board, or magnets to keep track of to-do lists and schedules.
Make the creation of the visual aid a family activity.
Have your kids mark off chores as they complete them. Younger children might enjoy putting stickers next to a chore once it has been completed.
 Your children should feel accomplished when they complete their chores and face consequences for not completing their chores. The consequences of not completing the chores should be specific to that chore.If your child repeatedly forgets to take the trash out on Thursday nights, wake your child up extra early one Friday morning to take the trash out before school. This consequence is better choice than taking away TV time for not taking the trash out.
 This is especially helpful if your kids are younger and can't do chores on their own yet. Working alongside your children teaches them the value of hard work and prepares them to work independently.For example, when laundry need to be done, sort the clothes with your children, then together fill the washing machine, together put them in the dryer. Then when its time to fold, fold the clothes side by side showing how to fold and doing it together.

