;
, Your antlers can’t receive an official Boone and Crockett score in this condition.
 Unfair chase makes your antlers ineligible to be officially scored.
 You can also go directly to the Boone and Crockett website if you’d rather receive your official score by the club. Go to www.boone-crockett.org/bgrecords/bc_scoring_typwhitetail.asp?area=bgRecords&type=Typical+Whitetail+Deer.
 The skull plate should be sitting on your table so that you can take horizontal and vertical measurements of the rack. You will need to take all measurements to the nearest one-eighth inch.
 This is the distance between the tip of the right antler and the tip of the left antler. Take the measurement from the front of the antlers.


Write down all your measurements on your score sheet or using the Boone and Crockett Club online form.
This is usually a small measurement, because the main beams reach toward each other in the middle of the rack.
 This is the distance between the widest point of the left antler to the widest point of the right antler. This horizontal measurement can be taken along any point of antlers along the main beam.
 Measure the horizontal distance between the widest curve of the main beam on each side.
 Start at the burr, where the antlers meet the skull. Twist your flexible measuring tape so that it follows the center of the lowest outside edge of the main beam over the outer side to the end of the main beam.


Start with the right antler, and then do a separate measurement for the left antler.
Antlers are not perfectly symmetrical.
 Typical/normal points are those extending from the top of the main beam. Abnormal points can extend from the main beam near the burr., This should be fairly easy and short, unless your deer’s antlers are extremely abnormal.
 The Boone and Crockett Club scoring sheet has places for up to seven points, although few deer will have that many. Repeat with the points on the left antler.


Each point will have a separate box in which to write the measurement.
 This is the narrowest point between one location and another. Use a flexible measuring tape to wrap in a circle around that point, or use a flexible steel cable and then lay it out across a yardstick to determine the measurement.
 Make sure you are choosing the narrowest point. Repeat on the left.
 Do the right and then the left.
,, Confirm that you have followed fair game rules when hunting the deer.
 In order to be entered into their awards program, you will need to contact a local Boone and Crockett Club and have an Official Measurer score your antlers.You can also submit your score to your state agency for special consideration or awards.

