 You will need to purchase one or two pieces of white panel board as big as your the space on your wall you wish to hang it on. This can be found at home improvement stores and/or arts and crafts stores. You will also need to get:


Rotary saw or hand saw
Pencil
Measuring Tape
Four 2 inch screws(wood, concrete, and/or brick wall)
Four washers(wood, concrete, and/or brick wall)
Drill (wood, concrete, and/or brick wall)
Magnets (metal wall)
Super glue or hot glue (metal wall);
, Whether the space be in a classroom or your home, measure it out with a tape measure. Once you have a rectangular measurement (for example, 30 inches X 45 inches) decide whether you will have to divide this size into two, so that you have two separate boards. This all depends on a number of factors such as how you will be transporting the board to its final location (pick-up truck, van, car, etc.), the size of the door you have to get the board through, etc., This is board used solely for dry/erase purposes which can be found at arts and crafts stores as well as home improvement stores. They are usually bought in standard sizes, so you will not be able to get the board cut in-store. The board you purchase will need to be bigger than the measurements you made of your wall space. This means that you will need to have either a table or rotary saw to cut it down to the proper size., Lay the board face down so that the smooth side you write on is facing the table. Next, measure out the dimensions of your wall space on the back of your board. You can highlight your measurements with a light pencil mark. If you are using one large piece of board which will later be divided into two pieces, do ahead and draw the line down the middle where the board will be split.Transfer the board to a safe location such as outside or in your construction garage. Put on goggles before you begin sawing your board. Place the board face down again so that you can see your pencil markings.
Take out either a table saw or rotary saw. Cut along the pencil lines. If you have divided your board into two pieces, cut along the middle line as well.
Once you have cut the piece(s) use a piece of sandpaper to go around the edges. Rub them with the sandpaper until they are smooth.
 First you will have to transfer the board(s) to where you will hang them. Depending on the wall type, you will have to pick the best way to hang the board. If your wall is wooden, you should first pre-drill a hole in each of the four corners. Then have someone else hold the board against the wall in the exact spot you want it.For each hole, place a washer down over the hole, and then a screw through the hole. Take your drill and drill the top left (or right) screw into the wall. You might want to drill your first screw only partially through so that you can still swing and adjust the position of your board.
Make sure if you are doing this in a school that you have checked with the building codes and the school maintenance workers.
 Flip your board over so that the back is facing upwards. You will have to attach magnets onto the back. There are two options for this. One is to buy adhesive magnets, where all you have to do is to remove the adhesive strip and press it against the board. Make sure that you have a solid strip of magnet around all four edges of the board. Extra magnets will only further secure your board to the wall.


The second options is to buy more traditional magnet strips which need to be glued onto the back of your board. It is best to use either hot glue or super glue which will help the magnets stick the best.
Once again, make sure that there is at least a solid strip of magnet around each of the edges of your board. More magnets attached to the back are always a plus, and will help your board stick to the wall better.
 This is similar to wooden walls. You will have to pre-drill a hole into each of the four corners of your board. The difference between this and wood is that you will have to pre-drill holes into the wall as well.For this, you will need to first position the board against the wall exactly as you would have it hang. Trace around the board with a light pencil mark. Then eyeball where your pre-drilled holes are on your board (usually 1 inch down/up and 1 inch over from each corner) and make a mark on the wall. Drill a small hole into each of these marks.
Then have someone else hold the board up in the correct spot. Place a washer and a screw threw each hole. Drill the top left (or right) screw in first. Leave a bit of space between the screw and the wall to allow you to adjust/swing the board into the correct position.
Because you need to drill holes into the wall for this option, make sure you clear it with the building guidelines and school officials first.

