 Find an appropriate spot for your fort. You probably want to find somewhere relatively covered from rain and the elements. A cardboard box fort is appropriate for inside or outside, but outside you’ll have more room to expand your fort. Get cardboard boxes, the larger the better. You can get these for free by going to local grocery stores, furniture stores, or hardware stores and asking for extras. It may take a few weeks to get enough.


Cut some of the boxes apart so that they are flat. You'll want to mix boxes that are still together with boxes that are apart.
Build walls. You can stack boxes that are still together to make walls and other strong structures. Use flat boxes to make ceilings or floors. Very large boxes can be their own rooms, if you have any. Use glue, a staple guns, ropes, rubber bands, and weights to keep your fort together.
 Find two trees that are relatively close together and string up a clothesline or string between them. The height you string them up at will serve as the roof of your fort, so decide how high you want your fort to be. Now all you have to do is lay the tarp over the clothesline and secure the sides to the ground. Bingo! You have a fort. , This is a classic for idea when you’re young and romping about in the woods. Find a huge tree that has fallen down but left space between the trunk and the ground. Normally this will occur because the tree was still rooted when it fell down. Gather a lot of large branches and place these on either side of the trunk nearest to the roots. Continue adding branches as you head away from the roots. If you want you can leave a gap between the branches as a potential entrance. You can also enter from under the front of the trunk, or cover that entrance with a tarp. The branches that you set up will serve as your walls and the trunk of the tree will be your roof. It’s a basic fort, but it’s a lot of fun to make.
 Find a tree with low hanging branches that is small enough you can fit your arms around it. You want your hands to be able to touch if you hug the trunk. The branches need to be low hanging so that you can stack sticks up against the side of the tree so that they won't slip off. Gather branches and sticks of an appropriate height and lean them against the trunk at an angle. If you want more space inside your fort, lean the sticks at a lower angle. Make sure that they won’t fall off. Try to secure the sticks to the branches still connected to the tree.
Once you have done your first layer of branches it can help to string a rope around the trunk of the tree and the branches you have leaned against it to provide security.
Leave an entranceway. Don’t cover the trunk all the way around – you need to be able to get inside your fort.

