 Talk about what is bothering you and how it makes you feel. Be calm when discussing your feelings. See if your friend is willing to open up to you in return. Strong friendships are built on trust in which friends are mutually open and honest.Try letting go of petty feelings you may have in order to figure out how to work through this situation.
You might start this conversation by saying something like, "Hey, I've noticed we haven't been talking much lately. Is everything okay?"

, Be open about what your needs are in terms of the friendship. If you don't feel valued unless you hear from your friend twice a week for example, see how your friend reacts, and if she may be willing to change, or better understand your needs.


Be willing to understand that your expectations of the friendship may be different from your friend's. Sometimes there are different needs or expectations that we may have, so be respectful of your friend's need for space at times.
You might say something like, "It's really important to me to have a friend who is open about how much they care. It would mean a lot to me if you could "

, Find ways to reconnect with your friend if there has been recent tension between you two. Make an effort to spend time, just the two of you, so that you can have a better friendship.


Use this time to share and trust one another. See how your friend may change when you make an effort to set him as a priority.
Do something that you think you both will enjoy. Think about doing something that makes your friend feel valued, like getting tickets to see his favorite band, or making reservations at a new restaurant that specializes in cuisine from his ancestral country. See if your friend notices that you made an effort.
 If your friend is only there for you when it's convenient, or in her own interest, your friend may be taking more out of you than is healthy. Be honest with your friend about how this makes you feel and think about how she responds. Talk with your friend about how you would like to be treated in the same way as you treat her. A good friend will bring out the best in you, not the worst. If your friend reacts negatively, perhaps by blaming you for her problems, or acting like she doesn't even care about what you're saying, this may not be as healthy a friendship as you may wish.

