 The feeling of nervousness comes out of fear. We are worried about what could possibly happen, instead of focusing on what is happening now and what we want to happen.Sometimes we can worry so much about something bad will happen that we actually make that bad thing happen. For example, if you are really worried and thinking a lot about stumbling over your words during your speech, you might actually make that happen. This is called a self-fulling prophecy.


Instead of dwelling on what might turn out badly, think about the positive things that you want to happen (such as speaking clearly, concisely, and with confidence)
Visualize yourself successfully completing what you are nervous about. Think about how it will feel once you have accomplished it.
 Sometimes when we feel a negative emotion we want to push it away immediately or try to hide it. However, emotions exist for a reason – to give us information about what it going on so we can act accordingly. Reframe your thinking to focus on the idea that it is completely okay to feel nervous.Nervousness is a natural reaction and we all feel it from time to time. Be patient with yourself.


Every time you notice you have a negative thought about your feeling such as, “Ugh, I feel so nervous. It’s terrible.” Instead, say to yourself, “I’m feeling nervous and that is okay. It is a natural feeling and I can get through this.”

, Instead of getting nervous and overwhelmed by the enormity of the situation, think only about a small part of the problem and work on that. Start out simple. Before attempting the entire thing, just do a bit of it. Then a bit more, then another bit more.
 When thinking about a particular situation or event people often have negative thoughts that make them feel more nervous or worried. These types of thoughts include: catastrophizing (thinking that the worst thing will happen), mind-reading (thinking you know what other people are thinking), and fortune telling (believing you know what will happen).Notice when you have these types of thoughts and immediately correct them.


If you find yourself catastrophizing, for example, simply ask yourself, “Is the world really going to end if this bad thing happens? How bad will it really be? It is possible that it won’t turn out that badly?”
Think of a time when you felt very confident. Concentrate on positive thoughts such as good friends, times, laughter, and the like. 