 If you're currently going through a divorce, you have the option to make your name change part of the proceedings. But, you can only change your name back to the name on your birth certificate or the name you had right before your marriage.If you'd like to have a completely different name, you'll need to fill out separate paperwork.


Usually, this is a good option for someone wanting to go back to using a maiden name., You'll need to file a name change petition in a district court. The form (Petition for Change of Name) can be found on the Judicial Branch's website.Fill out the form and attach a certified copy of your birth certificate. You'll also need to pay a filing fee of $185 and file it with the district court clerk. Realize that you can only change your name by petition once, unless you can convince the judge of a very good reason. Include the following information:Your current name
Your description, including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, place and date of birth
Where you lived for the past five years
Why you'd like to change your name
A legal description of all real estate you own in Iowa or in which you have any legal interest
The new name you want

, From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show your divorce decree, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your divorce, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply for a new card and you should get it in the mail within 10 business days., You must change your name in person at a DMV office. After paying the $10 fee, you'll need to show a document that proves your name change, like divorce decree or decree of annulment. You must show the original document. Photocopies or faxed documents can't be used.Any court document you use has to show your old name in its entirety, your new full legal name, and your birth date. It must be stamped with an official court seal.
 After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

