 It is illegal in many areas to sand paint from the fiberglass components off your car in the open air, while other places permit it if you use special attachments on a vacuum as you sand to catch as much particulate as possible. Check on the website for your town or state for laws in your area.The particulate from sanding off paint becomes airborne and can be bad for the environment.
In some places, it is illegal to sand the paint off of your vehicle without a specialized facility.;
, Because the particulate you sand off of your vehicle can be hazardous to breath, find an isolated or enclosed area you can sand your vehicle. Sanding out in the open will allow the particulate to spread further, possibly effecting anyone who lives nearby.A garage with an air filtration system is the best environment to sand your vehicle.
If you are sanding outdoors, try to wait for a day that has very little wind.
 Because of the dangers of airborne particulate while sanding, be sure to wear goggles and a respirator. You may consider using a regular paper or cloth face mask, but you will need to replace the mask periodically if dust becomes caked onto the mask.Goggle style safety glasses are required to prevent the paint from getting into your eyes.
You can purchase respirators at most hardware and auto parts stores.
 You will need multiple grades of sandpaper to remove the paint and leave a smooth surface in the fiberglass. Start with 120 grit sandpaper and sand in a back and forth or circular motion to begin removing the paint. Switch to a finer grade sandpaper like 80 grit once you have removed the majority of the paint and re-sand the area.Don’t worry about making the fiberglass completely smooth; a slightly abrasive surface will help the new paint stick.
Be careful not to sand beyond the paint and through the fiberglass.
If you choose to use a power sander, be careful not to sand too deep through the paint with either grit of paper.
 If you are planning on repainting the surface, you don’t need to remove all of the paint from the fiberglass. Instead, use the 120 grit sandpaper to remove any loose or bubbled paint, then score the rest of the surface by lightly sanding over all of it.The new paint will stick to the scored paint you left on the fiberglass.
Make sure to wash and rinse the part before repainting the fiberglass. It will be covered in dust from the sanding process.

