 If you have limited vacation time, this makes a big difference in what you can do in Kerala. Kerala can be broken down into 5 major tourist regions. It's recommended that you spend 2 to 3 days in each region to really experience the area.If you're going for more than a couple of weeks, it may be worth it to try to see some or all of the regions. You'll have to plan how to travel between regions. When planning, make sure to consider travel time. It may take a daylong drive to get from one region to the next.
If you're just going to be in Kerala for a short period, you may want to stick to one or two regions for your visit.;
, Choose your regions wisely, especially if your time is limited. You want to make sure you get the most out of your vacation. Choose regions that have destinations that match with your personal interests.The Calicut (Kozhikode)/Wayanad region is a good option if you're looking for hills and spice trails. There are also a lot of city tours and nature walks available in the region, as well as tours of caves and waterfalls.
Many people come to India to look at temples, and the Cochin/Thrissur/Guruvayoor is home to many temples. If temples are an important destination for your trip, prioritize a trip to this region. However, you can also see many temples in the Cochin/Munnar/Thekkady/Sabarimala region. In addition to temples, this region is known for tea plantations, nature walks, safaris, luxury treatments like spas, and lots of city tours.
In the Cochin/Alleppey (Alappuzha)/Kumarakom region, you can also see temples. There are many nature options, such as boat tours, backwaters, and bird sanctuaries.
In the Trivandrum region, there is a lot of relaxing spa-type services. It also offers nature walks, boat tours, water sports, and city tours.
 As Kerala is such a sprawling state, professional tour services can help you get the most out of your experience. Once you've settled on a region, look into the kind of tour services that are present there. You may even be able to book a few tours for your trip ahead of time. If you have your heart set on touring a spice trail, for example, you can book a tour for your first Monday in Kerala. Make sure you see how long tours last, so you can plan other adventures for the day around that tour.


If you can afford it, see if you can talk to a professional trip adviser. A professional trip planner/adviser may be able to help you manage your time in Kerala by assessing your needs and planning an itinerary accordingly. However, these services can be expensive, and you may be better off planning on your own.
 Beaches are a big pull for many people traveling to Kerala. Almost every region in Kerala has at least some beaches. If you're planning on spending some time relaxing at the beach, look into the beach options available in your area.Find a beach near where you're staying. If you're staying in the Trivandrum region, there is a sparkling beach about 50 miles away called Varkala. There is a temple near the beach and it tends to be less crowded. You can find information on other beaches by region on tourist websites and blogs discussing trips to Kerala.
Keep in mind you'll need to figure out how you'll get to your chosen beach. In Varkala, for example, you may have to take a train out of the main city to get to the beach. You should look up train routes and take travel time into consideration when planning your beach day.
In addition to beaches, many regions have backwaters you can tour. Tourists websites will also list backwaters by region, and allow you to see what guided tours are available. If you're staying in a region known for its backwaters, you should make the effort to tour at least one.
 Resorts are another favorite of tourists looking to pamper themselves. If you want to schedule some rest and relaxation into your trip, see what resorts are available in your region and plan a spa or resort trip.Kerala Ayurvedi Centers are located throughout Kerala. They offer a variety of treatments aimed at rejuvenating skin, reducing stress, and removing blemishes like psoriasis. They also offer massages and other forms of pampering. If you want a spa day on your trip, make sure you find a region with a Kerala Ayurvedi Center.
Look into cost. Make sure you find a spa within your budget, as prices vary.
 Festivals are a large part of the culture of Kerala. If there are any local festivals happening around your stay, you'll want to take time to check them out. This will give you a sense of Kerala's rich culture. Festival calendars by year can be found online, giving you an overview of the type, location, and date of various festivals.Festivals come in a variety of categories. There are some festivals based on an event, like a boat race, while others are religious or traditional in nature. In addition to festivals, there are some ritualistic feasts that occur in Kerala each year.
Unless you're planning your trip around a specific festival, you may have to simply accept the festival that falls during your trip. You may feel disappointed if this was not your first choice festival, but keep in mind you'll be getting a unique taste of a given region's culture.
 Most regions in Kerala have at least some temples. If you're going to Kerala, touring a temple can give you a real sense of the culture.The temples available to you depend on the region where you're staying. Temples cater to a variety of religious and spiritual beliefs, like Hindi and Jainism. Some temples offer tours, so check the rules regarding the temple in your area. A guided tour can allow you to learn information you would otherwise miss.
Keep in mind, some temples have strict operating hours. The Sabarimala Sastha temple, for example, is only open to the public certain days of the year. If you have your heart set on a particular temple, you'll want to make sure that temple's available for viewing during your trip.
 If you're in Kerala, you'll want to sample some of the food. You can get a variety of traditional Indian dishes during your stay, so make sure you try a little bit of everything.Dosa Ghee Roast with Kerala Style Sambar has been included on lists of the world's most delicious foods. It's made with fermented rice and lentils, which are roasted until crisp.
India is known for its curries. There are a variety of curry dishes in Kerala made from various vegetables and meats. If you're at a local restaurant, look over the curry options. Make sure to try at least a couple of curries while in Kerala.
There are also a variety of stir fry dishes available in Kerala. Stir fries are made with various ingredients, like mussels, beef, and chicken.
While you're in Kerala, you should also try some traditional Indian stews. A lot of stews are made with lentils and meats and can be served as a meal or a side dish.

