 Different styles and colors of frames will throw off your arrangements cohesion. Use frames that have a similar style, size, and thickness.If you have a bunch of mismatched frames, a cheap and easy solution is to paint them all the same color.Matting is the material that's used behind the photo, and should also have a uniform tone, though it doesn't always need to be the same color. Your artwork should maintain a uniform color across your different pieces.


If you want to save money you can paint mismatched frames the same color.
Take a look at the dominant colors in your artwork and choose a mat that shares the same colors. Typically artwork has a focal point and your mat should be the same color as the focal point of the artwork.
Use high-contrast mat colors to add drama to a set of artwork., Hung art can either be symmetrical or asymmetrical but should be consistent wherever you are arranging it. Symmetry is when your art corresponds to size, shape, and spacing in relative position to a center line on the x-axis.When you reach symmetry, your arranged artwork will look centered and balanced. If you have various sized frames or art, it may be a better idea to create an asymmetrical look. Asymmetry is also useful when hanging abstract art.To hang your art symmetrically, either imagine or draw a center line horizontally on your wall, parallel with the floor. Hang your pieces centered on that line. This is much easier to achieve when all of your art is the same size.To hang your art asymmetrically, imagine or draw a center line and vary the height and distance of each piece of art about the line.
 The way that you group your hanging artwork is important. Try to group art that shares a similar aesthetic or theme among your collection. For instance, you can arrange family photos together, art that shares a similar style, or black and white only or color only photography. This will give your art arrangement a deeper feeling of cohesion.


Your artwork should be a representation of who you are or what you like. Try to achieve that by using pieces that you feel represent you.

