 For one piece of jewelry, you will need two boiled eggs. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil, then carefully add your two eggs. Boil the eggs for 10 minutes before removing them from the heat source.If you are going to be finishing a large piece or multiple pieces of silver, you will need more eggs.
Set the eggs aside to cool. You can pour out most of the boiling water and add cool water to speed the process.;
, Use liquid dish soap and water to clean the pieces you will be antiquing. Gently scrub them with your fingertips before rinsing away the soap. Dry your silver pieces well to make sure that there is no lingering water in the crevices of the silver.The purpose of washing the pieces is to remove oils that can prevent the silver from oxidizing.
After you wash the pieces, it’s better to wear gloves so that you won’t get finger oils on the silver.
 Choose a sealable plastic bag that is large enough to hold both the eggs and the silver pieces you want to finish. Without peeling your eggs, add them to the bag, leaving enough room for the eggs to move around some. Ideally, the eggs should not be piled on top of each other because that will make it hard for you to mash them.If you have a lot of eggs because you are doing multiple pieces, then you can use more than one bag.
If your silver piece will not fit in a bag, mash the eggs, then add them to a larger container that fits your item.
 Use your hands to press the eggs, causing them to break up into small pieces. Eggs naturally contain sulfur, which will oxidize the silver. The more you press the eggs, the more sulfur you will release, meaning that the process will work more effectively., Place the items in the bag and make sure that they are fully covered with egg. You can roll the silver around in the egg or fold the bag so that the eggs are mashed against the silver., While you will start to see a color change after about 15 minutes, your piece will likely need to set for 5-8 hours, depending on your color preferences. If you just want a light antique finish, then the time will be shorter. For best results, check regularly to see if the color matches your desires.Don’t forget about your silver. If you leave it in the eggs for too long, then it may be damaged.
 Knock off the pieces of egg that are stuck to your silver, then wipe it with a clean cloth or napkin. Thoroughly wash the jewelry with soap and water, making sure that all traces of the egg are gone. If you have egg left on your piece, it will start to smell.You can use a toothpick to remove bits of egg from crevices.
Dry the silver once it’s completely clean.

