 Testosterone levels vary in different men, so it can be difficult to determine if the levels detected in one man are too low. Monitor your body to see if you have any symptoms of low testosterone. Symptoms of low levels of testosterone in men include:


Problems with sexual function. This can include erectile dysfunction, decreased desire for sexual activity, and a decrease in the number and quality of erections.
Smaller testes.
Emotional problems that can include depression, irritability, anxiety, problems with memory or concentration, or a lack of self-confidence.
Sleep disruption.
Increased fatigue or a general overall lack of energy.
Body changes that include increased belly fat, decreased muscle mass along with decreased strength and endurance, decreases in cholesterol levels, softening of the bones, and decreased bone density.
Swollen or tender breasts.
Loss of body hair.
Hot flashes.
 Women can have low testosterone as well. The symptoms present differently than they do for a man. The symptoms of low testosterone in women include:Decreased sexual desire.
Fatigue.
Decreased vaginal lubrication.
 Low testosterone can result from different things. You may want to test your testosterone levels if you have experienced any of the following:Aging.
Obesity and/or diabetes mellitus.
Testicular injury, trauma, or infection.
Radiation or chemotherapy for cancer.
Chronic diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, or liver and kidney disease.
Certain genetic conditions, like Klinefelter syndrome, hemochromatosis, Kallmann syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome and others.
Alcoholism.
Drug abuse including heroin,marijuana, opioid or pain medication abuse.
Chronic smoking.
Abuse of androgens in the past.
 Testosterone tests are performed when a person displays certain characteristics. Tests are commonly done for the following reasons:If a man is having infertility problems
If a man is having sexual problems
If a boy under 15 years of age shows early signs of puberty or an older boy shows no signs of puberty
If a woman develops male features, such as excessive hair growth and a deep voice
If a woman has irregular menstrual periods
If a man with prostate cancer is taking certain medicines
If a man has osteoporosis

, Levels of testosterone vary from man to man (and woman to woman). Testosterone levels will vary during the day, and vary from day to day. Levels are generally higher in the morning and lower later in the day.