 You only need three things to make dry ice at home: a CO2 fire extinguisher, a fabric pillowcase that you don't mind getting dirty, and a wide open outdoor area where children or pets are unlikely to surprise you.


You specifically need a CO2 fire extinguisher for this method, not an ordinary home extinguisher. Most home extinguishers use fine powders of a chemical like sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate, which won't supply the CO2 needed to produce dry ice.CO2 fire extinguishers are usually used for laboratories, kitchens, and around mechanical equipment.They usually have a black plastic horn on the nozzle and have no pressure gauge.
You can find CO2 extinguishers at some hardware stores and online specialty retailers.;
, Dry ice is so cold that it can easily cause frostbite or "burns" if it comes into contact with bare skin. Though using a fire extinguisher doesn't require a Hazmat suit, you'll want to take precaution to protect your body from any dry ice that may conceivably drop or get sprayed onto you. Put on the following before you start:


Thick, sturdy work gloves (you may wear tight gloves underneath for extra protection)
Lab goggles or protective eyewear
Long sleeves and pants
Close-toed shoes
Long-sleeved jacket or lab coat (optional)

, Put the horn of the extinguisher's nozzle inside the pillowcase. Gather the pillowcase material and wrap it tight around the hose behind the horn. You don't want any gas to be able to escape except through the tight fabric of the pillowcase.


Use duct tape to make a tight seal if you're worried about the pillowcase flying off. The amount of pressure in the extinguisher shouldn't make it hard to hold on, but extra precaution never hurts.
 When you're ready, squeeze the handle and watch the gas shoot into the pillowcase. Keep this up for 2-3 seconds. You may not think you see ice being produced, but it should quickly start to gather up at the bottom. Release the handle after a few seconds. Carbon dioxide vapor will seep out of the pillowcase — this is normal and safe as long as you're in a well-ventilated area as recommended.


If you can't get the extinguisher to fire, check for the safety pin, which must be removed to allow you to squeeze the handle.
 Carefully take the horn out of the pillowcase. Keep the fabric tight against the horn to wipe off any ice sticking to it. You should find a small pile of dry ice at the bottom of the pillowcase — it will be a crumbly white material resembling styrofoam.


Try to keep the bag upright and don't handle the dry ice more than you need to. If you're wearing sturdy safety gloves, you can touch small pieces of the ice for a few seconds at a time, but don't hold on to them for much longer, as they can even hurt fingers through gloves if given enough time.
 Scrape the dry ice from the pillowcase into a more practical container, like a bowl, a sturdy plastic bag, or a thermos. Keep the dry ice in a single pile and keep the chunks as big as possible to make it last as long as possible. Do not seal the container. If you put an airtight lid on, the pressure of the CO2 gas will build up, causing the lid to pop off or the container to explode. If you use a lid, do not press it or screw it all the way on.


Not all materials are safe for storing dry ice. See below for suggestions:

Do not use fine china, ceramic, or glass containers. The intense cold of the dry ice can cause these materials to to contract and break.

Do not use nice or fancy metal containers. Dry ice can cause the metal to mar and warp.

Do use sturdy plastic containers (especially coolers and ice chests) to store dry ice.

Do use thermoses to store dry ice (but do not seal the thermos.)

, If you can't get your hands on a CO2 fire extinguisher, you can replicate this dry ice-making method with a commercial tank of pressurized CO2, which are sold at welding supply stores and online. The process is virtually the same — simply attach a horn or nozzle to the tank, wrap a pillowcase around it, blast out gas for a few seconds, and collect the dry ice chunks from the bottom of the pillowcase. The required safety precautions for this method are the same as well.


Before your purchase your tank, make sure that it has something called a dip tube, which is also sold separately. These tanks will draw liquid carbon dioxide from the bottom of the tank, which is what you want for making dry ice. On the other hand, tanks without a dip tube will draw gas carbon dioxide from the top of the tank, which won't make dry ice.Often, dip tube-equipped tanks are marked with two white stripes, while tanks without dip tubes have a black finish.If you plan on making dry ice often, you may want to invest in a dry ice maker attachment, which is essentially a horn nozzle with a fabric bag over the end that can be fastened and removed.