  If she only has bad things to say about everyone else, chances are she won't think fondly of you after a while either.  On the other hand, if she tends to focus on the positive about people, she will probably be a much better girlfriend for you as well.  ;
,  For example, if you two are out at a cafe, restaurant, or coffee shop, how does she treat the employees, waiters and waitresses?  Is she abusive or is she sensitive? Kindness is free, so there is no excuse to be a miser with it.
  If she focuses on things that are purely superficial, like fame and wealth, chances are she won't stick it out through the rough patches in life with anyone when she is in a relationship with them.  On the flip side, if she values loyalty, honesty, trust, and health, chances are she will appreciate a good man who treats her well.     

, This is important, because in order to get a woman to reveal her character, it's essential that you don't make her feel judged for being herself.  So try to be as relaxed as possible when interacting with a woman. Asking her about her values must be done in a way where she does not feel like there is a right or wrong answer. Don't come across as being too serious, or she will only present to you her "formal" self which is more of an act, rather than who she really is naturally.  

,  If she is not able to do this, she will be a horrible person to have a relationship with, for her ego is so big that she can't admit her mistakes or learn from them.
  If she is still behaving in a way that is kind and honest and sensitive, she is proving to be an amazing woman.  However, if she becomes spiteful, hateful, or abusive, this is an indicator of how she will be in the future when under any type of stress.  And life definitely will have its stressful moments, so you can be sure such a woman will behave badly again in the future.
  This is because most people don't consciously try to behave badly, so they all think they are great even if in fact they are abusive or cruel.       

