 To help adequately care for your loved one, you should educate yourself about paraphrenia. You can research schizophrenia, since paraphrenia is considered late-life schizophrenia, but make sure you do research about how it affects elderly patients. Knowing about paraphrenia will help you care for your loved one, make informed decisions about treatment, and understand symptoms.You can ask your loved one’s doctor for information and helpful resources about paraphrenia. You may also be able to find information online by searching paraphrenia or late-life schizophrenia.
 If you are taking care of your loved one with paraphrenia, it will probably take its toll on you. Dealing with delusions, hallucinations, and the needs of an elderly person can be very stressful and emotionally taxing. You need to find a support system to help you through the difficult times. Reach out to other family members or friends to help you.If you can’t find a support system in your friends or family, try looking for support groups for caregivers or loved one’s of those with schizophrenia or paraphrenia. Your local hospital, clinic, or university may have support groups, or you can search for them online. You may also ask the doctor for suggestions about where to find a support group.
 You should set personal limits when helping a loved one with paraphrenia. You can only do so much for your loved one before it starts to take over your life. If things get too stressful or overwhelming for you, take a step back. You and your life comes first. You don’t want to burn out, cause yourself to get sick, or cause any negative or resentful feelings towards your loved one.Ask other family members or friends to help you take care of your loved one. Share the responsibility with others.
Consider hospice care, day hospitals, drop-in centers, retirement living communities, or other groups that could help you watch after and take care of your loved one.
Remember, you can't help your loved one if you are unhealthy.

