 This is particularly sexy if you do it the moment your partner walks in the door — you can kiss them then push them against the wall and continue to make out with them. It will make them feel like you just had to have them.Just don’t be offended if they have to pull away momentarily to pee or remove any heavy bags, jackets etc.!
Standing upright will also make intimate oral acts feel more intense as the blood rushes downward.Be sure that your partner trusts you before trying this one. If your partner has previously been attacked or assaulted, you should speak to your partner before trying this, as it could trigger painful memories.
 Take time to kiss and touch, and don’t just jump right into the heavier stuff.


When you do move on to the heavier stuff, keep going slowly!
Experts say that going slowly can even help resolve sexual problems and boost confidence., Try talking dirty or, at the very least, moaning and sighing while you and your partner are intimate. Voicing your appreciation will likely turn your partner on.


It might make you both laugh, too, but after you get used to it, it can be pretty sexy!

, You can have a quickie anywhere — the idea is that your passion for each other simply can’t wait.


Just make sure that you have enough time (i.e. won’t be late for anything important) and that you're in a safe place where you won’t get caught.
 This is a fun and relatively safe way to feel like you’re being naughty. Just make sure you don’t accidentally post the video online!


If you’re nervous that you might post the video online, turn off the Wi-Fi and data on the device you use to film yourselves. Afterwards, permanently delete the video, or save it to a USB stick and delete it from the device.
 Props such as handcuffs, feathers, scarves, and other intimate toys can help spice up your romantic sessions.A feather run lightly over erogenous zones can be a real turn-on.
A blindfold can help enhance the senses.
 Kiss their neck, their chest, their stomach, legs — really savour their body.


You might consider drizzling honey, chocolate, or some other sweet-tasting sauce on each other’s skin and then licking it off.

