 It's possible to back up your contacts to your SIM card before transferring it, but this isn't always the most convenient option. It's useful if you're moving to a dumb phone, but if you're using smartphones your contacts are typically synced with your Google account or Apple ID.;
,,, SIM cards come in three major sizes, and your phones may use different ones. This is especially true if they were made several years apart. Many carriers will provide you with the correct size for free.


You can cut larger SIMs down with a special SIM cutter tool, or ask for a compatible one from your carrier.
Smaller SIMs can fit into larger slots by being placed in an adapter card.
 Whenever you switch carriers, you'll need a new SIM card. You'll get a SIM card when you sign up for a new plan. If you switch carriers and then need a different sized SIM card, you can usually get one for free if you contact customer service.Some carriers operate CDMA networks instead of GSM networks, which don't require SIM cards to operate. Most 4G networks, however, are GSM networks, and will require a SIM card. For example, Verizon Wireless is a CDMA network but their 4G LTE service is a GSM network, so a SIM card is required to access 4G.
 If your phone is in a protective case, you'll need to remove the case in order to get the SIM card out.
 Depending on the type of phone you have, the SIM card will be located in different spots:


Check for a SIM tray. Many modern smartphones have SIM trays along one of the sides. These are opened by inserting a SIM removal tool or a straightened paperclip into the small hole on the side of the tray.
Check behind the battery. If your phone's battery is removable, the SIM is typically inserted behind it.
 Once you've located the SIM card, remove it from your phone.


For SIM trays, pop the tray out with the tool or paperclip and then pull it all the way out of the phone. You can then remove the SIM card from the tray.
If the SIM card is behind your battery, you can either slide it out or press it in a little to pop it out, depending on your phone.
 Reverse the removal process above to put the SIM into the new phone., If you're setting up a new smartphone, you'll be taken through the initial setup process. During this process, your SIM will typically be activated for your new phone automatically.


See Use an Android Phone for instructions on getting started with your Android device.
See Activate an iPhone for instructions on activating your iPhone during the initial setup.
 If your phone was already set up, you'll usually get service a few moments after you insert your SIM card. Just insert the SIM card, power it on if it wasn't on already, then wait to see if you connect. You'll see the signal bars appear in the phone's notification area, and you'll usually see the carrier name next to them.
 If your SIM is still not activating in the new phone, you'll likely need to contact the carrier. Since the phone isn't connected, you'll need to either call from another line or visit a carrier store to have the phone activated.

