 To determine where the washer is leaking, you'll need to look at where the water is pooling and try to figure out where it's coming out of the machine. If the washing machine is not level, the water will run and it will be more difficult to know where the leak is occurring.






;
, Before you decide to replace hoses and gaskets, determine whether the leak is stemming from an issue that can be corrected more easily. Check the machine manufacturer's instructions to make sure you're using it properly. Here are a few common easily fixable problems:


An overloaded or unbalanced washer. If you're trying to load up the washer with too many clothes, that can cause water to leak out. Leaking issues can also happen if the washer has been loaded so that heavier clothes are on one side, causing an imbalance that shakes the washer during the spin cycle.

A tendency to interrupt the rinse cycle to add more time. If your rinse cycle has a spray rinse function, adding more time while it's spraying can cause the spray to go on for longer than it's supposed to, leading to leakage.

Make sure the manufacturer's drain plug is removed. If your washing machine is brand new, it comes with a drain plug that needs to be removed before you hook up the drain hose. If you run the cycle without removing the plug the washer won't drain properly.














Make sure the drain hose is properly secured in the drainpipe. If it's not attached properly, that could be the source of the leak.














Make sure the drain isn't clogged. It might seem like the washer is leaking when in reality your drain is backed up. Make sure it's clear before trying to do repairs.
 When the soap you put in your washer produces too many suds, it can cause overflow problems and lead to leaks. This is a common issue in households with water softeners, which make soap suds up more easily. If you have a water softener, you don't need to use as much soap to get the job done.









To see if oversudsing is the issue, do a load of laundry as you normally would. When you take the load out of the washer, put an article of clothing in a bowl of water and swish it around a bit. If the water gets sudsy, your clothes still have soap in them, and you're probably using too much soap.
 Do a load of laundry the same way you normally would and check to see where the washing machine seems to be dripping. Often you can find out what the problem is just by looking for the spot where the water leaks from the machine.









Leaks at the front of the washer are often caused by a clogged overflow tube or an improperly-fitted old seal (in a front-loading washer).
Leaks at the back of the washer are often caused by loose or damaged supply hoses.
Leaks under the washer are often caused by a hole in the water pump or leaky internal hoses.
 If you can't pin down the exact cause of the leak, and you have an older washing machine, replacing or repairing the hoses and fixing the other most likely culprits is your best bet. Over time washing machine parts can get clogged or lose elasticity, leading to leaks. They'll need to be replaced eventually, so you might as well do it now and try to catch the leak!









If you don't want to make all the repairs at once, start with the first most common repair, run your machine to see if it still leaks, and make the next repair on the list. Keep doing this until you've fixed the leaky part.
If after making all the common repairs your washing machine still leaks, call your machine manufacturer to see if they can help you assess the problem. It might be time to bite the bullet and call a washing machine repair person to come over and finish the job.

