 Older dogs commonly begin experiencing joint and muscle problems, and they can become frustrated with their discomfort and impairments.If your dog is grumpy or irritable during the end stages of life, simply do your best to be patient and provide the other comforts you can at home.;
, Chaos around the home will only stress both you and your dog as you’re trying to spend the final hours of your dog’s life together meaningfully and with compassion. Give your dog a quiet environment away from noisy children or other animals in the house.Soft, unobtrusive music can also be calming, or you may also use a nature soundtrack with birdsong and the sounds of running water., Reassure your dog that he’s not alone and speak in soft comforting tones. Tell him “good boy” and the other phrases you normally use for positive reinforcement to let him know it’s okay. Give him plenty of light pets as well.


If you want to make sure you’re there for the final moments, then you may choose to sleep next to his bed in a sleeping bag for the final nights., If your dog has a favorite dog bed, put it down for him. Otherwise you can put down some other blankets to help him lay down comfortably.Your dog may also have difficulty regulating his body temperature at the end, so keep some blankets handy to put over him in the event that he shows signs of being cold.Elderly dogs are also prone to pressure sores, so put down extra cushioning for an older dog.On a practical note, he may also have problems with incontinence at the end. Choose a spot you can easily clean and bedding you can wash later. If your dog does have any accidents, then clean them up patiently without scolding him. He can’t help it.If your dog gets cold, you can also use a heater in the area to make him more comfortable.
 Hydration is still important to keeping your dog comfortable even in the final hours. Provide a bowl of water next to the dog bed, so your dog doesn’t have to get up to drink. If your is having trouble rising even to drink, then use a clean dropper to help provide water., If your dog has always had a favorite thing to eat, then you should make some of it in case he’s hungry. However, it is pretty common for dogs to lose their appetite in the end stages of life, so don’t force him to eat if he’s not hungry.Solid food may also upset your dog’s stomach at the end as certain systems related to digestion begin shutting down. If your dog still shows a willingness to eat but regular food is upsetting his stomach, then try mixing some baby food with water, or you can also try the Hills A/D diet, which is liquid., If your dog still has enough time and you’re worried about pain in the final stages, then you can consult your vet for pain management options for the final days.Signs that your dog might be in pain include excessive panting or gasping for breath or reluctance to move., Once your dog passes, give him one final hug and say goodbye. It’s a very painful moment, so remember that it’s perfectly okay to cry, but also remember the good times you had with your pet and that he passed in a comfortable, loving environment with you doing everything you could.


Be aware that some dogs seem to "move" or "take a breath" after passing away. As their nervous system shuts down, sometimes muscles in the body or lungs can spasm and look like a sign of life.It’s also common for dogs to pass with their eyes open.You can close them if you want as you say your final goodbye, or you can pull one of the blankets over his head.
 Once your pet has passed, know that you did everything you could and worry about taking care of yourself. Seek comfort in other loved ones who understand the loss. You can also light candles or say a small prayer for your pet if it feels right and helps.


The ASPCA also has a hotline you can call to talk to someone who understands the difficulty of losing a pet. You can reach this hotline at 1-877-GRIEF-10.
 Though it’s unpleasant, you do have to do something with your pet’s remains once he passes. Many people choose to cremate pets or bury them whether in a pet cemetery or closer to home.Many services are available to help you deal with the remains to make the process easier on you. Look online or ask your vet for services in your area that will help with the option of your choosing.

