 This design is only slightly more involved; however, the end result will look more authentic. You will need these six items to make this flag:


(1) yellow fabric (preferably nylon or cotton)
(1) empty 16 fl. oz. plastic bottle
(1) funnel
(2) 11 inches (27.9 cm) latex balloons
(1) rubber band
2 oz. fine grain sand

, Professional grade flags often are made out of nylon which is light-weight, durable, and weather-resistant. Regulation-sized flags are 15 inch (38.1 cm) by 15 inches (38.1 cm).
 Originally, penalty flags were filled with a wide range of objects like fishing sinkers, lead weights, ball bearings, washers, golf balls, and even BB pellets.However, sand is universally used today.


Place one balloon inside of the other for extra durability. Begin by stretching the first balloon over the narrow end of the funnel. Stretch the second balloon over the first. Remove the double-layered balloon from the funnel and reserve.
Fill the bottle with sand by using the funnel. Place the funnel into the open bottle and pour the sand into it. Tap the funnel a few times to make sure all of the sand has gone into the bottle.
Inflate the balloon with enough air to make room for the sand. Twist the balloon’s spout shut to keep air from escaping.
Stretch the balloon’s spout over the bottle and invert so that the sand falls into the balloon. Untwist the kink in the balloon and allow the sand to fill it. Remove the balloon from the bottle.
Let any excess air out of the balloon and tie it shut at the spout. Now, you have a set weight for your flag that is neatly contained.
 Once again, this ensures the same amount of cloth on all sides of your flag, which makes it more aerodynamic. Using sand as a weight will allow your flag to be thrown a considerable distance and with even more accuracy.
 Bring them together and twist the fabric tightly around the weighted balloon. When the balloon seems tightly wrapped and secure, hold the twisted area of fabric shut.
 In order to form a sturdier bundle, you may need to wrap the rubber band around the twisted area of fabric several times.

