 This is the paper you will use for the inside sheets of the notebook. You can use lined or blank paper--it all depends on what you plan on using your notebook for. Stack these sheets together, making sure that they are all perfectly lined up and the edges are even.


You can use whatever size paper you would like. However, for someone who has never made a notebook before, you may want to consider using simple lined binder paper. This paper is generally 8x11 inches. It is easiest to use because it has its own three-ring hole punches already.
Blank sheets are common for art notebooks since a drawing, painting or any other form of art appears more prominent on blank A4 sheets. Darkly lined paper is usually used as a form of diary. Lastly, the lightly lined page is used for business equations and for such purposes. It depends on what you want and how you use it.;
, Take the other sheet of construction paper and place it underneath the stack of paper. This construction paper should be the same size as your inside sheets of paper. Make sure the edges of all of the pages are aligned.
 If you only have a handheld one-hole punch, you can use this as well. Insert your stack of paper, making sure that you keep all of the edges perfectly lined up. Push the stack in as far as it will go so that the edge of the paper can press up against the back of the three-hole punch. The holes should be roughly three or four inches into the paper from the edge of the stack. Press the punch down so that it makes the holes.


If you use the one-hole punch, use a ruler to mark out where the holes should go. You will want your holes to break the edge of your paper stack up into three sections. Make your holes about three centimeters away from the edge of the paper stack.
 You can do this in a variety of ways. Run your ribbon through the two end holes and tie a ribbon above or through the middle hole; cut the ribbon into three smaller ribbons and tie a bow through each separate hole; or weave it through the holes and then tie it together.

