 Your specific duties as a business lawyer will vary greatly depending on the job you end up getting. In general, business lawyers will:


Help businesses organize their affairs. This could include creating the business and filing the proper paperwork, negotiating mergers and acquisitions, developing financing strategies, and accessing investors and lenders.
Work with startups on issues including securities, intellectual property, tax law, and labor law.
Litigate suits either started by the business you work for or started by someone else suing the business you work for.
Deal with international business issues including cross-border transactions, international financing arrangements, and international trade issues.;
, Before you go down the long path of becoming a business lawyer, you should do some research to help you determine if it is something you really want to do. Contact local businesses and ask to speak to their legal department. If the business is smaller, they may not have their own legal team and they may hire outside counsel. When you get ahold of business lawyers, ask them some of the following questions:


How long did it take them to get where they are now?
Has their career path been rewarding?
How can you get a head start?
When did they know what they wanted to do for a living?
What schools did they go to and what did they study?

, Before you can go to law school you must obtain an undergraduate degree. To do so, try and attend a reputable four year university and major in something related to business. Check school websites and determine if you have the credentials to get accepted. In addition, call the schools you are interested in and ask about their business offerings.


If you already know at this point that you want to be a business lawyer, you should be majoring in business and taking some pre-law classes if possible. Within the business discipline, decide if you want to focus on something like international business or entrepreneurship.
If you do not yet know you want to be a business lawyer when you go to college, you should not feel discouraged if you do not major in business. Law schools accept individuals with diverse backgrounds from all walks of life. However, the more experience you get in business the better off you will be.
 While you are attending college to obtain your four year degree, you should spend as much time as possible in a business environment. Apart from majoring in business, you should work during our summers at a corporation or business of your choosing. Talk with your school about summer opportunities they may have and contacts they may be able to pass along.


If you do get an opportunity to work in a business setting, tell your superiors about your goals of becoming a business lawyer. They may be willing to let you work with their lawyers in order to learn a little bit about how it works. Even if they do not have in-house lawyers where you work, your boss may be able to tailor your experience to your goals and aspirations.
 Before you take the LSAT you should prepare by taking a course or by reading a study book. Courses are often offered online or in-person and you should choose the method that best fits your needs. Study guides can be found at any number of book stores.
 After you graduate with a four year degree, you should turn your focus to getting into law school. Apart from sending law schools a general admissions application, you will have to take the LSAT. The LSAT is a standardized test meant to measure reading and verbal reasoning skills that are considered necessary to succeed in law school. It consists of five 35-minute sections of multiple choice questions. An unscored writing sample is also administered before the end of the test. The LSAT measures three separate skills:


First, it measures your ability to read and understand lengthy and complex materials similar to those often found in law school.
Second, it measures your ability to understand structured relationships and to draw logical conclusions regarding that structure.
Third, it assesses your ability to analyze, evaluate, and complete arguments., After taking the LSAT and receiving a score you are comfortable with, it is time to apply to law schools. If possible, you should try to attend an American Bar Association (ABA) accredited law school. ABA accredited law schools go through a rigorous process ensuring the school conforms to national standards in legal education and practice. In most states (excluding California), you must attend an ABA accredited school in order to sit for the bar exam. Because passing the bar exam is a prerequisite to becoming a business lawyer, attending an ABA accredited school is very important.Also, look for programs with strong business law programs. Visit each school's website and read about the program. You can also look online and find different rankings and reviews about each school's business law program. Do this research because you want to get the best business law education possible.
 Each law school requires its' own application. However, to make things easier, all applications are compiled using the Law School Admission Council (LSAC) website. In general, each application will require you to compile the following information:


LSAT score;
Undergraduate transcripts;
Letters of recommendation;
Evaluations; and
A general application, which will include your personal information as well as an essay., Once you have compiled all the required information on LSAC's website, you will submit each of your applications using their service. When you submit each application, you will need to pay each school's application fee. If you are using LSAC, you will pay a one-time fee of $155 plus $12 for each application you send in., Apart from the classes you will be required to take, you will have the opportunity to take a number of classes of your choosing. If you are serious about being a business lawyer, you should focus your energy on those types of classes. For example, if your law school offers them, you should try and take any or all of the following types of classes:


Corporations;
Securities Regulation;
Corporate Finance;
Mergers and Acquisitions;
Corporate Theory; and
Corporate Governance., During law school you should start building your professional network with a focus on specializing in business law. One great way you can specialize is to network with other business law lawyers. Contact your law school, your state bar association, and your various local bar associations and inquire about upcoming networking events. Usually you will be able to find networking events that are specifically tailored to business law. Once you have events to attend, you should by utilizing these tips:


Have a plan. Go into a networking event ready to discuss you strengths, weaknesses, and areas of interest.
Forget your personal agenda. Make it your goal to be friendly, open, and honest, not necessarily to get a job.
Follow-up. After your event, follow-up with the people you met. Let them know that you enjoyed the conversation and that you are there for them should they need your help., In addition to having a strong professional network you should also strive to have strong professional credentials. Some law schools offer certificate programs in business law, which lets other professionals know that you have completed a rigorous study of business law. For example, Berkeley offers a business law certificate for those students successfully completing a number of business law classes.

In addition, consider getting a dual degree, most often an M.B.A. and J.D.. For example, Columbia Law School offers a three year program that, if successfully completed, will result in you getting a J.D. and an M.B.A..All of these extra credentials will help you stand out when looking for a job. If you are serious about business law, do as much as you can to rise above everyone else in your field.
 During law school and after becoming a lawyer you should always try to stay engaged in your field. Law schools will usually offer clubs or associations for students to be a part of. For example, the University of Michigan has a Business Law Association that helps students interested in business law pursue academic and professional opportunities.Even as a practicing attorney there are opportunities out there for you. For example, the ABA has a Business Law Section that you can be a part of.For a small yearly fee you will get updates on legal precedents, job opportunities, and networking opportunities.


These professional organizations are a great way to get involved, meet people, and stay up-to-date in your area of the law. Check with your school or state bar association for even more opportunities.
 Once you receive your J.D. (i.e., law degree) you will have to sit for, and pass, the bar exam in the state you are planning on practicing in. Before you take the bar exam you should seriously consider enrolling in a preparation class. These classes will usually last about two-and-one-half months and will cover all of the material you will need to know on the exam. Most classes will meet, either in person or online, for three to four hours every weekday. Aside from classes, you will also be expected to devote a large amount of time to studying on your own.


One of the most well-renowned organizations offering bar review classes is barbri.While these classes can often cost thousands of dollars, most people will tell you they are well worth the money.
 The bar exam is a two or three day test (depending on the state) meant to assess your competence and worthiness to practice law. During the most common two day exam, one day will be devoted to taking a standardized 200-question test covering constitutional law, contracts, criminal law, evidence, real property, and torts. This section is all multiple choice and will be taken during two, three hour periods. The second day of testing is devoted to a number of essays testing a broader range of subjects, some of which are state specific., The MPRE is a standardized test meant to measure a candidate's knowledge and understanding of the laws and regulations surrounding a lawyer's professional conduct. The test itself is a two-hour multiple-choice exam, which tests the ABA Model Rules of Professional and Judicial Conduct.Passing scores will vary by state. Check with your local jurisdiction for more specific information. Before you take the test you should utilize any study guides and practice tests you can get your hands on.


The National Conference of Bar Examiners, the organization that administers the MPRE, offers free study guides and practice exams. In addition, if you took a bar review course like barbri, you will often be able to utilize their MPRE materials for free.
 Most law schools offer on campus interview (OCI) opportunities for students in their second and third years of study. During OCI, employers will come to campus and interview students for summer internships and permanent positions.These opportunities are incredibly valuable and offer one structured way to help you find a job before you even graduate.


In most cases, in order to be a part of OCI, you will need to submit a resume and other application materials for each job you want to interview for. Most of the time these materials will be submitted to the school and then disseminated out to the various employers. Once the application period closes, those chosen for interviews will be contacted., Informational interviews are a great way to not only find a job, but also to build a professional network. An informational interview is an informal conversation between yourself and someone working in an area of the law that interests you. To prepare for and conduct a successful informational interview, you should do at least the following:


Identify people to interview. Use contacts you already have and make new ones in an attempt to locate people to interview. Talk to your friends and family about potential interviewees. If that doesn't work, contact businesses on your own. Research businesses you would like to talk to and ask them if there is someone there you can speak with.
Prepare for the interview. Once you know who you are going to contact you will need to prepare for the interview. Put together a short introduction that includes your reasons for contacting the person.
Call or email the person and ask for an informational interview. Be sure to stress the fact that you are not looking for a job but that you simply want to talk about their job and career path. Ask if there is a convenient time to sit down in person for about 30 minutes. Be prepared to conduct the interview on the spot if that is the only time the person has available.
Conduct the informational interview. When the day comes, go to your informational interview and dress as if it were a job interview. Make sure you restate your reason for the interview and then jump right in with your open-ended questions. Ask about their job, what they do, and how they got where they are. Most importantly, ask if they have any contacts that may be able to help you.
Follow-up. After the informational interview you should call or email the person and thank them for their time. Be sure you reiterate your gratitude. Stay in touch with them over time and let them know how you are doing., In today's world, a lot of job postings can be found online using different job related websites or on the business's website itself. Take time every day to scour the internet and look for jobs you might be interested in. If you find one, apply diligently and make sure you submit all the required documents.


After submitting your application, contact the employer and let them know you have applied. convey your interest in the position and let them know you would be happy to set up a time to interview.
 If you are having trouble finding a job, consider asking another business lawyer if you can share office space with them. Often, lawyers with their own offices will be happy to share the cost of rent. In addition, ask if they would be willing to pass cases and tasks on to you that they do not want to do. If they are open to it, work out some sort of fee arrangement so you can get compensated for your work.
 In a lot of situations, particularly for new and young attorneys, finding a paying job can prove difficult. If you are having trouble finding a job, consider offering your professional services to business for free. Every business can use a lawyer's services and they will be hard-pressed to pass considering they will be getting those services for free. If you do end up volunteering your time, take your work seriously as it may lead to a paid position in the future.

