 Before you start working on your case, you must figure out which court has appropriate jurisdiction over the subject matter of your lawsuit and the person or business you want to sue.


Texas trial courts include district courts, county courts, justice courts, and municipal courts. District courts are civil courts of general jurisdiction, and can hear nearly any civil case if the amount in controversy is at least $200.The specific court also must have power to order the defendant to do something or pay you money if you win your case. Personal jurisdiction generally extends to people living in or doing business in that court's district. You also can sue in the court district where the incident happened that gave rise to the dispute., Organize all the documentation you have for your case and make sure you meet the legal requirements to state a claim.


Before you file a lawsuit, you must check the law that applies to your type of claim and make sure you have a valid legal claim.You might consider asking an attorney about your case – even going to a free consultation can help you determine if you have a valid claim. You can read the state law that applies to your case on your own by going to http://www.statutes.legis.state.tx.us/.
You also must check the statute of limitations that applies to your type of case. Statutes of limitations are deadlines after which you cannot file a lawsuit. For most cases in Texas, the statute of limitations is two years from the date the dispute arose – but in some cases you have as long as four years to file suit., You may be able to find a form online that you can fill out to open your case with the state court.


Many common forms also come with instructions for filling out the forms and filing them with the clerk. If you have instructions for your forms, make sure you read them thoroughly before you start filling out your forms., Although you can represent yourself in state court, an attorney has a better understanding of the laws involved, as well as court procedures and local rules.


If you don't think you can afford an attorney to represent you in the case as a whole, you may be able to find one willing to review your forms and give you advice on a piecemeal basis. You also may qualify for free or reduced-fee representation through your local legal aid clinic or other programs offered by the local bar association.
In some cases such as personal injury cases, attorneys generally work on contingency, so you don't need to worry about paying attorney's fees up front.
 Check local rules or use a petition filed in another case in the same court as a guide for how to format your petition correctly.


Following the correct format, use the first paragraph of your complaint to state who you are and who you are suing. Then explain to the court in clear terms why you are suing the defendant. Set forth the facts of your case clearly, attaching evidence to support those facts as necessary.Describe the legal basis for your claim, citing a specific Texas law if you found the right law in your research, and explain how that law applies to the facts of your case.
Close your petition by asking the court for specific relief, including a specific amount of monetary damages, and any other relief the court sees fit to award you.Leave space at the bottom of your petition to sign it, and type your contact information including your address, phone number, and email address.
 To initiate your lawsuit, you must file your petition and any other required forms in the clerk of court's office.


Expect to pay around $300 to file your lawsuit. You can check with the court clerk before you bring your forms and find out the exact amount.If you cannot afford the filing fees, you can file a request for a waiver with the clerk. You must submit evidence of your inability to pay, including documentation of your income and financial records. You also must complete an affidavit of indigency, which must be signed in the presence of a notary., After you've filed your petition in civil court, you are responsible for making sure all defendants have legal notice of the lawsuit against them.The court clerk will issue a citation and help you arrange for a process server, typically a sheriff's deputy, to serve the papers on the other side.You must pay a fee for service of process, typically around $60., Before your trial, you have the opportunity to exchange information with the other side as you prepare your case.


The Texas Rules of Civil Procedure outline discovery plans you can choose. Through these plans, you have the opportunity to exchange written questions, or request documents and records or examine other property.Either you or the other party also may request depositions of each other or witnesses in the case. A deposition is an interview in which the person answers questions under oath while a court reporter records a transcript of the proceedings.If you receive any written discovery or deposition requests, make sure you respond fully within the amount of time set out in the court rules., Some courts may require mediation before a final trial is scheduled.


If the judge requires mediation, you must meet with a neutral third-party and attempt to work out a compromise with the other side to resolve your claim.
Court-ordered mediation also requires you to report to the judge regarding the outcome of mediation before you can have your case set for trial., If you cannot reach settlement with the other side on your case, the matter will be decided in a trial before the court.


Organize your evidence and arrange for all witnesses you intend to call to be in court for the scheduled trial date.
Generally you must prepare an opening statement at the beginning of the trial and a closing statement after the trial is over, so make notes for those statements. You also should practice interviewing witnesses and write a list of questions you intend to ask.
When both sides have presented their cases, the judge will make his decision and issue an order.