 To do a headspin, you will use your legs, arms, and core muscles to balance and spin your body around. You need to warm up these muscles to get the blood flowing into your muscles and to prevent injury. Warm up for 10 to 20 minutes to get your body ready to do a headspin.Jog in place or do lunges to warm up your leg muscles.
Do jumping jacks to warm up your arms and legs.
Perform some yoga poses for balance like tree pose to warm up your core muscles.;
, To perform a headspin, you need a flat floor so that you can balance easier. When you’re a beginner, it helps to practice a headspin on a floor that is smooth like a dance studio’s floor or hardwood floors.Don’t try to do a headspin on carpet, asphalt, or concrete.
 A great way to help you achieve a headspin is to wear something on your head to create resistance. Try wearing a beanie hat, bandana, cap, or even a skateboard helmet when you’re learning to do a headspin.
 Starting on your hands and knees, bow your head and bring the crown of your head down to the floor. Rest the crown of your head on the floor and put the palms of your hands flat on the floor with your fingers pointing away from your face. Move your palms away from your face to create some space between you head and your hands.This creates a tripod shape between your head and two hands.
Your forearms should be perpendicular to the ground.
 Lift your knees off the floor and gently walk your feet up towards your hands. One at a time, lift your leg to place your knee on top of your tricep or elbow. Make sure your head, neck, and back stay in line as you do this.


Balance in this position as you take a few deep breaths. If you feel yourself falling to one direction, gently bring your leg down and get your balance again before putting it back on top of your elbow.
 Before moving your legs up, you need to engage your abdominal muscles to keep your balance. Activate your abdominals and then slowly lift your legs up and off of your elbows, still keeping your knees bent.Balance in this position for a few deep breaths before moving on.
 Keeping your abdominals activated, gently straighten your legs into a full headstand. Do this slowly to ensure you hold your balance the entire time. If you feel yourself falling, bring your legs back down and start over.


Hold the headstand for 3-5 deep breaths and then gently return your feet back to the ground.
When you come down from a headstand, slowly come into a sitting position, having your head be the last to come up. Your head will have a lot of blood in it, so don't bring it up too fast or you might become lightheaded.
 While in a headstand, move your legs so they are split apart in a “V” shape. Engage your core muscles to keep your balance while moving your legs. Once in the “V”position, move your legs back together in a headstand. Do this several times to get comfortable balancing while your legs are moving.
 While in your headstand, bring your legs down into a crossed position and then back up. Try doing this with your right leg crossed over your left and then repeat it crossing your left leg over your right. Make sure your spine stays completely in line with your head when you do this., Staying in your headstand, bring your legs into the “V” position and then rotate them around so that your right leg is pointing forward and your left leg is pointing backwards Then, rotate them back around to bring them back to a headstand position. Repeat this process with your left leg moving to the front.


Your legs should draw a large circle when doing this move.
 Slowly spin your legs while in a headstand first clockwise and then counter clockwise without stopping the motion at all. Keep your abdominal muscles engaged to help you balance as you continuously move your legs around.
 After spinning just your legs around, continue the motion to spin your legs clockwise, but this time, whip them around and lift your hands off the floor so that your upper body spins around in the direction your legs are moving., When you’ve spun around an entire rotation, put your hands back down on the floor to catch yourself and stop the motion. Use your abdominal muscles to keep your balance.


Your legs will still move, so try to get them back in the slow spinning motion you started with as you gain your balance.
 When you get comfortable doing one rotation, you can use your hands to gently tap and push the floor to speed up your spin. Spinning faster will allow you to complete multiple rotations before stopping.