 It's said that assuming "makes an ass out of you and me". Well, nothing has changed. It does. The caution is that sometimes people don’t like being checked up on, and although you have the best intentions, to avoid assumption, still you may end up being slapped or told off by someone if you ask "too many" or the "wrong" questions. A healthy balance between the two is recommended.


Making major decisions on assumptions is very dangerous. People should however be more tolerant of one another when it comes to assumptions about smaller, minor things. It is human nature to assume and we should be more forgiving of our brothers and sisters for this.

Learn not to sweat the small stuff. Be ready to defend yourself with good reasons if someone does make an assumption about you or your life. Live a clean, transparent life of integrity that will leave little room for assumption. Don’t be quick to judge others. Make every effort to live at peace with everyone.;
, If you have had an insurance claim declined by your insurance company, you will know that this is one of the more detrimental acts of foolishness one can commit.


Totally relying on your broker to represent you -- not "the company" -- is foolishness. At the point of your claim, there is nothing stopping your broker from merely proving that they sent you the documents for you to read and approve, you didn't, and they covered themselves, while you fumbled your opportunity. Read supporting documents thoroughly and ask many questions. This is an area where you need to be as pedantic as possible. It could save you a lot of money and disappointment in the long run.
 Those believing they can do this alone are somewhat foolish. Unless you have a sound knowledge of law, having a legally qualified person approve your contracts is a must. The impact of having a clause against a person’s constitutional rights in a contract for example is a sure pathway to trouble. Ask many questions.


Check for gray areas as these will always be turned in favour of the person who drafted and offered the contract. Don’t be tricked through "unread" contractual obligations and small print (get out the magnifying glass). Insist on openness, transparency and using language that is easily understood. Highlight areas you wish the other party to a contract to pay particular attention to by either typing the same in bold or underlining it so that you cannot be accused of "hiding things" in the small print of a contract at a later stage.

Get one or two trusted advisers to read over a contract prior to signing it and do not accept anything you are not satisfied with until you fully understand the impact of what you are committing to by accepting the contract.
 Once your contract is signed, a sure way to drink of the cup of foolishness is to breach (violate) your contract. Although, breach of contract can be a strategic move, yet generally, this should be avoided.


There are better ways to exit a situation if you need to than to deliberately breach a contract. The impact could turn out to be more trouble than you can handle and can see you wrapped up in expensive litigation for a time to come.
 Governments that have passed National Credit Acts and have imposed strict laws surrounding borrowing and lending of money are to be commended.


Few things are more stressful than being over-extended financially. People have taken their own lives over this. The shame of bad debt, judgements and asset repossessions is hurtful not only to the person who experiences it, but their loved ones too. It is just not worth it.
 The bible teaches that this is foolishness. Standing surety for someone else's debt is often an emotional decision.


An emotional decision about money is usually a foolish decision. Saying "no" might just help the other person to re-evaluate their needs and priorities. If you can’t afford it with honest declaration or without surety, don’t buy it. As simple as that.
 A saying exists – "In God we trust, everything else we audit". The same should be for property or real estate prior to purchasing it.


Avoid unproved or unimproved real estate: you want to physically see paint, the bricks and mortar, or see land before investing in it. Buying "off plan" is risky business, but this is excluded from the advice here. Many people have been caught buying "non-existent real estate," fractions, undivided land shares, or have invested in timeshare only to be sorely disappointed.
Only use reputable companies (and use title insurance) for this kind of investment and please do visit the location if possible prior to signing on the dotted line. The wrecking yard or pig farm next door -- that you never saw -- may trash you plans completely.
 Want your money stolen out of your bank account? Your hard-drive infected with scary viruses? Your hard drive crashing on you at that crucial moment? If not, don’t do this.


A computer accessing the internet without the correct security and anti-virus is a risk to all of us. Make sure you load a reputable anti-virus system. Try avoid the "free trials" available on the internet. Instead, purchase the original software belonging to a reputable anti-virus and security company.
Update your anti-virus regularly or buy a product that automatically updates every time you access the internet. This is a non-negotiable.
 Objecting to certain unappealing traits or aspects of the men/women in your lives is not always a bad thing. We should sometimes be prepared to engage with others in an effort to "call them higher". Foolishness lies in believing that you were sent into someone’s life to fix them.


The need to fix a person is often rooted in one’s own insecurities, or a need to be needed. Look out for the warning signs. The old saying ‘a leopard does not change its spots’ is a wise saying. Expect people not to change and become accepting of them as they are. If they do change, it will be a rarity and very often out of the courage of their own life experience or convictions, and will very unlikely have anything to do with you. This is very often not an effort worth making and should be avoided.
 This is similar to taking justice into your own hands (see below). It always backfires. Always. It is said ‘the road to hell is paved with good intentions’. This is true. An active, strategic effort at trying to teach someone a lesson is never a good thing. We should trust that God has their lives in His hand, and that he will take them on the journey he intended them to be on.


Strategic interference in people’s lives generally backfire, and you will end up being viewed as the perpetrator. This is not a risk worth taking and will convert you into a fool in no time.
 Need I say more? This always ends in heartache and pain. I am yet to hear of an extra-marital affair that did not end in this way. The whole idea of ‘he is my soul mate’ when you or he/she has committed to someone else etc. etc. is foolishness. We are all victims or victors of the choices we make.


Take a whole long time to make the decision to commit to marriage in the first place, and revere the responsibility of the commitment you have made. An extra-marital affair always brings about shame, betrayal and dishonour to all parties involved. Many powerful leaders have seen their worlds crashing down at the mercy of this foolish act. Resist and the temptation will flee.
 We have seen this happen in the movies a few times, haven’t we? Sometimes, a hero emerges. This is once again, very rare. Often, engaging in this behavior will see you revert from hero to zero in a few minutes flat. There is a time and a place for everything – and that includes dealing with injustice.


Your country’s judicial system should sufficiently offer you protection and redemption for any injustice you have experienced. If you perceive an injustice has occurred to you or another, seek legal counsel prior to attempting to take justice into your own hands.
 Want to see yourself in court over a defamation case? Go ahead and whisper untruths (or perceived truths) to another about someone else. Gossip happens so quickly and is especially rampant in closed communities, like offices and churches.


The consequences to this are great, and often irrevocable in the victim’s life. Poisonous seeds planted in a person’s mind about another will grow into a tree and relationships will always be sorely affected by this foolish act. Stop this before it starts.
 This piggy-back’s on the comment above regarding gossip and slander. Once those poisonous seeds have been planted, you have an opportunity to exercise wisdom or foolishness in how you react to these seeds.


You can uproot weeds of gossip by taking them back immediately when you or another may plant them, or allow them to set in and take root in your hearts and minds. Keeping our consciences clear and restoring people in love by correcting it when they gossip about others is definitely the solution.
 It is frustrating and disappointing when you are on the other side of a broken promise. There are often financial and legal consequences to this too, for example breaking off an engagement or breach of contract. Sometimes, circumstances cannot be prevented and you have no choice but to break off a promise.


The trick is to exercise caution before committing in a promise to someone, whether it be verbal or written. Think of all the consequences prior to making a promise. Consider whether you in fact have mandate or permission to make that promise. Avoid being a people pleaser by telling people what they want to hear as opposed to the truth. The break of a promise on your part (whether perceived or factual) ruins your reputation. Once that is lost, you are marginalized to be among the counsel of fools. Try avoiding this by being pro-active and thinking before you act (or make a promise in this case).
 Many healers come in the name of ‘natural therapy’ with the intention of deceiving people. Be careful prior to purchasing these products and always ensure some scientific research or medical research supports the product you are using. Most illegal drugs are also derived from natural sources. Go figure!


Check ingredients of foodstuffs and vitamins and minerals. Even trace elements of allergens such as iodine could result in the loss of your life if you are sensitive to this. This is definitely not a risk worth taking. Many people have been made a fool of or have flippantly used these products, only to be laughed at by professionals or caused themselves further damage or harm in the long run.
 Unprotected sex and promiscuous behavior, including sharing needles with drug use etc. is foolishness. Receive education about these issues, which is freely available in most countries.


Take responsibility for yourself in these circumstances. Irresponsibility in this area causes a ripple effect and many lives can be damaged or destroyed by foolish acts such as these. Also, you could see yourself in court for attempted murder. Take responsibility before things get out of hand. Adopt the philosophy that no man or woman can be trusted in this area, and protect yourself. It only takes once to fall into this trap, and very often a lifetime to recover, if at all.

