 Make sure you store your flashcards in a safe place. You want to store them somewhere where they'll stay in order and not get damaged and smudged.


You can store index cards in your desk at school or at home. You can also keep them in a binder, folder, or empty pencil box. You may want to tie a rubber band around the index cards to keep them in place.
You can also punch a hole in the top right or left corner of each index card. Then, you can purchase a metal ring, like you would use for a key ring, and place the cards through the ring. This will make them easy to flip through when studying and keep them in the order you want. One small downside to this method, however, is that you may want to reorganize the cards on occasion. Changing the order of things slightly when studying can help improve memory. It may be cumbersome to adjust the order of your cards if you have to remove them from a ring.
 When you finish using your index cards, make sure they're stacked in the same direction. For example, make sure the sides with the vocabulary words are pointed up while the sides with the definitions are pointed down. This way, you can more easily keep things consistent when you're studying.
 For effective studying, you should not try to cram everything into a signal session. It's recommended that you study 30 minutes to an hour at a time, with breaks in between. Organize your index cards to accommodate short study sessions.Try to figure out how much vocabulary you can reasonably learn in an hour. For example, maybe you can set out to learn 10 words. Divide your cards into sets of 10.
You may have to do some trial and error to figure out a good pace for you. You may find, for example, it takes you less than an hour to learn 10 words or that it takes you a lot longer. You can add more or less cards to the deck for your next study session.
 Where you study matters a lot in terms of effectiveness. When you're studying, you should bring all the materials you need and leave behind any unnecessary materials.Try storing your index cards on your desk or workspace. This way, when you go there to study your cards will be there waiting.

