 You can download a copy of the application, titled the “Uniform Firearm Application Permit to Carry a Pistol,” at the website of the Minnesota Department of Public Safety, available at https://dps.mn.gov/divisions/bca/bca-divisions/administrative/Documents/Permit-to-Carry-a-Pistol-Application.pdf. Alternatively, you can get a paper copy at any sheriff’s office.You can find a list of all the sheriff’s offices in Minnesota at https://netforum.avectra.com/eWeb/DynamicPage.aspx?Site=MSA&WebCode=MNsherifflist.;
, You will need to complete the application in ink. Either print neatly or type. You must fill out the entire application form completely, or your application may not be considered. When you complete the application, you will be asked to provide the following information:Personal data. This includes your name, birth date, current address, physical description and any identifying physical characteristics (tattoos, scars, etc.), and your driver’s license or identification number.
Previous residential addresses for the past five years.
 As part of the application form, you must sign an authorization statement that will allow the licensing agency to conduct a background check to verify your eligibility to hold a firearm permit. The Minnesota Department of Human Services, which includes the Department of Public Safety, will check whether any of the following applies. Any of these could disqualify you from receiving a permit:Committed by a court as mentally ill, developmentally disabled, or dangerous to the public.
Committed by a court as chemically dependent.
Found incompetent to stand trial or found not guilty by reason of mental illness.
Informally admitted to a treatment facility for chemical dependency (applies only to peace officers).
 You must satisfactorily pass a training course in the safe use of a handgun within one year prior to submitting your application for a permit to carry. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety maintains a list of licensed and qualified instructors, which you can access at https://dps.mn.gov/divisions/bca/bca-divisions/administrative/Pages/firearms-instructor-locator.aspx. You can scroll through the list, or simply enter your zip code in the space provided and search for instructors who are near you. The content, scheduling and prices of the classes are managed by each facility on its own, so you may wish to contact more than one location to review prices and availability.Some sheriff’s offices or police departments offer classes. These appear on the list of licensed providers. You may also wish to contact your own local law enforcement office to find out if they provide classes.
As one example, the Ballistic Firearms Training Center in Hutchinson, MN, offers classes on an as-needed basis, when five or more students request a class. The classes cost $75 and can be taught at their facility or at your own location, if you are within 120 miles of Hutchinson.
The training class is generally completed in one day’s session. The contents of the class will vary from site to site, but it generally consists of understanding self defense, firearm basics, shooting fundamentals, legal issues related to firearm use and possession, firearm skills, and a review of state laws., The completed application form must be presented to your local sheriff’s office, in the county in which you reside. Non-residents of Minnesota, who are applying for a license to purchase or carry a gun in Minnesota, will need to complete the same application process, but may present the completed application to any sheriff’s office. Along with the completed application, you will need to present the following information:Your driver’s license, state identification card, or U.S. Passport.
The certificate of completion of the firearms training class.
If applicable, a copy of any pardon or other order restoring your right to hold a permit to carry a firearm.
The application and supporting documentation must be presented in person. You may not submit an application by mail., The fee for a new permit to carry is established by each local sheriff’s office, not to exceed $100. The fee for a renewal is also set by each sheriff, with a maximum limit of $75. You should contact the sheriff’s office before you go there to find out what forms of payment will be accepted., When you submit your application, the state has up to 30 days to conduct a background check, verify the information on your application, and make a determination on your license. You will be notified by mail if your license is approved., Your license to carry a firearm expires five years after the date of issuance. Within 90 days prior to the expiration, you may apply to renew it. To renew, you must re-take the safety training class and submit the same application form as for an original application. The renewal fee is generally less than for an original application. You will need to check with your local sheriff’s office for the renewal fee. The renewal application should be submitted to the sheriff’s office in the county where you reside.