 Choose an area where you have at least 50 meters (164.0 ft) of space on all sides. Football fields, soccer pitches, and open park spaces are all good options. Make sure there are not too many trees or bushes for your boomerang to get caught in, or large bodies of water for it to fall into.Avoid practicing your boomerang throw in crowded areas, or places with a lot of windows or parked cars. It can be difficult to predict where your boomerang will land, and a mis-thrown boomerang can cause significant injury or damage to property.You should always throw from the center of an open space. This will help you to throw more consistently, while also providing some leeway on all sides if the flight of the boomerang doesn't go as planned., Wind is one of the most important factors in the proper return of a boomerang. Ideally, you want a nice calm day, with winds between 0 to 10 mph (16 km/h). Some boomerangs will not return in completely calm weather, but most will. Avoid throwing your boomerang in high winds, as it will distort the path of the boomerang and throw it off course.Light rain will not distort the flight of the boomerang. If you choose to use your boomerang on rainy days, put a protective seal on it, especially if it's made from wood, to prevent it from swelling with moisture.Even though falling snow will not affect the flight of the boomerang, snow on the ground will conceal a fallen boomerang, making it almost impossible to find., You want to throw the boomerang "around" the wind, meaning that you throw it to the right of an oncoming wind, and it returns on the left (or the opposite if you're left-handed). You want to throw your boomerang between 45 to 90 degrees to the right or left of an oncoming wind.To figure out wind direction, pick up a fistful of grass or leave and throw them into the air. If the leaves blow across your face to the right, you will need to turn left, and vice versa.Stand so that the wind is blowing directly into your face, then turn about 45 degrees to the left or right, depending on which is your dominant hand.Some boomerangs work better when thrown at a wider angle to the wind (up to 90 degrees) so experiment a little to find out which angle works best for you.