 These ingredients will aim to leave your hair feeling refreshed, but without drying it out.



Apple cider vinegar: Sounds a bit weird, but apple cider vinegar contains nutrients which make hair stronger, shinier and generally more healthy, and as well as that it removes any residue from cosmetic products which may be what's causing your hair to feel heavy, so it'll give your hair it's bounce back! It also regulates the pH of the scalp so is good for those of you who get dandruff. To use, add 4 tablespoon (59.1 ml) to other ingredients of your choice, or it can be used alone as a rinse by diluting 1 part vinegar to 2/3 parts water.

Strawberries: strawberries are good at regulating oil production in the scalp and rinsing off any oil from your hair, plus they are packed full of vitamin C, which is essential for hair health. Mash a few up and apply to hair either alone or with other ingredients of your choice. You may choose to mix with a lightly moisturizing ingredient such as mayonnaise to prevent over-drying. Leave on for just 10 minutes.

Baking soda: this is an effective ingredient for removing build up of cosmetic products, grease and dirt from the hair. A tablespoon could be added to a moderately moisturizing ingredient, (eg. mayonnaise or yoghurt), or it can be mixed with water to make a paste and used in place of shampoo.

Lemon juice: a well known astringent, it closes the pores on your scalp, reducing oil production. Be warned that lemon juice may lighten hair colour if used regularly, especially if you go in the sun with it still on your hair. Can use alone, diluted (juice of 1 lemon in 1 cup of water), to rinse hair, or can be added to a mask.
These ingredients are mostly aiming to absorb or rinse away any oil and dirt. Unless your hair is extremely greasy, it's best to only use these a maximum of once a month to avoid taking away too much oil which can cause the scalp to overproduce oil, (making it worse), otherwise try to use them with moisturizing things, either from the dry hair section, or combination hair section to ensure that the hair isn't being over-dried.

