 Wear long pants, a long-sleeve shirt, and sturdy work gloves. You should also wear protective goggles and consider tying back your hair if it's long. While this may seem excessive, cryogenic-temperature alcohol is highly flammable, can cause dizziness and irritate your skin.Your workspace should be free from food and drink. It should also be well ventilated and away from hot surfaces or open flame.;
, You'll need a 2 gallon (7.6 L) soda bottle, a smaller plastic bottle (such as a smaller soda bottle) that can fit inside the larger soda bottle, scissors, 99% isopropyl alcohol, and pellets of dry ice.


Both bottles should be empty, clean, and dry. If you remove the labels, you'll be able to watch the creation of cryogenic-temperature alcohol.
 Use a pair of sharp scissors to cut approximately 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) off the top of both bottles. Recycle or discard the tops.


Make sure the smaller bottle can easily fit in the larger bottle.
 First, you'll want to use scissors to poke holes around the bottom and lower sides of the small bottle. Then, set it inside the larger one.
 Evenly distribute them along the inside of the 2 gallon (7.6 L) bottle while you hold the smaller empty bottle in the center. This will keep it level.If you don't have pellets, you can chip your own dry ice. Just be careful using a knife and chip the dry ice into 1/2" chunks.
Always wear gloves when handling dry ice, as it can cause injure bare skin.
 Slowly pour the alcohol directly over the dry ice pellets. You may want to gradually turn the bottle as you pour, since the dry ice will start fogging, making it difficult to see.


If you use a lower percentage isopropyl alcohol, it will freeze in a thick gel.Remember to avoid touching the cryogenic-temperature alcohol, which will stick to your hands.
 Once the dry ice has stopped fogging, you should be able to see that your smaller bottle now has several inches of the clear cryogenic-temperature alcohol in it. You can now begin using it in experiments.


Your liquid is now at its lowest temperature. Use extreme care when handling.
 It can be kept at room temperature for future use for up to 30 days. Then, discard the isopropyl alcohol according to local regulations.


Do not inhale, touch with bare skin, or consume the cryogenic-temperature alcohol. If it gets in your eyes or on your skin, rinse repeatedly with water. If inhaled, move to fresh air and rest. Call a poison control center if you feel unwell., This is a simple experiment. Use tongs to dip items into the cryogenic-temperature alcohol until they become hard. Remove the items and shatter them, if you like.


Flowers, leaves, fruits, vegetables, and small rubber balls are just a few of the things you can freeze and shatter using cryogenic-temperature alcohol. Do not eat them and remember to wear gloves when handling.
 Use a small balloon that you can nearly fit into your container of cryogenic-temperature alcohol. While wearing gloves, dip most of the balloon into the liquid. The balloon will start to shrink and you should notice liquid inside the balloon.To return the "liquid air" inside the balloon back into a gas, simply place your balloon in a warm area and wait for the particles to move faster and expand.
 Roll modeling clay into a ball and dip it into the cryogenic-temperature alcohol. Drop it on the floor or another hard surface and watch it shatter., If you've found an experiment that uses liquid nitrogen, consider whether or not it will work with cryogenic-temperature alcohol. While the liquid nitrogen creates nitrogen gas, the cryogenic-temperature alcohol does not. Choose experiments that simply use the liquid nitrogen for its temperature-lowering aspect.


Never eat any experiments that you've done with food and cryogenic-temperature alcohol.

