 Keep your eyes focused on the ball, and:


Adopt a wide stance to keep your balance when catching. It can help to keep one of your feet a little in front of the other.;
, As the ball moves through the air toward you, you're going to need to reach out with your hands to grab it mid-flight. Do not tense your hands; this can lead to pain from the impact. Instead:


Keep your hands wide-spread.
Keep your fingers relaxed.
Reach toward the ball., Depending on the speed at which the ball was thrown and the amount of spin on it, you might use either or both of your hands. For lobs and light throws, simply follow the ball with your eyes while reaching with your hands, and:


Watch the ball move into your reaching hands.
Squeeze your fingers around the ball to trap it in your hand.
NOTE: catching with two hands may be easier while you learn how to better coordinate your catching., This is especially important for cannon-throws or balls thrown at high speeds, which can hurt your hand. As you trap the ball with your fingers, allow your hand to follow the motion of the ball and ease it to a stop, as opposed to catching and stopping it immediately where it meets your hand.Keep your knees bent and your stance wide to improve balance when catching.
Bend your arms at the elbows to help reduce the force of the ball's impact.
 How you stand when throwing a ball can dramatically affect the outcome of your throw. When trying to throw a normal sized ball, you can achieve best results by standing so that:


Your feet are shoulder width apart.
You stand sideways to your target.
Your throwing arm is the farthest away from the target.
You are turned at the waist and facing your target., Holding the ball in your hand with your body in the proper stance, hold the ball upwards, so that your elbow is about the same height as your shoulder. At this point, your arm should form an L-shape., The motion of your throw should flow smoothly from start to finish. To prevent yourself from making the error of locking up your wrist, practice using it as part of your throw by holding the ball in your hand and then:Bend only your wrist backward.
Snap your wrist forward.
Allow your elbow straighten out.
Release the ball as you straighten your arm., A windup is simply where you reach farther back when throwing a ball while stepping through with your leading foot to add more power and distance. Get in throwing stance, and then hold the ball in your hand straight up while keeping your elbow and shoulder at about the same height. From that position:


Reach slightly backwards while keeping the ball facing your target.
Raise your leading foot slightly at the backmost part of your reach.
Shift your weight forward to your front foot.
Follow through with your arm and wrist.
Release the ball at the frontmost part of your throw, as your wrist is snapping forward.