 If someone is diagnosed with rickets, the doctor will prescribe supplements to replace the vitamins your body lacks. In most cases, the doctor will prescribe vitamin D, calcium, and/or phosphorus supplements. Make sure you or your child take the supplements as directed., The best dietary sources of vitamin D include fatty fish like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, as well as fish liver. Beef liver, egg yolks, and cheese are also good sources., You should add foods with calcium to your diet whenever possible. This is especially important if a calcium deficiency is part of the rickets diagnosis. Yogurt, milk, and cheese are all good sources of calcium. You can also add calcium to your diet with tofu, kale, or cabbage., A deficiency in vitamin D can be one of the root causes of rickets. Sunlight boosts the body’s vitamin D levels and can be an important part of a rickets treatment plan. If you have light skin, aim for 3 to 15 minutes of midday sun each day. If you have dark skin, try to get 15 to 30 minutes of midday sun exposure daily., Sometimes a doctor will ask you or your child to wear corrective braces as part of the treatment for rickets. If the doctor asks you or your child to wear corrective devices, make sure you follow the doctor’s directions precisely. Corrective braces can help prevent and treat deformities caused by rickets., Gentle, regular exercise can help keep joints mobile and build muscle. Exercise can also help someone with rickets stay mobile. Ask your doctor what types of gentle exercise are right for you or your child., You should not attempt to diagnose or treat rickets on your own. You will need the care and advice of a medical professional to help you determine the proper treatment for rickets., The doctor will do a physical examination as part of their effort to determine if you or your child has rickets. As part of the physical exam, they will be evaluating you or your child for tenderness or pain in your bones., Doctors use blood tests to determine whether or not a person has rickets. A doctor will usually test for low levels of calcium and phosphorus. They will also test for high levels of alkaline phosphatase. In some instances, doctors will perform genetic tests to see if the rickets is an inherited disorder., In addition to blood tests, doctors will also perform x-rays on you or your child’s bones. They will examine the x-rays for signs of calcium loss or for changes in the shape of a bone. Ask the doctor to perform x-rays in addition to blood tests if you think you or your child has rickets., Before you attempt to treat rickets, you should obtain a detailed treatment plan from your doctor. This will include the types and amounts of supplements you or your child should take, foods you or your child should be eating, and possibly the use of corrective braces., It is important that you monitor the disease through regular checkups, x-rays, and blood tests. Talk to your doctor about how often you or your child should be reevaluated., Sometimes surgery is needed to correct bone damage caused by rickets. Surgery can help correct bone deformities and prevent future disfiguration. Ask the doctor if surgery will be part of the recovery plan.The type of surgery you or your child might need depends on you or your child’s medical history and particular case.

