 The most obvious diagnostic tool is the characteristic boils or abscesses. But for confirmation, the doctor will swab the site of the lesion and a lab will test it for the presence of the MRSA bacteria.


However, it takes about 48 hours for the bacteria to grow, rendering immediate testing inaccurate.New molecular tests that can detect MRSA’s DNA in a matter of hours are becoming more widely available., The first, early treatment for MRSA is to press a warm compress against the boil to draw the pus to the surface of the skin. This way, when the doctor cuts the abscess to drain it, she'll be more successful in removing all the pus. Antibiotics may help speed up the process. In some cases, the combination of antibiotics and warm compresses may cause spontaneous draining without actually having to cut the lesion.


Soak a clean washcloth in water.
Microwave it for about two minutes, or until it's as warm as you can stand without burning your skin.
Leave it on the lesion until the cloth cools down. Repeat the process three times per session.
Repeat the entire warm compress session four times each day.
When the boil has softened up and you can clearly see pus in the center of it, it is ready to be surgically drained by your doctor.
Sometimes though, this can make the area worse. The heat pack may be quite painful and your wound may get bigger, redder, and much worse. Discontinue the heat packs and call your doctor if that happens.
 Once you've brought the bacteria-filled pus to the surface of the lesion, the doctor will cut it open and drain the pus out safely. First, she will anesthetize the area with Lidocaine and cleanse it with Betadine. Then, using a scalpel, she will make an incision in the "head" of the lesion and drain it of infectious pus. She will apply pressure all around the lesion, like pushing pus out of a popped zit, to make sure all infectious material is squeezed out. The doctor will send the extracted fluid to a lab to test it for responsiveness to antibiotics.


Sometimes, there are honeycomb-like pockets of infections under the skin. These need to be broken up by using a Kelly clamp to hold the skin open while the doctor addresses the infection under the surface.
Because MRSA is largely resistant to antibiotics, draining is the most effective way to treat it., He'll leave a "wick" out so you can pull the gauze out at home to clean the wound in the same manner every day. Over time (usually about two weeks), the wound will get smaller and smaller until you can't fit gauze in it anymore. Until that happens, though, you should wash out the wound every day.
 Don't pressure your doctor to prescribe antibiotics against her recommendation, as MRSA does not respond well to them.Over-prescribing antibiotics only helps infections become more resistant to treatment; however, there are two approaches to antibiotic treatments in general — for mild and for severe infections. Your doctor may suggest the following:Mild to moderate infection: take one Bactrim DS tablet every 12 hours for two weeks. If you're allergic to it, take 100mg of Doxycycline on the same schedule.
Severe infection (IV delivery): Receive 1 gm of Vancomycin through an IV for at least an hour; 600 mg of Linezolid every 12 hours; or 600 mg of Ceftaroline for at least an hour every 12 hours.
The infectious disease consultant will determine the length of your IV therapy.

