 This will contain the food securely, and keep any spillage from falling onto the bed. There are specially made small tables intended for this very purpose. If you can't find one, use a laptop desk.;
, Here are some ideas:



Make a Tropical Breakfast. This is both healthy and refreshing.

Make One Egg Waffles. These are a little healthier than most waffles, but if you really want to spoil someone, make French toast waffles.

Serve a Bagel Breakfast. Be sure to include a variety of delicious condiments as well as a choice of bagels.

Make a Traditional Full English Breakfast. An English muffin with some eggs, and orange juice, coffee, or tea on the side is good.
 If you can chop or mix any ingredients the night before, do so. If you're making coffee, put a towel along the crack at the bottom of the bedroom door so that they don't smell it. (This is assuming that you want the breakfast in bed to be a surprise.)


Be sure to clean up after yourself, too. If the person you're treating comes into the kitchen to find a pigsty, that might kill their delight over what you just did for them.
See also the articles on How to Make a Good Pot of Coffee and Make Tea. Don't forget to supply cream and sugar, if the person being treated likes it in their hot drink.
 This is especially important with hot liquids, as you don't want them to spill onto the person or the bed linen when the tray is moved.

On the plates, around the food, add some edible flowers (perhaps some candied violets).
If using a cloth napkin, fold it into a pyramid shape.
You can also fold a paper napkin into a rose (not the one they will be using, just an extra one for decoration).

Make a card with a nice note written in it.
 Use a stand such as a coffee table, or a folding table already assembled. Puff up the pillows, and add extras, so as to make sitting up more comfortable. Straighten the bed covering, so that you can place down the tray's legs (if any). If the tray is flat, add some books or something strong under the tray for support.
 Or, of course, feel free to stick around and talk with them!

, Take the tray from them and clean the dishes. Another excellent touch is to run a luxury bath and while they're enjoying it, make the bed!

