 Plug your guitar into an amps and try playing a note. Gently push the whammy bar down. This will drop the pitch of the sound. Practice playing chords and riffs and add the whammy bar.


Depending on what type of guitar you have, your tuning will be affected by heavy use of the whammy bar. Cheaper guitars will go out of tune much faster than higher quality guitars.
Floyd Rose usually comes with tuning locks for the guitar strings. The locks are designed to keep the strings in tune after heavy use of the whammy bar.
 Now try to lift up on the whammy bar, but don't pull too high. Originally, whammy bars were only made to dip the notes. Pulling up on the bar stretches the strings. This raises the pitch instead of lowering the pitch.


You might not be able to do this with tailpiece whammy bars.
 The dive is a classic technique for the whammy bar. Stroke a note or chord on the guitar and press firmly on the bar towards the strings.Famous heavy metal solos begin and end with the dive. As the name suggests, the dive is when the sound of your guitar quickly ‘’dives’’ into a deeper register.


Experiment with using this technique. Try it out during soloing or as an ending to a riff.
Listen to solos by Jimi Hendrix, Eddie Van Halen, and Dimebag Darrell for inspiration.
 The flutter is when you waver the notes of your guitar in a short burst. Practice the flutter by tapping down on the bar and releasing the bar suddenly. Some players prefer to position the whammy bar towards the bottom of the guitar. The flutter is best used on a Floyd Rose whammy bar.


The flutter is a great effect when used sparingly. Try tapping your whammy bar while playing chords or performing a riff.
 The shriek is when you create a shrieking sound out of your guitar by using the whammy bar. You need to play an open harmonic or pinch harmonic.Play an open harmonic by gently touching a string on the fifth, seventh, or twelfth fret. Once you hit the harmonic, pull up on the whammy bar to create a higher pitched shriek.


Never press down fully when playing open harmonics. It is best to position your finger directly over the fret.
A pinch harmonic is when you pick a note and graze the string with your thumb. This technique will take some time to develop. It is easier to do on the middle two strings (D and G). The pitch harmonic creates a higher sounding shriek.
 Shoegazing is a genre developed in the late 80s and early 90s. The name is derived from guitarist who are constantly modifying their tone through pedals and guitar work. From the audience's perspective, they’re looking (or gazing) at their shoes.Hold the whammy bar in your hand and move it to the beat of the song.


The idea is to play chords, but use the whammy bar heavily throughout the chord progression.
Practice synchronizing your strum with the movement of the whammy bar.
This technique isn’t the best for your strings, but the sound is unparalleled.
 Surf guitar is all about using the whammy bar sparsely, unlike shoegaze. Surf guitar is usually centered around a riff or two that is played using tremolo picking (or alternate picking). Tremolo picking is when you play a riff by alternating upward and downward picking at a rapid pace. The whammy bar is best used in surf guitar at the end of a verse or melody.


Listen to classic 50s surf music to hear this technique in practice. Try listening to Dick Dale and Link Wray.
 The best way to improve your whammy bar skills is through practice. Don’t neglect scales and chord shapes because you can use a whammy bar. The best guitarists know their scales and when to properly use the whammy bar. Keep an ear open for the use of whammy bars in music as you begin to develop your own style.

