 To get a medical degree, you first must receive a bachelor's degree. You can get a bachelor's degree in any field, but a related field is preferable. Related fields include pre-med, biology, chemistry, and physics.Some medical school admission committees like non-traditional students, i.e. students who have taken non-traditional coursework (like English) and students who have taken time off after college in order to enrich themselves.;
, While you don't necessarily need to major in pre-med, you must take certain courses to meet most entry requirements for a medical degree. In other words, you must take these courses if you want to be admitted to most medical schools.You'll need two to four semesters of biology with a lab, two semesters of organic chemistry (with lab), two semesters of inorganic chemistry (with lab), and two semesters of physics (with lab).
You'll also need two semesters of math (including one semester of calculus) and two semesters of English or writing.
Not all medical schools require the same classes, so make sure to research the schools you're interested in to see what their requirements are.
 When pursuing your undergraduate degree, picking a school with more prestige can only be helpful. Getting into medical school is very competitive, so having a more prestigious undergrad degree can help give you an edge.Of course, the Ivy League schools are all prestigious, but many large public universities also have good pre-med programs.
Look at acceptance rates from the program. That is, check into how many students are accepted into medical school from the undergraduate program. The higher the number, the better your chances of being accepted.
 One way to gain some experience is to volunteer at local hospitals and clinics. Many hospitals have a volunteer programs. For instance, you can work in the ER helping patients attending to their needs in the waiting room. While you won't actually get any practice as a doctor, you will learn about the environment and gain valuable experience. In addition, it can help you look more attractive to medical schools.You could also ask to shadow a doctor you're familiar with, such as your family's physician.
Some pre-med programs will have clinical experience built in.Consider volunteering abroad, in an international setting.
If you are committed to your volunteer program, they may be able to write you a letter of recommendation when you apply to a program. There may be a minimum number of hours you have to volunteer before you are eligible for a recommendation.

