 For example, if you worry about your safety every time you drive a car, or worry about whether you can complete all tasks before leaving work at the end of every day, you may be suffering from anxiety.;
, If you have anxiety, you may have difficulty falling asleep at night, or wake up one or more times throughout the night as a result of thinking about things that worry you. Having a restless night of sleep may be considered normal if you have a job interview the next day or are anticipating an exciting event. However, staying awake due to worrying about problems is a sign of anxiety.
 For example, if you worry about having to talk to people in a social setting, or are scared about having to leave your home, you may suffer from anxiety, or a specific type of anxiety disorder, such as social anxiety or agoraphobia.
 Signs of muscle tension are often associated with anxiety since your body naturally tenses up in times of stress, especially if you tend to clench your jaw and fists. If you’re unsure whether you’re suffering from muscle tension, consider making an appointment with a chiropractor, massage therapist, or healthcare provider for an examination, and to ease your muscle tension.
 If you suffer from irritable bowel syndrome, bloating, gas, diarrhea, cramping, constipation, or related symptoms, it’s possible you’re also suffering from anxiety.
 Anxiety in a social setting is often classified as social anxiety disorder, which is when you feel that everyone is watching and judging you based on your appearance and actions. If you constantly feel self-conscious when spending time in public, you may have anxiety., A panic attack is classified as sudden emotions of fear and helplessness, and is often accompanied by physical symptoms such as breathing problems, shaking, sweating, dizziness, and chest pain. Having one panic attack may not indicate that you suffer from anxiety, but experiencing one or more panic attacks on a regular basis could indicate anxiety.
 This is called perfectionism, which is a mind-set in which you constantly judge yourself and are too hard on yourself when you feel you’ve done something wrong or made a mistake. If you constantly strive for perfection, or frequently feel upset or disappointed when things in your life aren’t “perfect,” you may be suffering from anxiety.
 Being obsessive about things on a regular basis can indicate you suffer from anxiety, or an anxiety disorder known as obsessive-compulsive disorder. For example, if your car stereo breaks or malfunctions, and you spend hours trying to resolve the problem while feeling panicked about fixing it, you may have anxiety.
 Anxiety can affect your body physically in addition to mentally. Common physical symptoms of anxiety include an increased heart rate, rapid breathing or hyperventilation, trembling, sweating, upset stomach, diarrhea, constipation, and feeling weak, tired, or fatigued. Consult with your healthcare provider to determine whether your physical symptoms are related to anxiety, or to another underlying cause., Examples of health problems that have been linked to anxiety include diabetes, heart disease, asthma, thyroid problems, drug abuse or withdrawal, irritable bowel syndrome, tumors, premenstrual syndrome, or withdrawal from certain medications. Anxiety is also a common side effect of many prescribed medications. If anxiety is being caused by prescription medications, talk to your healthcare provider about a different course of treatment that doesn’t require medication.
 Your physician, psychiatrist, or therapist can perform an examination and speak with you to help determine whether you suffer from anxiety or an anxiety disorder. If you are diagnosed with anxiety, your healthcare provider can recommend the proper course of treatment to help resolve and lessen anxiety problems.

