 One of the golden rules of writing creatively is to always avoid using cliches. Cliches are phrases that have been used so often they have lost their meaning. Using cliches in your writing will leave your reader feeling bored, disinterested, and generally unimpressed with your ability to stick to the familiar. Try to banish cliches from your writing and focus instead on creating unique, unfamiliar descriptions in your work.There are many cliches out there and often it can be hard to avoid using them. A good rule of thumb is if you feel you have heard or read a phrase before, it may be a cliche. You can find a list of common cliches on Be a Better Writer.com.
 Two of the more common literary devices used in writing are metaphors and similes. These two literary devices can help you go for strong word choice and come up with creative descriptions. You should try to use these devices in your writing to add depth and meaning.A metaphor is the comparison of one thing to another. In a metaphor, the two things appear unrelated, but in fact, they share common characteristics that only make sense once they are placed side by side.For example, “The new girl is a fierce tiger.”
A simile makes a comparison between two objects or subjects using “like “or “as”. In a simile, the comparison is direct, unlike the more hidden comparison in a metaphor.For example, “The new girl is as fierce as a tiger.”

, You can also use strong, unique imagery in your writing to make it more creative. Imagery uses sensory detail, such as how things sound, feel, taste, feel, and look, to add depth and meaning. You should try to include imagery in your writing to push yourself to be more creative.Consider how you can describe a scene using the senses. Try to have your characters experience a scene based on how it smells, feels, tastes, sounds, and looks.
You should also try to use contrasting images to create interesting imagery in your writing. For example, you may describe a character as appearing "bright in the cold moonlight" or an object that appears "shiny in the darkness of the night."

, You should consider how you can use certain words together on the page to make your writing appealing orally. Use your creativity to play with how words sound on the page in your writing. Consider how certain words might create a certain rhythm or cadence to your writing.You may decide to use alliteration in your writing to play with the way words sound. Alliteration is the repetition of consonant sounds at the beginning of words placed close together. For example, “Don’t drive drunk” or “The crazy cat crouched over the crib.”
You could also use onomatopoeia in your writing. Onomatopoeia refers to words that sound like the object or subject that the word is describing. For example, “The skateboard whizzed by”, or “The rain dripped down the window.”

