 Coconut oil is a great product to use on its own as a balm because it is moisturizing, completely non-toxic and natural, and has antibacterial and antifungal properties.


When choosing your coconut oil, you want oil that is unrefined. It should state this on the jar, and should have a slight odor of coconut.
You can find quality coconut oil in the natural foods section of grocery stores, in vitamin shops, and online.
 Because coconut oil is semi-solid oil, you want to pour it into tin or jar, rather than a lip balm tube. At a normal indoor room temperature, coconut oil is solid, but it melts at 78 degrees Fahrenheit.


You can find small cosmetic jars at most natural foods stores.
You can also repurpose a tin for your lip balm. For example, Altoid tins make great containers for lip balm.
If you’re going to take your balm out in the heat, make sure to keep it in a container that seals tightly so the oil doesn’t leak out.



If you use the microwave to melt your oil, heat it in increments of 20 seconds, stirring between each heating.
The oil should be a clear liquid with no solid pieces left.
 If you prefer a plain balm, you can leave your oil as is. However, if you want something a little more luxurious, you can make your lip balm scented or give it a slight color.


For scent, use the essential oil of your choice. Use 1 to 2 drops of essential oil for each tablespoon of coconut oil. You can also use vanilla extract to make a vanilla lip balm, using a few drops per tablespoon of oil.
For color, melt a small piece of an old lipstick into your coconut oil, and stir it thoroughly.
For a natural alternative, use a pigmented vegetable like beets. To make a pink tint, simmer a cubed beet with three tablespoons of vegetable glycerin on low heat for thirty minutes.You can find vegetable glycerin at natural foods stores like Whole Foods.
After the mixture simmers, strain out the beet, and add some of the now-colored glycerin to your melted coconut oil.
 If your tin or jar is small, you can use a funnel to make the pouring process less messy.


Put your finished balm in the refrigerator to make it cool more quickly.
You can even permanently store your coconut oil balm in the fridge. This will keep it solid even during hot days, and it will give you something refreshingly cold to put on your lips.

