 Your handwriting will help your Christmas cards appear more personal; whereas using computer-generated labels may seem impersonal to some.


You may use labels with a Christmas theme to display your return address. Christmas return-address labels may be purchased from your post office or from retailers who specialize in stationery.;
, This will help maintain a professional relationship with them, while demonstrating cordiality during the holidays.


If you interact with colleagues or business associates socially, you may send the Christmas card to their home and address the envelope to their spouse as well.



If the husband's title and name are too long to include the wife's name on the first line, you must write the wife's name on the second line, preceded by an indention.
 For example, if a man's name is John Smith, address the envelope to "Mr. John Smith."


Single, unmarried or divorced women using their maiden name can be addressed as either Miss or Ms.
If the recipient is a divorced women who still uses her married surname, you may address her as either Mrs. or Ms.
 For example, if the husband's name is John Smith, address the envelope to "Mr. and Mrs. John Smith."


If a woman is married, but still uses her maiden name, address each person by their titles and full names. For example, address the envelope to "Ms. Jane Doe and Mr. John Smith."
If a couple lives together, but are not officially married, arrange their titles and names on separate lines, arranged alphabetically by the surname of each. For example, address the envelope to "Miss" or "Ms. Jane Doe" on the first line, followed by "Mr. John Smith" on the second line.
 For example, address an envelope to a married couple with children as "Mr. and Mrs. John Smith and Family."

, For example, the widow of John Smith should be addressed as "Mrs. John Smith."

, For example, if Jane Doe is a sergeant in the Marines, address her as "Sergeant Jane Doe, United States Marines."

,


The spouse with the higher rank should precede the military rank and title of the other spouse.
If the husband is military, but the wife is not, address the envelope as "Sergeant and Mrs. John Smith."
If the wife is military but the husband is not, address the envelope listing the wife's military title and name, followed by the husband's name.
 "Doctor" should be spelled out completely and not abbreviated, such as "Doctor John Smith."


If a person has a doctorate, or PhD, abbreviate doctor to read "Dr." For example, address Jane Doe as "Dr. Jane Doe."
If a married couple are both doctors, address both parties as doctors, beginning with the man's name first; for example, "Doctors John and Jane Smith."

, For example, a judge should be addressed as "The Honorable John Smith," whereas a reverend should be "The Reverend Jane Doe."


For married couples in which one person has a judge or clergy title, address the title of the position first, followed by the spouse's title, such as "The Honorable and Mrs. John Smith."

