 Use one hand to grab the bottom edge of the shade at its center point.


Do not grab the shade to the left or right of this center point. Adjusting the shade from this angle can cause it to roll up at an uneven slant, which may cause long-term damage to your blinds system. For similar reasons, you should not grab the shade at its left or right edge, either.
Many rolling blinds have a small cord at the bottom center edge. If yours does, you can grab the cord here when making your adjustments.;
, Pull the shade down by roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm).









Do not hold the shade in place here. Immediately proceed to the next step. Pulling the shade down releases it from its locked position, but if you continue to hold it down, it will simply lock itself into this new position.
 As soon as you pull the shade down, let go of it. The shade should roll up on its own once you do.









If the speed and stop height are properly adjusted, the shade should roll up at a safe speed and stop automatically at the appropriate height without any manual guidance.
If the blinds roll up too quickly or too slowly, you may need to adjust the speed. Likewise, if the blinds do not automatically stop at the right position, you may need to adjust the stop height. Please see the “Common Adjustments” section for more information.
If the blinds refuse to roll up at all, they might be broken. Please see the “Additional Troubleshooting” section for additional help.
 Grab the bottom edge of the shade at its center point with one hand.


If the blinds have a draw cord at the bottom center edge, pull on the cord when drawing the blinds down. If the blinds do not have a draw cord, you will need to grab the material along the bottom edge directly.
Try not to grab the shade to the left or right of the bottom center point. Making adjustments from an angle can cause the blinds to unroll unevenly and become slanted. In the worst case scenario, this can even cause permanent damage to the rolling mechanism.
 Pull the blinds down the desired length. Hold the shade in that position for at least two seconds.









The blinds should unroll and lower without any resistance.
Briefly holding the blinds in position should lock them into place.
 Let go of the blinds. If you locked them correctly, the blinds should remain in place even when you let go.









If the blinds roll up again upon being released, try unrolling them in the same manner and holding them in place for a longer period of time.
If the blinds will not lock into place no matter how long you hold them, they might be broken. Please see the "Additional Troubleshooting" section for additional information.
 You can usually change the point at which the blinds stop (the "stop height") on blinds that are wider than 2 feet (60.1 cm).

Roll the blinds up as far as they will currently go.
Locate the stop controller dial on the side of the roller tube.

Rotate this dial clockwise to lower the fabric level and the stop point.
Rotate the dial counterclockwise to raise the fabric level and the stop point.


Lower and raise the shade as usual to check the new stop point. Repeat the steps you just followed as needed until you are satisfied with the new stop point.
 When the blinds roll up a little too quickly or too slowly, you should be able to might small alterations to the speed without too much effort.

Raise the blinds as far as they will go and remove them from their wall brackets.
Place the blinds on a flat surface and locate the black knob on the left side of the rolling mechanism. Identify the winder handle on that knob.
Turn the winder to change the speed.

To increase the speed, pull the winder while rotating the black knob once or twice in a clockwise direction.
To decrease the speed, pull the winder and make a half-turn clockwise. While still pulling the winder, make one or two rotations counterclockwise.


Place the blinds back into the wall brackets and check the speed again. Make further adjustments as needed.
 When roller blinds will not completely roll up, the problem is usually caused by loose spring tension. Increase the tension of the internal spring to fix it.Pull the blind down 18 inches (45.72 cm).
Remove the brackets holding the blinds together and take the blind off the wall.
Use your hands to manually roll the fabric around the roller, winding it snugly and evenly.
Place the blind back into its brackets and test the tension again. You may need to repeat the process several times to get the tension right.
 When blinds roll up much too quickly or do not stop on their own when released from a locked position, it usually means that the internal spring has too much tension. You will need to decrease the spring tension to fix this issue.Pull the blind down by 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm). Make sure that the blind locks into that position.
Remove the brackets and take the blind off the wall.
Manually unwind 18 inches (45.72 cm) of the blind using your hands.
Place the blind back in its brackets and test the tension. You may need to repeat this process several times, unwinding more of the shade each time, until you achieve the right tension.
 If the internal tension spring has become completely uncoiled, the blinds won't roll up at all. You'll need to manually coil up the spring again.Remove the blinds from the brackets and take the blinds off the wall.
Unroll the blinds roughly halfway.
Using pliers, grab the pin on the spring-side of the shade. Rotate that pin counterclockwise until you feel a little resistance or tension develop, then ease off enough to allow the directional latch, or "pawl," to hook into the rolling ratchet.
Loosen or tighten the spring tension as needed before placing the blinds back into the wall brackets.
 When the blinds refuse to move down at all, it is possible that the spring has become locked into a tight coil. You'll need to release the coil to fix the problem.

Remove the blinds from the wall brackets.
Using a set of pliers, grab the pin on the spring-side of the blinds and rotate it clockwise until you feel the directional latch/pawl free from its position. Once you release the pawl, the coil should unwind.
Loosen or tighten the spring tension normally and mount the blinds back into the wall brackets.
 If you've corrected the spring tension and you still have difficulty raising or lowering the blinds, the next thing to do is to check the clutch and the roller chain.

Make sure that the chain is in good shape. If some of the beads have broken off, that could be the cause of your problem. Replace the chain to fix it.
If the chain is in good shape, check the position of the chain stopper. If it runs into the rolling mechanism as you roll and unroll your blinds, it could be the source of the problem.

If the shade won't go up, pull on the chain until the stopper hits the rear top of the chain. If the shade won't go down, pull on the chain until the stopper hits the front top of the chain.
Remove the blinds from the brackets and off the wall with the chain in this position.
Manually roll the blinds in the direction they needs to go. If you've had difficulty rolling the blinds up, roll the fabric up by hand. If you've had difficulty unrolling the blinds down, unroll them to your desired length, but always leave at least two full rotations of fabric around the roller.
Place the blinds back into the brackets.


If nothing is wrong with the chain, the problem probably lies with the clutch mechanism. That mechanism will need to be replaced.
 Telescoping occurs when the blinds roll up unevenly, drifting to one side or the other. This can usually be remedied with masking tape.Check the brackets first. If the brackets are loose, manually remove and re-mount the blinds evenly in the brackets. Tighten the brackets to make sure that the blinds remains level and snug as it rolls.
If the brackets are not loose, unroll the shade as far as it will go, revealing the bare roller tube. Put one to three small pieces of masking tape where the fabric meets the roll, positioning it on the side that slants down when you operate your blinds. This should fix the problem.

