,, Towards the top of the using the two text boxes on top of the main screen. Fill in the business name in the top-left box and the location of the EXACT place. (i.e. If your business is located in Philadelphia, and the corporate location is in East Oshkosh, WI, type in Philadelphia, PA", or you may type in the exact zip code of this business. Try not to review corporate locations as locations in other cities. It's a one-to-one deal! Press the red magnifying glass button when you are finished typing.


On the page that is displayed, you'll find your search suggestions for the business. If it's not found on this page of search results, you'll have to create a new business listing.
, Tap the "Next" button at the top when this step is all complete

, Use all pieces of address you have on file (as if you are looking at a business card). Type the Street Address into the top line and the city and state into the bottom (Do NOT include the zip code, and if this is a non-USA address, select the country first, by tapping the box with the American flag on it). Again, when this page is completely filled out, tap the "Next" button to advance onto the next screen.


Suites, apartments, departments as well as a more-specific address if contained inside another separate building, should be the only thing that goes in Street address box 2 (second line). Address box 2, should be, most of the time, not filled in.
If you are within a few yards of the business and you've enabled GPS location-sensing, you can touch the "Fill with Current Location" button to automatically fill the nearest location address (internally using the Google search engine) in most places.
 Move the placemarker so the marker is placed directly over the top of the business, or, if it's already correct (99% of the time, this will be the case), you must continue to the next step. Tap the "Next" button to advance onto the next screen.
 These entries can include the category of the business, the business's hours, the business's main phone number and the company website which is associated to the business you are going to list. (Again, these entries must be location-specific).
 Tap the "Notes for the Yelp Team" and type in an edit summary of "added a business" or something of that like.
