 Before you take the time and effort to file a lawsuit, you might attempt to settle the dispute with the person you want to sue.


Send a written letter to the person or business describing your claim, and explaining your remedies under Illinois state law. Stick to the facts of the dispute, and avoid emotional language or personal insults.
Give the person a deadline to respond, and indicate that you are prepared to file suit if your demand is not met.
At the same time, you probably want to state that you are prepared to negotiate a settlement. Keep in mind that pursuing a lawsuit is an expensive and time-consuming endeavor with no guaranteed outcome. Even if the person offers less money than you think you deserve, you still may come out better than you would have if you went ahead with the lawsuit.;
, The court where you file suit must have jurisdiction over both the subject matter of your lawsuit and the person you want to sue.


If you're filing a civil suit in Illinois, you typically will file in circuit court, although which one will depend on where the incident took place that gave rise to the dispute and where the person you want to sue lives.Generally, you should choose a court that is in the same county where the person you want to sue lives or does business. You also can typically sue the court located in the county where the incident that gave rise to your claim occurred, regardless of where the person you want to sue lives., Illinois has deadlines after which you aren't permitted to file a lawsuit.The time period within which you can file a lawsuit begins when the incident happens that gives rise to your dispute, and extends a number of years depending on the type of case you have.
Since the statutes of limitation in Illinois vary, you must understand the general category of your lawsuit before you can figure out which deadline applies. In Illinois, if you're suing for damages to your personal property, you have five years to file a lawsuit. However, if you're suing because you were personally injured, you only have two years to file.When your lawsuit involves multiple categories, you must use the shorter deadline. For example, if you're suing the other driver for injuries as well as damage to your vehicle sustained in a car accident, you would have to file that lawsuit within two years of the date of the accident.
 The elements of the claim set forth in the law can help organize your argument.


Keep in mind that in a civil lawsuit, you have the burden of proving each element of your case by a preponderance of the evidence. This means the claims you make are more likely than not to be true, which is a much lesser burden than the "beyond a reasonable doubt" burden of proof you may be familiar with from criminal law cases.The Chicago Bar Association Young Lawyers' Division publishes a comprehensive booklet titled "Your Guide to the Law," which provides a summary of the law that applies to many common civil lawsuits. A PDF copy of the booklet is available online at http://www.chicagobar.org/AM/NavigationMenu/Public/GeneralLegalInformation/PublicInformationBrochures/YourGuidetoTheLaw.pdf.
 Armed with an understanding of what you must prove to set forth a legal claim, you know the types of evidence you need.


Photographs can be useful, especially if your dispute involves physical injuries or property damage. While your injuries may heal, a photograph taken the day of the injury, or over time during the healing process, can help the judge or jury get a sense of how badly you were hurt.If there were any witnesses to the incident, or even to your recovery from your injuries, make sure you have their full legal names, addresses, and phone numbers so you can contact them later if you want them to testify on your behalf.Write down everything that happened regarding the incident that gave rise to your claim, as soon as possible after the incident occurs. You want to get down all the details while they are still fresh in your mind. Include as many details as you can remember, even if they don't seem important at the time.If you've suffered a personal injury, it can be helpful to keep a journal in which you track your recovery progress on a daily basis and record visits you have with doctors or specialists, prescriptions you're taking, or recommended therapy exercises., Even with relatively simple cases, advice from a lawyer with experience in the type of lawsuit you want to file can help you strengthen your arguments and protect your rights.


Keep in mind that most attorneys are willing to give a free consultation, even if you ultimately decide you'd rather not hire an attorney or that you can't afford one. Some attorneys also are willing to represent you on a limited scope for lower fees, such as by only working on certain aspects of your case or reviewing certain documents before you file them.You also might want to check for more affordable legal options in your area. For example, some courts have workshops for people representing themselves, or self-help centers where an attorney will look over your paperwork and advise you on the process for free.
You can find information about hiring a lawyer, including
Additionally, you might try the nearest law school or legal services office to find out about clinics and other free or reduced-cost legal assistance that's available. You also can find general legal information online at the websites for Illinois Legal Aid and the Chicago Bar Association., Many courts and legal aid clinics have forms you can use to make sure you've included all necessary information and used the correct format.If you can't find forms that were pre-approved by the court to use as a complaint in your type of case, search for complaints filed in the same court in other cases that you can use as guides. Just be careful that you adapt the language in those documents to suit your own case, rather than copying them word for word.
 The complaint is the document you must file with the court to initiate your lawsuit.


Begin your complaint by telling the court who the parties to the lawsuit are (you and the person you're suing) and how the court has jurisdiction in your case.Your complaint states your legal cause of action and ask for damages or other relief from the person you're suing. It also typically outlines the basic facts of your case and explains the reasons the defendant is liable for your damages or injuries., You must include a certificate of service, along with any other cover sheets or forms required by the court where you're filing your lawsuit.


The certificate of service tells the court how you intend to notify the defendant that you've filed a lawsuit against him or her.
When you're satisfied that all your documents are correct and in order, you can sign and date them. Be sure you make copies of everything you file after you sign it. You'll need at least one copy for your own records, as well as a copy for every person you're suing. The originals will become a part of the court record.
 Take your documents to the clerk of the court where your case will be heard to formally file your complaint and initiate your lawsuit.


When you file your complaint, the clerk will stamp them filed and write the date in which they were filed. Depending on the court, you also may get a date of your first hearing or appearance before the judge.The clerk issues a summons that must be delivered to the defendant along with a copy of your complaint. The summons tells the defendant that he or she has been sued and must respond to the action.You'll have to pay filing fees when you file your complaint. These fees vary depending on the court in which you're filing and the type of case you have, but generally will be around $200.If you can't afford these fees, you can file an application to have them waived. You must disclose information about your finances, including your income and assets and whether you receive any public assistance. If the court finds you indigent, you won't have to pay any court costs associated with your case., As soon as possible after you've filed your lawsuit, you must arrange to have the documents sent to the person you're suing using the method you chose in your certificate of service.


Typically you will need to use either the sheriff's department or a licensed private process serving company to deliver the summons and complaint to the defendant personally.In some courts you may have the option of using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The receipt provides proof of service and indicates that the defendant has received the summons and complaint.
However, some courts require a specific method of service. For example, in Cook County, a complaint must be served on the defendant personally by a sheriff's deputy.You can ask the clerk what methods of service are allowed in that particular court.



Court rules contain specific deadlines that govern all aspects of pre-trial litigation, and particularly the discovery process, during which you and the defendant exchange information related to the case. If you are representing yourself, you are responsible for knowing and following all of these deadlines and rules., If you don't answer any claims or motions the defendant files against you by the deadlines listed in the rules of civil procedure, the judge may rule in the defendant's favor.


Within 30 days after service, the defendant (or his or her attorney) must file a written appearance with the court. However, the defendant also may be required to file an answer to your complaint within a certain period of time.How long the defendant has to file an answer depends on the type of case you've filed, and may be as short as 10 days. Generally, the defendant must either admit or deny each of the allegations you made in your complaint, but he or she also may raise new claims or assert affirmative defenses.As part of or along with the answer, the defendant may make claims against you or file other motions such as a motion to dismiss. You must respond to these claims or motions just as the defendant had to respond to your complaint., Written discovery gives you the opportunity to ask the defendant questions and seek documents you believe may be relevant to your case.


The discovery process allows you and the defendant to exchange information and learn about each others' cases and the evidence they plan to present at trial.You're allowed to send as many as 30 interrogatories, which are written questions the defendant must answer under oath, as well as up to 30 request to admit. If you want more, you generally must get permission from the judge to do so.With requests for production, you ask the defendant to provide you with copies of documents that may be relevant to the case, or that he or she may use as evidence at trial.For example, if you are suing a café after you slipped and fell in front of the condiment stand, you may ask for copies of employee schedules and maintenance reports detailing how often the floor was cleaned.
The defendant also has the right to send you written discovery requests as well. If you receive them, court rules require you to respond within 28 days., The answers and documents you receive give you the opportunity to learn about the defendant's side of the story and how he or she intends to defend against your claim.


At any time during this process, either you or the defendant may make overtures to settle the lawsuit. Keep in mind that most civil lawsuits are settled before they ever get to trial. If you have particularly strong evidence that the defendant is at fault, he or she may become more inclined to settle than before discovery began.
During this pre-trial process, you and the defendant also may have conferences with the judge. The judge will work on scheduling discovery and other aspects of the pre-trial proceedings, and may discuss possible settlements with you., During the discovery process, you have the opportunity to interview witnesses or parties to the case under oath.


Depositions are transcribed by a court reporter, and you have the transcript to review while you prepare for trial.The transcript may come in handy at trial if, for example, a witness says something on the stand that contradicts what he or she said in deposition.
Illinois civil procedure rules require depositions last no longer than three hours in most cases. If you take the deposition, you're responsible for any fees incurred as a result, which typically include paying a court reporter to transcribe the session.To schedule a deposition, you must send notice to the defendant. If the person you want to depose is a witness and not a party in your case, you also must send him or her a subpoena., In some courts, you must attempt some form of alternate dispute resolution before you can proceed with trial.


The purpose of these programs is to avoid clogging the courts and provide a more efficient resolution to disputes.For example, in Cook County your case will be assigned to the mandatory arbitration program if it is a personal injury case, or a property damage or breach of contract case in which you're claiming $30,000 or less in damages.The arbitration is non-binding, and either you or the defendant may reject the decision of the arbitration panel and proceed to trial., If you are unable to resolve the dispute through alternate dispute resolution or other means, you must get ready to have a trial on the merits of the case.


Since you initiated the lawsuit, you'll be presenting your case to judge or jury first. Outline an opening statement in which you provide a summary of your argument and why you should recover from the defendant.If you've identified witnesses, you may want to practice asking them questions so you can get a feel for the process, and also so you have an idea of how they will answer.
You also should keep in mind that if you call a witness, the other side will be given the opportunity to cross-examine him or her. Brainstorm possible questions the defense might ask, and talk over responses with your witnesses.

