 Rabbits are a prey species, which means when they are stressed they want to hide. Moving home is a big deal for a bunny, and so when you bring them home leave them in the quiet to settle in.
 This will help it grow accustomed to the new sights, sounds, and smells of their new home without the added challenge of strange people staring at them.
 Take it slowly. Spend as long as time allows each day sitting beside the hutch talking to the rabbit. If the rabbit is already tame, then open the hutch door and stroke along the rabbit's back.


Avoid hovering your hand over the rabbit's head as this is what a predator would do.
 If the rabbit doesn't run away when you gently pet it, then sit on the ground and gently lift rabbit out and onto your lap. Sitting on the ground is less frightening to bunny, because they are ground dwelling and being high in the air is unnerving for them.To pick up your rabbit, place a hand on its chest and another on its bottom, and carefully lift it so that its side is parallel to your chest, and it is sitting on one of your arms while the other forms a barrier so it can't fall off. Then place it on your lap.
If the rabbit is not used to being picked up and runs away, do not forcibly remove the rabbit. Instead, take your time and tempt the rabbit out with an extra tasty treat. Once the rabbit gets used to your voice, and realises you are no threat, it will eventually go for the treat. Once bunny is regularly staying out to receive the treat, you can start to stroke their back. Once they accept this, at that stage you can try to pick bunny up.
Remember, rabbits are prey animals. Unlike dogs or cats, their mothers do not carry them, so the only situation in the wild in which they would be picked up would be when a predator was carrying them. Some rabbits just don't like being picked up, so if your rabbit won't let you pick it up, leave it be.
 Grooming your rabbit is another great way to bond. Use a comb and a soft brush, and once bunny is happy being stroked, use the brush to groom it.


This is another good way to teach rabbit your company is a good thing, and perhaps try this first if the rabbit is still skittish about being picked up.

