 If after successfully gaming several other attractive girls you still would like to get back together, then you've already done one of the best things you can do. Ironically, by moving on to other girls and being very nonchalant about the idea of getting back with your ex, you show her that you are a confident, non-needy alpha male who is very capable of finding other women. Further more, you set yourself as the prize. If you've run into her and she's seen that you're not jumping at the gun to get back together and in fact you've been successful with other girls, then you've done everything you can and it's up to her to hint at getting back together. If the issue of the breakup was more along the lines of finances, or religious conflict, then consider whether it even makes sense to get back together.;
, Common reasons: Too needy/clingy, you changed the way you acted towards her as you got to know her better, bad in bed, cheated on her, consistent poor communication, boring relationship, dead-end relationship, she's mentally unwell/confused (<--If it really is this you can do better, move on.) If worst comes to worst you feel better about a breakup if you're the one who breaks it off. If you do though, recognize this: crawling back to her in the following week or two is simply not an option. Live with your decision.
 If every time they see you or hear about you, all they see is the fun, happy person they first fell for, it's only a matter of time before your ex starts initiating more contact (especially if they know you're single). If it's meant to be, the relationship will fall back into place.
 Wear cologne and/or aftershave.
 Confidence shows her you are fine.
 Plus, be hard to get a hold of.
 If you are feeling vengeful or angry she will sense it and be put off. At the same time DO NOT SEEM LIKE YOU ARE BEGGING HER TO COME BACK. This is the ultimate turn off.
 Sometimes you don't have to say anything, they can see it in your eyes. The feelings felt through exchanges of eye contact access the emotions in a way that words can't for a women. If you love her show it in your eyes.
 If you bounce back right away and are dating a lot of pretty girls and showing her you have options she will become jealous. Dating any girls at this point is better than none, but the more physically attractive she is the more intimidating to your ex and the more likely you are to forget about your ex. WARNING: If you sleep with another girl and your ex finds out, she'll be secretly impressed if the girl is hot, but one of two things will happen: She will rush to get back together with you, or she will just try to break contact with you completely and forget about you (make a judgment call on what your ex will do.) If you know she knows then get in contact right away and when it comes up let her know discretely that you haven't forgotten about her completely and you didn't sleep with the girl just to piss off. Now it's up to her. Then again, at this point you may not really care about your ex, in which case, problem solved.
 Don't try too hard but if you see her around chat her up using advice from the above points. This may be hard to do depending on how interconnected your circle of friends is and how many things you do in common. You may have to outright contact her and let her know you want to get in touch if the odds of you seeing each other otherwise are low.
 If she broke up with you she felt like she had a good reason and it will take her awhile to swallow her pride. (The amount of time depends on the girl.) Watch for her hints and act accordingly.
 Be in the moment and let her feel the passion you have for her. Look for the opportunities and create them subtly yourself. If you sense that she is reflecting your positive, sexual vibes make the move. A kiss has a lot of power to remind her of the emotions she had for you. If possible take things to the bedroom immediately after and rock her like a hurricane. Use the time during and after sex to tell that you care about her and to encourage her to express how she feels about you.

