 A Root Lock should be done quickly and smoothly by: contracting your anal sphincter (as if you’re trying to hold in a bowel movement); drawing up your sex organ; and then pulling your navel or belly button back towards your spine. All three steps should be done while holding your breath.A Root Lock is also known as a Mulbhand.
 Sit somewhere quiet where you can concentrate. Focus on your breathing. Make sure you’re breathing from your abdomen. Pay attention to the sensations your body is feeling. Do this for a few minutes until you've reached a calm state.If you need help paying attention to the sensations of your body, try focusing on your head for a few moments and then move down your body to your toes, paying attention to each part of your body as you go. These sensations are simply what your body (or part of your body) is feeling at the moment you focus on it. Is it tense or relaxed? Is it painful or normal?

, Before starting any Kundalini yoga, always perform the Adi Mantra after you’ve reached a calm state., Sit in the Easy Pose (back straight with your legs bent in front of your but your ankles not crossed). Put your hands on your knees. Rotate or roll your pelvis around while in this position. Try to relax while doing this.Complete 26 rotations in each direction. This should be equivalent to 1-2 minutes in each directions.
 Sit in the Easy Pose with your hands on your ankles. Throughout this exercise keep your shoulders in a relaxed position and keep your head straight. Also try not to move your head while doing this exercise.As you inhale, flex your spine forward like you’re arching your back.
As you exhale, relax your spine back to a resting position.
Repeat these movements for 1-3 minutes which is also equal to 108 repetitions.
Once all repetitions are done, inhale deeply and hold your breath. Perform a Root Lock and then exhale and relax.
 To do this exercise, first start by sitting on your heels on the ground. Place your hands flat down on your thighs. As you inhale, flex your spine forward. As you exhale, relax your spine back into a resting position.Repeat this exercise for about 1-2 minutes.
 Sit comfortably with your back straight. Move your head so that it’s balanced on the top of your spine. Roll your neck to the right slowly and then back to the left.Use the weight of your head to roll your neck, don’t force it.
Focus on the tight spots in your neck and work to release them.
Continue the neck rolls for about 2 minutes — 1 minute in either direction.
 Sit on your heels on the ground. Put your hands on your shoulders with your thumbs towards your back. While you inhale, twist yourself to the left. While you exhale, twist yourself to the right.Twist your head while you’re twisting your body.
With each twist, try to twist a little bit farther than the time before.
Your elbows should remain parallel to the ground and should swing as you twist your body.
You can also do this exercise while standing up.
Repeat this exercise for about 1-2 minutes, or about 26 repetitions on each side.
When you’re done your repetitions, inhale and hold your breath. Perform a Root Lock and then exhale.
 Sit in the Easy Pose. Put your hands behind your head with your fingers interlocked together. First bend your body — from the waist — to the right side. Try to bend until you touch your right elbow to the ground beside your right hip. Repeat the movement to the left side.To be consistent, inhale when you’re bending to the left and exhale when you’re bending to the right.
Only bend sideways, not to the front or back.
Try not to arch your back while you’re bending to the side.
You can also perform this exercise while you’re standing up if you prefer.
Repeat this exercise for 1-2 minutes or approximately 26 times per side.
 Perform this exercise while you’re sitting on your heels or in the Easy Pose. While you inhale, shrug your shoulders upwards. While you exhale, shrug your shoulders downwards.Repeat these movements for about 1-2 minutes.
After you’ve completed these exercises, inhale and hold your breath. Perform a Root Lock and then exhale.
 Start by lying on your stomach on the floor (preferably on a yoga mat). You should start with your hands on the ground, palms down, under your shoulders. While you inhale, arch your spine upwards slowly. Lead with your nose, then your chin, then push off with your hands. Stop when you’ve arched your back as far as you can go without causing any pain in your lower back.Breath deeply while performing this exercise.
Hold each stretch for a while and then relax. Repeat the process for about 2-3 minutes.
Finish with an inhale, then hold your breath. Complete a Root Lock and then exhale slowly (explained in Tips).
 Sit on the ground with your legs as far apart as you can do without pain. Grab your toes with your hands (or anywhere else on your leg that you can comfortably grasp). Inhale, then exhale and bend down towards your left leg. Inhale while you sit back up, then exhale as you bend down towards your right leg.Keep your back straight throughout this exercise.
Repeat these movements for 1-2 minutes.
Once you’re finished your repetitions, inhale and hold your breath. Perform a Root Lock then exhale.
 Sit on the ground with your legs out in front of you. Bend your left leg inwards and press your left foot against your right thigh. Bend over your right leg and grab your right foot or ankle.Breathe deeply while stretching.
Perform the stretch for about 1-2 minutes on each side.
 Get down on your hands and knees on a yoga mat. Your knees should be about shoulder-width apart. As you inhale, flex your spine upwards. As you exhale, flex your spine downwards.Keep your arms straight throughout this exercise.
Increase the speed of your movements the longer you perform this exercise.
Repeat the exercise for 1-3 minutes.
 Lie on your back on a yoga mat with your knees bent upwards. Grab your ankles with your hands and pull your heels into your butt. Keep your feet flat on the floor at all times.While holding your ankles, slowly lift your hips up and off the ground. Keep lifting your hips until you’re able to arch your lower spine.
Inhale slowly as your lift your hips upwards. Inhale through your nose. Hold your breath as you reach the top of the movement.
Exhale through your nose as you relax your hips and spine.
Repeat these movements at least 12 times but no more than 26 times.
Once you’re done your repetitions, inhale and hold your breath. Perform a Root Lock and exhale. Relax your body and stretch your legs out in front of you.

