 To save money on transportation costs, consider planning an old fashioned road trip with the kids. The price of gas will likely be cheaper than paying for multiple plane tickets, especially if you have a large family. Try to travel with at least two people who can drive so you can drive in shifts, especially if the drive will be long.To keep the peace in the backseat while on the road trip, make sure you bring lots of snacks and games for the kids. Keep them occupied with music and singalongs in the car. This way, you can all travel in peace, cheaply.;
, If you do want to fly to your destination as a family, be sure to use any points or reward miles that you have accumulated to book your plane tickets. Set up a rewards system for air travel through your credit card or through a rewards card for a specific airline. Always check to see if you can use points to reduce the cost of plane tickets or to get better deals on flights.You should also do your research on possible flight options so you can find the cheapest one. Compare flight prices online. Watch for flight deals and book them right away so you get a more affordable price.
 If train travel is an option, look into train prices to see if it will be affordable. You can often buy rail passes that you can use for many days at a time and there is usually cheaper family pricing. Train travel may be a good option if you are planning to travel across the country, such as within Europe or within a specific area in the U.S.Some train passes also cover admission to certain attractions and excursions in the area you are travelling to. This may be a good option if you want to also save money on attractions for the whole family during your trip.
 Public transit, such as buses, light rail, and trams, are ideal if you want to save money when traveling with kids. Get a public transit pass as a family and use it to get around, especially if you are traveling to major cities or destinations. Often, public transit can be a great way to interact with the locals and see different areas from the comfort of your seat.


Most public transit passes can be purchased by day or for multiple days. They are often $10 or less, depending on where you are travelling.

