 Paint the wall with the selected background color if needed. If it’s already a good color, you can skip right ahead to the stenciling.


To paint the wall, mark off all the edges with painter’s tape. If it’s a dark color, cover it with primer first, let it dry, and then paint it your desired color. If it’s a light color, you may be able to get away with just painting over it straight away.
 The only bounds here are in your imagination – is it going to be a single line of stencils? A curly-cue shape? Covering every inch of your wall? Once you’ve decided, use painter's tape to keep the stencil in place at the starting point of your pattern.


Just keep in mind the length of time and difficulty of the overall concept you’re planning. You may want to paint the Mona Lisa on your wall, but that makes it easy to mess up and is super time-consuming. When in doubt, keep it simple.
 Dab the brush onto a paper towel to remove excess paint. If you’d like, you can mix a couple of colors together for an intricate, unique look.


There is such a thing as stencil paint, yes. It doesn’t drip like wall paint does. That being said, it comes in pretty small containers. If you’re stenciling your entire wall, it may make more financial sense to buy a large can of paint and just be extra careful.
 Starting lightly, start creating small swishes of color inside the stencil – this method is called stippling. Hold the stencil firmly in place around the area you are painting to create sharp lines in your design.


If you’re working with multiple colors, cover every area with your first color before moving onto your second. This will make it much easier and quicker.
 Once you’re done with the first stencil, make small marks on its edges with a pencil to denote where it was. Then, when you lift it up and off the wall, you’ll know where it was and where you should place the next image.
 If your stencils touch on any corner, use your registration point to make sure that it’s right where it’s supposed to be. Check that the placement is even by using a level.


Once it is level, retape it in its new position with painter’s tape on all edges. But be sure not to place the tape over the previous stencil – it may still need time to dry.
 Have the pattern reach to the edges of the wall and any trim to create the seamless appearance of wallpaper.


If you mess up at any point in time and if you have the color available, just paint over the stencil. It’s just a hiccough in the process – it won’t ruin your pattern if you don’t let it.

