 Start by watching the film once, to discover the story, then watch it again, and you start seeing different things, and getting into the rhythm of the film, the video editing, other details, the climax (a bit like a symphony).;
, Have it play in the background while you're doing other things (working on the computer, doing emails etc). Your brain will still get used to it more, it's far more efficient than we think.
 Play it again now and mute the sound completely: another dimension will be revealed. It may talk to you more than with the sound actually. You will get to see more details as well, or notice other things, if it's very still, or very fast. The style of filming and video editing will stand out more. Your brain will not be distracted by the sound (and our ears are far more sensitive than our eyes), so it frees some space for your mind to focus on the images.
 The instruments are chosen depending on the atmosphere. It might be instruments you've never used before. At this point, the video will dictate to you what it needs, hopefully.
 The video editing may be fast, slow, make sure you understand the "beat" of the film. It may vary a lot on  the rhythm, and speed, kept changing throughout the video, and it's important to adapt to it.
, Composing music for film is about emotion. Make sure you really understand the emotion the producer is trying to emulate and stick to it. This emotion may vary from one second to another. There are hundreds of emotion people go through everyday, so make sure your music invokes the right feeling - and make sure it succeeds to emulate that feeling (even if you listen to without listening to the images).
 Feedback is a double edge sword. If you're really into your creation process, somebody's feedback might be helpful or not. You have to be confident enough to know exactly where you're going in terms of intention and emotion, even though you don't really have a clue what instruments will take you there. You can choose to compose surrounded by people, or really remotely. Both can be helpful.
 Let the film take over. Like an actor suddenly becomes his role, and lives, breathes, eats, sleeps and talks like his character. The images will inspire you to do the rest.

