 Start with the very basics of what a gluten sensitivity is, using simple terms. Tell your child something like, "A gluten sensitivity means someone's body cannot process gluten. When people with a gluten sensitivity eat gluten, it makes them sick." This is a very basic explanation of the disease that a child should be able to understand.Make sure your child understands what gluten is, as many people don't know. Tell your child gluten is a protein found in wheat. Explain which foods contain gluten throughout the day. For example, if you're making toast, stop and say something like, "See, bread has gluten in it, which is why we're using gluten-free bread.";
, If your child needs a gluten-free diet, or if someone in your household does, make sure your child understands the benefits. This will make them see gluten-free foods as a positive, rather than a burden. Explain that, with a gluten sensitivity, foods can cause symptoms like headaches, joint pain, numbness, and difficulty concentrating. Cutting out foods that cause these symptoms will reduce them, so a gluten-free diet is always a positive for someone with a gluten sensitivity.If your child is gluten-free, talk about their diet in as positive terms as possible. For example, "You were sick a lot before and this will make you better. This is a good thing that will help you thrive."

, If your child is gluten sensitive, they feel like they're missing out on "real food" as other children are free to snack on popular wheat-based items. Gluten-based foods often feel like the normal versions, making gluten-free options abnormal. Help your child understand that gluten-free food is just as good as any other food.For example, say something like, "The bread you eat is the same as any other bread, but it just happens to be gluten-free. Most people couldn't even taste the difference."
A great way to help your child accept their gluten sensitivity is to occasionally make gluten-free dinners for the whole family. If your child sees that their siblings enjoy gluten-free pizza too, for example, they will not feel like they're missing out.
 If your child is gluten-free, emphasize opportunities over limitation. Say something like, "We'll just have to find some fun new foods to enjoy. You'll get to try a lot of new things."Talk about gluten-free foods in positive terms. For example, say something like, "I got some good cookies for you at the store" instead of "I got some gluten-free cookies." This helps your child think of their food as fun and exciting rather than limiting.
Use simple language that communicates important details without harsh words. For example, rather than saying a food is "dangerous" or "destructive" for your child's body, use words like "yucky" or "sad foods."
If your child has restaurants they love, see if they offer gluten-free dishes. You can get your child excited about their new diet by saying something like, "Now, we get to try all kinds of new things at all your favorite restaurants."

, Children sometimes have a tendency to see medical issues, including food allergies, as evidence they are not as capable or strong as others. Make sure your child knows that, while they can't eat the same food as their peers, they are still just as capable. When treated properly, a gluten sensitivity should not be limiting.Let children know that a gluten sensitivity does not fundamentally change who they are. Your child will still be able to engage in the same activities as any other kid, but they will simply have to monitor their diet a little more.

