 Whether the dog seems aggressive or not, you need to muzzle it before moving it or examining it for injuries. Even a gentle, mild-tempered dog will bite when it is scared or in pain. If you don’t have a muzzle available, lay a piece of cloth across the dog’s nose, as close to the eyes as possible. Next, wrap both ends of the cloth around the dog’s nose and tie the ends in a knot underneath its jaw. Finally, tie the loose ends of the cloth behind the dog’s neck.


Some things you can use for a muzzle include a leash, sock, piece of gauze, neck tie, or strip of sheet.If the dog is vomiting, do not muzzle it. This could cause it to choke., Before moving the dog in any way, look to see if it appears to have a back injury. If it does, do not attempt to move it. Instead, call animal control or a veterinarian to assist you.Look for the following to identify a possible back injury:


Observe whether or not the dog is willing and able to turn or raise its head. If it isn’t, it might have a back injury.
Additionally, look for any areas of visible trauma around the back or spine, like bruises or discoloration. If the spine looks abnormally aligned, curving upward for instance, this can also indicate a back injury.
Finally, if the dog yelps or moans when its back or neck is touched, there is a good chance it has a back injury., If you feel confident the dog does not have a back injury, find a blanket, tarp, coat, or shirt you can place the dog on to carry it. Lay the item flat on the ground behind the dog’s back. Using slow, careful movements, shift or slide the dog back onto the blanket, tarp, or coat.


If there are other people at the scene, get someone to help you shift the dog onto the blanket., Once you have the dog securely on the blanket, get someone to help you lift the dog. You’ll want to move the dog as little as possible, so if you can, go ahead and place the dog in the back seat of your car. If you cannot place it in your car, find a soft piece of ground where you can administer first aid.If you are alone at the accident, you can try pulling the dog out of the street once you have it on the blanket. Make sure you can do this without aggravating any current injuries or creating any new cuts or abrasions.

