 When you’re feeling overwhelmed, you may sleep less, which makes you even more stressed. Stick to a schedule by going to bed and waking up each day at the same times. Committing to a consistent bedtime can help you feel grounded and structured in your daily life.Create a bedtime routine that helps you unwind. You might light a scented candle, take a warm bath or shower, and listen to soothing music.
 Exercise is often one of the first activities to go when life gets overwhelming. However, regular exercise can help you stay grounded and manage stress. Try to get in at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week.Go for a run or jog. Take your dog for a walk in a nearby park. Complete a yoga sequence. Or, go for a swim in the community pool.
Make it your top priority when you wake, or take your gym bag to work or school. That way, you’ll be more likely to stick to your workout.
 Chronic stress can prompt you to reach for unhealthy foods like fast food or convenience meals that you can eat on the go. But, such empty-calorie foods only make you feel worse. Strive to eat a balanced diet of nutritionally-dense foods like fruits, vegetables, whole grains, healthy fats, and lean protein.Make it easier on yourself to eat healthy by prepping your meals over the weekend. For example, you might steam some veggies and grill chicken breasts to eat for dinner throughout the week. Boil eggs, prep oatmeal, or make mason jar salads.
 Stressful times are more manageable when you surround yourself with a strong support system. Don’t isolate or withdraw from your social circle. Good friends, coworkers, and family members can help take your mind off stressors and/or offer a source of advice or encouragement.For instance, you might choose one person to call each day when you take a break from work. Say something like, "Hey, I just need to hear a familiar voice."

, Stay grounded when life gets tough by making time for enjoyable activities. Your busy schedule may not allow for a vacation, but you can still treat yourself to an evening or day of relaxation. Book an appointment at a local spa. Binge-watch your favorite TV show. Go out for dinner with friends. Get lost in a suspense novel. Make an effort to pour back into your cup.