 Many names have changed their spellings over the years, usually becoming simpler. There are several ways to simplify how a name is spelled:


Eliminate silent letters. This can be as simple as changing the spelling of "Hoffmann" to "Hoffman" or "Hofman" or as complicated as changing "Caesche" to "Cash."
Spell a name the way it's now pronounced. Over time, the pronunciation of the name "Cockbourne" changed to "KO-burn," so the spelling of the name became "Coburn." Sometimes, the spelling changes first and the pronunciation follows, as may have happened when shortening "Davies" to "Davis."
Respell using the letters closest to those in the original language. The German language puts umlauts (diaereses, two dots) over the letters "a," "o," and "u" to indicate a different vowel sound than for those letters without the umlaut. It also uses a letter similar to a "B" with an open bottom called an "ess-tsett" in place of a double-s. Because English doesn't use these letters, German names with umlauts are often written with an "e" after the altered letter, such as "Moench." (As the pronunciation changes, the spelling may also change as well, simplifying the name to "Munch.") German names using the ess-tsett are written in English with "ss."

, In contrast to simplifying the spelling of a surname, some last names are made fancier with additional letters, such as changing "Johnson" to "Johnstone" or adding a second "t" to "Barret" to make it "Barrett."

, Certain words are similar, but not identical, among different languages. Occupation-based last names based on these words may change to match the word in the new language when the possessor of that name moves to a new country, such as the German "Mueller" becoming the American "Miller."

, Some languages use entirely different words to mean the same thing. Last names based on occupations that have very different words in two languages may be translated directly into the new language, such as the Irish "Brehon" becoming the English "Judge" or the German "Schneider" becoming the English "Taylor."

, Just as people can legally change their names today, people in the past have changed their names for one reason or another. A family with the last name of "Hallstrom" today may at one time have used the surname "Rasmussen."

