 Soda, beer, sparkling water, champagne, or other carbonated beverages contain gases. This is what makes them bubbly. If you drink this sort of beverage, then, the gases will build up in your stomach and more than likely trigger a burp, which might help to relieve your abdominal discomfort. Try it!Don’t just drink the beverage – chug it. Drinking quickly will make you swallow even more air, increasing the probability of a big belch. Drinking through a straw does the same.
For even more effect, try to drink your soda rapidly through a straw.
Another trick is to drink water from the opposite side of the glass. To do this, hold a glass of water and fold your body in half, as if you’re stooping over a water fountain. Place your mouth on the opposite side of the cup and slowly tilt the water into your mouth. Take small sips, swallow, and then stand up straight.;
, As with airy drinks, so with airy foods. Have you ever wondered why eating an apple often ends with an enormous belch? This is mostly because apples contain a good deal of air, which is released when you chew and start to digest them. Why else would people “bob for apples”? Try this to make yourself burp.


Apples certainly aren’t the only food to contain air. Try other fruit like pears and peaches, or a souffle.
You might also try chewing gum or hard candy. While neither of these foods contain much air, chewing them will force you swallow it – leading to, ideally, a burp.
 If bloating is making you uncomfortable, changing positions can put pressure on the air inside of you and force it upward. Stand up if you are sitting down or sit down if you are standing.


Try exercise to force a burp. Walking, jogging, or light aerobics may jostle the gas out of your stomach. For example, you might walk around and jump short distances up and down, on the balls of your feet.
Alternately, lie on your stomach and then curl your knees toward your chest. Stretch your arms forward as far as they will go and arch your back. Repeat as needed, keeping your throat and head level.
Lying down and quickly sitting up is another option.
 Some types of antacid create excess gas, which will increase your urge to burp. Others, however, containing the drug simethicone, break up the gas bubbles in the stomach and eliminate the need to burp.Either way, you should resolve your discomfort by taking an antacid.


Antacids will also help to control acid reflux or “heartburn,” which is a common cause of abdominal discomfort and belching.
 Triggering your gag reflex should be a last resort, as it causes an unpleasant sensation and possibly vomiting, you can try to trigger your gag reflex. If nothing else works, however, consider getting rid of your gassy discomfort by forcing a burp this way.


Most people have gag sensitivity. In order to trigger yours, touch the soft palate at the back of your mouth with a clean finger or tooth brush.
The aim here is to make you burp, not vomit. Be light on the touch and only engage the reflex enough to release the air in your stomach.

