 When you start seeing someone, be patient and let the relationship develop naturally. Don’t get serious too quickly or write someone off prematurely. It takes time to know whether you’re compatible with someone.If a romantic interest displays red-flag behaviors, there’s probably no reason to get to know them further. However, if you’re not sure whether you like someone or not, going on another date or two can help you figure out how you feel.
 If you have a bad feeling about a developing relationship, it’s a good idea to slow things down or break the relationship off entirely. People’s flaws tend to become more pronounced as you spend more time with them. If you’re noticing red flags or deal-breakers in the person you’re seeing, these issues are likely to get worse, not better.If you’re concerned about certain aspects of a developing relationship, talk to the other person. You may be able to come to a compromise. You may also save yourself some time by figuring out that the relationship isn’t going anywhere.
 If you seek out a relationship just for the sake of not being single anymore, you might end up unhappy with the partner you picked. Take your time and think about your future happiness, not just the way you feel right now.Consider that you might be happier single than you would with a poorly-matched partner.
 You can ensure you find the right match by being open and straightforward about your needs in the relationship. Communicating your values, goals, and future priorities early on can help you figure out if your partner is right for you. Also, be willing to listen to and acknowledge your partner's needs.For example, if finishing your graduate degree is important, you will need to convey this to your partner.
Relationships require compromise, so you shouldn't express these as if they are a list of ultimatums. However, your partner should be willing to have a discussion with you so that you can reach goals and priorities that align with both your needs.
 If you're in a good relationship, it probably feels good. But there are some key aspects that will indicate you're headed in the right direction. Healthy relationships share some common elements, such as:You and your partner share common values and goals
You have realistic expectations
You both contribute to the relationship and are invested in its success
You trust one another
You respect one another's differences
You both maintain your own identities in the relationship
You encourage and support one another's growth
You feel safe communicating your needs
You honor one another's friendships and family ties
You spend quality time together often

