 Even if you’re wiped out, try to get 15 to 30 minutes of light exercise daily. Exercise can actually help you maintain your energy and improve your immune system. Do your best to eat three healthy meals a day and to avoid skipping meals.If you skip a meal, try to fill in the gap with a can or bottle of a nutritional drink.
Keep quick snacks on hand, such as almonds, to keep your energy up when you’re assisting your loved one.
 Caregivers often have trouble getting enough sleep, which is a major cause of burnout. A lack of sleep can have an impact on emotional health, impact your ability to offer care, and compromise your immune system. Make an effort to find regular respite care, whether from someone you know and trust, a private organization, or a community service group.Do your best to get weekly time off to catch up on rest.
Try to make it a goal to gradually develop a healthy sleep routine. Listen to relaxing music, read a book, or meditate before bedtime. Avoid caffeine at night or within six hours of bedtime.
Try to sync up your sleep time with your care receiver’s and sleep when they do.
 Make a daily effort to do things that you make you happy. Once you find regular respite care, use your time off to do things you love whenever you can, like catching a movie, grabbing a bite to eat with a friend, or going to a museum.Never feel guilty about needing personal time or having to take a day off.
Try to something small for yourself every day. For example, while your loved one naps, read a book, listen to music, knit, or do another activity that you find relaxing.
 Keep up with family members and friends. Try to have conversations with loved ones that will allow you to get your mind off of caregiving for a moment. Share your feelings with someone you trust to vent and perhaps seek advice from.Feeling isolated is a common symptom of caregiver burnout, so do your best to avoid it by staying close to your personal support system.
 Even if you are doing all that you can to take care of yourself and prevent caregiver burnout, you may still experience it at some point. Therefore, it is important to know how to recognize the signs of caregiver burnout and seek help as soon as you notice them:Feeling depressed.
Losing interest or pleasure in things you used to enjoy.
Feeling worthless or guilty.
Experiencing changes in appetite or weight.
Lacking energy.
Feeling fearful.
Sleeping too much or too little.
Lacking interest in personal hygiene.
Lacking interest in sex.
Having anxiety.
Crying easily.
Being easily distracted.
Experiencing agitation or restlessness.
Having an inability to concentrate or make decisions.

