


What are the shoe expectations for those locales? If you answer work, gym, and mall, then perhaps you need a pair of dress shoes, athletic shoes, and casual shoes.;
,


If, say, church is your number four place, you may be expected to wear dress, or depending on denomination, casual shoes again.
 Reduce your collection down to essentials, if possible.


It is not necessary to own six pairs of athletic shoes, unless you have different athletic events that require specialized shoes (if you are in a soccer league, for example). A pair or two of cross training shoes (one for good, and one for bad weather) is all you need. You can replace an old pair if they get too worn, or demote your old "outdoor runners" to "grass mowers".
For dress shoes, black and medium to dark brown are often necessities for men in the office, and of course, belts to match help out a lot.
Remember, the more shoes you own, the more decisions you need to make about what shoes you will wear that day.



For men, Black and Brown Dress shoes, two pairs of athletic shoes (newer and older), and one or two pair of casual shoes may be the backbone of most wardrobes. If one lives in a snowy environment, he may purchase a pair of boots to offset the snow, as well.



Most medium to large cities will have at least one or two cobblers still in operation. Purchasing a $100 pair of dress shoes is expensive, but you can get them repaired or re-soled for around $30-$50.
Athletic shoes, if frequently used for the intended purpose, may wear quickly. Honestly assessing the condition of them, and placing them in a rank, will assist in cutting clutter. Think in a three-tiered system: Tier 1 is your newest pair, used for good weather or in the gym. Once they begin to show significant wear or damage, they can be demoted to Tier 2, which are used for outdoor running in bad weather conditions. Tier 3 shoes are relegated to grass-mowing or softball-practice duty...and should be discarded once a new pair of athletic shoes are purchased.
Casual shoes are often worn with jeans or shorts, and can allow some unique flair in a wardrobe. If dress shoes and athletic shoes cover most occasions, 2 pairs of causal shoes could be sandals and boat shoes, or leather flip-flops and upscale athletic shoes, or perhaps even cowboy boots for the urban cowboy. This is where your personal style can shine out.
Unique circumstances may dictate additional shoes, i.e., snowy weather determines a pair of boots, and a substantial time in the locker room may suggest a pair of cheap plastic flip-flops.

