 Lifestyle changes are typically not enough to overcome your FH. Your doctor will be able to help you lower cholesterol levels by prescribing medications like statins. Statins are a class of drug that can lower cholesterol levels in the blood.Statins commonly prescribed for FH include atorvastatin or rosuvastatin., Aside from statins, there are several other medications that might help your FH. For instance, your doctor might prescribe:Bile acid sequestrant resins. Bile acid sequestrant resins prevent cholesterol absorption into the blood. They cause the liver to use cholesterol to produce more bile acid, thus reducing overall cholesterol levels. Cholestyramine is a common bile acid sequestrant resin.Ezetimibe is a drug given to assist in weight loss and reduce cholesterol levels.Nicotinic acid (niacin), is a concentrated form of B3, a vitamin that can reduce your lipids (fats), including cholesterol.Gemfibrozil, likewise, can lower lipid levels.Fenofibrate is a drug of the fibrate class which can not only lower LDL, but raise HDL cholesterol levels. It might be used alone or in conjunction with statins., In a more rare form of FH — known as homozygous FH (HoFH) — the genes that caused FH come from not one, but both parents. This is an aggressive form of FH and leads o the narrowing and blocking of blood vessels even before birth. Left untreated, LDL levels are four times the normal level and heart attack or sudden death are likely to occur during your teenage years. You may need apheresis, a special process whereby blood or plasma is removed from the body, then filtered to remove LDL cholesterol. Your blood plasma is then returned.If you have HoFH then you need to be under the care of a lipid specialist.
Apheresis — if necessary — may be used in combination with other therapies to control LDL levels in your blood. The process will then be required every two weeks for the rest of your life.You’ll have to visit a hospital or special lipoprotein apheresis center to get apheresis. There is usually no pain or discomfort during the procedure. The whole process takes about one-and-a-half to three hours., In rare situations of HoFH, you may need a liver or partial-liver transplant. The liver makes most of your body’s cholesterol. If you have FH, a faulty liver might mean you’re unable to recycle or regulate your body’s natural cholesterol levels. In such a situation, then a liver transplant may be considered.A liver transplant is a serious operation in which all or part of your liver is removed and you are given a whole or partial healthy new liver.

