 To make it more fun, cut out a circular piece of paper beforehand (or use a paper plate) and fold it into four sections; the centre point (where the two folds cross) and the major markers (12, 3, 6, and 9 ) will then be clear.
 Draw a line from the center of the clock outwards to each of the 12 hour markers. Allow the child to color each pie slice differently if (s)he wants. (Starting with red at 1 o’clock and working upwards through the rainbow will make the number progression more intuitive than simply coloring each section randomly.)

, Move the crayon to various positions on the clock. Use the pie slices to your advantage by explaining that anything within a certain slice is __ o’clock. (Ex. the first, red slice is 1, the second, orange slice is 2, etc.) Allow the child to move the crayon around until (s)he is comfortable reading it.
 Don’t separate this clock into slices or color each section differently; that method makes less sense when dealing with minutes.
 Move it to various positions around the clock and explain what each position means to your child. Start by covering the 5-minute marks; once they understand those, progress to the “off” numbers like 24 and 51. Allow the child to move the pencil around and practice reading it until (s)he is comfortable. Don’t worry about hours for the time being.
 Make it clear that the shorthand (crayon) always shows the hour and the long hand (pencil) always shows the minutes. Position them to show simple times (ex. 1:30, 4:45, 8:05) before moving on to more complicated ones (ex. 2:37, 4:59). When the child is comfortable with these, demonstrate times with overlapping hands (ex. 12:00, 1:05).
 Have him or her list important times of the day (ex. bedtime, breakfast, when the bus arrives) and demonstrate them on the paper clock. Once you’re confident in his or her ability, make a mistake and allow yourself to be corrected.
 Always be sure to do this after he or she has mastered the concepts as an encouragement technique.

