 These are the most formal greetings, but they are never required, even for subjects of the Queen. If you are a man and you choose this approach, bow your head slightly at the neck.If you are a woman, give a small curtsy: put your right foot behind your left, then briefly bend at the knees while keeping your upper body and neck vertical.Deep curtsies are not a faux pas, but they are uncommon and difficult to do gracefully.Deep bows from the waist, on the other hand, are never performed in this situation.
Perform this greeting when the royal family member passes by you, or when you are presented., Instead of bowing or curtsying, you may give a small nod (traditionally male) or bob by briefly bending your knees (female). This is a typical choice for people who are not citizens of the Commonwealth, since they have no fealty to British royalty.This is also perfectly acceptable for Commonwealth citizens., The Royal Family's website states that shaking hands is also an acceptable form of greeting, alone or in addition to one of the modes above.However, you should wait for the Royal Family Member to extend his or her hand first, and use only a light touch with one hand.Do not initiate any physical contact yourself.If you are wearing dress gloves (which is certainly not required), men should remove the gloves before shaking hands, while women may leave them on., Wait until he or she greets you before you speak. Avoid changing the subject, and do not ask any personal questions.Foreigners should resist the urge to speak "proper" if it comes across as an imitation of an English accent. The Queen and her relatives have spoken with thousands of people around the world, and do not expect you to speak as they do.
 If addressed by royalty, your first response should end with the long form of respectful address. For example, if the Queen asks you "How are you enjoying the United Kingdom?" you could respond, "It's wonderful, Your Majesty." For all other members of the royal family besides the Queen, your first response should use "Your Royal Highness" instead., All female members of the Royal Family, including the Queen, should be addressed as "Ma'am", with a short "a" as in "jam". Address all male members as "Sir".If you mention a royal family member in the third person, always use a full title (such as "The Prince of Wales") or "His/Her Royal Highness". Referring to someone by name ("Prince Philip" ) may be considered rude.Note that the correct title for the Queen is "Her Majesty the Queen". Avoid "Queen of England", as that is just one of many titles that refer to a specific country.
 Use the same bow, curtsy, or less traditional greeting as a respectful farewell when the meeting comes to an end., The staff of the Royal Household is happy to answer etiquette questions. If you are not sure of the preferred title for a particular royal, or the expectations for hosting a particular event, enquire by post or telephone:(+44) (0)20 7930 4832
Public Information Officer
Buckingham Palace
London SW1A 1AA

