 In order to get squad points, you must play online. You may have access to high-tiered weapons and perks in local game mode but those do not carry over to your online play experience.;
, Ranking up or leveling up in CoD Ghosts instantly awards you with 2 squad points. Surely, this is the fastest and easiest access to get squad points. The challenge here of course is for you to perform well during online combat situations.


Leveling up all the way to Level 60 gives you a total of 120 squad points.
It will be much easier for you to level up faster if you play with friends. They can definitely help you boost your level. Sometimes, some even hold private lobbies solely for boosting - which is prohibited.
 A new addition to CoD Ghosts is field orders. They are random blue briefcases with challenges that become available when eliminating an enemy. These challenges must then be completed in order for you to be awarded with a squad point.


Field orders are not really hard challenges. Some can easily be completed, such as getting a kill while using a picked-up weapon or simply killing an enemy from behind.
If you fail to complete a field order, you will lose the blue briefcase and it can now be acquired by the enemies.
Aside from gaining a squad point, you will also gain experience points (XP) and a random kill streak reward upon field operation challenge completion.
Once you get a hold of a blue briefcase, back-up a bit and adjust your play style for what the challenge asks of you. For example, if the challenge asks you to kill an enemy from behind, it’s better to be stealthy until you find your prey.
 Most of the CoD Ghosts players do not realize that accomplishing Operations (or so-called Challenges) is one of the most effective ways of earning squad points.


There are a lot of Operation challenges to choose from and some are really easy, such as sprinting 5 miles (8.0 km) using the Marathon perk. This literally means you can be awarded 1 squad point by just running around with the Marathon perk equipped.
The Operations change every 2 weeks and can be renewed early using 1 squad point.
Just like field orders, accomplishing operations will win you some XP.
Some operations may be class, perk, or weapon specific so make sure your class, perk and weapon is suited for the operation challenge you would like to accomplish.

