 There are a variety of inexpensive options available. Germinating flats are cheap and specifically created for the purpose of germinating seeds. Plastic drinking cups and recycled egg cartons are other inexpensive options, however. Small flower pots will also work.;
, The best containers are four or more inches deep. This allows the root system to develop.
 If using an old plastic pot or tray, soak it in a solution containing one part bleach and nine parts water, and rinse thoroughly. If using a new container, sterilization may not be necessary.
 Most plastic pots and germination trays already have holes in the bottom for water to drain through. If using a plastic cup, egg carton, or another container without any holes, punch a small hole or two in the bottom of the container before filling it with soil.
 Typically, this means starting them 4 to 8 weeks before the expected last frost. Doing so gives your seedlings plenty of time to develop prior to the transfer, making them strong enough to withstand winds, insects, and other pests.
 Peat moss pellets work well with germination trays, but a good soil might be necessary if using a larger container. Purchase a pre-packaged soil from a garden center to ensure a high-quality "sterile" mix. Many stores even sell special "seed starting" blends.
 Do not pack the soil down. Instead, allow it to remain loose.
 Add enough water to get a spongy wet consistency, but do not completely saturate the soil.
 Some flowers require you to cover the seeds with up to an inch of soil, while other small seeds may only need to be sprinkled on the surface of the soil. Do not pack soil on top of the seeds, however, since doing so will smother them and make it difficult for sprouts to break through.
 Space them 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) apart to prevent them from interfering with each other if more than one seed grows.
 Only add a small sprinkle of water to moisten the seeds and the new soil. Do not drown your seeds.
 If using a germination tray, it likely came with a clear plastic cover. Otherwise, use clear plastic wrap. The cover prevents your seeds from drying out, but it must be clear to allow adequate sunlight through.
 The location should also be well-ventilated, however. If you want to prevent the air from getting too stagnant, run an electric fan in the same room near the seeds, but do not point it directly at the container. Only run the fan for a few minutes at a time.
 Typically, you should place the seeds near a window but not in direct sunlight.
 Some seedlings need up to 16 hours of light a day in order to develop. If so, shine a fluorescent light a few inches above the tallest leaves during the hours when no sunlight is available.
 Relocate the seedlings to a location with better sunlight.
 This prevents the seedlings from bending in any one direction to reach the light.
 Use a spray bottle if possible. Gentle watering prevents damage to delicate, developing root systems.
 If you press your finger into the soil and feel moisture, you may want to wait before watering again. Keep the soil moist but not soaked.
 Use a mild fertilizer. If possible, purchase one designed for young shoots.
 Expose them to direct sunlight and outdoor air for a few days in their current containers. Keep them moist and protect them from the wind. Bring the plants in at night, especially if the nights are still cold.
 Refill the hole to the same depth as your pot or container using loose soil. The purpose of digging out the soil and refilling it is to ensure that the soil remains loose enough for your flower's roots to adapt.
 You don't want to completely saturate the hole, but you should add enough water so the soil is a bit spongy.
 Tap on the bottom and sides lightly until you can remove the soil from its container without forcing it.
 The root structure should be solid enough that the plant retains the shape of the container it was in.
 Make sure that your plant is firmly seated, but do not pack the soil tightly.
 Do not soak the flower, but make sure that it is moist.

