 In order for a condition to be characterized as ASD, the patient must have experienced a significant emotional stressor less than a month prior to showing symptoms. The trauma usually involves a death, fear of death, or physical and emotion harm.By knowing if you or someone around you has experienced this sort of trauma, you can more effectively asses if ASD is the cause of these symptoms. The most common causes for this trauma are:Interpersonal traumatic events, like assault, rape, and witnessing a mass shooting.
Being the victim of a crime, like robbery.
Motor vehicle accidents.
Mild traumatic brain injuries.
Industrial accidents.
Natural disasters.;
, There are a number of symptoms that can denote ASD. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM-5), which is the universal manual of mental illnesses, if a patient exhibits the following symptoms after a significant trauma, it is possible that he or she is suffering from ASD. The symptoms must last more than 2 days and less than 4 weeks to be considered ASD., Dissociation is when someone seems as if they've withdrawn from the real world. This is a common coping mechanism for people who have experienced significant trauma. There are numerous ways a person can dissociate. Three or more of the following symptoms indicate ASD.A sense of numbing, detachment, or absence of emotional responsiveness.
Reduced awareness of surroundings.
Derealization, or feeling that the external world isn't real.
Depersonalization. This is when someone feels as if their feelings or experiences aren't their own. Victims of trauma may convince themselves that the event was experienced by someone else, not them.
Dissociative amnesia. The person may block out or forget the entire trauma or aspects of the event.
 Someone suffering from ASD will re-experience the traumatic event in a number of ways. If you or someone you know is reliving a trauma in one or more of the following ways, it is an indicator that ASD is present.Recurrent images or thoughts of the event.
Dreams, nightmares, or night terrors of the event.
Flashback episodes detailing the experience. This can be quick flashes or very detailed events where the person actually feels like he or she is reliving the trauma.
 The patient will experience distress on exposure to reminders of the traumatic event. He or she will often avoid situations or places that bring back memories of the event. If you notice someone deliberately avoiding certain situations or places related to a trauma, it is another indicator of ASD.The victim will usually experience symptoms of increased anxiety, over-arousal, or hyper-vigilance when approaching the reminder.
 A further criteria for ASD is that the symptoms experienced significantly interfere with the sufferer's life. Evaluate yours or another person's day to day life and see if these symptoms are causing significant problems.Look at how your work is affected. Are you able to concentrate on tasks and get work done, or is it impossible for you to concentrate? Do you experience reminders of the trauma while working and are unable to continue?
Look at your social life. Does the thought of going out cause anxiety? Have you stopped socializing altogether? Have you tried to avoid things that remind you of your trauma, and therefore cut out certain social situations?

, If you or someone you know fits the preceding criteria for ASD, then professional help is needed. Fortunately ASD is treatable, but you have to act as soon as possible. A medical professional can evaluate the condition and begin the appropriate treatment.Where you should start depends on the situation. If you or someone near you is having a severe crisis, feeling suicidal or homicidal, or becoming violent, you should call 911 right away. After the crisis passes, you can seek further psychological help.
If you've been having suicidal thoughts, you can call the suicide helpline at 1-800-273-8255.
If you or the person you're concerned with is not currently experiencing a crisis, you can make an appointment with a therapist or similar mental health professional.
 Currently, CBT is considered the most effective treatment for ASD. It has also been found that treating with CBT early enough helps prevent ASD from developing into PTSD, a similar condition with more long-term effects.CBT for ASD focuses on changing the way you perceive risk associated with the trauma you experienced, and the focus is to process the trauma in order to desensitize you to the triggers you have developed around your trauma.
Your therapist will educate you on the physical, emotional, and psychological responses to trauma so that you are better able to recognize your triggers and responses. Your therapist will also explain how and why the process is important to desensitize you to the experience.
Your therapist will also provide relaxation training to use during anxiety responses outside the office, as well as to use in session while verbally processing the trauma or imagining the trauma and describing it out loud.
Your therapist will also use CBT to help you reframe your experience and help you to overcome survivor's guilt if necessary. For example, in the case of ASD, the patient may have experienced a car accident that caused a death. He may now be terrified of getting into a car because he feels he will die. The therapist will work out how the patient can think about this in a different way. If the patient is 25 years old, the therapist may say that the patient has been getting into cars for 25 years and didn't die, so statistics are in his favor.
 Psychological debriefing involves a mental health intervention very quickly after a trauma, ideally before symptoms have developed into ASD. The patient will undergo an intense therapy session to talk out the whole trauma with a professional.The drawback of this treatment is that it must be done very soon after the event to be effective.


The effects of psychological debriefing are considered inconsistent. Some studies find that psychological debriefing has no long-term benefit for victims of trauma.This should not discourage you from seeking psychological help, it just means that your counselor will probably use different treatments if debriefing proves ineffective.
 In addition to one-on-one therapy sessions, group treatments can also help individuals suffering from ASD. These sessions are usually overseen by a mental health professional who will guide the conversation and make sure all group members have a positive experience. A support group can help prevent feelings of loneliness and isolation, because you'll be around people who have had similar experiences.Like psychological debriefing, there is doubt that group therapy is effective when treating ASD, though participants might enjoy the level of camaraderie that develops in group sessions.
 Often, ASD leads sufferers to fear particular places or situations that remind them of the trauma. This can be a significant hardship on the person's life, because he or she may stop socializing or going to work to avoid reminders of the trauma. If untreated, these fears can develop into PTSD.With exposure therapy, the patient is gradually exposed the the stimulant that causes anxiety. The hope is that this exposure will gradually desensitize the patient to the stimulus and he or she can face it without fear in everyday life.
The treatment often starts with visualization exercises. The therapist will have the patient visualize the stresser in as much detail as possible. Gradually these sessions will progress until the therapist accompanies the patient in facing the stresser in a real-life scenario.
For example, a patient may have witnessed a shooting at a library, and is now afraid to enter a library again. The therapist would begin by having the patient visualize being in a library and describe how he or she feels. The therapist may then decorate the office like a library, to make the patient feel like he or she is in one, but still knows it is a controlled environment. Finally, the two of them would go to a library together.
 Like all prescription drugs, medication for ASD has a risk of dependence. Because of this, it is common to find these drugs sold illegally on the street.Never take any medication that your doctor hasn't prescribed. In the wrong doses, this medication can worsen your symptoms and even cause death.
 SSRIs are considered the first-line medication for treating ASD.They work by altering the levels of serotonin in your brain, which helps improve mood and lessen feelings of anxiety.This class of drugs remains the most popular treatment for a number of mental health disorders.


Common types of SSRIs include sertraline (Zoloft), citalopram (Celexa), and escitalopram (Lexapro).
 amitriptyline and imipramine have been shown to be effective treatment for ASD. Tricyclic antidepressant work by increasing the amount of norepinephrine and serotonin available to the brain.
 Benzodiazepine is often prescribed to reduce anxiety, so it can be beneficial for people suffering from ASD. It also works as a sleep aid, which helps alleviate the insomnia that often goes along with ASD.Common types of benzodiazepine include clonazepam (Klonopin), diazepam (Valium), and lorazepam (Ativan).
 Relaxation practices have proved to be very effective in improving overall mental health. They reduce the symptoms of stress, and can help prevent relapses of ASD. They can also help treat the secondary effects of mental illness like insomnia, fatigue, and hypertension.


When you seek psychological help for ASD, your therapist will probably teach you several relaxation exercises. It is usually a part of cognitive behavioral therapy., A common and powerful tool for reducing stress is deep breathing. By using the right techniques, you can effectively lower your stress level and help avoid future problems.Take breaths from your abdomen, not your chest. This will pull more oxygen into your body and help you relax. When breathing, place your hand on your stomach to make sure your abdomen rises and falls when you breathe. If it doesn't, you aren't breathing deeply enough.
Sit up with your back straight. Alternatively, you could lie on the floor too.
Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Take in as much air as you can, and then exhale until your lungs are completely empty.
 Like deep breathing, meditation helps release stress from the body and lets the you achieve a state of relaxation. Regular meditation can help improve your mental and physical health by reducing your levels of stress and anxiety.In this process, the person shifts to a quiet place, concentrates on a single sound, and allows his or her mind to turn away from all concerns and thoughts of daily life.
Select a quiet place, sit comfortably, clear all thoughts out of your mind and concentrate on the image of a candle, or a word like “relax”. Do this for 15 to 30 minutes daily.
 People with good support networks are less susceptible to episodes and relapses of mental illness. In addition to family and friends, you can reach out to support groups for help and camaraderie.Share your issues with those close to you. Don't bottle up your feelings. Telling your family and friends what you're feeling is very important for building a support network. They can't help you if they don't know what's going on.
You can also reach out and find a support group in your area that specializes in your specific illness. Doing a quick internet search will probably help you find a group close to you.
 Keeping a journal has been shown to help reduce stress and anxiety. It is a liberating experience to get all of your feelings out, and most treatment programs for mental illness involve writing in a journal. Commit to writing for a few minutes every day to benefit your mental health.When you write, really try to reflect on what's troubling you. First write what triggered your stress, then how you responded to it. What were your feeling sor thoughts when you started to feel stressed?Analyze your interpretation of the event. Identify if you are entering a negative though pattern. Then try to re-balance your interpretation in a way that is more positive and avoids catastrophic thinking.

