 Finding ways to meet your needs in a new environment can be challenging, but it’s also helpful in fighting homesickness.Connecting with what is new and exciting about your new situation may help you feel more attached to it.


For example, if you're studying or living abroad, check out all of the museums, palaces, local restaurants, and cultural traditions that make the country unique. Get out your tour book and make a goal of doing something cultural at least once a week.
Immerse yourself in the culture. Even if you’ve just moved to a different place in your home country, you might find that the local culture is quite different from what you’re used to. Learn the local expressions, try out new cuisine, and check out local bars and pubs. Take a cooking class that focuses on local ingredients. Join a local dance club. Increasing your intercultural communication skills can help you feel more at home in a new place.Ask the locals about their favorite things to do. You may get an excellent recommendation for finding the best burrito of your life, or you could get directions to a gorgeous off-the-radar lake.
 If you’ve moved to a new country, not being able to speak the language can be a huge barrier to feeling like you belong. Learn the language as quickly as you can; take classes, chat with locals, and practice your new skills. You’ll feel more confident and in control once you’re able to communicate with the people in your new environment., Getting out of the house is half the battle to beating homesickness. Of course you'll be homesick if you spend eight hours in a day watching reruns of The Office in the near-dark. Instead, make a goal of spending a lot of your time out of the house, whether it's just to read the same book you were going to read at home in a sunny park, or to take a long walk with a good friend instead of doing sit-ups in your room.


Work or study out of the house. Go to a coffee shop or park and do the same work you were going to do at home. Just being around people may help you feel less alone.
 Finding something new to do on your own can help you find your passion. It can give you a positive, productive activity to focus your energy on and can distract you from feeling sad or lonely. Learning a new skill can also help you break out of your comfort zone.


Try finding a hobby that’s related to your new environment. See whether there are any biking or hiking clubs in your area. Join a local art class. Find a writers’ workshop. If you can socialize while developing a new skill, that will help you feel more connected to your new place.
 Don't be disappointed in yourself if you're not in love with your new environment right away. Many people around you may have embraced their new surroundings more quickly, but that doesn't mean that there's something wrong with you; in fact, many people who may look like they're having a great time may in fact be feeling incredibly homesick. Have patience and know that with a bit of perseverance, you'll be able to make it work.