 Cinematherapy can be used in various ways. For example, you can watch a lighthearted movie to temporarily escape the stress and heaviness of your life. If you’re depressed, watching a movie that makes you cry can open you up to acknowledge feelings you may have pushed down.Likewise, feelings of depression may ease after you laugh and feel like you can feel joy again.


Think about the characters in the movie and if they had behaviors you’d like to add to your life.
If you need a good laugh, check out silly movies such as, “Airplane!” or “Meet the Parents.”

, Movies allow you to connect to characters and feel sad when they experience something sad or disappointing. Especially with children, movies can help increase empathy and build traits such as altruism.Even if you’re not a child or adolescent, movies can help reflect important social skills and increase your social awareness. Movies such as “Inside Out” can help to identify and listen to your emotions.
Sometimes, movies that make other people cry can invoke feelings of empathy for the characters, such as, “Hachi: A Dog’s Tale” and “A Walk to Remember.”

, Your therapist may ask you to watch a movie and find ways that you and the protagonist relate. Maybe you have similar social experiences or family lives. It can be helpful to find common ground in someone else’s experience, especially in a movie.You may develop a bond with a character and relate to a movie character in a way that may be difficult to replicate with people in your life.
”Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” is a good example of how symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can affect how you approach others and how trauma can affect decision-making.”Mean Girls” can help young girls realize that it’s difficult to fit in and that sometimes, being “cool” can hurt others.
 By noticing reflections of yourself in the main character (or other characters) in the film, you can begin to become accountable for your actions. For example, if you don’t know why you lose friends, a character can shed some light on certain behavior patterns that may influence you.You may gain some insight from watching the movie that can help you reflect on your life through a lens you’ve never considered before. For example, if you’re unclear of your narcissistic characteristics, you can watch “The Wolf of Wall Street” where the main character has many narcissistic traits you may be able to relate to.
If you wish you could grow up faster or that things could be different, watch the movie “13 Going on 30.”

