 Keeping your dog’s ears clean is an important aspect of grooming. This is especially true if your shorthaired dog has floppy ears. To avoid getting soap or water in your dog’s ears, it is best to clean the ears outside of the bath.Moisten the corner of a washcloth with warm water and wipe around the ear opening.
Do this 1-2 times per month.
Avoid going too deep into the ear.
 This means that excess tears flow their eyes, creating a stain on the fur. If your dog has this common condition, you will want to remove this “tear build up” regularly.You can use a commercial product (such as NaturVet) on a cotton ball (available at pet stores).
Another option is to use colloidal silver on a cotton ball (available at health food stores).
You can also apply coconut oil to the area around the eye to prevent skin irritation.
 Dental hygiene is important to your dog’s health. Purchase a dog toothbrush and dog toothpaste from your local pet store. Before you begin, make sure that your dog is comfortable with your hand in their mouth. You may want to allow your dog to sample the taste of the toothpaste.


If your dog is small, place your dog in your lap facing away from you. If your dog is large, sit or crouch behind them.
Using your non-dominant hand, carefully fold their lips back.
Holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, brush the front teeth.
Then, use your non-dominant hand to pry open your dog’s mouth.
Finally, holding the toothbrush in your dominant hand, brush the back teeth.
Offer your dog a treat and a drink of water.
 Clipping your dog’s nails is also important. Purchase a set of dog nail clippers at your local pet store. You will want to clip your dog's nails every 1-3 months.First, you must identify the “quick.”

This is a dark area inside the nail.
The quick contains blood vessels, and will bleed heavily if clipped.
Aim to cut above the quick.
Begin by trimming a little bit. (You can always clip more.)


If your dog is small, place your dog in your lap facing away from you. If your dog is large, sit or crouch behind them.
Using your non-dominant hand, hold your dog’s paw firmly.
Carefully, slide each claw through the small hole in the nail clippers.
Depress the nail clipper.
Lie your dog down on its side to trim the nails on the back paws.

