 Under their "Living" tab and "Beauty and Personal section, they provide a free search function for people to find companies that do not test on animals.;
, Stores like Safeway have a natural food section that also includes a personal care section. They carry many brands like Dr. Bronner's, Nature's Gate and Burt's Bees products that are vegan.


Always check the ingredients before buying these products. Just because it is listed as "natural," it does not mean it is vegan, although it is more likely to be so.
Dr. Bronner's Castille soap is made from olive oil. It is a soap traditional to Spain. Check the ingredients on their products to ensure animal products have not been added.
 Following the Groupon and Living Social craze to give consumers discounts based on a number of people buying coupons, VeganCuts sends you daily deals that give deep discounts on vegan products.
 Most large cities have Trader Joe's stores that carry products that are labeled as "natural." Many of these products are actually vegan. Vegan Beauty Review has listed the following products as vegan:


Trader Joe's brand Tea Tree Tingle Shampoo, All Natural Peppermint Toothpaste, Honey Mango Shave Cream, Tea Tree Oil Face Wash, Facial Cleansing Pads, Lavender Salt Scrub and Vitamin E Oil.
 You can stay up to date on vegan websites and blogs, such as veganbeautyreview.com. Check the website, under the "About Us" section to ensure all the products are vegan.


Visit Lush stores in large cities to stock up on shampoo, conditioner, lotions, bath salts, perfume and more that is made vegan with fresh ingredients.
 Many crafters make vegan personal products from fresh ingredients and ship them regularly. They are likely to cost more than supermarket products.
 Botanical Earth and Juice Beauty are just 2 of many sites that proffer vegan and all-natural beauty products.
 Many products, such as bath salts and facial scrubs can be made using store-bought ingredients, such as Epsom salts, coconut oil, olive oil, sugar, avocados and more. Search for vegan beauty recipes online to make your own personal care products.

