 Nerf doesn't actually make many air-pressure pump guns, but many people refer to all foam blasters as "Nerf guns," so this is a common mod in Nerf circles. These guns are typically primed by pumping a primer about five times to build up air pressure, which then shoots the gun. A plastic release valve is included for safety purposes, keeping the gun from exploding. You can plug that valve and get more power out of your gun, as long as you're careful.
 On a pump-action gun like this, the pump should come loose in one easy piece. It should have a long insert and a thicker chamber that's used to fill with air, a bit like a bike pump or some other kind of pressure pump. Pull it loose, as it shouldn't be screwed into anything after you remove the housing.


Unscrew the end cap and pull the primer from the air chamber housing. It should have an end piece with a little rubber seal around it, which is used to create friction and pump the air.
 On the end of the chamber where the air is pumped, there should be a little open release valve, which is basically just a hole. This is used to let some air escape if you over-pump the gun, creating too much pressure. If you plug this hole, you can get a lot more strength out of your blaster.


Use a small dot of hot glue over the hole, smoothing it out and making sure it seals and covers the hole completely. Let it dry thoroughly before moving forward.
Please note that the release valve is included to keep the plastic from breaking and popping open when you fill the chamber with pressure. It's toy-grade plastic we're talking about here, not strong metal, so you'll run the risk of breaking the gun completely if you do this, making it irreparable. You might get more power out of it, but only for a short period of time before it breaks.
 Another way to increase the power is to remove the black rubber O-rings from the plunger in the air pump and replace them with thicker rubber. This will create a tighter seal around the pump, creating more pressure and more power with each shot. Again, if you've plugged the release vale, this could be a stressful amount of pressure on the plastic, so be aware and be gentle if you do this.


Remove the rubber seal and take it to the plumbing section of the hardware store to look for seals. Get one with the same diameter, but a thicker gauge. It should feel much snugger in the barrel, and more difficult to pump. That's because there's more pressure in the barrel.
 It's likely you'll only need to pump the gun once or twice to get a lot of pressure into it. Don't start pumping away like you're trying to pump up an air mattress, or the gun will break. Be very careful to avoid cracking the gun and breaking it for good.








