 The world is full of them, so it won't be hard to think of more than just one. If your mind keeps going blank, look at the things below for some inspiration. When you have your list, pick three to five of these which you could accomplish within a week. Pick another five which you could accomplish in three months. Now pick another three to five things which could take a year to achieve. This will give you a good start. Make sure that you give yourself a tangible schedule to achieve each goal. If at first you don't succeed, reschedule or decide to try a different goal for a while.;
, If you already have one, try something new that you might not have considered before. Things like writing, dancing, or acting are all good examples. Joining a sports team or club is also a great way to have a good time and meet new people.
 Ask them questions.
 Never mind whether you're any good at it. Most things, especially creative activities, you get better at it with practice. Don't get scared to learn unless you have a physical reason you'd never succeed at it.
 If you do any better than Totally Hopeless you're way ahead and probably talented. If your start is Totally Hopeless, study it online or with people who already do it well and see how well your next attempt goes.


Celebrate even minor successes in the new activity. Don't pay too much attention to failures, it's more important to pay attention to the successes in Trial and Error. That's how people learn. That's why artists start with sketchbooks and practice paper.
 You'll meet new friends with similar interests and have something interesting to talk to people about.
 Go out and learn about various different subjects. Read books or watch films and see what kind of things interest you. Dedicate yourself to something you care about and learn as much about that thing as you can. Get out there and try something new.
 Whatever you do, it will make an impact.
 This can help lead you to things which you may have forgotten you could do, but where there all along.
 Be outgoing and social, and make new friends.
 If you and your friends are going to the movies or out somewhere, ask other people to tag along. The more the merrier!

, If you do things at the same time every day, just move them about a bit.
 Get a part time job or a completely different wardrobe or hairstyle. Make a movie, or start a blog or a website. There are so many things to do!

, You can even maybe try a hand with writing some poems or any other intellectual hobbies.
 Don't know how to play a really cool sport that you love to watch? Try it out. Find someone and find time to teach, play and practice with you. It's always good to try new things at your comfortable rate.
 New food, new you.
 If you feel like your life is boring, it might have something to do with the crowd you are hanging around. Don't just forget your old friends, but branch out a little. You'll be glad you did!

, Spice up your life by going to exotic places, cultivating amazing plants, raising an odd and quirky animal. Just let your imagination explode, and you'll live a more exciting and rewarding life!

, Know by this, I don't mean jump off a building without a parachute, but do the things you're kind of nervous doing. Like for example; talk to a girl or boy, dance, try to crack a joke, or even stand up for someone else! Don't be a "hermit crab"; get out there! Who knows, it could get you friends. Just don't be stupid.
 Are you happy doing with what you do, or with your friends? Maybe it's not the right thing. You can experiment with different things to see if anything brings you more joy. Go with a friend to a concert, or a movie if they ask you. But don't do crimes, they're always wrong!!

, If you are lonely, then put yourself on the market for a new friend or group. Be interesting, while doing the things you love, try doing it differently. Life is good, especially with friends. Don't forget romance either. If he/she is solo, then try charming him/her with your traits. Life is good when you get noticed, and get friends.
 If you're going to a boring place, look on the bright side. If you're going shopping, and you don't like to shop, look at "the bright side" - at least you have food to eat.
 Sometimes you just need a healthy change to break the monotony. Dying your hair, or throwing a party (with parents permission), or taking a holiday, or trying a new hobby are great ways to do this.
 It's a fun thing to do that gets you noticed, and girls/boys love it when you return the favor!

, Talk to the person in front of you in the grocery line or introduce yourself to the jogger in the street. You never know what might become of it!

, It's good to try new things! You can even make a new hobby out of it. Maybe something your friends/family does that you haven't. And if you don't like it, no harm done. You'll probably end up making new friends if you stick with it.
 It's a great idea to scribble down your thoughts from time to time! You don't have to write inside it everyday, just whenever you feel like it. One day you'll be able to look back on the things you wrote.
 Hope your life is going to turn interesting and nice! Wish you the best in your trying!

,, Try to actually do the things you write down to. Remember, you only live once! Make the most of your time while you can!

, For example, if you are interested in dance then join a dance class and improve your dancing skills.
 It's always very interesting to be out with friends.
 Don't be afraid to experiment and have fun because if you didn't like the way you were before, then odds are you will like something new. I wouldn't go overboard for example, going into a goth look if your naturally a preppy person etc. Go brunette or blonde. Maybe get a super curly perm or go for a pin straight look, or let your hair out naturally if you hadn't before.
 There is nothing worse than a hypocrite.
 Support a charity like the WWF (World Wildlife Fund), it'll make you feel good.
 If you are single and you have a crush on someone take a risk and ask them out. If you have a boyfriend/girlfriend, take it to the next level.
,,,, Building can be very fun if you like it. Try going out and buying some legos or wood if you don't think legos are "age appropriate".
 If it's a boy, start acting like a tom-boy (zombies, shooting, etc.) or if it's a girl start acting A LITTLE girly to try to find something you have in common! Find ways your interests and theirs may overlap. If you two like the same things, they'll think your life is more interesting. "A little girly" could mean adding a hair ribbon or reading a book she loved. "A little tomboyish" could mean finding a videogame with more gender-friendly characters to share with your brother or boyfriend. Look for things neither of you have tried that might be fun, especially if they involve doing something rather than just consuming stuff.
 You don't need to be nailed to one small group's idea of masculinity. The more you stretch to explore things gals like, the more likely you'll find your life richer by more female friends and more chances at a genuinely interesting girlfriend. There are worse ways to spend a Saturday morning than hanging around in a kitchen cooking something tasty with a woman - and if you do learn, you not only get to eat it but you'll eat better living on your own.
(good ex. "What do you wanna do? :I don't know: Let's play Monopoly! Sure! Bad ex. Let's play Candy Land! Always let THEM decide what to do.
 (WITH SUPERVISION)

, walk up Mount Snow-don) and each 6 months you have to go down the list and do these things, no excuses!

, Do your own thing! Get attention and be the life of the party. (NO DRUGS OR DRINKING!) Where ever you go. Feel free, but not too free! And don't be annoying or insulting while you do it. Be friendly and nice. And try not to be loud. Then you'll just be some weird goof. And make sure you don't hurt yourself!

, Saying that seems impossible, how can you actually remember everyday of your life? But to have an interesting life, you have to do interesting things and be interesting, after all, we only have one life. Remember to laugh even when everything seems to be going wrong, all you can really do is laugh it off, calm down and don't get too overwhelmed by the moment because it will pass.
 There are more days when we are stressed than days when we are actually relaxed and have everything we need. So changing your life is never going to happen overnight no matter how bad we want it to. So realistically, I could tell you get a hobby, play a new instrument, learn a language but everybody knows that all that is far fetched because yes, you would like to do all those but your daily routine would most likely always be your daily routine because that's your survival mode, you don't eat if you don't work, you don't get your degree or diploma if you don't go to school. So what is being said is that all of the new and exciting thing being discussed, is for you to make a gradual adjustment in your life. If you really want to learn a new language or play a new instrument, put your deadline for 6-8months not 2weeks. That gives you process to adjusting to the change and it lets you enjoy and embrace the change to fit your already set lifestyle.
 You have to pick what you want to change and keep it slow and steady. Be consistent, that is the only way to see results that you seek. Any change that occurs fast or overnight never lasts because it took you your lifetime to get to that point, so how will it take you overnight to make a change?

, Even if there is nobody around. For example listen to music and dance the way nobody has danced ever before, sing in the shower as loud as possible, write your funny memories, watch movies, cook and whatever you love to do or it's fun to you.

