 Apply a cold compress, washcloth filled with ice, or a bag of frozen vegetables to the swollen area in 10-minute intervals.Apply the ice pack for approximately 20 minutes every hour during the first couple days of healing.


Begin this treatment immediately and continue it for 24 to 48 hours.Press on the skin around the eye, not on the eye itself.
Make sure you wrap the ice pack in a towel or cloth. Applying ice directly to your skin can cause skin damage and frostbite.;
, Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is generally considered to be the best option. Ibuprofen (Advil) works too, depending upon which you have available. Both are available for purchase over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore.


Aspirin should be avoided since it decreases the blood's clotting ability.Follow the instructions on the label when taking the medication. Usually, you will need to take two pills every four to six hours.
Do not take more than 4 grams total of any combination of ibuprofen and acetaminophen in a 24hr period in order to avoid liver damage.
 If this is the case for you, and if it is challenging to open your eye, there is no need to force it open unnecessarily. As long as you have ruled out that it is nothing more serious than a black eye (that there are no other medical concerns), there is no problem with keeping your injured eye shut if it is painful to open.
 Or, if you injured your eye during sports, refrain from participating in this sport until your eye has fully healed.
 A black eye is bad enough, but not necessarily serious on its own. If accompanied by other eye injuries, however, you will need to seek professional medical care as soon as possible. You may have suffered severe damage to your eyes or a severe head injury.


Look closely at the white portion and colored iris of your eye. If you see any blood in these spots, you could have injured your eye in a critical way. Schedule an urgent appointment with an ophthalmologist.[
If you have vision problems like blurring, double vision, or an increased sensitivity to light, you should also contact an eye specialist.
Other signs of potentially critical damage include severe pain when moving the eye, severe headache, numbness of the face, swelling or depression of the eye or eye socket, nosebleeds, and/or dizziness.

