 See if your friend has a stack of board games in their house that you can pick from. Even though they may seem retro, board games are surprisingly fun, no matter what your age! They also are a great way to give you both something to focus on so that you aren’t at a loss for what to do or talk about.Remember to compromise and pick a game that you’ll both like, and try not to be overly competitive once you start playing.
If your friend doesn’t have any board games, see if they have a deck of cards so you can play card games.;
, If your friend has a video game console like an Xbox or a Wii, play video games together! Try to pick games where to both of you can play at the same time, either on a team or against each other. Also pick a game where you are evenly matched.If you’ve never played video games before, your friend’s house can be a perfect introduction! Have your friend teach you how to play the game and start at the easiest level.
 Kick around a soccer ball or shoot hoops with your friend if they have backyard. You can also just throw a baseball or Frisbee to have a fun activity to do that lets you enjoy the outdoors. You can even include your friend’s siblings in a game or invite other friends over to play.You don’t have to be good at sports to casually play. Be as competitive or casual as you feel like.
 If you are having a sleepover at your friends house, play a game like Truth or Dare or Never Have I Ever. These games are a lot of fun, especially if a bunch of your friends are at your friend’s house.
 If you’re looking for something to do on a rainy day or at night, watch a movie or even have a movie marathon. Pick out a movie that both you and your friend haven’t seen and will enjoy. Make a bag of popcorn, sit down on the couch, and enjoy the movie!Try to pick a movie that is fun and upbeat rather than slow or serious.
 Your friend may have fun things at their house that you don’t have at your own, like a swimming pool or a trampoline. If the weather is warm, spend time jumping, swimming, or doing whatever activities you’re able to do at their house that you can’t do at your own.
 If your friend lives in a safe and quiet neighborhood, walk or bike around for a change of scenery. Remember to stick by your friend and not to wander too far. You can walk and chat or take pictures of the scenery.If you aren’t sure whether the neighborhood is safe, err on the side of caution and find something else to do.

