 If you've installed another browser like Chrome or Firefox, you can launch that instead. Subsequent steps will remain the same with any major browser on an iOS mobile device.;
, Upon reaching your desired page, simply tap the Share button. This button is located in the upper, righthand corner and looks like a sheet with an arrow pointing from the top., You'll see this option next to several other functions (sharing via message, social media, to notes, etc.) and it's distinguished by the envelope icon.


You can directly message contacts or groups by selecting the "Message" icon. A "New Message" screen will appear and you can choose recipients and send your link via iMessage.
By selecting the "Add to Notes" option, you can save links to your Notes app.
Social media platforms like Twitter or Facebook are another way to share links. Twitter will simply give you the option to "Post" the link as-is, and Facebook will similarly allow you to "Post" the link with the option to add text before sharing.
If you want to add, remove or rearrange your sharing options, scroll all the way to right of your visible sharing options and select the "More" option.
You may also use the Share button to add links to Favorites, Bookmarks, your Reading List or Home Screen. These options are located in the row below the previously-mentioned sharing options and also include "Copy" and "Print" functions.
 A new Mail message will appear with the link included. The subject line of the email will include the page title, but you can edit this at your discretion. Simply type the e-mail address (or multiple addresses, including—potentially—your own) of the person(s) you wish to receive the link into the “To:” field and add (optionally) add any preferred text to the body of the message containing the link.


Note that this method automatically uses the default email account linked to your iOS email client. If you wish to send your link from an alternate email account, you may wish to use a different method instead.
 Your message will be delivered to its recipient(s) just as any other email would.

