 Cut 1 pound (453 g) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts into 1 1/2-inch (3.8-cm) chunks. Place the seasoning into a large plastic bag, seal it, and shake it to combine the ingredients. Add the chicken pieces, close the bag, and shake it again. The chicken should be coated in the seasoning mixture. For the seasoning, you'll need:1/4 cup (31 g) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground pepper
1 teaspoon red pepper flakes

, Heat 1/4 cup (60 ml) of olive oil in a skillet or saute pan over medium-high heat. Tear or slice 3 ounces (87 g) of prosciutto into strips and add it to the hot oil. Saute the prosciutto for about 5 minutes. Transfer the prosciutto to paper towels and set it aside.The prosciutto should become crispy once it's finished sauteing.
 Take the seasoned chicken out of the bag and add it to the hot skillet. Cook the chicken over medium-high heat for about 2 minutes. Turn the chicken over and cook the other side for another 2 minutes. The chicken should be browned on the outside and completely cooked on the inside. Transfer the chicken to another plate.If your skillet or pan is small, you may need to cook the chicken in batches, so they bake evenly and aren't crowded.
 Slice 2 cups (300 g) of onion and add it to the empty skillet or pan. Cook the onion over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes. The onion should soften and become translucent. Stir in 1 tablespoon of minced garlic and 1/2 teaspoon of dried thyme. Cook the mixture for one minute.Avoid adding the garlic when you start cooking the onions. Garlic burns easily which is why it's important to add it at the end of the cooking time.
 Pour 1/2 cup (120 ml) of dry white wine into the pan and stir well, so the bits of onion stuck to the bottom of the pan are mixed into the wine. Stir in 1 can (14.5 ounce or 411 g) of diced tomatoes in juice and 1 cup (240 ml) of chicken broth. Let the mixture come to a boil.For the white wine, consider using chardonnay, pinot grigio, or a sauvignon blanc.
 Turn the heat to medium-low, so the liquids are simmering. Stir in 1/2 cup (67 g) of pitted, chopped kalamata olives, the crispy prosciutto, and the cooked chicken (along with any juices). Let the chicken marengo bubble gently for about 5 minutes with the lid off.The chicken marengo will thicken as it simmers and liquid evaporates.
 Stir in 1 tablespoon of fresh lemon juice and taste the chicken marengo. Add salt and pepper according to your taste. Spoon the chicken marengo over cooked rice, pasta, or crusty bread.Consider garnishing the chicken marengo with lemon zest and chopped fresh parsley.

