 Electric toothbrushes come in a variety of types and offer many different features, so it can be difficult to decide which is best for you. If you're lost and don't know which toothbrush to pick, talk to your dentist or orthodontist. Either of these professionals will be able to talk with you about your specific situation and help you make the best decision.;
, Electric toothbrushes come in two types: battery-powered and rechargeable. Both offer distinct advantages and disadvantages that you should consider before making your purchase.Battery-powered toothbrushes: These usually run on an AA battery. They are handheld and work similarly to a manual toothbrush, but the bristles either spin or pulsate, aiding your brushing power. With this model you may still have to use a brushing motion, since the power only enhances cleaning ability. On some models you can replace the bristles when they wear down and keep the battery-powered base. Battery-powered toothbrushes are a cheaper option, usually ranging from $5 to $25.

Rechargeable toothbrushes: These models are usually recharged in a base that plugs into a wall outlet. You won't have to worry about replacing batteries. They tend to offer more high-tech options like timers, pressure sensors, and reminders to replace the bristles. They also usually offer a variety of brushing options, like oscillation or vibration. Unlike with a battery-powered brush, you usually only have to guide the brush across your teeth, while the electric power provides all the brushing power. Accordingly, they are more expensive than battery-powered brushes. They usually range in price from $50 to $300, depending on the amount of features included.
 Both types of electric brushes offer different features. Some of these you may find necessary, while others may seem less important to you. By weighing your options and deciding what you consider essential, you'll be able to narrow down your choices and pick the best toothbrush for you.Timers: Some electric brushes include timers to tell you how long you've been brushing. This can be useful if you often lose track of time and don't brush long enough. Some more sophisticated timers keep track of how long you should brush in each quadrant of your mouth.

Pressure sensors: Some higher end rechargeable brushes include a sensor that will let you know if you're brushing too hard. This could be useful if you suffer from sensitive teeth or weak enamel. It could also be especially helpful if you have braces, since brushing too hard can damage them.

Travel cases: Some toothbrushes have travel cases included, or you can buy one separately. During travel, your toothbrush can get damaged if you don't protect it properly. Since electric toothbrushes can be expensive investments, you should consider a protective case if you'll be traveling often.

Multiple brush head compatibility: Most electric toothbrushes have detachable brush heads so you can replace the brush when bristles wear out and keep the electric base. Some bases will only fit one type of brush head, while others are compatible with multiple types. This could give you more variety if you have a preference for a softer or firmer bristle.

Different brush settings: Some more expensive brushes offer multiple brush settings, while cheaper options offer only one. If you want more variety, you should pick a brush that offers multiple settings. Some different settings include rotary (the head rotates only in one direction), counter-rotational (the head rotates in various directions), rotating-oscillating (different lengths of bristles rotating in opposite directions), oscillating-pulsating (in addition to oscillatory motion, there is an added pulsating motion for enhanced cleaning).
 While some people enjoy an electric toothbrush, there are others who prefer a manual toothbrush. Before buying an expensive electric model, it would be helpful to buy a cheaper, battery-powered model to see if you like the way electric brushes feel. If you like it and decide you want something more sophisticated, then you can invest in a more expensive model with more features., Especially with braces, food will be stuck in your teeth. You'll want to loosen this before you start brushing. Sip some water and swish it around for about 30 seconds. This will help dislodge any large chunks of food that might be stuck in your braces.
 This will help get rid of any debris or microbes that have gotten on your toothbrush since the last time you used it. Turn the faucet on and let the water run over the brush head for a few seconds. Then turn the brush on and let it spin under the water for a few seconds., You should always brush with a fluoride-based toothpaste to ensure your teeth stay healthy. If you're unsure about which toothpaste to choose, look for a stamp from the American Dental Association indicating that the ADA has evaluated and approved the product. Click here for a list of ADA-accepted toothpastes.
 The mouth is broken up into four sections, or quadrants: the upper right (quadrant one), the upper left (quadrant two), the lower left (quadrant three), and the lower right (quadrant four). The division is from your first central tooth to your last molar. When you brush you should spend at least 30 seconds on each quadrant. This will give you a total of two full minutes of brushing, which dentists recommend., Hold your toothbrush up against the gum line above your braces on your top row of teeth. Your toothbrush should be at a 45° angle to the gum line., Hold your toothbrush at the 45° angle and brush the outer surfaces of your teeth and braces. Brush all around the brace on each tooth, and then place your toothbrush directly on the brace to make sure that there is nothing stuck in it., The inner surfaces of your teeth are the back parts of your teeth that face in towards your mouth and throat. This is usually easier with an electric toothbrush. Instead of making a brushing motion, you can just place the brush on the inner surfaces and let the brush do the work.


Give special attention to the lower sections of the inner surfaces, as this is where the most tartar buildup can occur.
 The biting surfaces of your teeth are the bottom or top edges that you use to bite into food. Use a circular rotating motion to clean your biting surfaces. Make sure to reach the back teeth as well — cavities back here are common because these teeth are harder to reach., Once you've brushed normally, you have to clean the area between your braces. To do so, insert the bristles between your braces from the top and make a few brush strokes. Then insert it from the bottom and do the same. Repeat this motion until you cover all your teeth.Depending on the motion your electric toothbrush makes, you may not be able to use its electric features while doing this step. Spinning bristles, for example, could get stuck and possibly damage your braces. In this case, just turn the brush off and do this motion manually.
 Brushing your braces too hard could cause damage. With an electric toothbrush, you don't have to apply much pressure. You only have to place the brush on your teeth and braces and turn it on — the brush should do the rest.Some electric brushes have pressure sensors which will alert you if you're pressing too hard or even stop the bristles from moving when the toothbrush is pressed with too much pressure.
 Your tongue also needs to be brushed to ensure that you have a clean mouth, otherwise leftover bacteria will re-contaminate your mouth as soon as you stop brushing. Position your toothbrush on your tongue and use a front and backwards motion to scrub the surface of the tongue. Doing this will get rid of bacteria and give you fresher breath., Flossing is especially important when you have braces, because trapped food can cause infections and cavities. Insert floss between the wires of your braces. Work the floss between your teeth and use a gentle sawing motion. Then use that same sawing motion to clean the wires and brackets of your braces.Don't pull too hard when you floss, or you risk breaking your braces or pulling them out of place.
If flossing is difficult for you, dentists recommend a water pick to get similar results.
 Once you are done brushing your teeth, gums, and tongue, it is important to rinse your mouth out. Take a sip of water, swish it around your teeth, and then spit it back out.
 Dentists recommend brushing twice daily to keep your teeth healthy. With braces you may need to brush an additional time, especially if you eat something sticky or hard. It would also help to rinse your mouth with water several times throughout the day to dislodge and stuck food particles., Make sure to run your toothbrush under the faucet for a few seconds after every use. This will help get rid of food particles and microbes that could get you sick.
 Just like with a normal toothbrush, you'll have to replace the bristle section of an electric toothbrush every few months. The bristles will wear down and they will no longer be as effective., If you leave dead batteries in your toothbrush, they could leak. This will ruin your toothbrush and could even poison you if the acid gets into your mouth.

