 Get one of these weapon types to at least 100 (and buy a level 100 weapon) before you try to loot the end zones of the map. All of the other weapon types are too loud, and are mainly designed to deal with high amounts of aggro after a spike.;
, It's important that you look at critical hit most of all. If your critical hit isn't capped for your chosen weapon, you aren't utilizing the full potential of that weapon (these caps can be referenced on the Dead Frontier Wiki). When your crit is capped you will crit 80% of the time you shoot/swing on average.
 They are the forts that offer the closest access to the end zones. Fort Pastor is the most populated fort, so according to the laws of supply and demand you will find the strongest economy there, also typically the best pricing for any given item.
 It determines how fast you can run(from aggro), and how fast you can get to the end zones from Fort Pastor or Precinct 13.
 Fort Pastor is the best place to sell your weapons and armor, and the south-east zone is the best place to sell ammo because then you don't bog down your storage space with it. The east and north-east zones are sparsely populated, so you will tend to see much higher prices there as demand there is very high for ammo and services (with the recent additions to the map all along the east side of the city this may change in the coming months as these areas now have more of a reason for people to loot there).
 I carry: 3-4 heals, 2-3 food, 1 hammer, 2 nails, 2 wooden planks, and a spare set of armor or 2. I know this takes up valuable inventory space, and you can carry less supplies if you choose, but survivability is important to looting the end zones. If you die you have a long walk ahead of you to get back to start looting again.
 An aggro spike indoors can kill even the most geared and experienced players.
 Looting requires that you pay attention to the game, what you're doing, and what kinds of zombies are on the screen at any given time. It IS possible to wade through the city avoiding the vast majority of zombies as you loot. No matter what you do though, if a Siren sees you and you can't kill her before she screams, you're going to have a lot of company; a siren scream can also initiate a full on aggro spike.
 Check the Fairview City Map on the Dead Frontier Wiki, note how zombie difficulty gets harder the further east you go; but also the further north or south you go from the center. Looting the most difficult areas is where the most profit is to be made as the highest level of items drop there.