 Choose a place where you can stay focus and avoid distractions.;
, Put on some music.
 Have a neat, tidy desk. Clear off unneeded items and collect all of your materials.
 Get some snacks or a drink if you need it.
 Don't start studying the night before your test. Start early so you have plenty of time.
 Collect all necessary materials and, if possible, be near natural sunlight.
 If you have one, this can show you what you need to know for the test. Ensure that it has been completed and is all together.


If you cannot find something, go to your teacher the following day to either redo it or get another copy.
 You can either get help from someone else, whether it's a friend, teacher, or parent. You can also use your textbook to find the answer.
 If your teacher provides one, this will be a great aid.
 That way if you study by yourself, you can try to answer the questions without cheating or not knowing if they are correct.
 Are there any highlighted or underlined questions or answers? If so, focus on those; there is a good chance that it will show up on your test. Still, review every page of notes and all the questions on your worksheets, highlighted or not.
 Chances are, this is where you'll find the most information. Read the chapters and sections that you will be tested on.


Using your traffic light system, set your materials out in order of most difficult, read and answer any questions regarding the subject.
 If there are vocabulary words, key terms, important people, dates or processes that you need to know, put each one on a flashcard.
 They can quiz you on your materials. They can also help you with more studying techniques.
 Look to see if there is there a map on your social studies test. Do you need to memorize where certain locations are? You can just concentrate on this or you can even go out in the garden or park and study there. If so, try making a song, rhyme, or poem to remember them in order from north to south or west to east.
 This can be a great way to help you understand things better and simplify things in your own words. To quote Einstein "If you can't explain it simply you do not fully understand it yourself", so it is important to try to understand the answers simply, in a way that works for you.

