 If you see your dog limping, take a look to see which leg is injured. Do a slow, careful examination of the injured leg. The broken leg could be really obvious, such as an exposed, open fracture. In this case, you’ll need to keep the wound clean. If it is a closed fracture, your dog may be limping but there may not be any blood or obvious wound. Whatever type of break, you’ll need to apply first aid and get your dog to the veterinary hospital right away!Since injured dogs can be fearful and aggressive, you’ll need to be careful. To avoid getting bitten, don’t put your hands or face close to the injured dog, especially if it is already agitated.If you need to move the dog away from the place where the accident occurred, you can use a towel sling to support some of their weight.
If the injury occurred on a road, you should move the dog to a place of safety and then perform emergency first aid.;
, If you can see an exposed wound where the leg is broken, you’ll need to clean the wound. Put on some plastic gloves. Rinse the wound with water or a saline solution. Then, flush the wound with a non-astringent antiseptic., Wrap a clean bandage around the wound several times. You want to wrap it snug but without applying too much pressure. Wrap it around a bunch of times, including above and below the exposed wound.Secure the bandage with first aid tape.If you don’t have a clean bandage or gauze, you could use a clean towel.
You should check to make sure your dog’s dressing is not too tight. It is important to make sure the dressing is comfortable and not impeding circulation to your dog’s limb.
 You should prevent the fracture from getting any worse by applying a simple leg-splint.Use a medical splint or, if you don’t have one, a ruler or a spatula will do the trick! The splint should cover the entire area of the fracture. It may go all the way up to where the leg meets the abdomen. Tie the splint to the leg with a bandage and secure it with medical tape at the top and the bottom., Your dog will have a hard time walking to the carrier or the car, so you should assist them. Wrap a towel or a blanket around their abdomen. Hold some of their weight with the towel while they walk to the carrier or the car.An easy way to do this is to pass a large bath towel under your dog’s belly. Hold the end up over his back, like a sling, to support his weight.
 Because your dog could move around on the journey to the veterinary hospital, you should restrain them. Lay them down with their injured leg up in the carrier.Use the carrier to transport them to the hospital by car or taxi.Since injured dogs can become aggressive, you may want to put a muzzle on your dog before taking them to the veterinarian., You’ll need to get your dog to the veterinary hospital as soon as possible. Drive them or, if you don’t have a car, get a taxi. On the way, try to keep your dog warm and comfortable.If your dog was involved in a vehicular accident, it is especially important to get them to the hospital quickly because they could have internal injuries in addition to the broken leg.
Keep your dog warm on the way to the hospital.You could ask a friend to comfort your dog in the back seat while you drive.
You’ll need professional veterinary treatment. So don’t use ointments on the open fracture, or perform other self-treatments on the dog.
Don’t try to re-set the bone yourself., When you get to the hospital, the veterinary team will take appropriate emergency action. Depending on the severity of the injury, your veterinarian may focus on stabilizing vital organs. Once vital signs look stable, your veterinarian will attend to the fractured leg., Your veterinarian will diagnose the type of broken leg. They will tell you what type of fracture it is, such as a complete or an incomplete fracture, transverse (straight) or oblique (diagonal) break. And they should be able to tell you some of the treatment options, which may be surgical or non-surgical.If it is a closed fracture, they may put your dog’s leg in a cast or a splint.
A metal fixation device may be attached to your dog’s leg.
 If your dog’s leg is severely broken in multiple places, your veterinarian may suggest amputation. Although this treatment option may sound scary, it could be the most viable option if the injury is very severe. Remember that your dog has four legs and, if necessary, should be able to live a healthy life with three legs.X rays will be taken to determine the extent of damage.The amputation surgery may take several hours.
 When discussing treatment options, you should ask your veterinarian about any differences in cost. Depending on the severity of the break, you could end up paying between $1200 and $3000 in veterinary fees. Typically, non-surgical treatment with a cast or a splint will be cheaper than surgical options, although there may be more follow up visits with non-surgical options.The average cost for treating a broken leg is $2000.
See if your veterinarian offers a payment plan.
 You’ll need to keep your dog in a crate or on a leash for the recovery period. If you let them run around the backyard or the park, they could easily get the splint or cast wet and dirty. Do everything you can to keep it clean and dry., It is important that your dog does not lick his wound. A dog's mouth is full of bacteria and licking will likely infect the wound. There are various ways to stop this behaviour. The "cone of shame" or Elizabethan collar is one way.


There are various neck braces that prevent the dog from turning around to lick its wound.
If your dog is not a chewer, a light dressing or an old sweatshirt can provide a barrier between his tongue and the wound.
 If your dog has received surgery for a broken leg, you’ll need to restrict their movement to two five-minute walks a day. Although it is not absolutely necessary, you might want to keep your dog in a crate during this time, so you don’t have to worry about it.Crates are widely available from pet retailers and sold for the purpose of housebreaking puppies.
You don't want a crate that is overly roomy. The general rule is to use a crate that the dog can sit upright in without banging its head.
After four weeks, you can do ten-minute walks.
Keep your dog away from stairs and slippery surfaces.
If you let the dog out of its crate, it may run around and injure itself again!

, If your dog is pawing at you or biting, it could be an indication that they are in pain. There have been advances in the treatment of pain in dogs, so you should ask your veterinarian about painkillers. Your veterinarian may prescribe a pain medication, which could be a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs), an opioid or a corticosteroid drug. You should ask your veterinarian which medication works best and when it will make your dog’s pain go away. You should also ask about side effects of specific drugs.If NSAIDs do not work, your veterinarian may prescribe opioids.
 Your veterinarian should examine your dog’s recovery after six weeks. They will do X rays to make sure the fracture is properly healing. They will also give you new recommendations for home care, such as longer, fifteen-minute walks.They may recommend hydrotherapy.
 Choose bedding that keeps pressure evenly spread under your dog’s weight, such as orthopedic memory foam beds. There are also some beds that have a wicking effect, which means that if he accidentally goes to the bathroom in the crate, the moisture will be drawn away from its skin.If the weather is cold, cover the crate with blankets at night.
You may also want to give your dog a blanket.
 To relax your dog during recovery, you could give them a massage. Caress your dog’s ears for five minutes. Pet your dog’s back to make them feel better.By massaging your dog, you can improve blood circulation to a place where they have been injured.You could try Tellington Touch, which is an animal bodywork technique developed by Linda Tellington-Jones. You can ask your dog trainer for information on upcoming Tellington Touch workshops.
 Since your dog will be spending lots of time indoors or in a crate during the recovery period, you’ll want to keep them stimulated with toys and loving attention. Give them a new rawhide toy or bone to chew on in their crate.