 There are different kinds of “athletic liability insurance.” Before you can find insurance, you need to decide which type you need:General liability insurance. This is the most comprehensive coverage. It protects participants (such as players, coaches, volunteers, and officials) as well as spectators.
Insurance for sporting events. If you run a tournament, then you can purchase sporting events insurance. This insurance covers injuries to participants as well as for coaches and event staff.
Insurance for spectators. You might need to purchase “public liability insurance” or “spectator liability insurance” to cover events lasting for a limited amount of time. With this coverage, you can cover any injury made to the observers and any property damage made to the rented premises.;
, Once you know the kind of athletic insurance you want, then you can try to find companies that sell policies. You can search online by typing “athletic insurance” into your favorite web browser.


If you need help, you can always hire an insurance broker to help you look for insurance. You can find an insurance broker by looking in your phone book.You can also ask any other athletic program in your area who their insurer is and whether or not they would recommend it.
A personal referral is also a great way to find an insurance agent or broker., As with automobile insurance, the insurance policy does not cover all claims made against you. Instead, it will provide coverage up to a certain amount. You will need to decide how much coverage you want.


Policies are priced “per occurrence” and “aggregate.” The per-occurrence limit applies to any one incident. Some policies will cover up to $1,000,000 maximum per occurrence.The aggregate limit is the most that the policy will pay over the policy’s lifetime. Some policies provide up to $3,000,000 in coverage in aggregate, although you may want less.Also consider how dangerous the sport is to fans. In baseball, for example, the ball can fly into the stands and strike someone.In other sports, such as gymnastics, there is little risk that anything will leave the competition area and harm the audience. If your sport is more dangerous, then you might want to get close to the maximum per-occurrence and aggregate coverage.
 You will probably have to reveal to the insurer any claims that have been made against you. Accordingly, you should gather relevant information about past claims. Make sure to get the following:


the number of claims filed against you
how much money was sought in each claim
if you were liable for the injury and how much you had to pay
whether you settled with the injured person and how much you settled for
the name of any insurer that defended you against a prior claim

, Most online insurance providers will give you a quote if you enter relevant information. You should gather the following information and then request quotes from various athletic insurance providers:your name
your address and contact information (phone and email)
your type of organization
the date of your requested coverage
the amount of coverage you want (per occurrence and aggregate)
whether you will have participants and their parents sign waivers
the safety equipment you have available
prior claims

, Before choosing a policy, you should compare all policies you have gotten quotes for. Take out the sample policies and the quotes and compare them.


Check what is covered. The policies should be generally the same. However, some policies might include a “duty to defend” provision. This means that the insurance company will actually pay a lawyer to defend you in your lawsuit. A duty to defend provision can save you thousands of dollars should you ever be sued.
An insurer might also offer risk management help. By establishing a risk management plan, you can foresee risks and properly protect against them. For example, a basic risk management plan would address waiver and release forms for participants, as well as background checks for employees.Also compare the prices. You shouldn’t necessarily choose the cheapest insurance. More expensive policies might provide greater coverage. You have to balance the amount of coverage versus the cost of the monthly premium.
 Once you have compared quotes, you should choose one policy and then purchase it. The insurance provide will probably accept different methods of payment:credit card
a company check
a cashier’s check or bank money order
a bank wire transfer (hold onto your receipt)

, After you purchase your policy, you may unfortunately have to file a claim when someone becomes injured. You should find the phone number for the insurance claims department by going through your paperwork and finding your policy. Make sure to do the following:Call the police or emergency medical services, if necessary, so that the injured person can get treatment.
Take down your own notes of what happened leading up to the accident and during the accident.
Take photographs of the scene of the incident.
Get the name and phone number of the person injured.
Call your insurer right away and report the injury.
Provide required information to your insurer.

