 To help redirect your thoughts from the bullying, you should focus on activities at summer camp that you really enjoy. Summer camp can be a great place to learn new skills and try new things. Instead of dwelling on the bully, put your efforts into activities that make you feel good.Try new things. If you’ve never been canoeing, tried archery, or done a lot of hiking, make attempts to try these new activities.
Doing activities you enjoy and trying new things can help boost your self-esteem and make you feel better, despite the bullying.
 You may not be good at everything that you do at camp. You may even be worried about being bullied because of an activity. However, you should have a good attitude about trying new things. Remember, most campers are in your shoes and are doing new things. Just enjoy the experience and try your best.


For example, if you are don't think you are good at sports, you may be afraid a bully will bother you because of that. Instead of focusing on that, think about having fun with the other campers and trying something new. Adopt the attitude of trying your best and enjoy yourself.
 The person or persons who are bullying you are not the only people at summer camp. There are many kids at the camp, and some of them might even be in a situation like you. Talk to other campers and make friends. Having friends at camp can help you not feel so alone., You can make a difference in someone else's camp experience by helping them out if they are being bullied. Instead of not doing anything, if you see someone who is being bullied, go over and talk to them. Ignore the bully and help the person being bullied redirect their attention to a friendly face.


You can walk up to the person being bullied and say, "Hello. I was wondering if you wanted to go grab a snack/play a game/hang out?" or call them by name and say, "I am glad I found you. Did you see that movie/hear that song?"
If you feel comfortable enough, you may say, "Stop being mean to them" or "Leave them alone."
You both can support each other since you are experiencing the same thing.
 Most camps have strict no-bullying policies. You can figure out what the bullying process is so you know what the camp will do if you report someone is bullying you.Many camps will talk about the bullying policy on the first day so the campers know what to expect. If you are unsure, you can also ask a counselor or other authority figure.

