 Before you go to bed, decide what you will wear tomorrow. This will keep you from digging through your closet, trying on a bunch of clothes, and making a mess. Once you make a choice, lay out the shoes, accessories, and anything else you plan to wear.


Check the weather and your schedule to make sure your outfit is appropriate. Do you have an important meeting the next day? Is it going to be hot and humid or rainy?;
, Sleep is important for your mental and physical health. Try to get between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night. While you are sleeping, blood flow to your skin increases. Adequate sleep will keep your eyes from being puffy and keep you from waking up with dull skin.It's important for you to develop a regular sleeping schedule. Over time, not getting enough sleep causes your skin to age and makes you more prone to wrinkles.Sleep on a silk or satin pillowcase. These materials are less drying for your skin and will keep you from waking up with creases on your face.Some people may need more than 9 hours of sleep of night or less than 7 hours of sleep a night. Adjust the time based on your needs and how you feel when you wake up in the morning.
Avoid alcohol, caffeine, and nicotine because they can keep you awake or disrupt your natural sleep cycle.Try not to nap too close to your bedtime or you will have difficulty falling and staying asleep.
 Your skin is comprised primarily of water and needs to be hydrated from both the inside and outside. If you do not drink enough water, your skin can become dry and flaky. Aim for 8 glasses of water a day to keep your skin hydrated and looking healthy.Moisturize your skin after a bath, shower, and when you wash your hands.Your skin absorbs moisture best when it is damp.
 Always wash your face before you go to bed.During the day, your skin is exposed to pollution, dirt, sweat, and bacteria.Washing your face at night will remove all of the day's gunk from your face. Going to bed with a dirty face can cause an acne breakoutand leave you with dull looking skin in the morning.


Everyone should wash their face at night, but this is particularly important if you wear makeup. Sleeping in makeup can clog your pores and lead to breakouts.
 Nighttime is a great time to moisturize your skin. Although you are sleeping, your body is still working to repair your tissues. The increased blood flow you experience when you sleep helps your skin better absorb the moisture that you apply to your skin.This is the time to use heavier, thicker moisturizers.
Moisturizers are best when applied to clean, slightly damp skin. Try to do this after you bathe and wash your face for the night.
 Sleeping in a bun is good way to have good hair day when you wake up. If you have longer hair, put your hair in a ponytail and wrap it into a twist. When you wake up in the morning, you will have soft waves in your hair. If your hair is not long enough for one ponytail, try doing little mini-buns all over your head for the same effect.


Tie the ponytails loosely to prevent creases in your hair.If you shower at night, you can braid your wet hair to add some texture.
You can also wash your hair at night and apply dry shampoo in the morning if you have oily hair.
If you are prone to frizzy hair, wrap your hair with a silk scarf or sleep on a silk pillowcase.
 Set your alarm and give yourself enough time to go through your morning routine. If you are not sure how long it will take you to get ready, time yourself one weekend morning. Once you know how long it will take you, you can set your alarm for a good time during the week.


If you go to bed at a decent time, it will be easier for you to wake up at the time you need to.
 Eating a healthy breakfast can get your day off to a good start and fuel your body. Your breakfast should be a combination of whole grains, lean protein, low-fat dairy, and fruits and vegetables.Part of looking good is having plenty of energy and getting the necessary vitamins and minerals your body needs.


Good breakfast options include: oatmeal with almonds or dried fruit, fruit and vegetable smoothie, multi-grain pancakes with fruit and yogurt, whole-grain waffle/bread with peanut butter, or an egg omelet with vegetables.Drink plenty of water as part of your breakfast.
If you are rushed for time in the morning, prep your breakfast ingredients the night before.
 Healthy, clean skin will have a nice glow and help you look refreshed. Wash your face with a gentle cleanser and moisturize your face in the morning.You should also apply sunscreen before you leave for the day. Use sunscreen that is at least SPF 30.Use a lighter moisturizer than you used at night.
You can also try a tinted moisturizer to give your skin a nice glow and a more even tone.
 Apply a cold compress to your eyes to get rid of dark circles and puffiness. A cold spoon or a bag of frozen peas can be used as a compress.To further reduce puffiness, sleep with your head elevated to prevent fluid from pooling under your eyes.Place the spoon in the refrigerator instead of the freezer so it will not be too cold. You can put the spoon in the fridge the night before.
Wrap the frozen peas in a cloth before applying to your face.
If the cold compress doesn't work, apply a concealer with yellow undertones to hide dark circles under your eyes.Used tea bags can also be used to reduce puffiness. Steep your tea bags in hot water, allow them to cool a little, squeeze out excess liquid and then apply to your eye area., It might be difficult, but try to exercise in the morning. Exercise increases blood flow, releases feel good hormones, and gives you a nice glow.If you can, get in 30 minutes of exercise, but even a brisk 10 minute walk can get the blood flowing.


Exercise will improve your mood and give you more energy for the day.

