 Soak the stained portion of the fabric in undiluted white vinegar for 30 minutes. Depending on the size of the stain and the size of the garment, fill a large bowl or wash basin with enough vinegar to cover the stain and allow the fabric to soak. Then launder the garment as you usually would. If the stain remains after washing, do not dry it. Treat it again., Place a paper towel under the stained portion of the item. Spray a liberal amount of aerosol hairspray on the stain. Lightly dab at the stain with another paper towel. The paper towel under the cloth is to keep the stain from soaking through to other portions. This can take some time depending on the amount of ink in the cloth, so repeat the process of spraying and dabbing until the ink is removed.Another option is to spray the stain with enough hairspray to soak it, and then wash as you regularly would.
 Crush three uncoated aspirin with the back of a spoon and mix into ½ cup of room temperature water. Allow the stained fabric to soak in this mixture for 2-3 hours. Then wash the garment as you usually would., If you are trying to clean protein based stains, especially blood, meat tenderizer is a great choice because it breaks down the protein. The amount you use will depend on the size of the stain, but for stains that are less than 2 inches wide, use 1-2 tablespoons of non-seasoned meat tenderizer powder with 1-2 tablespoons of water. Let a paste form and spread it over the stain. Let it sit for at least 5 minutes giving it time to break down the stain.You can rinse the spot clean with water and if the stain remains, apply the meat tenderizer paste a second time and allow to sit for longer.
 Combine four tablespoons of baking soda in ¼ cup of lukewarm water and mix into a paste. Apply this liberally to the stain and rub at it with your finger or a toothbrush. Let the paste sit for a while to work fully., If you work in the automotive industry, you’re likely to get covered in grease daily. Standard detergent is not formulated to fight greasy stains, but dish soap is. Put the item in a gallon size zip bag, fill with hot water and squirt a liberal amount of dish soap in. Shake the bag for a while and then let it soak. You can repeat as necessary if the water becomes too dirty.