 You can make some nail polish that glows beneath a black light by mixing it with some powdered UV-reactive/black light eye shadow. Keep in mind that without a black light, this nail polish will not glow. Here is a complete list of what you will need:UV-reactive/black light eye shadow
Clear nail polish (partly full)
Plastic Ziploc bag
2 – 3 small ball bearings
Box cutter or Xacto knife (optional)

, You may be able to find it in a well-stocked beauty shop or at a costume store. You can also purchase it online. Make sure that it is the powdered kind, as a cream-based eye shadow will not work.


You can also use some UV-reactive or black light makeup pigment, if you can find it.
 If the eye shadow is the only color in the case, leave it. If there are multiple colors in the case, you will have to take it out. Take a box cutter or an Xacto knife and stick the blade between the metal dish and the plastic wall. Gently wiggle the blade to loosen the metal dish from the eye shadow case. It will eventually pop out.Don't worry about being too neat; you will be crushing the eye shadow later.









If you cannot remove the eye shadow, and there are multiple colors, try scooping the eye shadow out using a spoon or an Xacto blade. Don't worry if the eye shadow crumbles; you will crush it in a later step.
 Any kind of Ziploc bag will do, but a heavy-duty kind might survive the following steps longer.
 You can use the blunt end of a pencil or paintbrush. Keep smashing the eye shadow until it is a fine powder. Make sure that there are no chunks left; a grainy pigment may result in a grainy nail polish.
 You can the eye shadow case, or you can save it for a DIY project, such has homemade blush or lipstick.
 They will help the crushed eye shadow mix better into the polish.
 This will make it easier to pour the powdered eye shadow into the bottle. Be careful not to spill any of the powder.
 Carefully wedge the cut corner into the mouth of the nail polish bottle and jiggle the bag until all of the eye shadow falls into the polish.
 Keep shaking it until the eye shadow is completely mixed into it and there are no more streaks.
 Use thin coats to help it dry faster.
 Acrylic paint chips even more easily than nail polish, so a top coat will help prevent premature damage.








