 Stick with short phrases instead of full sentences. Use abbreviations for words when possible. You will want to review the cards quickly and condensing the text makes sure that only the most important ideas make it onto the card. The very process of choosing the card’s text will kick-start the learning process.For example, if you are studying history you might write, “US” instead of “United States.” A shortened sentence might look like, “CC-America-1492,” the longer version being “Christopher Columbus arrived in America in 1492.”;
, If you work with a pencil you can modify your notes as you continue to study. A pencil also will not fade through the paper or notecard allowing you to see the information from the other side. If you do choose to use a pen make sure it’s ink will not bleed through., At the very top of each card write down the date that the information came from in your class notes or the page number of the source and the abbreviated source name. You want a way to track back the information from your card to the original source. This is helpful when citing or if you choose to sort your cards.If you are making notecards for a multiple classes, use different colored cards or keep them in rubber banded stacks., There is no rule that notecards must only contain text. For visual learners, drawing a quick image on a card might be the most helpful. Keep the image fairly basic and make it easily recognizable. Label parts of the image, if that will help you study.For example, if you are taking a biology class you might create a rough sketch of a cell and label the parts. You can then put the “key” on the back of the card. Flipping the card back and forth will allow you to learn the material.
A student practicing a foreign language might draw a picture of an object, such as a flower, on one side of the card with the translation on other side.
You can also make image notecards by photocopying an image from the textbook or slide notes and then cutting it down to notecard size. If you do this many times you will create a slideshow to match your text notes., To fight off boredom and more fully engage your memory, try applying a color scheme to your cards. You could use write in colored pencils, highlighters, or even fine-tipped markers. Underline particularly important information with color. Or, assign specific colors to particular card themes or topics to make for easier sorting.Have a plan when you start to use color on your cards, otherwise your cards could get cluttered and more difficult to study from.
 If you’ve come up with a quick way to remember a piece of information, put that down on a card. All types of mnemonic devices (or memory boosters) are helpful when studying. Keep it simple and put only one major piece of information on each card.A history student might put the question, “Who sailed the ocean blue?” on one side of a card with the answer, “Columbus sailed the ocean blue in 1492,” on the other side. Rhyming is a mnemonic device that helps with knowledge retention.
 Go to a copy shop and pay to have your cards laminated. Or, use a quick, at-home laminating machine and do it yourself. Or, get small plastic sleeves to go over your notecards, available at office supply store. The point is to protect your cards from water damage, especially if you plan to use them over a long period and will carry them around.
 If notecards don’t appeal to you for whatever reason, you can do the same basic concept using a sheet of white, unlined paper. Draw a line down the center of the page. On the left you can write a series of questions matched with their answers on the right side of the paper. As you study simply cover up one side or the other.Shuffling is not possible with this method so make sure to mix up the order in which you study the question/answer pairs.
 There are many apps available for download that can help you create and use notecards for studying. You can often get a basic version for free with add-ons for an additional fee. Brainscape, iStudious, and StudyBlue are all good options. It is helpful to read through online reviews before downloading any one app.Brainscape is an app that customizes your studying by displaying future cards based upon your past performance during card quizzes.StudyBlue is an interesting app in that it allows you to trade cards on certain subjects with students from around the globe. This is a good way to study if you want one concept explained from a variety of perspectives.