 They are often called "bone rings." You can find them in the drapery section or crochet section in a fabric store. A well-stocked craft store may also carry them.

Aim for something around 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) in diameter.
 Measure the diameter of the ring. Multiply it by 21/2. Draw a circle on a sheet of cardstock with the new measurement as the diameter. Cut the circle out.If your fabric is a pattern on it, cut a circle out of the middle of your template. The circle needs to be the same size as your ring.
 Spread your fabric on a flat surface, right-side-down. Place the template on top of the fabric. Trace around the circle using a tailor's chalk or pen. Cut the circle out when you are done.If your fabric has a pattern on it, make sure that the template is centered. Use the hole in the middle as a guide.
 Place your fabric circle wrong-side-up on the table. Set your plastic ring down in the center. Trace around the plastic ring using a tailor's chalk or pen. Keep your line halfway between the ring and the edge of the fabric., Thread your needle and tie both ends of the thread into a knot. Start sewing on the wrong side of your fabric. Finish sewing on the right side of the fabric. Do not knot the thread when you are done.Make sure that the thread you are using is strong, preferably nylon or polyester., Place the ring on the wrong side of the fabric. Make sure that it is centered. Gently pull on the thread until the fabric gathers around the ring. Don't cut the thread yet.If your fabric has a pattern on it, check the front to make sure that it is centered. Adjust it, if needed.
 Using the same needle and thread, pass the needle back through some of the gathers, anchoring them in place. Be careful not to pierce through the front of the button. Tie the thread into a knot when you are done. Don't cut it yet., Use a knitting needle or small crochet hook to tuck the raw edges of the fabric under itself and into the covered button., Make two small stitches across the back of the button. Pull on the thread to close the gap. Make two more stitches right across the first two, forming an X. Tug on them gently to further close the gap. Knot the thread, then snip it off., Thread a needle with some embroidery floss. Knot the end of the floss, then sew around the button using a straight stitch or a backstitch. Keep your stitches against the inside edge of the ring. When you are back where you started, knot the floss on the back of the button, then cut it.You can use matching or contrasting embroidery floss.
 Place your button on a sheet of felt. Trace around it using a tailor's chalk or pen. Cut the circle out.The felt can be the same color as your button, or a contrasting one., Use a small whipstitch to secure the felt to the back of the button. When you are back where you started, pull the needle under the felt and out through the center-back of the button. Be careful not to pierce through the front of the button.You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting one.
 Place a pen over the back of the button. Make two stitches over the pen and through the felt. Make sure that the stitches are coming out of the same spot. When you are done, slide the pen out. You should now have a loop made out of thread.You can also use a pencil, crochet hook, knitting needle, or paintbrush.
 Wind the thread around the shank to make it thicker. When you are done, knot the thread to the bottom of the shank. Pull the needle and thread through the felt, and out on the other side of the shank. Snip off the excess thread. Your button is now complete!