 To make the form for the wreath, you’ll need a plain wire hanger. Use your hands to bend the wire into a heart shape that you like. Leave the hook at the top of the wire intact, so you can use it to hang your wreath.While you can usually bend the wire easily with your hands, it helps to have a pair of pliers on hand in case you have trouble. In particular, you may want to use it to bend the hook into a circle for easier hanging.;
, To create a surface for the form, you’ll need 1 small piece of pipe insulation that’s approximately 3-feet (91-cm) long. Use a pair of scissors to cut the insulation in half so you have two pieces.Be sure to use insulation that comes with adhesive along the seams so you can seal it over the wire form.
If you use a larger piece of insulation, you may need to trim it further to fit each side of the wire heart.
If you have pipe insulation scraps around the house, you can fit together multiple smaller pieces for each side of the heart. Just use tape to secure the seams between the pieces.
 Take one piece of the insulation and open it along the seam to fit around the first side of the heart. Make sure that the seam is facing outward, and remove the adhesive strip to secure the insulation on the wire.If the insulation is too long to fit around the side of the heart, trim it with the scissors so it ends at the points at the top and bottom of the heart.
If the insulation doesn’t have adhesive on it already, you use a glue gun to close the seam.
Don’t worry if the ends of the insulation won’t fit perfectly yet. You’ll cut them later to fit securely.
 Take the other piece of pipe insulation, and wrap it around the other side of the wire heart with the seam facing outward. Secure the insulation around the heart by removing the adhesive strip just as you did on the other side.Just as with the other side, trim the insulation if it’s too long to fit around the one side.
 For the foam insulation to fit neatly around the heart, you’ll need to cut the ends of both pieces at the bottom and top points of the heart. Use a pair of scissors to cut the foam at 45 degree angle so the pieces on either side fit together., To ensure that the insulation stays on the wire heart at the top and bottom, you need to secure it. Use several pieces of duct tape to secure the two pieces of insulation together at the top and bottom.While you can use plain gray or black duct tape, it helps to use the same color as the fabric you’re using to cover the heart. That helps camouflage the tape in case any peeks through after you’ve decorated the wreath.
 To cover the heart wreath, you’ll need 1 yard (91-cm) of felt off the bolt in your choice of color that’s cut into small circles. The circles should be approximately 2- to 3-inches (5- to 8-cm) in diameter, so use a cup or glass as a to trace a circle on a piece of cardboard to serve as a template.You can also use a metal biscuit cutter to create your template.
Red felt offers the most traditional look for your heart wreath, but you can use any color that fits your decor or occasion.
You may prefer to use felt in two or more different colors and alternate the ruffles as you add them to the wreath. For example, if you want to make a heart wreath for Valentine’s Day, use red, white, and pink felt. For Christmas, use red and green.
For the best looking wreath, look for felt fabric that has a velvety texture.
 Using your template, cut the felt into circles with a pair of scissors. You should wind up with approximately 7 to 8 dozen fabric circles when you’re done, depending on how large you made them.You can also use a scrapbook paper cutting tool that makes circles to cut the fabric.
 After you’ve cut all of the felt into circles, fold them in half. Fold the circles in half a second time, and push a straight pin through the bottom of the circles to secure them.To disguise the pins when they’re in the wreath, it’s best to use straight pins with a head that’s the same color as the felt.
 When you’ve folded and secured all of the felt circles, start pushing the pins into the foam on the heart to arrange them on the heart. Continue working until the entire heart is covered and there are no gaps.If you plan on hanging the wreath flat against a wall or door, there’s no need to cover the back with the felt pieces. Just focus on the front and sides.
 When you’ve covered the entire heart with the felt pieces, use the hook at the top of the wreath to hang the wreath from a hook, nail, or pushpin. If you want to add an extra decorative look to the wreath, tie a piece of ribbon that coordinates with the felt you used in a bow around the hook.If you make a red or pink heart wreath, it’s an ideal Valentine’s Day decoration. However, you can use felt in a shade that matches your decor for a year-round decoration.
 To make a floral heart wreath, it’s best to use artificial flowers that will last indefinitely. Cut off the stems from the flowers so you’re only working with the blooms. Add a small amount of hot glue to the back of the flowers and apply them to the foam heart until you cover the entire wreath.The amount of silk flowers that you’ll need depends on how large the blooms are. In most cases, you’ll be able to cover the wreath with approximately 100 blooms.
You can use all the same type and color of faux flower or use a variety to create a more interesting wreath.
Consider creating a gradient effect for the wreath with the silk flowers. Gather blooms that are all variations of the same color, and arrange them on the wreath from lightest to darkest. For example, you might use all pink flowers, and place the baby pink blooms at the bottom, the rose colored blooms in the middle, and the hot pink flowers at the top.
 Decorative pom poms come in a variety of colors and sizes, so they make an ideal covering for a heart wreath. Apply a small dab of hot glue to the foam insulation and press a pom pom over it. Continue working until you cover the entire heart.The number of pom poms that you’ll need to cover the wreath depends on how large the pom poms you’re using are. In most cases, you’ll need approximately 10 to 12 bags of pom poms.
You can use pom poms in a single color and/or size, or alternate shades and sizes to give the wreath more visual interest.
 If you want your heart wreath to have added shine, cover it with sequin trim from the fabric store. The trim is usually stretchy, so you can easily fit it over the foam heart. Apply hot glue to the foam, and wrap the sequin trim around the heart, pulling tight so it rests neatly. Continue working until you cover the entire wreath.You’ll like need to cut the sequin trim to fit the wreath. Use two pieces that are long enough to cover each side so you can hide the edges at the points at the top and bottom of the heart.
Arrange the pieces of trim so the seams are on the underside of the wreath.
Sequin trim comes in a variety of colors, so you can create the wreath in any shade that you like.

