 There is a lot of work you can do ahead of time to be ready for any emergency. Write career summaries for your top people, yourself included. The summaries can describe each person’s accomplishments in this and previous companies, as well as their areas of expertise.For example, "John Smith was the founder of XYZ Software Company, that was sold to Microtouch for $10 million in 2010. A graduate of MIT, he has a Master's degree in software engineering and over 20 years of experience in launching new products. Smith now serves as our Director of Research and Development.";
, Any time you see an article or research study that relates to your industry, print or cut it out and put it in a file. Newspaper and journal articles are best – they are most likely to be up to date. Highlight the sections you want your reader to note. Be sure the source of the article is clear.
 Whenever there has been anything that has been written about your company or its management, cut or print out the article and file it. These can be articles published in local or national newspapers or press releases that you created yourself.
 File quarterly reports from your accountant showing revenue and expenses. If you are using QuickBooks you can easily generate an income statement based on past sales and expenses that you enter on a regular basis. If you don't have either of these, prepare a summary of Sales, Expenses, Profits and Projections.For example, "As of September 30, 2015, Sales = $50,000 less $20,000 expenses = $30,000 profit year to date. Projection for the year end December 31, 2015 = Sales $70,000 less $30,000 = $40,000 profit." You can itemize each sale and expense as well.
 Your cover sheet should be eye-catching, so look for photos or logo images online that can be used. The summary page will include a general company description with an overview of your company and the service it provides to your market. Also describe your product set.


For example, "Create Your App, Inc. was founded in 2014 by John Smith and Suzanne Brown. We design any type of mobile application compatible with android or iPhones. With sales projected to be over $70,000 in the first year, the five year projection is expected to total over $1million. There are currently 5 employees with plans to expand our workforce to over 20 employees within 5 years."
As basic as it sounds, be sure to include the name of the company, address, phone number, web site and contact information. You want to make it as easy as possible for the funder to contact you.
 Provide a one line summary of each item that is enclosed. Set up tabs for each section to make it easier for people to locate the information they are looking for.


For example, "Biographical Summaries, page 2. A list of current employees and company founders with their experience and qualifications."

, Define your target market of who you will be selling your product to and briefly describe potential competition. Describe your competitive advantage on how your product or service is superior. List past and future marketing programs such as advertising, direct mail letters and emails, newsletters, online banners, etc.For example, "Create Your App sells mobile applications for large and small companies located in the Kansas City, MO metropolitan area. There are other companies providing this service, but Create your App offers a very fast turn-around for a lower price. We create solutions that help increase our customers' product sales. Past marketing programs include direct mail letters, social media postings, online banners and print ads in local business publications."

, Here you will include the amount of money you are asking for and how that money will be used. Include approximate employee salaries, raw material costs, research and development, production costs, marketing expenses, office equipment, etc. Project revenue and expenses for the next five years.
 In a brief letter you want to convey the idea that this is not a complete business plan. You can describe it as a “Summary of the Company,” or “Selected Notes on the Company,” or “Brief Update on the Company.”


For example, "Enclosed please find Selected Notes for Create Your App, Inc. This summary includes current financial information, marketing plans, biographical summaries and industry research. Please contact John Smith, founder, at 202-555-1212 or jsmith@CreateYourApp.com for additional information."

, This includes the cover letter, summary page, table of contents, biographical summaries, press articles, marketing plan, and financial information. Put the document with the tabs in a plastic file cover that you can purchase at an office supply store. Make several more copies than you think you will need.
 Free sites such as FormFinder or Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE) enable you to enter information into a template and it will format everything for you. These organizations have researched the information that banks and other funders usually look for in making a funding decision., Perhaps you have a friend or business acquaintance in an unrelated industry who has written a successful business plan. With their permission, use the outline of major topics and include your unique information.
 Even if it's on short notice, a professional writer with experience in preparing business plans may be available. He or she could come to your office and put together the plan for you. Ask business acquaintances for a recommendation.

