 Since Montana does not provide disability benefits for short-term or partial disabilities, you must have a prognosis that says your disability will last longer than 1 year. Look at the 5 following requirements or go to Benefits.gov/SSA and use the Benefit Eligibility Screening Tool.


If you are currently working and earn more than $700 per month, you are ineligible.
If your disability is not considered severe enough to interfere with basic day-to-day and work-related activities, you are ineligible.
Find out if your condition is listed as one of the applicable impairments to receive benefits. Go to the Social Security Administration's website at SSA.gov/disability/professionals/bluebook/AdultListings or request a guide called the "Disability Evaluation Under Social Security," otherwise known as the "Blue Book," from your local Social Security office. If your condition is not listed, it will need to be evaluated as being of equal severity to a similar condition that is listed.
If you are still able to do similar work to what you have done within the last 15 years, you are ineligible.
If your age, education, past work experience or skills would allow you to do another job, as determined by the Department of Labor, then you are ineligible.;
, This is a good option if you have problems using a telephone, filling out paperwork or keeping track of important appointments. An application for disability is a process that takes a good amount of time and organization.


If you cannot afford a lawyer, then contact Disability Rights Montana at DisabilityRightsMT.org or call (800) 245-4743. You will be asked to fill out a form explaining your illness and needs.
 If you have evaluated your condition and are eligible, then you must apply for only 1 of the following programs.


Social Security Disability Insurance is applicable for people who are disabled for at least 1 year. It is applicable for people who have worked and paid Social Security taxes. According to the Social Security Administration (SSA), "In 2011, for example, you earn one credit for each $1,120 of wages or self-employment income. Generally, you need 40 credits, 20 of which were earned in the last 10 years ending with the year you become disabled."
Supplemental Security Income is provided to people who are disabled for at least 1 year. It is available according to your need, rather than previous tax payments. According to the SSA, it is provided to people who have little or no income and "It provides cash to meet basic needs for food, clothing, and shelter."

, These offices are located in Billings, Butte, Bozeman, Glasgow, Great Falls, Havre, Kalispell and Missoula. The office will give you forms, fill out your application and determine whether you should be considered by the Disability Determination Services Office in Billings.


Go online to https://secure.ssa.gov/apps6z/FOLO/fo001.jsp, a site that determines the closest office by your zip code. You can also call 1-800-545-3054 to receive this information.

