 Tight-fitting clothing can irritate your skin. Wear loose, smooth, and light clothing to help prevent skin irritation and heat rash.Smooth textured clothing such as cotton or merino wool can keep your skin from getting irritated and can prevent excess sweating that may cause heat rash.;
, No matter what time of year, try and not wear too much clothing. Wearing clothing appropriate to the weather can keep you from sweating and developing heat rash.In the summer, wear soft and lightweight clothing. Cotton is a good option that will allow your skin to breathe.Layer your clothing in winter. If you get too hot or start to sweat, this can make it easier to remove items of clothing without getting too cold. Merino wool is a good option for winter that can keep you warm and dry., Heat and moisture can irritate skin and promote condition that lead to heat rash. Dry your skin thoroughly with a towel or air-dry after bathing, showering, or swimming to help prevent heat rash.Consider allowing your skin to air dry after bathing, which is less irritating than toweling off.Make sure to avoid using hot water and use a non-drying soap to help prevent heat rash and irritation.The water can still be warm — it just shouldn't be piping hot.
 Maintaining your skin’s natural hydration can help prevent dryness and heat rash. You can help keep skin hydrated by different means including moisturizing, avoiding temperature extremes, and using a humidifier.Apply moisturizer to your skin once a day. The best time to apply is after a shower or bath while your skin is barely damp.Use unscented and uncolored moisturizers that do not contain petroleum mineral oil, which can block pores., Hot weather and sun exposure can cause heat rash. Seeking out shade, staying inside in air-conditioning, or avoiding the sun may help prevent miliaria.If you notice that you’re sweating profusely in the heat, make sure to get to a cooler location to minimize your risk of getting heat rash., Increased air circulation can help to keep skin cool and dry and keep your general environment from getting too hot. Use a fan or even an air conditioner to keep air cool and circulating consistently., Sleep in a bedroom that is comfortable, cool, and well ventilated. By controlling factors such as the temperature and darkness, having comfortable bedding, and keeping air circulating, you may help prevent heat rash.Set temperature in bedroom to between 60-75 degrees for optimal sleeping conditions.Use a fan to keep air circulating or open a window., See your doctor if you're so uncomfortable that heat rash disrupts your sleep or ability to function daily, your skin is painful, self-care and home remedies haven’t worked, or you suspect your skin is infected. This can help prevent further issues and may alleviate your pain.If you have any pus draining from your heat rash, see your doctor.If you have a fever or chills, see your doctor.