 If you have one or more dried-out water-based markers, try this simple trick to breathe some life back into them. Start by filling a small bowl with warm or hot water. In the next step, this water will soak into the markers' dried-out tips, which will usually allow the ink to begin flowing freely once more.


Note that it's not essential to use warm or hot water — cold water will also work. However, since ink diffuses more quickly in higher-temperature water, this usually works faster.;
, Take the caps off of your dry markers and dip them in the water so that the tips are completely submerged. Let the markers soak undisturbed for about five minutes. You may notice some ink draining out of the marker tips and into the water — this is normal.


As noted above, this method is only advised for water-based markers. If you're not sure whether your markers are water-based or not, check the packaging (if it's available). As a very general rule, water-based markers are used for drawing and coloring and are marketed to children, though there are exceptions (such as high-quality markers marketed to grown-up artists)., Remove your markers from the water. Dab the tips with a rag to remove excess water, then lay the markers on the rag to dry. You want the markers to dry to the point that the ink in their tips is no longer diluted with water, but not so dry that they won't write.


The time this takes can vary and often takes up to 24 hours.Your best bet is to check on the markers by scribbling on a sheet of paper every few hours to test their writing ability.
Note that this process will probably get a little ink onto your towel or rag. Even though this ink is water-based, it can cause stains that are difficult to remove, so you'll probably want to use an old, worn-out rag that you don't mind staining.
 Once your markers are writing properly again, be sure to replace their caps. Leaving a marker's cap off is a sure-fire way to find yourself with another dried-out marker. On the other hand, capping your markers between uses helps hold the moisture in the tip, ensuring the marker writes for as long as possible.


If you've lost your marker's tip, don't worry — you can use a small square of plastic wrap and a rubber band as a temporary solution. It's also possible to make a more durable slip-on cap by wrapping a piece of tape around the marker tip (sticky side out), then wrapping another piece of tape on top of the first (sticky side in).
 Another home remedy for dried out water-based markers involves using vinegar. With this method, you'll want to put your markers tip-down in a dry bowl and dampen each marker's tip with one or two drops of clear white vinegar. Allow the markers to soak for several minutes before drying as above. Don't submerge the marker tips as you would when using water — you just want a few drops for each.


To transfer just a drop or two to each marker tip, try filling the vinegar bottle's cap, then using a small stick (like a barbecue skewer) or an eye dropper to add vinegar to each marker drop-by-drop.
 One final way to get your markers back in shape requires a long, sharp, skinny needle (like a hypodermic syringe). For this method, fill your syringe with water, then insert the needle directly through the tip into the body of the marker. Push a small amount of water into the marker very slowly, allowing air to drain out through the tip as you add water. Once you've added no more than a milliliter (mL/cc) or so, let the marker rest on an old rag briefly to dry before using (as directed above).

