 A hickey can be made anywhere on the body, but normally, hickeys tend to be located on either the neck or chest areas.


If you decide to make your hickey on your neck, consider making the hickey on the sides of the neck. Avoid making a hickey in the center of your neck, near your throat, or the area underneath your chin.
 Get a large eye shadow palette that has an array of colors. The colors you need use will be a dark pink, dark purple, and dark blue.Use a small makeup brush to apply the eye shadow.
Keep in mind, if you have a darker skin tone, you might need to use the darker eye shadow colors more heavily in order to have the hickey mark show up., Gently tap your makeup brush once or twice into the pink eye shadow. Stand in front of a mirror to apply the makeup. Bring the brush up to the area you’re making the hickey, and rub the brush in small, ½ - 1 inch sized ovals on your skin.Be sure you don’t add too much color to the brush. You need to build up the color for the hickey slowly and gradually.
 Tap a corner of your makeup brush once in the purple eye shadow, and tap the shadow onto the middle area of the hickey.Lightly continue to use the whole brush to make small ovals to form the hickey. Use the brush to help blend the purple coloring out to the edges of the hickey.


When in doubt, use less of the darker eye shadow colors. You can also add more, but it’s harder to take off the color once it’s added.
 Again, tap a small corner of your makeup brush into the blue eye shadow and dab it in the middle area of the hickey.Rub the brush in small ovals, blending the blue out to the edges of the hickey.


Since the hickey should already be taking form when you add the blue, you don’t need that much blue makeup. Consider tapping the brush on the side of your finger or the edge of a surface to knock off any excess blue shadow.
 Spray a thin layer of hair spray or makeup setting spray to make the hickey last longer and avoid coming off on your clothes. This fake hickey will last until you wash it off.

