 Ultrasonic jewelry cleaners can range in price from less than $50 to more than $200. While there are no specific cleaners for rubies, consider the size, hassle and features when purchasing a model.Some tanks are spacious enough to clean sunglasses or watches and can hold numerous items at once.
Cleaners with timers offer a stress-free cleaning experience. You choose the time, set the device, and can walk away.
High-end devices can include steamers, which offer an additional level of cleaning. This option is good if you have many precious items and plan to clean them regularly to keep their shine. It can, however, run about $200.
Check to see if the ultrasonic cleaner requires solution, as some do not.
Some cleaners run at the same frequency (42,000 Hz is standard) while others offer different settings to accommodate different types of material.
 Unless your ruby stone is fracture-filled or coated to enhance its hue, it should be safe to use in an ultrasonic cleaner.


Ask your jeweler to ensure it is untreated, heat-treated or lattice diffusion treated.
Rubies and sapphires are strong enough for an ultrasonic cleaner.
Opaque gemstones, opals and organic gems like pearls and ambers are too delicate.
Metals like gold and platinum are safe to clean in ultrasonic devices., Add hot water and a couple drops of dishwashing liquid to the ultrasonic cleaner tank. You can also purchase a nontoxic gem-cleaning solution instead of making your own for about $5 to $10. Any standard jewelry cleaner works, but check the label to be sure there are no exceptions.
 Once the solution is in the device, let it run for 5 to 10 minutes to mix the solution entirely before using.
 Be sure to only add a few pieces at once into the cleaner in order to avoid scratches during the process.
 Depending on the dirtiness of the ruby, you’ll run the cleaner up to 20 minutes. If it’s your first time cleaning your stone, start with a shorter time frame and add on if it’s still dirty.
 After the ultrasonic cleaner runs, let your rubies sit in there for 5 to 10 minutes before removing. This will help to ensure that the loosened dirt and grime falls to the bottom of the device.
 There might be some dirt and grime still stuck to your ruby, so grab a soft bristle brush to remove anything lingering. Carefully scrub the stone. Once it’s fully cleaned, dry your ruby with a lint-free cloth. 