 It's fairly easy to change your shirt quickly without exposing yourself for too long. To begin, sit down on a bench with your gym shirt on your lap (with the front of your shirt facing down and the neck of the shirt towards your knees).


You can also perform this move while standing up in front of your locker, if you have one. Your open locker door can shield part of your body: Instead of placing your shirt on your lap, have it placed in the bottom of your locker ready to go for the following steps.
Pull your arms out of your shirt. If your shirt is a pull-over style, remove your arms, but don't take the shirt all the way off. Keep your head in the neck opening of the shirt, with the shirt draped over your body. (If you are wearing a button-down style shirt, unbutton your shirt completely and take your arms out, but leave the shirt draped over your shoulders.)
Place your hands up through bottom opening of your gym shirt and into the arms. Then raise your arms and lift your old shirt off as you slip the new one over your head. Your shirt should fall behind you as you raise your arms.
 If you want to draw as little attention to yourself as possible when changing out of your street pants, try this quick change hack. Begin by having your gym pants ready beside you on a bench (right-side out, with drawstrings loosened, etc.). Make sure that your shoes are off as well, before you get started.


Loosen your regular clothes (unbutton, unzip, or unfasten your jeans, pants, or skirt) and begin to slide them down.
Sit down once you've lowered them past your hips. This will minimize the amount of time you are standing up with your underwear exposed.
Once you are sitting, slide your bottoms past your knees and down off your feet. While you are still bent over, reach over and grab your gym pants/shorts, and step into them.
Pull your gym pants up to your knees while you remain sitting down, and then stand up to quickly slide them over your hips.
You can also try pulling your gym pants up while sitting down instead of standing: push down with your legs while sitting so that your hips are raised off the bench, and pull up your gym pants.
 It's a good idea to change into fresh underwear after gym class. If you choose to do so, the procedure is basically the same as changing your pants (explained above.)


Begin by having your underwear ready next to you. You don't want to be searching through your gym bag for your clean pair after you've removed your dirty pair.
Loosen your gym pants, and then slide them down along with your underwear. Sit down once they are past your hips.
Step out of your dirty clothes, grab your fresh underwear and step into them. Once your feet are both through the opening, slide them up quickly. You should be able to slide your underwear up and over your hips while sitting down without having to stand all the way up.
It's probably best if you leave your shirt on while you do this—you'll feel less exposed.
You can also drape a towel over your lap while you are changing your underwear.
 If you need to wear a sports bra for gym class, you could just wear one to school and not change. However, this may not be comfortable all day, or it may not look right in your streets clothes. If that's the case, it's fairly easy to change in the locker room without drawing too much attention to yourself. Begin by removing your shirt and putting your sports bra on over your regular bra.


Then reach under the sports bra to unhook your regular bra.
Slide the right bra strap out over your shoulder and pull your arm out.
Repeat on the left side, and then remove your regular bra by pulling it out from the front (reach under your sports bra and pull your regular bra out).
Have your shirt ready to slip on quickly once you're done with this. It's probably a bit too hard to do this with a shirt on, though you could practice at home to see if it's possible.

