 You shouldn’t lightly agree to cosign a loan for someone. Instead, you want to make sure the person can pay back the loan. Accordingly, you should do the following:Ask to see their credit history. Even if asked to sign for a child, you should look at their credit. They might be in greater debt than you realized and a different option (like bankruptcy) might be preferable.
Discuss the person’s job situation. Confirm that they are in a solid job and aren’t likely to be fired soon.
Check if they have a budget. If the primary borrower doesn’t have a budget, sit down and create one together. Someone with a detailed budget might stick to a repayment schedule better than someone without one.
Talk about how payment will be made. Nail down what account the primary borrower will use to pay the debt and whether they will have direct deposit. You might have them sign a contract promising to follow through, but a contract really doesn’t provide much protection.
 Avoid glancing at the amount of the loan and signing. Instead, closely read the document from start to finish. Ask to take it home with you if necessary. In fact, you should review the loan agreement with the primary borrower.Pay attention to what you are guaranteeing. For example, you might sign as a guarantor for your child’s rent. However, if they have a roommate, you should check whether you are responsible for only your child’s share of the rent or the entire rent.Note the monthly payment amount and the due date.
Also pay attention to what happens if the primary borrower is late with a payment. Are interest fees added? Late penalties?

, Lenders often ask for collateral before extending a loan, and you can ask for the same thing before co-signing. If you are co-signing on a credit card, for example, ask the primary borrower for something of value., You want to address any problems with late payment as soon as possible. Ask the lender if you can be alerted when payment is due and when it is posted.You can typically receive alerts by text, email, or telephone.
If you are alerted that payment has not been made, you can move quickly and contact the person you signed for. Check why they haven’t made payment.
 If you co-signed for a huge loan, then you might want to get life insurance for the primary borrower. This will protect you in case they die.You can use the life insurance proceeds to pay off the debt.


As the cosigner, you’ll need to be the primary beneficiary on the life insurance policy. You won’t benefit if someone else gets the money.
 You might cosign to help a family member get back on their feet and establish credit. However, at some point they should no longer need you. After 12 months, ask if they will take you off the loan.Get a copy of the new loan that shows your name has been removed.

