 Try to encourage your loved one to be as active as possible. When she feels disturbed or has the urge to cut herself, she needs to find a more positive, active outlet to let it out. Suggest doing rigorous exercise, such as running, dancing, aerobics, swimming, tennis, or kick boxing. These can provide an outlet for all of her sadness, aggression, or unhealthy emotion that leads to cutting. Offer to join your friend and exercise together.


To help calm the mind, she can also try yoga, meditation, or tai chi. These exercises can help her get a new lease on life, with a fresh, energetic, confident approach that will help her not want to cut herself.
Exercise also releases endorphins into her body, which are the chemicals in the body that makes her feel good.When a person cuts himself, endorphins rush to the area of the cut and are released into the blood stream, which cause feelings of relaxation, happiness, and relief. Exercise provides her with a positive way to release endorphins instead., Low self-esteem is one reason that drives a person to cut. You need to help her understand that cutting will not and cannot improve her self-image but accomplishments and achievements will. Help her prove to herself that she is amazing and full of accomplishments. This can be through her studies, work, friends, or volunteering. When she becomes aware of her accomplishments, her self-esteem will go up and she will feel better about herself. This should lead her to not want to cut herself.You can help your friend realize she is full of accomplishments by sharing with her a list of her positive attributes and accomplishments.
 Pandering to her will not make her want to change her self-harming behavior. Do not try to drill the person with lectures and sermons that go on for a long time. Keep your talks small and simple. Let the person take in and digest whatever it is you told her. Give her the time to contemplate.


Have your small pep talks at a location that is pleasant, peaceful, in the midst of nature, away from hustle and bustle, and private, where the chances of being bothered are minimal. If you can't go somewhere in nature, try a quiet place in your apartment or house or a secluded study room at your local library. The exact location doesn't matter as long as it's a place where you can an honest, uninterrupted conversation.
Give her ample time to talk to you. Give her the time she needs and wants. Do not push her into speeding things up and always choose a place and time that she is comfortable with.
 Your loved one will not stop cutting overnight or because you tell her to. For her, this is the way she knows how to deal with her feelings. Telling her to stop the behavior immediately may terrify her because she might have got so used to this coping mechanism and feel lost in the absence of an alternative coping skill. This can also make it worse for her, since you are trying to take away her coping mechanism for her pain and trauma. Be patient and accept that it will take time. Don't get discouraged and take your time helping her.Issuing ultimatums without assisting or supporting her in ways to find safe alternative is not a wise option and can cause more harm than good., People who cut themselves are apprehensive of socializing because they may face suspicious looks and unanswerable probing from others. In order to take her mind off cutting and avoid uncomfortable social situations, suggest she read more. Books open up new horizons. She can travel beyond the four walls of her room without really going out. She can also learn that there are innumerable ways various people have dealt with tough times and experiences.


Books also provide an opportunity to understand that there can be plenty of positive and acceptable coping strategies. Present her with books that are thought provoking, such as those that will help her look within herself and assess her personal predicament.
 A great way to help your loved one come to terms with her cutting is through journaling. Tell her to maintain a daily journal that she puts all of her thoughts, anguish, pain, and joy into. Writing can take away the pain and leave her light and relieved. Tell her to write about anything that comes to mind.


Don't advise her to write specifically about cutting unless she goes to a therapist or counselor. You never know what can of worms could open up, so suggesting your friend focus on a problematic behavior that could be compensating for that trauma is not a good idea unless she goes to a professional for help.
A journal can also help a psychologist, psychiatrist, or counselor learn about her condition before diagnosis and treatment.