 If there is a weight difference of even .5 grams you will be in for some wobbling when things start spinning at high speeds. This could be the result of improper installation, fan wear, or simply poorly designed blades.
 Blade balancing kits are simply small weights that you use to get your fan running smoothly. They consist of weighted clips and/or several adhesive weights meant to attach to your fan blade, allowing you to adjust the weight slightly and get everything balanced.


Though balancing kits are cheap, you can use tape and a few nickels and dimes to make your own balancing kit at home, though the need to tape and untape the coins makes the process take a little longer., These small clips add weight to the blade, allowing you to test which one is ruining the balance. Turn on the fan and note if the wobble is reduced. Move the clip to another blade, testing each one until your find out which one is causing the problem.


Look for the blade that, when the balance clip is attached, lowers the wobble the most.
To test without a kit, tape a nickel in the center of a blade, then test it. Remove the nickel and try another one until you find the culprit.
 Once you've found the unbalanced blade, move the clip up 6 inches, then test it again. Move it down towards the base and test that too, looking for the spot where the fan spins the smoothest.There are apps available which will help you find the best spot for the clips to remove the wobble.
 Once you know where you need to balance the fan, remove the adhesive backing to the weight and stick it on the blade so that it is lined up with the balancing clip. Remove the clip and test the fan again.


If the fan starts wobbling again after you remove the clip, attach a second, smaller weight next to the first one to make up for the weight of the balancing clip.
 If you can't find one blade that is out of balance they may have been installed incorrectly. If your fan is brand new, you may have simply added the fans in the wrong order, and switching out the blades should fix your issue. Use post-it notes to label the blades (1,2,3,4,5), then switch them by unscrewing them from the blade mounts and reattaching them to the correct mount.


For 4-blade fans, swap a set of neighboring blades and turn the fan on again to test.
For 5-blade fans, swap blades two away from each other (such as the first blade and the third) and test. It may take 2-3 tries to get the right order. 