 If you want to play the card game, you may want to focus on finding certain Pokémon or trainers and building a strong team to challenge other collectors. Pokémon cards can be usually be bought in boxed sets of themed decks, booster packs, and tins.A theme deck will generally have 60 cards but will be more expensive overall. It's a great way to get your collection for playing started because it will give you a wide range of Pokémon, energy cards, trainer and item cards, as well as a decent mix of different card rarities. Booster packs will have about 10 cards in the newer expansions (and around 11 in older ones) and can cost as little as $3 or $4. Tins serve a similar purpose and are a great way to expand your collection., Trading cards with people you play against is a great way to find new cards out in the "wild" and you can negotiate trades to expand your team of Pokémon. This maintains that fair deals and no one is being taken advantage of within the trade. Some people make the mistake of trading several of their cards for one rare one they have their eye on and instead end up trading several cards of value for just one good card. Trading uneven amounts of cards is a quick way to lose large chunks of your collection and it's best to swap one at a time., Some people might think that duplicates aren't of any use and just take up space. Instead, think of duplicates as opportunities to trade with other collectors whether in person or online to expand your collection. It's very likely that another collector will have multiples of a card you want and vice versa, so you can swap cards with each other without taking a card from your overall set. Having duplicates can also be beneficial when building a deck and having back-ups when playing the card game.
 The best way to go from owning a low value card to a high value one is to trade up gradually. Start by trading a card for another that is just slightly more valuable than the one you started with. Then, continue to trade that card for a slightly more valuable one each time you trade it. This is also a great way to obtain rare cards without going bankrupt. Selling cards is an option, but trading doesn't require any monetary transactions and you can still end up with a great card.