 The concept of naturopathy finds its roots in ancient Indian wisdom where it speaks of the five great elements. These elements are present in the world in the form of  earth, water, air, fire and ether.


Naturopathy can, thus, be broadly defined as a system wherein human beings live in harmony with the principles of nature. These constructive principles are applicable on the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual planes of living. Naturopathy has great health promotive, disease preventive, curative and restorative potential.

A harmony of these elements translates into health and wellbeing. Disease occurs when there’s a congestion or depletion of one or more elements. Naturopathy addresses the equilibrium of these elements and restores the ill body to health. Every element has a specific remedy and the degree of imbalance requires a combination of treatments.

;
, Steam bath, infrared sauna, Vibro massages, reflexology, ultrasound and tractions improve blood circulation throughout the the muscles and tissues.
 Bringing your attention to your breath causes you to take better control of activities in and around your circle of influence. As you get to balance the rhythm in your breathings, you are better empowered to take charge of your actions and are more calm, composed and equipoised.
 In addition to our physical bodies, there is also the energy body or bioplasmic body . While the aura energy is invisible to the naked eye, however, it can be seen with Kirlian photography. Besides, there were eleven chakras in our bodies. The proper functioning of each was very important for the healthy and correct functioning of  the corresponding body parts.
 Yoga is a discipline to develop one’s inherent powers in a balanced manner.


Studies reveal that yoga is an excellent promoter and sustainer of good health. It increases flexibility, endurance, improves digestion, reduces stress, helps combat insomnia, weight problems and more.
 Yogas are exercises that basically harmonize and synchronize the  body rhythm, breath and spirit of the person. Thus, restoring peace and serenity of the natural balance is important.


Practicing Surya Namaskar, Asanas, Pranayams, Mudras, Bandhas, Dyana or Kriya, meditation or Dhyana in a disciplined manner can do you wonders.
 Water is the purest way of flushing out toxins from your body and revitalizing it. Drinking lots of it already takes care of most of the problems.

