 If you are nervous about asking him out, try preparing what you want to say ahead of time. This will help you get your thoughts in order before you are in front of him. This will make it easier to know what to say to him in the moment.


If you think he likes you, then you might find preparing yourself a bit easier. For example, you could just say something like, "It seems like you like me and I like you. Wanna go out sometime?"
If you are unsure about whether or not he likes you, then you might plan on saying something like, "I'm not sure how you feel about me, but I like spending time with you. Would you like to go out sometime?";
, When you are asking out your guy friend, you want to seem confident about your request. Confidence is an attractive quality and will show that you truly mean that you want to go out with him. Confidence will also make you feel less nervous and shy, which will help the process overall. Try using confident body language, such as:Standing tall and straight with your hands at your sides.
Making direct eye contact and smiling when you are talking to him.
Using your hands and arms to gesture when you talk.
 When you ask him out, you need to be direct about your intentions. Asking him to go out may be misconstrued as just hanging out since you both have done so in the past. When you ask him, make sure you specifically mention you want it to be a date.


This way, it won’t be awkward if he misunderstands your intentions in the moment.Try already having a type of date planned before you ask him out. Say something like, “Would you like to go on a date with me tomorrow to play bowling?” This will take some of the pressure off of him and you to decide what to do later.However, don’t go overboard. You want it to sound casual and romantic, not already too involved and crazy about dating him.
 There is no right time to ask someone out. However, make sure you aren’t in a public place with a bunch of your other friends. This would make it awkward for him and you, which is the opposite effect you want.


Instead, ask him when you are both alone. You can do it after you’ve been joking around a little bit. You can also ask him for a serious moment for your question. You just want him to know that you are serious about the question., If you want to make sure that you can remain friends after you ask him out, give him a chance to say no. You don’t want to ruin what you have if he just happens to not be interested in dating you. This will make it less awkward afterwards if he says no.


Say something along the lines of, “Would you be interested in going on a date with me? However, it’s okay if you just want to stay friends. I am open to that as well.”Just know it may be somewhat awkward right after you ask if he says no. But if you are strong enough friends, the awkwardness will pass.

