 When you feel self-conscious it seems like a spotlight has been turned on you. Every aspect of yourself seems to be on display for others, primarily the flaws. Know that this is just a feeling within you. The majority of the time, people are too wrapped up in themselves to be overly concerned about you.When you feel yourself getting very self-conscious about your body, instead of keeping these feelings in, express them. Tell a friend or close sibling how you are feeling. That way you can get a true opinion outside of yourself.;
, In order to make strides against overcoming self-consciousness, you need to uncover its roots. Were you teased as a child about your weight? Is there a certain person who always makes you feel self-conscious? Does your mom or dad constantly tell you how you need to lose weight?

, If your self-consciousness stems from the judgments of others, then the solution can take one of two forms. You will have to look deep inside yourself to determine if your relationship with this person is worth the pain they are causing you through judgments or unkind remarks.


If this person is a distant friend or acquaintance whose insults are making you feel bad about yourself, then it may be necessary to sever ties with this person. You deserve to have supporting relationships, not ones that tear you down.
If the person casting judgments about your weight is a really close friend or family member, you need to confront them. This person needs to be aware of how their remarks are affecting you. Once you confront the person, they may recognize the harmfulness of their words and no longer insult or judge you.
If you decide to confront the person, you should give them a heads up that you want to talk and choose a neutral location to meet. Use "I" statements and avoid blaming them. Just let out your feelings with facts. A statement might sound like "I feel upset/sad/embarrassed when you make comments about my weight. I would really appreciate it if you could stop doing this."

, If your attempt to identify the source of your self-consciousness came up empty-handed, it may be because these feelings are more ingrained. Perhaps you lack confidence in your body because of messages expressed in the media. Maybe your body size and shape does not resemble models or TV actresses and it causes you to feel bad about yourself. Maybe you've tried to lose weight and failed in the past, so now you are beating yourself up mentally and emotionally.It's time to get real with yourself about media messages. Both women and men idealize the unattainable bodies that are portrayed on TV and magazines when these bodies have been photo-shopped to look perfect. Tell yourself that real bodies come in all shapes and sizes. Look around you; each day you see a range of beautiful people with all sorts of bodies.