 In a medium mixing bowl, add the ground pork, fish sauce, sesame oil, 5-spice powder, soy sauces, wine, white pepper, sugar, and red food coloring.


Mix with the back of a spoon until the red food coloring is evenly distributed. This could take a few minutes.
Mix in a circular motion for best results.
When done, the mixture should have a paste-like consistency.
Note that this particular type of pork jerky is called bak kwa.
 Wrap the bowl containing the meat mixture with cling wrap and let it sit for 2 to 3 hours in the refrigerator.
 Your dehydrator will need roughly 10 minutes to preheat. Set it to a medium temperature.
 Use the back of a spoon to spread the meat mixture out on a piece or parchment paper until it is only about 1/5 inch (5 mm) thick.


Make sure that the parchment paper is sitting on a flat countertop.
Spread the pork mixture out into as even a layer as possible.
If the meat begins to stick to the spoon, brush the spoon with a little vegetable oil before continuing to flatted out the meat.
 Gently press the wire mesh into the top of the pork mixture, only applying enough pressure to create a faint pattern on top of the meat.


Rub vegetable oil on the wire mesh first to ensure that it does not stick to the meat.
Wire mesh can usually be found near the barbecuing supplies at any grocery store, market, or kitchen supply store.
 Carefully slide the sheet of meat onto a dehydrator tray and place the dehydrator tray back into the dehydrator.


If you have difficulty moving the entire mass of pork, you can cut it into several pieces before moving it over.
 It will be done when the center is completely dry and the edges have begun to turn crisp.


If the jerky is not done after 6 hours, continue dehydrating it up to another 6 hours, checking on its progress every hour.
 Use a pizza cutter to cut the finished jerky into the sizes and shapes you want.


You could also use a clean pair of kitchen scissors for this task.
You may find it helpful to use the indentation left by the wire mesh as a guide.

