 Cats can be sneaky, but you will sometimes catch it drinking from your glass. If you catch them, take them immediately away from the glass.


Your cat may run away if you catch it drinking from your glass. This is good, since it means they at least know they are not allowed to be doing so.
If your cat does not run away when you catch it, take it away from the glass immediately. You can say something like "bad girl" or "bad boy" so it knows it has done something wrong.;
, When your cat drinks out of your glass, you can try to make it think negatively of your water glass. If it finds that the water glass tastes bad, it may stop drinking from it.


Cats do not like water that much. Some cat owners use a spray bottle of water to use with their cats, though this can sometimes make your cat distrust or dislike you.Additionally, cats don't like loud noises. You could try clapping your hands every time you see your cat drinking from your glass.
 You may notice your cat looks at your water glass, but does not drink from it. If you see it is choosing to not drink from the glass, be sure to give it a treat as positive reinforcement for its behavior.You can give your cat a treat if it doesn’t drink from your water glass. Small treats are best so you don't disrupt its eating or drinking schedule.
Saying things like "good boy" or "good girl" can also be useful. If you have an affectionate cat, give it plenty of physical affection when it doesn’t drink from your glass.
 Too many treats can make your cat overweight. It may also learn to beg for treats if it is rewarded too often with them.Once your cat has stopped drinking from your glass, slowly phase out treats as a form of praise. This will make sure it stays at a healthy and comfortable weight.
Your cat may expect treats if you give it treats too often. It will begin to beg for treats, which can be frustrating and damaging to your relationship with your cat.
 Your cat may be drinking water out of your glass because it is thirsty. Always leave a cat bowl of water in any room with a glass to present your cat with a distraction and a choice.


Cats are easily distracted. If you place a water bowl in the room when you leave, your cat will be interested by it.
In case your cat does drink from your glass, redirect it to the water bowl. This will show your cat that it can (and should) drink from the bowl instead of your glass.
 It can be tempting to yell at your cat, but it's not effective. It may make it afraid of you and less likely to listen to you.Yelling at your cat can make the original behavior worse. It won’t understand why it is being yelled at and become more stressed.
Your cat may also begin thinking of you negatively and avoiding you. This will make your relationship tense and unpleasant.

