 Don’t use pick-up lines to start conversations, or she’ll just walk right by you. Asking her a question about something in the area is much more likely to get a response. Try something that may lead to an activity you can do together:


”Do you know of any good restaurants nearby? I missed my lunch today.”
”Is there a park around here? I like watching the birds.”
”Do you know what buses come by this street?”

, After she answers your question, be prepared with a follow up story to continue the discussion. If you are silent after she answers, the conversation will be over.
 Walking makes people more comfortable when talking. Offering to escort her to her destination will help you look like a gentleman., Because your interaction is likely to be short, it is important to quickly find common interests as you walk with her. Ask her about hobbies, weekend plans, or favorite movies to get a conversation started quickly.
 Avoid simple yes or no questions that can be easily dismissed. Get her invested in the conversation by giving her an opportunity to develop a more complex response. Keep the questions interesting to keep her on her toes.


”I like playing lacrosse; how do you feel about girls playing contact sports?”
”My favorite food is lasagna; when did you have your most memorable dinner?”
”My favorite book just became a movie; do you think reading a book or seeing a movie is better?”

, Be confident, and assume that you will be able to get in touch with her before you've even gotten her contact information.”So when can we meet for coffee?”
”What day next week would you like to have lunch?”
”I’m free next Tuesday; does dinner sound good?”

, Asking “Can I text you my number?” is a casual way to ask for her number and give her yours at the same time.
 Leave her with a smile on her face, so she’ll feel good about meeting someone.


Compliment her on a wonderful conversation: "It was really nice talking with you."
Tell a quick joke.
Say “You just made my day, but I’m sure you hear that all the time.”

