 Before using any over-the-counter medicine to treat a yeast infection, see your doctor or OB/GYN to confirm the diagnosis. They will likely do a physical exam and ask you questions about your health history. They will rule out other causes of vaginal discomfort before diagnosing a yeast infection. They can also advise you on how long to use boric acid and warn you of any health effects. Alternate treatments may be more effective for you based on your personal health history.


Your doctor can give you a prescription to take to your pharmacy to have capsules made.
When you go to your doctor, be ready to discuss the history of your symptoms and how they have evolved, including how many yeast infections you’ve had in the past and what is similar and different this time.;
, If you decide not to make your own boric acid capsules you should be able to get them from your pharmacy. The pharmacy will have to make them because they’re not currently sold pre-made.Call in advance to ask, because some pharmacies will not make them.If necessary, call around to find a pharmacy able and willing to help.


It will help to tell them what you intend to use it for, so they don’t think you’re trying to poison someone! Boric acid is also used to kill rats.
 Wash your hands and the outside of your vagina using mild soap and water just before bedtime. Lie down on your back and gently bend your knees with your legs slightly apart.Use your finger or an applicator to insert the boric acid suppository as far up into your vagina as it will comfortably go. Wait several minutes for the suppository to dissolve before sitting or standing up, or just thoroughly wash your hands then go directly to sleep.


If you’re using a reusable applicator, clean it as directed by the manufacturer. Otherwise, throw it away.
If it’s hard for you to insert the suppository while lying down, try standing with one foot propped up on the edge of the bathtub or a chair.It’s normal to have some discharge when using suppositories. Wear a panty liner to bed to avoid staining your underwear.
 To get rid of a current yeast infection, insert one-two suppositories per day for two weeks, based on the instructions from your doctor.One should be inserted before bed.Do not use them for longer than two weeks.


The first time you use this method, it’s best to consult with your doctor or OB/GYN.
 After you treat the yeast infection you currently have, use boric acid to prevent future infections. Use one suppository two nights out of the week – for instance, every Tuesday and every Friday. Do this for 6-12 months, or as long as your doctor recommends., Boric acid is good at killing both fungus and bacteria, so consider taking a probiotic daily while you’re using boric acid suppositories to help promote “healthy” bacteria in your vagina. You can get probiotic capsules at the pharmacy, or eat yogurt with “live cultures.”You can alternate using lactobacillus acidophilus suppositories during the day and boric acid at night.