


Some browsers use the symbol of a closed padlock to denote a secure network connection. You can also look for "in front of the Internet address, instead of the normal "to indicate a secure network.
Avoid sending credit card information by e-mail over an unsecured network. Although e-mail might seem private, it's all too easy for another user on the same network to monitor your transmission.
In a similar vein, don't use an unfamiliar wireless network to send credit card information or make online purchases. Ad-hoc networks masquerading as free wi-fi are a common tool for scamming your credit card information.
Ideally, you should avoid making online purchases over a public wireless network whenever possible.;
,


Do your best to go directly to the site instead of searching for it or following a link; this minimizes your risk of ending up at a phishing site that mimics the original in order to gather your credit card information. Above all, do not follow links from e-mails to purchase items unless you're absolutely certain the e-mail did come from the legitimate merchant. These phishing, or mimic, e-mails are a very common scam.
 Depending on which site you're buying from this might involve bidding on an item until you win the right to purchase it, or clicking "Add to Cart" on the item page.
 Usually this entails looks for the icon of a shopping cart (or the word "Cart") and clicking the icon/word. Then click "Check Out" or "Check Out Now."

, You might not see your final price until you've done this, as the website needs your zip or postal code to calculate shipping charges.
 This should match the billing information for your credit card.


Many websites give you an option to copy your shipping address into the billing address fields with the click of a single button.
 This includes:


Your name as it appears on the credit card.
The credit card number.
The credit card expiration date.
The 3- or 4- digit security code on the back of the credit card.
You might also need to provide the billing zip code for the credit card again, or the telephone number listed on your credit card statement.
,