 One for A days and one for B days. Make sure they look very different to avoid getting them mixed up. Put all your books for A day in the A day backpack and you B day books in the B day backpack. Your backpacks should be big enough for all your books plus extra room for things like gym clothes and such.;
, If you need a Calculator for your A day math class be sure to keep one in your A day backpack. If you need colored pencils for both your A day History class and you B day Biology class it's better to get two sets of colored pencils for each bag. This ensures you'll have what you need.
 A three ring binder is perfect for picking up stray papers. Use tabbed dividers for each of your classes. You could also make a Returned work tab for each class and a notes tab to keep your notes separate from your work. Get a zipper bag that fits in your binder. Ones with three ring hole punch on the side are very helpful. Be sure your zipper bag is stocked with pens, pencils, and everything else you might need. Also put a full package of paper behind a paper tab in your binders so you always have some. Clearly mark your A day Binder from your B day binder. You don't want to get those Mixed up.
 Get a notebook to act as a planner. A large spiral bound with a two sided pocket works best. On the pocket label one side A day and one side B day. Put worksheets and homework in these pockets when you get them. Each day date a top of a paper and mark it as an A day or B day. List your first class and write down you agenda (most teachers have agenda's written on the board) If you are reminded of an upcoming test or quiz write a Reminders: section and put the date and what it's over. Box this so it stands out on the page. In your last class make a homework (HWK) section. List all the homework you got that day in order. (Only put things on this list that are due the next class period so you don't get short term assignments mixed up with long term assignments.)

, A large wipe board calendar is best for noting upcoming project dates, events, holidays, tests, and deadlines. Hang your board in a very visible place so you don't forget to check it often.
 It should be hung near your Calendar Board. Use magnets to keep Forms, to-do lists, flyers, and other important long term papers in one place. You can also write reminders on your board like 'Library books due Friday'.
 Junk what you don't. Some people will suggest keeping a notebook or a three ringed binder for each class but all you're left with is a bunch of barely used binders. Some classes (like Biology or Math) will require their own Notebook or Three ringed binder while others (Like Health or German) will make do with a folder or a tab in your big binder. Many teachers will require a notebook or binder but don't feel obliged to use that. Tailor your supplies to your needs.
 Some people can come home form school and get started on their homework right away. But most people can't. If you can't make a Set time each night to start your homework. Like after you eat dinner or 6:00.
 One advantage of having both A day work sheets and B day worksheet in your planner pocket is if you have free time in an A day class you can finish up your B day Homework (Assuming you don't need a book or something). This cuts down on homework you'll have to do at home. Most teachers give you ten minutes free time before the bell ending class. Use this time to finish your work or work on other class work. You'll be amazed with how much less homework you have at the end of the day.
 Lay out your clothes and backpack the night before. Be sure you know whether you're taking your A day backpack or your B day backpack.Keep a regular sleep schedule. Some people are able to wake up without any alarms because they go to sleep at the same time every day. Set up a morning routine and perfect it until you can be ready ten minutes flat just in case you wake up late one day.

