 If you wake up feeling like you need to throw up, let yourself vomit. It may be that you body consumed something that it needs to expel, so listen to the way your body feels and do what is best for your body. It is never pleasant to vomit, but in the end, your stomach will likely feel better.


Holding it in can damage your esophagus because the stomach acid is just sitting in your throat., One reason you may have a morning stomach ache is because you are anxious about something. If you know you are worrying too much about something, try to calm yourself. Anxiety often causes nausea and stomach aches, so relieving your own anxiety can often make the harsh feeling of your stomach in knots go away. Try to acknowledge the anxiety and let go of whatever is bothering you.


Try meditating or even breathing. This can help your muscles relax and make you feel better overall., You may wake up with a stomach ache because of muscle tightness all over your body. This can happen due to a strange sleeping position or over exertion the day before. To alleviate this, lie flat on your stomach on a flat, solid surface. Push your arms up, lifting just your upper body and arching your back toward the ceiling. This will stretch out your back and release the muscles in your abdomen as well.


To exercise your neck, tip your head forward and touch your chin to your chest, holding for 10-15 seconds. Next, tip your head to either side and hold your ear toward your shoulder, holding for 10-15 seconds. Repeat on the other side., You can use a hot water bottle or a heating pad to help alleviate the pain in your stomach. Lie flat on your back and lay the bottle or pad across your stomach. The heat will increase the blood flow to the skin surface. This helps lower the feelings of pain from underneath the abdomen.They also make heat patches that may work. You can buy them at your local pharmacy or general store.
 There is a method called reflexology that uses the nerves in the body to help relax other areas of the body. In this practice, the nerves in the left foot correspond to the stomach. To use this technique, grab your left foot with the palm of your right hand. Push under the ball of the foot with your left hand and apply a steady, even pressure with your thumb. After a few seconds, release the pressure and move up a little bit, repeating the motion.


After you reach the top of the arch with your left thumb, come back down the foot with the right thumb, applying the same pressure until you reach the bottom area of your foot.
If you can't get it right by yourself, have someone else rub the area for you. You may not be able to properly relax if you are doing it to yourself., There are some useful over the counter treatments that can be helpful for a stomach ache. You can try medicines such as Pepto-Bismol or Imodium if you feel overly nauseous or have diarrhea. If your stomach pain is more related to indigestion or acid reflux, you can try medications with ranitidine in them, such as Zantac. Avoid taking aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen sodium as because they may make your stomach pain worse.Make sure you follow the dosing instructions for these medications. If you are curious about any issues that may arise from taking them, ask your doctor.
 If your stomach ache persists for more than one or two mornings, you should see a doctor to check for any underlying conditions. You should also see a doctor if you try a few remedies and your stomach ache gets worse.


You never want to put yourself in danger waiting for remedies to work on an issue that may have a more serious cause.

