 To make sure that your mind knows that it is supposed to relax and sleep when you get into bed, it is important to make sure that you only do sleep activities in your room. Do not read, eat, work or watch television in bed.


Also, make sure that you go to bed only when you are sleepy.
 Install dimmable lights or use a bedside lamp. Try to avoid going immediately from full light to full dark, ease your body into a state of sleep.


Make sure that your room is dark and that there are no lights coming into the room that might disturb your sleep. You might consider getting some light blocking curtains if your room tends to get really bright before you have to wake up or if street light shine in. Or, you could wear a sleep mask.
If you need a little light to feel comfortable, consider a nightlight, some flameless candles, or even a lit up alarm clock.
 Start out by picking one temperature and then gauging how your body reacts overnight. The ideal thermostat setting is around 65 degrees for deep sleep. Avoid extreme hot or cold temperatures in your bedroom.


The most important thing is to keep your head cool throughout the night without chilling the rest of your body. This often means that you will want to experiment with clothing and linen layering., Allergens are a serious problem for many people and complications (sneezing, wheezing) often appear at night. Eliminate dust in your bedroom regularly to keep it from going airborne. A good air purifier can help with this as well.


In winter, humidifiers can assist people with breathing problems by adding moisture to the air., Stock it with all of the items that you will need throughout the night. Place medications, tissues, lotion, any electronic devices/alarms within arm’s reach., If you wake easily, consider purchasing ear plugs or muffs intended for sleep. Sound machines are also a good investment. They can mimic soothing waves, rain, or even jungle sounds!


You can also try playing some white noise, such as rain or ocean sounds on your phone. Just make sure that the light from your phone is blocked out.
 One might use a (Goldilocks) firm mattress, not too hard and not too soft. One might consider a thick cotton Futon style mattress without springs, on some stiff surface like a bed-spring, plywood or some stand that may come with it.


Mattresses impact blood flow and, therefore, those that relieve pressure points are the best for overall health., There are pillows for your head and for your body, and those made with foam, feathers, and even water. The pillow that you choose will often depend on your preferred sleeping position. For example, back-sleepers often place an extra pillow under their stomach.


Pregnancy pillows, in particular, are often used by women to cradle their abdomen and relieve hip pain.

