


Visit AT&T's "Travel Guide" website featured in the Sources section of this article to verify your mobile phone's functionality in other countries. If you do not have Internet access, call AT&T's International Customer Care department for assistance at 1-800-331-0500.
Select the continent and country you are traveling to and click on the "Continue" button.
Select the manufacturer and model of your AT&T mobile phone and click on "Continue."
Review your phone's ability for voice and data services in the country you are traveling to. Voice services include phone calls and text messaging; whereas data services include email and Internet connectivity.
If your AT&T mobile phone will not work in the country you are traveling to, you may want to consider upgrading your phone model or renting a mobile phone when you arrive at your international destination.;
,


Click on the "Details" link under the "Rates and Coverage" column to view your rates for the country you are traveling to. Rates for voice calls will vary depending on the country; however, messages and data charges have fixed rates regardless where you travel to.
Each outgoing text message will cost 50 cents (0.36 euros), whereas each outgoing picture and video message will cost 1 dollar and 30 cents (0.94 euros).
Data services will cost 1.95 cents per kilobyte, i.e. $19.50 (~15 EUR) per megabyte; In Canada it costs 1.5 cents per kilobyte ($15.00 per megabyte).
If you travel overseas frequently, you may want to consider signing up for an international rate plan or discount package that may provide you with lower roaming fees. Visit AT&T's International Roaming website featured in the Sources section of this article or call AT&T at 1-800-331-0500 to sign up for an international package.



You may call AT&T's International Customer Service department at 1-800-331-0500, dial 611 directly from your mobile device, or visit an AT&T retail store.



To make phone calls or send messages, you will be required to dial the "plus" symbol, followed by the country code, then the phone number you are calling. For example, if you are calling a United States phone number, dial the "plus" sign, enter the number "1" for the country code, then dial the 10-digit phone number you are calling.

