 List the events of the story, and figure out the plot line. It's best to know what you're writing about so you won't have to worry about it when you're trying to form the words. As your character goes through the bad events, come up with detailed images in your head. Using your creativity, form words to go along with that image.
 Once the raindrops start hitting the streets, go outside and walk around. This way, you'll achieve a sense of seriousness, a dramatic feeling, or inspiration.


If you would prefer not to get wet, carry an umbrella with you.
 Sometimes, seeing how other authors wrote their stories may help you write yours. Don't be afraid to try out their writing style, but make sure you aren't plagiarizing.
 Play a very sad or depressing song. Often, music will unlock a feeling inside of you that cannot be brought out in any other way. You could also construct a playlist of depressing, sad songs so that you have a continuous loop of them playing.
 Distractions often can divert your attention from writing the story. A loud, noisy environment where you cannot concentrate makes it harder for the words to come out, and you'll only end up with frustration. A quiet room is what you'll need in order to properly think.
 If your main character is a patient with terminal cancer, then go visit someone who has terminal cancer. If you can't find one, go online and look up some journals.
 You don't want any light to blind your sight into the words of your mind. This will also create a dark atmosphere in which you'll truly feel depressed.
 This can be immensely cathartic. Use a thesaurus if necessary in order to come up with heart-touching words.
 Full stops at the end of sentences. If you're not sure about the commas, have someone with the eye of an eagle and the heart of a grammar Nazi look it over for you. Don't overuse ellipses.
 This act takes over your life. If you really want to save the world, of give the world resources to do such, ignore the world's mockery and resentment and write to the best of your ability.

