 The primary objective to treat cholera is to replenish your lost fluids.If you have cholera, you are likely dehydrated since dehydration is the number one symptom of this condition. Dehydration can range from mild and moderate to severe. The first step in treating cholera is to determine the degree of dehydration of the individual. Mild to moderate dehydration signs include:


A dry, sticky mouth
Feeling thirsty, dizzy, or lightheaded
Feeling tired or a decrease in activity
A decreased output of urine, which in infants this means no wet diaper for over three hours
Limited tear production
Dry skin
Headache
Diarrhea
Constipation;
, While being dehydrated is definitely cause for concern, being severely dehydrated means you should be hospitalized immediately. It is a life threatening situation, so act quickly. Signs of severe dehydration include:


Sunken in eyes with raised skin around them
Chapped and dry lips
Extreme thirst
Reduced elasticity in your skin, which will not snap back into its normal position when pinched
Fever
Little to no urine production, which is extremely dark if produced
Rapid heartbeat and breathing
No tear production
Fussiness or sleepiness in children
Confusion, Without rehydration, about half people who have been infected with cholera die. Restore lost fluids and electrolytes as soon as possible when cholera symptoms appear, by drinking any of the following:Treated, cholera-free water
Coconut water
Electrolyte-rich drinks like Gatorade
Soup or bouillon
Oresol or other oral rehydration solutions

Avoid undiluted fruit juice, soft drinks, and coffee, since these can worsen diarrhea., If you know you are dehydrated, rehydration is key. Rehydration is a two to four hour period where medical treatments are focused on bringing individuals back to baseline levels of hydration and electrolyte balance. Oral rehydration is the best way to replenish your fluid floss for mild to moderate dehydration. Severely dehydrated patients will need IV Infusion rates of 50 to 100 mL/kg/h.


IV infusion is not recommended for mild to moderate cases unless you can’t tolerate oral rehydration.After rehydration, you enter the maintenance phase. During this phase, you should continue on a rehydration treatment plan until diarrhea and other symptoms are resolved., Oresol, or oral rehydration liquids, can be bought commercially with brands such as Pedialyte, Rehydralyte, Resol, Rice-Lyte, or ORS. If do not have any oresol, you can make your own rehydrating drink. Drink at least one cup of this mixture after every time you have diarrhea because of your cholera.


To make your own oresol, wash your hands, utensils, and bottle or cup for your drink with clean, sanitized water. Mix one liter of clean, treated drinking water with eight teaspoons of sugar and one teaspoon of salt. Shake or stir the water to make sure the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, and then drink.The World Health Organization suggest a rehydration solution made by mixing 3.5 grams (0.1 oz) of salt, 1.5 grams of potassium chloride, 20 grams (0.71 oz) glucose (sugar), and 2.9 grams (0.1 oz) of trisodium citrate., Dealing with a dehydrated child can be a little trickier than dealing with yourself or another adult. Rehydrate the child as soon as possible, right after the first bout of diarrhea. The exact treatment depends on the age of the child, and the degree of dehydration:If the child is severely dehydrated, seek medical attention immediately for IV fluid restoration. Give fluids by mouth as well if the child can drink.
If there are signs of moderate dehydration, give oral rehydration solutions (see above for storebought and homemade versions):

Children weighing less than 5kg need roughly 200 to 400 milliliters (6.8 to 14  fl oz) of fluid. (typical weight for children under 4 months of age)
Weighing 5 to 7.9 kg: requires 400 to 600 milliliters (13.5 to 20.3  fl oz). (age 4–11 months)
8–10.9 kg: 600 to 800 milliliters (20.3 to 27.1  fl oz) (12–23 months)
11–15.9 kg: 800 to 1,200 milliliters (27.1 to 40.6  fl oz) (2–4 years)
16–29.9 kg: 1,200 to 2,200 milliliters (40.6 to 74.4  fl oz) (5–14 years)
30 kg+: 2,200 to 400 milliliters (74.4 to 13.5  fl oz) (15 years+)
Give more fluid if the child wants it or continues to pass watery stool.


If there are no signs of dehydration, give enough oral rehydration solution to replace the water lost to diarrhea and vomiting, plus more if the child wants it.
 Infants, elderly persons and persons with chronic or debilitating illnesses such as diabetic renal failure are particularly vulnerable to complications of dehydration caused by cholera. If anyone in these groups shows signs of cholera, need urgent admission to the hospital for rehydration and close monitoring. Anyone with severe dehydration will also have much better odds of recovery if they get to a hospital immediately for IV fluid restoration.Seek immediate medical attention for children of all ages with severe dehydration.

