 Do things you love and work towards your individual goals. Take time for yourself to read, take a walk, or exercise. If you are someone you want to spend time with, your boyfriend or husband will want to spend time with you, too.Explore your own insecurities. Why are you concerned about your man cheating on you? Has it happened to you in a previous relationship? Taking time to develop yourself may increase your own self-confidence and decrease your insecurities about your relationship.
 Dr. Gary Chapman’s theory of love languages dictates that there are five different love languages: words of affirmation, acts of service, receiving gifts, quality time, and physical touch.Take the online quiz to see what your and your partner’s love languages are. You do not necessarily have to have the same love languages, but you should work on “speaking” your partner’s love languages.


For example, if your man’s primary love language is quality time, then work to spend some quality time with him. Put away your cell phones and cook dinner together, or designate a date night every week where just the two of you spend time together.
 If your boyfriend or husband is not spending time with you, he’s most likely spending time with his friends. If his friends know you and like you, they will probably take him out of potentially risky situations where your boyfriend might feel pressure to talk to other girls or be unfaithful. They also will like you, respect you, and honor your relationship with your boyfriend or husband., Does something seem different to you, physically or emotionally?Talk to your boyfriend about these issues without accusing him of cheating. You might have an underlying issue in your relationship that you need to talk about. Try saying something like, "It seems like you have been distracted lately. What's going on?" Some potential reasons why your man might withdraw from you might include:


Suffering from erectile dysfunction. You might have already noticed a problem if this is an issue, but don’t bring this up before your boyfriend does. He could get defensive.
Dealing with a mental health issue, such as depression or low self-esteem.
Problems at work.
Worrying about coming on too strong or seeming clingy.

