 One of the reasons resistance bands are popular is that they add resistance to a workout without drastically increasing the risk of injury like free weights and weight machines. Resistance bands work just like weights, except instead of gravity pulling down on your muscles you are fighting the tension in the band. Resistance bands allow you to create tension from any direction as opposed to just down, letting you work out every muscle in multiple ways.


Resistance workouts are great when you can't get to the gym, have joint pain, or want to vary your normal workout routine.Tube bands look like rubber jump ropes and have handles on the end for added convenience.
Basic bands are long, rectangular rubber bands that don't have handles and must be tied or gripped to work.;
, Most resistance bands have easy color coding to help users develop a workout. Usually, the fitness regimen includes starting with a medium resistance band and working up. Though not a perfect system, darker colored bands generally have higher resistance.



Light Resistance: Offer 3-6 pounds of resistance.

Medium Resistance: Offer 8-10 pounds of resistance. This is a good starting resistance.

Heavy Resistance: Offer 10-15 pounds of resistance.

Extra-heavy Resistance: Offer 16 or more pounds of resistance., The more of the band you have exposed the easier the exercise will be. This is because the band has more room to stretch. The bands provide the most resistance when they can barely stretch anymore, much like a rubber band is harder to pull on the tighter it is stretched. There are several ways to make bands more effective if they feel too easy:


Wrap the bands around your hands several times to shorten them and increase resistance.
Step on some of the band or wrap it around your foot before grabbing the ends.
Move further away from the band's anchor (what the band is tied or attached to).
 You never want to rush or push through an exercise to get it done. Your body should move slowly and fluidly, without rapid or jerking motions. After each rep, return to resting position calmly -- a controlled return is just as important as the initial movement for building muscle.Focus on good technique over more resistance. Strong form will help you gain muscle much faster than trying to push through harder weight.
 You want to aim for a lot of reps with resistance bands, since the weight is often not as difficult as going to the gym. Shoot for 12-20 reps of each exercises, and do 3 sets of each workout. You want to be straining to complete the last 2-3 reps each time, but not so much that you can't finish.


No pain, no gain is a myth. If you feel sharp pain or joint problems, stop exercising and see a sports medicine professional immediately., Many exercises require that you fasten the band to an anchor, allowing you to pull against this for resistance. Frequently, you can use a pole, skinny tree, or doorknob to hold on end of the band in place while you work out. You need to make sure that the anchor can hold your weight and that the knot is strong in order to prevent injury.


Pull on the band with increasing pressure before starting your exercise.
Make sure that the anchor does not move when you pull on it.
Increase tension by shortening up the band before trying to put more pressure on your anchor knot. Tie the band around your feet or hands to increase resistance.