 Putting a cold ice pack on the affected area can reduce the swelling and itching of mosquito bites. However, do not keep the ice pack on your bites for more than 10 to 20 minutes at a time, and always use a barrier such as a towel between the pack and your skin.In general, use an ice pack for 10 to 20 minutes once an hour for the first 72 hours after you are bitten. If pain persists, use ice for about 10 minutes 3 times a day., Aloe vera applied to mosquito bites may work in order to minimize swelling. However, aloe vera can cause irritation if left on the skin for a long period of time, so use it sparingly if it irritates you.Aloe vera can be grown at home. If you are growing aloe vera you can simply cut off a leaf and cut it open to expose the gel inside. This gel is what should be applied to your bites.
 Avoid scratching or rubbing the bite if you can. If you can successfully avoid scratching your bites, they should clear up within a day or two. A bite that has been scratched excessively can open up, raising the risk of infection and additional pain.It can be very difficult to avoid scratching a mosquito bite that is very itchy. Try covering up the bite with clothing or a bandage so that you don't have access to the bite. This will minimize the chance of you itching the bite without thinking about it.
 When you are pregnant you should discuss all medication use with your doctor, even over-the-counter medications. In most cases, your doctor will approve the use of one of these over-the-counter medications to ease symptoms:Benadryl
Hydrocortisone Cream
Calamine lotion

, If you think that you may have been exposed to Zika by getting mosquito bites in an area that has a known Zika threat, then you should contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will then be able to closely monitor your pregnancy and assess any symptoms that might be developing.Your doctor will likely order tests to see whether you have been infected by the Zika virus.
The doctor will do imaging to assess any impacts the virus may be having on the developing fetus. However, imaging, such as ultrasounds, can see most but not all of the side effects sometimes caused by Zika.

