 You want to make sure you don't introduce the sippy cup before your child has the motor skills to handle it. Introducing the sippy cup at the right time will help with a smooth transition.For the most part, doctors recommend starting the sippy cup around six months old. At this point, your baby will be old enough to manage the cup. However, the six month mark is a general rule. It will not necessarily be right for all children. Look for developmental signs your child is ready for the sippy cup, such as a strong grasp and the ability to easily move things from the hand to the mouth.If you're unsure whether your child is ready, talk to your pediatrician.;
, This is especially important when your child is still under a year old. You want to pick a sippy cup your child can easily handle.It's important to get a lightweight cup that is not easily breakable. When your child first starts handling the sippy cup, they will likely drop it a lot.
Look for cups with sturdy handles and those that are leak and spill resistant, as your child will probably have a lot of spills when first using the sippy cup. Try testing a few cups yourself to make sure they're leak and spill resistant.
You may have to try a few different cups. Toddlers and babies will take differently to different colors, shapes, and sizes. Try buying a few different types of lightweight cups that are not easily breakable. See which one your baby likes.
 As a sippy cup is a new item, your child needs time to get used to it. It may be a bad idea to simply introduce the sippy cup only during meal times or when your child is hungry or thirsty.Allow your child to hold and play with the sippy cup outside of meal and feeding times. Your child can, for example, play with the sippy cup in their playpen or when playing with their regular toys.
In stores, there are some sippy cups designed to look like toys. Try opting for this type of sippy cup if you're worried about your child taking to the sippy cup.
 You don't want to make the switch straight from the bottle to the sippy cup. You should transition gradually, as this will make the process less stressful for your child.Say your child usually drinks about three bottles a day. Start the transition by switching the morning bottle with a sippy cup.
For about a week, stick with only using the sippy cup for one feeding a day. The next week, switch out another bottle.
You should switch out the nighttime bottle last, especially if you're transitioning to the sippy cup when your child is at an older age. This way, if your child asks about a sippy cup during the morning or afternoon, you can assure them a bottle is coming later.
 You want your child to feel a sense of accomplishment when they use the sippy cup. Whenever you see your child using the cup, make sure to praise them.Children often like to feel like they're getting older and becoming adults. Try saying something like, "Look how big you are! You're using a sippy cup all by yourself."

, You want your child to be aware of the sippy cup throughout the process. If your child is surprised by the sippy cup, they may be reluctant to use it. Therefore, work on reminding your child they will be using the sippy cup on occasion.Talk about the sippy cup before meal times and try to frame things in the positive. For example, "Aren't you lucky that you're a big girl and get to use your sippy cup today?"

, Oftentimes, a child will ask for a bottle when they really want something else. A bottle can represent routine and comfort. A child may also ask for a bottle when they're hungry. Try to identify the precise need your child has when they ask for a bottle in order to help the transition go smoothly.Ask your child how they are feeling when they ask for the bottle. They may be hungry, scared, sad, or anxious.
If your child does not talk yet, look for non-verbal cues when your child gestures for the bottle. For example, maybe your child heard a loud noise or is in a new environment and is gesturing for a bottle. This may indicate your child is scared.
Provide what your child needs instead of the bottle. For example, give hugs if your child is scared. Provide a small snack if your child is hungry.
 If you're using the sippy cup to transition from breast milk, a child may dislike the taste of cow's milk, formula, or whatever you're putting in the sippy cup. If taste is an issue, try dipping the spout of the cup in breast milk. This may make the transition less jarring for your child., Your child may resist the sippy cup if it's a transition from breast milk. Some children may also dislike drinking breast milk out of a sippy cup. If your child dislikes the beverage being served in the sippy cup, they're less likely to drink from it. Therefore, you may want to experiment with different beverages to encourage your child to use the sippy cup.Try things like juice, cow's milk, water, and other beverages. See what your child takes to.
If your child has dietary restrictions, talk with your pediatrician about safe beverages.
 Your child may get confused on occasion, especially when starting out with the sippy cup. If your child forgets how to use the cup, or is simply having a hard time figuring it out, take a drink out of the cup yourself. Modeling proper behavior can help your child learn., You do not want to spring a sippy cup on your child. If you moved too fast, take a few steps back. Wait a week, and begin showing your child the cup while letting them know they will soon be drinking from it. If your child has some time to mentally prepare, they may take to the cup better., Your child may refuse the cup, throw it, or otherwise act out during the early steps of the transition. Deal with such moments calmly and continue to instruct the child to use the cup. Have patience. Some children will need more time than others to take to the sippy cup, and getting frustrated yourself will only make the situation more difficult. Try to remain calm and collected if your child initially rejects the cup.

