 The PlayStation 4 is constantly recording your game play in the background. It will begin recording as soon as you start your game, and the last 15 minutes of footage will always be available. The PlayStation 4 will not record system menus or video files.

Some games do not allow recording during certain segments, such as important story scenes. This varies from game to game.;
, There are two main ways that you can do this on a PS4:Press the Share button while playing to save your last 15 minutes of gameplay. This will open the Share menu. Tap □ to save the video clip. Your last 15 minutes of gameplay will be saved to your PS4's hard drive. You'll be able to edit and share it later. Pressing the Options button in the Share menu will allow you to change how much is automatically recorded (15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, etc.).

Double-tap the Share button while playing to start a new recording. At any time, you can tap the Share button twice to start a new recording. This will discard any unsaved footage that may have already been recording. Tap the Share button once to end the recording. The recording will end automatically after 15 minutes. The clip will be saved to your hard drive.
 You can have the PS4 save your microphone's input along with the video clip. This is especially good for multiplayer footage or a "Let's Play."

Press the Options button in the Share menu and then select "Share Settings" > "Video Clip Settings" > "Include Microphone Audio in Video Clip." Your future video clips will include your microphone's audio.
 The Capture Gallery app organizes your saved clips and screenshots. You'll be able to find it in the main row of icons on your PS4, or in the Library if you haven't used it recently.

Capture Gallery organizes your media by game title. Browse through the titles until you find the game you saved the clip from. All of the clips and screenshots that you've recorded in the game will be displayed.
 Your PS4 comes with an app called ShareFactory, which is a video editing program for recorded gameplay. You can use it to add effects and transitions to your clips, creating a professional-looking montage. You can either open the clip in ShareFactory from within the Capture Gallery, or you can launch the ShareFactory app and select your clip when creating a new project. You can use ShareFactory to splice together up to 40 different clips for up to 20 minutes of total footage., Your PS4 allows you to upload your video to either Facebook or YouTube. To upload a video clip, highlight it in the Capture Gallery and press the Share button. Select "Upload video clip" and then choose the service. If you don't see the Facebook or YouTube option, make sure your account is linked in the PS4 Settings menu., You can set your post to Private so that only you have access to the footage, or you can share it publicly., This can cut down on your upload time and keep your video focused., If you want to transfer the video clip to your computer for advanced editing or for sharing with other services, you'll need a USB drive. You'll get the best performance by formatting the drive in exFAT format. See How to Format a Flash Drive for instructions.

Insert the USB drive into your PS4 and open the Capture Gallery. Highlight the video that you want to copy to the USB drive and press the "Options" button. Select "Copy to USB Storage Device" and then select the files you want to copy. You'll find the copied files in the PS4\SHARE\Video Clips folder on the USB drive.
 Besides recording video, your PS4 can broadcast your gameplay live to streaming sites like Twitch, UStream, and YouTube. Make sure you have the latest system updates installed. Start the game you want to broadcast and hit the Share button. Select "Broadcast Gameplay" from the Share menu.

Select the streaming service that you want to use. If you haven't broadcasted before, you'll be prompted to link your account. If you don't have an account with that service, you can create one for free.
Select your audio and video options. You can use your PlayStation camera if you have one to record yourself playing so other people can see your reactions. You can also enable your microphone so that spectators can hear what you're saying.
Click "Start Broadcasting" to begin the show. You can send the link out to others so that they can easily join. You'll also appear in streaming listings for the service you chose.

