 Add 1 teaspoon (5 g) of butter to a medium size saucepan. Heat the butter on medium on it melts completely, which should take 2 to 3 minutes.If you prefer, you can substitute olive oil for the butter.;
, Once the butter is melted, add ½ red onion that’s been chopped and 1 minced clove of garlic to the pan. Allow the mixture to cook on medium for 4 to 5 minutes, or until it becomes fragrant.If you prefer a stronger garlic flavor, you can add additional minced cloves to the pan.
 After the onion and garlic mixture have sauted for several minutes, add 1 cup (119 g) of millet flour to the pan. Stir it in well, and let the mixture cook for 1 minute to get rid of the raw flour taste.You can find millet flour at health food stores, natural grocery stores, and many general grocery stores. It’s also available at a variety of online retailers.
Millet flour can go rancid very quickly, so be sure the flour that you’re using is fresh.
If you prefer, you can grind your own millet flour by grinding raw millet seeds in a spice grinder, coffee grinder, or blender.
 When the millet flour has cooked with the onion mixture for a minute, slowly add 2 cups (473 ml) of chicken broth to the pan. Stir constantly to ensure that are no lumps in the mixture.To make a vegetarian version of the polenta, substitute vegetable stock for the chicken stock.
 After you’ve mixed in the stock, allow the mixture to simmer for approximately 7 to 10 minutes. You want to ensure that all of the liquid is absorbed and the mixture has thickened.The liquid should be absorbed, but don’t overcook the polenta so it’s not longer moist.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the polenta, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully preheat., For baking the millet polenta, you’ll need a 9-inch (23-cm) by 13-inch (33-cm) baking dish. To keep the polenta from sticking to the dish, lightly grease it with butter.If you prefer, you can grease the baking dish with nonstick cooking spray.
 Once the baking dish is greased, pour the millet mixture into it. Place the dish in the preheated oven, and allow it to bake for 20 minutes or until the polenta is just set., When the millet polenta is finished baking, remove the dish from the oven. Let it cool in the pan for 5 to 10 minutes to ensure that it is fully set.You don’t need to cool the polenta completely. You still want it to be slightly warm or room temperature when you serve it.
 After you’ve finished baking polenta, increase the oven temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius). Next, use parchment to line a large baking sheet.If you prefer, you can line the baking sheet with foil.
 Add a 14.5 ounce (411 g) can of plum tomatoes, all of the peeled and separated cloves from a head of garlic, 1 sliced red onion, a tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of sea salt, and ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground pepper to a large bowl. Toss the ingredients together so they’re well blended.If you aren’t a fan of garlic, you can add less cloves to the mixture.
 Once the ingredients are well mixed, spread them out on the lined baking sheet. Place it in the oven, and allow the tomato mixture to roast for 20 to 30 minutes or until the tomatoes are slightly browned.About halfway through the cooking, stir the tomato mixture gently to ensure that it cooks evenly.
When the tomato mixture is finished roasting, allow it to cool on the baking sheet for 15 to 20 minutes.
 After the tomato mixture has cooled slightly, transfer it to the pitcher of a blender. Puree the mixture until it is smooth.You can also process the tomato mixture in a food processor.
If you prefer a chunkier tomato sauce, you don’t have to puree the mixture until it is completely smooth.
 When you’re finished pureeing the sauce, toss in a handful of fresh basil. Stir well to ensure that it is fully incorporated., Once the sauce is ready, use a knife to slice the millet polenta into squares. Place a spoonful of the sauce over it, and serve.If you aren’t a fan of tomato sauce, you can top the polenta with your favorite sauce or even a tasty stew.
You can also slice the polenta and fry, grill, or layer the pieces in a gratin or casserole.

