 Usually, you add storage to your kitchen for a specific purpose, like hiding your toaster, storing your coffee mugs, stashing utensils and so on. If you add another similar item, you won’t have anywhere to put it. This is the basis of the “one in, one out” rule: for every item you bring into the space on your counter or kitchen storage, take one out.

Following this rule is an excellent way you can prevent countertop items or those in storage spaces from becoming too numerous.
In the case of new, unique appliances and kitchen implements, it may be inconvenient to follow this rule. Think of it more as a decluttering rule-of-thumb that you can follow generally., When you get into the habit of something, it becomes less of a chore. By starting and ending your day with a little bit of countertop cleaning, you should notice a decrease in clutter. It may help you make positive changes if you ask yourself questions like:

”How do I feel about my kitchen counters in this moment? How can I improve how I feel about my kitchen counters?”
”Is the current arrangement of my countertops convenient? Is it easy to work in this space? What might I do so I can work better in it?”, The untidy mess of clutter can be arranged in a much more appealing way with only a little effort. Even by lining up often used items, like appliances, utensils, and napkins, against the back of your counter, you can make the space look much tidier. Also consider:

Installing adhesive hooks or more permanent hardware, like hooks you screw into your wall, on the wall behind your counter. This way, pots, pans, and other items can be tidily hung out of the way.
Leave a decent sized gap between items that you hang or line up. Spacing between items will make their placement seem natural, while groups of items squished together may appear like untidy piles from a distance., A major source of clutter comes from the things you deposit on your counter right when you get home. These are items you frequently carry on your person and want to unload once you get home. When you get into the habit of putting these things away right when you get home, it’ll become second nature. This means they’ll be less likely to clutter your counter.

Common culprits for these kind of items include purses, mail, books, keys, pens/pencils, wallet, water bottles, and so on.
Items you carry on your person are typically items you’ll also want to take with you when you go. Installing some storage, like coat hooks for bags, purses, and jackets, key hooks, and so on, will make it easy to put things away and grab them when you’re ready to go., This can even be something small, like wiping off a countertop or gathering some papers and tucking them neatly into a corner of the counter. Every little bit will contribute to the decluttering of your kitchen countertops. Some quick and easy cleaning maneuvers you might execute include:

Collecting writing utensils and supplies, like pens, pencils, paper clips, tape, notepads, sticky notes, and so on, and transferring them to your junk drawer.
Organizing items so they are orderly placed in their intended location. This may even include something as simple as moving an empty drinking glass from the counter to the dishwasher.
If you’re having trouble finding something to clean, ask yourself the question, “Is there something I can do right now to make my counters a little bit cleaner?” In some cases, there might not be.