 If you can, plan to go out when your toddler isn't hungry, tired or overstimulated. Feeling this way can make your toddler cranky or temperamental during your outing. You might plan on taking your toddler out after they've woken from a nap and had a snack.If you can't avoid taking your toddler out when they're hungry or tired, bring along a few snacks and try to let them rest on the way to the event or activity.
 You never know when your toddler might become ill, you'll have to wait in line, or the weather will change. Be prepared to handle challenges by packing things like snacks, extra diapers and wipes (if your toddler uses them), and distractions to keep your toddler occupied.Small books, puzzles, entertainment, or toys are good distractions for toddlers. Keep these in your bag or car and pull them out just during outings. This will keep your toddler interested in them.
Remember to bring seasonal clothing and other items like extra jackets, sunscreen, or mittens.
 Some toddlers handle a lot of activity well while others become overwhelmed by doing too many things. Think about how much activity your toddler can handle and avoid planning too much for one outing. This can prevent meltdowns.For example, if your toddler easily tires, avoid taking them to the store, the library, and clothes shopping. Instead, break the errands into several different trips so your toddler can nap in between them.
 If you'll be taking your child to an activity or event, try to find out the least crowded time to go and learn about any event rules or policies. Research the cost of the outing too, so you can be fully prepared.


For instance, you might find that there's a discount for taking your toddler to an art class one morning, but you should realize that it may be busier because of the discounted rate.
 While planning for your outing can prevent a number of problems, it's also a good idea to have a backup plan if the outing doesn't turn out the way you wanted. You should bring along a change of clothes for your toddler and have a different outing idea in case your original one doesn't work out.


You might find that a change in the weather means you can't take your toddler to an outdoor event. Have an indoor activity in mind when you take your toddler out.

