 Wash and remove any dishes. Dispose of solid food debris.


Wash steel and cast iron cookware promptly. These materials may cause rust if left in the sink too long., Sponges, soft cleaning pads, cloths, or bristle brushes are the best tools for scrubbing stainless steel. Abrasive pads and wire brushes may scratch the finish, especially if your sink has a shiny, reflective finish.Never use steel wool or carbon steel brushes. These materials can leave behind small metal particles that cause rust.
 For everyday cleaning, mild soap or dish detergent is enough to prevent discoloration or dulling.Scrub until you've removed all debris and stains from the sink surface.
 Kitchen sanitizer products with quaternary ammonia are among the most effective disinfectants for stainless steel, and should not damage your sink's finish.However, they may irritate skin or cause asthma, and in some cases can damage aquatic life when washed down the drain.White vinegar is a fairly effective alternative if you are concerned with these issues.In either case, use a spray bottle to coat the surface of the sink.


Most kitchen sanitizers that are not bleach-based contain quaternary ammonia. To confirm this, check the ingredients list for a chemical name ending in "ammonium chloride," or for an abbreviation such as BAC, BZK, BKC, or ADBAC.Bleach-based cleaners are not recommended, as they can corrode your sink if not rinsed off thoroughly.Never let bleach come into contact with residue from other cleaners, as the reaction can produce dangerous gas.
 For best results, let the disinfectant sit for a least ten minutes before rinsing it off with hot water., Water that evaporates on the sink surface can leave behind white spots, especially if you live in a hard water area. Wipe away moisture with a soft, dry cloth to preserve the sink's shine., Wet sponges, clothes, or dish mats can trap water on the sink surface. This can cause stains or dull spots.Squeeze out excess water, then place them on a windowsill or waterproof counter to dry instead.

