 A full breast increases the pain of mastitis, so draining the breast of milk helps reduce pain. Your pain will be less if your breasts are as empty as possible. If breastfeeding is too painful, use a pump.Start each feed on the sore breast. If that's too painful, start with the other breast, and once your milk is flowing well, switch to the affected breast until it feels soft.
If your baby doesn't empty your breast of milk in a feeding, finish by pumping milk until the breast is empty.
Your baby may appear reluctant to nurse on the affected breast. This isn't because anything is different about the milk, but because your breast feels different to the baby. Express a little milk from your nipple to encourage nursing.
 Apply to the affected breast for 15 minutes prior to breastfeeding. This will aid in reducing some swelling and help allow the milk to flow more freely.Use warm towels that are fresh out of the dryer to apply heat.
Also try using warm, wet washcloths.
Repeat this process at least 3 times per day.
 Acetaminophen and/or ibuprofen will help ease pain, without causing complications for your baby. The relief of pain during mastitis aids healing.Aspirin is not recommended. Aspirin has blood-thinning properties that may adversely affect your baby. Aspirin may cause your baby to acquire Reyes' Syndrome, a rare but serious medical condition.
Analgesics that have anti-inflammatory effects, such as ibuprofin, have greater effectiveness than those that don't, such as acetaminophen.
 While warm compresses stimulate breast milk production, cold compresses will help relieve pain between feedings by slowing the milk production. Cold compresses also temporarily numb pain.Damp heat, as in a warm washcloth, will be more effective than a dry heat, such as a heating pad.
Cold compresses can be crushed ice cubes in a plastic bag, with a soft thin towel to protect your skin. A bag of frozen fruits or vegetables also works well. Keep the frozen compress against your breast until it's no longer cold, about 10-15 minutes.
 Massage the affected breast while in the warm water. The warmth of the water increases circulation and helps healing, while massage helps unclog the breast ducts.Stand under the shower stream with the water directed to the affected breast.
Set the temperature of the water to be as hot as you can comfortably tolerate it.
Soaking your breasts in a warm Epsom salt bath speeds healing, and relieves pain.You can also fill up a bowl with warm water and soak your breast in the bowl.
 This will aid in increasing circulation and assist in the milk let-down reflex, which will allow the milk to flow freely. Be sure to massage gently. Rough handling of the breast can increase swelling.With two fingers, find the spot on your breast that hurts the most. Starting here, gently rub in a circular motion. Move first clockwise, then counter-clockwise. Repeat frequently during the day, from differing angles.
Massage will help to release milk that may have built up, clogging your ducts.
 Try to nurse at least every 2 hours. Emptying the breast is the best way to speed up recovery. A full breast will also be more painful, so nursing offers natural pain relief.Wake up your baby throughout the night and from long naps to increase feeding sessions.
Avoid giving baby a bottle. If baby is reluctant to nurse, continue to try periodically. Do not allow yourself to be discouraged if baby does not want to nurse. Just stick with it and continue offering the breast often.
 This will allow pressure to be put on a variety of breast ducts. Incorporate pillows into the feeding sessions for added comfort and pain relief.One suggested position is to crouch above your baby, on your hands and knees. Allow your breasts to hang down freely from your ribcage. Lower your breasts towards your baby's mouth, until she latches on.If you're in public, you can try a modified version. With your baby in your lap, lean over so that your breasts are falling downward. This position drains the ducts more efficiently than any other.

