 You won't be able to find the right person unless you know his full legal name.


Although most criminal records include listings of aliases or other known names, the records may only be searchable using legal names.;
, Each state has a database that lists all individuals currently housed in correctional facilities.Since anyone on parole has already served time in prison, he would be listed in the state's inmate database.
If the person you're looking for has been released on parole, his listing in the inmate database would give you a clues to where he had been released.
Inmate locators typically are designed to enable you to learn where a particular inmate is housed while he is incarcerated, and as such, information about someone out on parole may be limited.Since federal parole has all but been eliminated, if you're looking for someone on parole, chances are he was convicted of a crime under state law., If you know where the person was released, you know what county he lives in.


The American Probation and Parole Association has a directory that lists the probation and parole department for each state, along with websites and contact information.Parole offices supervise offenders released from prison. Parolees are required to report to their parole officer on a regular basis during the period of supervised release.People on parole cannot easily move to different counties while they remain on parole, so chances are if he was released in one county he still lives in that county.
If you find the parole office, you can find the officer he initially reported to or still reports to. The officer will have more information about the whereabouts of the person you're trying to find.
 Although standards differ among states and counties, the person's parole officer should be able to assist you in finding the person you're searching for.


Parolees have an obligation to keep their parole officers informed of where they live and work, so the parole officer will have the most up-to-date information about the location of the person you're looking for.

