 Your employer or school should know about your illness and the types of treatment that you have to receive on a daily basis. Let them know what they might need to do in case of an emergency. Do let them know how your condition might impact your work, if at all. You might be able to negotiate some sort of accommodation, whether it is short medication breaks, the ability to eat during class, or extra time to arrive at places.At school, you should contact administration with a doctor’s note explaining the disease. You can say, "My epilepsy might cause me to have a seizure during class. If this happens, please let the teacher know what they can do to help me."
At universities, you can contact the office of disability services (sometimes known as accessibility services) and the Dean’s Office. You can say, "My arthritis means that I can't always write notes during the lecture. Can I have another student take notes for me so that I do not fall behind?"
At work, you should approach HR or your boss. You can say, "Sometimes, when my blood sugar drops, I will need to take a short break to eat something. This shouldn't interfere with my work, but I will need to be allowed to keep food at my desk."

, The US Department of Labor operates a service known as the Job Accommodation Network (JAN). This service provides guidance on disability accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Some chronic conditions do qualify as disabilities, including multiple sclerosis, cancer, asthma, and cystic fibrosis.You can call or email JAN for information about your specific situation. There is also a list of resources available on their website., The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) allows American workers up to twelve weeks of unpaid leave to help treat serious medical conditions. You may need to provide your employer with thirty days’ notice or medical certification.Any disease that requires periodic doctor's visits counts as a serious condition. This means that you must go to a doctor at least twice a year to treat this condition. While circumstances vary from situation to situation, some conditions that typically qualify include ALS, cancer, diabetes, epilepsy, or asthma.