 Choose where you want each plant to go in your garden. Keep in mind the amount of sunlight they need and the overall size they will grow. Starting with small plants can be misleading, as some may get very large and eventually need bigger plots or containers.


Typically it is safe to give about 10 inches (25.4 cm) of spacing between each plant, but make sure to read the seed package or tag on the plants to see how much room they will need.
You will also want to leave enough space between rows so that you will be able to walk between them. Plan to leave about 18 inches (45.7 cm) between rows.Try to keep your plants in groups by variety. For example, you can plant all of your vegetables in the same section of your garden, and keep your flowers or berries in another section.
Find out which plants will grow the tallest, as they will create shade over time and should only be planted near other plants that will also grow tall, or near plants that require less sunlight and more shade.
 Using the arrangement you have devised, place each plant in the garden. Dig a hole roughly the same size as the root ball.


Don’t dig a hole that is too deep. Only dig far enough to allow room for all of the roots without covering up the stem or leaves.
Gently set each plant into its hole, so as to not damage any part of it. Use your fingers or a trowel to slowly scoop dirt back into the hole over the roots.
 Getting as many nutrients into the soil as you are able will help your plants to grow full and healthy. Mulch will help with this and it will also help to prevent weeds from growing.Spread mulch between each of the plants in a layer about one inch thick.


For vegetables, add straw or decomposed leaves as mulch around your plants for the best results.
Flowers and perennials do well with wood chips or bark as mulch., The first few days after planting should have a bit more water to help the roots to get settled. Avoid over watering though, by flooding the top layer of your garden. You only need to provide about one inch of water per week, so you may not need to water your garden at all if it rains.Use a watering can or a spray attachment to your hose to water the plants. Water them from high up, so that you don’t damage any of their leaves or stalks.
After a few days of watering 1-2 times daily, you can water less often. Move to watering once every two days or so., Once your garden is settled, give it time to grow. A healthy garden will last several seasons if it is properly taken care of. Make sure to check your garden for weeds on a regular basis and pull out any weeds you spot.
 If you are growing a vegetable garden, then you may want to put up a fence around it to protect it from wildlife. This is not absolutely necessary, but it can help if you find that you have frequent invaders.

Keep in mind that deer can jump very high. Your fence will need to be at least 8 feet high to prevent them from jumping into your garden., When your garden has grown to maturity, harvest the fruits of your labor. Carefully pick or cut vegetables, berries, herbs, and flowers for use in your own home. Or, simply enjoy walking and relaxing in your garden if you have created it to beautify your property.

