 Sprint training builds upon short, powerful bursts of speed punctuated by periods of rest. It is an excellent way to build muscle, burn calories, and raise your metabolic rate. If you are short on time and you like to run fast, you may want to try sprinting.


Sprinting is a useful skill for sports that require players to move quickly and powerfully with rests in between--football, for example, or baseball.
Sprinting is a leg-heavy workout. If you begin to sprint regularly, you may significantly bulk up your thighs and calves.
 If you're running around a track, take one lap at a walk and another at a jog. Limber up your muscles with dynamic stretches, preparing your mind and body for the oncoming sprints.


Again, don't stretch now--stretch later. Warm up your core muscles and your legs with dynamic core-building exercises like lunges and deadlifts.
 The length of your sprint is up to you: some prefer to sprint a specific distance, and some prefer to sprint for an allotted time. As a loose rule of thumb, try to keep your sprint to 30 seconds or less.


Sprinting is interval training--meaning intervals of speed and rest. After each sprint, rest (stand in place or walk slowly) for about a minute: roughly double the time for which you were sprinting. When you rest, stay on your feet.
Continue this cycle of run-and-rest for 15-20 minutes, or until you are ready to quit. Don't go too hard at first. Sprinting is intense, and you will wear out quickly until you've been at it persistently for a few weeks., Shifting your core too far forward can lead to injury, but in increments it may make you run slightly faster. Swinging your arms in loose, controlled bursts may amplify the movement of your legs.


Use your arms for momentum. Keep them in a straight line, mirroring the movement of your legs. Keep them loose and not hunched up to your shoulders.You may find that when you lean your core slightly forward, your body runs a bit faster to balance out your weight. This can be helpful when running uphill, but it can also lead to injury. Be careful, and take this method with a grain of salt.
 Avoid sitting down; walk slowly or keep standing. This will prepare your body for the next sprint by giving your lungs time to re-oxygenate.


If you experience chest, stomach, or leg pain, stretch out and stop sprinting for the day. Your body is telling you it should not be doing what you're making it do. Better to stop and sprint another day than to push yourself into an injury.
 If you need water between sprints, take small sips. Don't guzzle or gulp, even if you're very thirsty; drinking too much water in the middle of a run can cause painful stomach cramps.


It's very important to stay hydrated, especially if you're sprinting on a hot day. If you become dehydrated, you may become dizzy and faint. If you don't drink water during your run, make sure to drink plenty before and after.
 Gently work your muscles after your sprints to reduce the risk of cramping and shin splints. In addition to stretching, perform light versions of the dynamic warm-up stretches: a few light lunges, a few brief squats.


Walk around for a bit before you sit down. If you are on a treadmill, walk for another minute or so at a low speed.
Take deep, slow breaths and let your heart-rate return to normal.

