 You can make a paper revision timetable and put it up behind your desk. Get some paper and some different coloured pens. A ruler might help, too, if you want to make a table. Make a column for each day of the week. For each day, jot down the subjects you will focus on and the specific topics you plan to study.


You can also download revision timetables and then insert your own subjects and times.
 There are a variety of mobile applications that can be used to schedule your revisions timetable. These applications work on a variety of platforms. For instance, you may find one of the following applications helpful:If you use an Android device, you may find Timetable helpful. It will mute your phone during your study sessions and allow you to block your time effectively.
You can make a personalized study plan with the SQA My Study Plan application.
You can store your timetable on the cloud and access it across a range of devices with the My Study Life application.
 At the end of each week leading up to exams, reflect on what worked and what didn’t work in your revision timetable. Consider how you could spend your time more effectively, and then make the revision timetable for your upcoming week. For instance, if your study week starts on a Monday, you might want to start your weekly timetable on the Sunday night or Monday morning., You should think strategically about the subjects on your list. You should make more time for the relatively more difficult subjects or the ones you have a hard time with. You should also make more time for subjects that you need to achieve a particular grade on, in order to proceed with your professional or life goals., Do the big projects first, since they will require the most effort and concentration. By studying the big projects or subjects first, you will avoid the situation of not having sufficient time down the road.


Remember to integrate some flexibility in your schedule. You may need to go back to the big subjects later in your revision timetable, depending on how it goes the first time around.
 If there are subjects or topics that are relatively easy or take less time, you could allocate smaller blocks of time for them. You may need to allocate relatively more, smaller blocks of time to certain subjects.


If you are memorizing new words for an upcoming Spanish language test, you might want to allocate more frequent, smaller blocks of time.
 Instead of only scheduling blocks of time for studying, you should insert specific study breaks and rewards. You could schedule a study break to go for coffee with a friend. Another option is to schedule quick workout sessions at your local or school gym between study periods. Regardless of what you do with your breaks, it is important to make time for them., Although it is tempting to be ambitious at the scheduling stage, you don’t want to jot down huge blocks of time that you won’t realistically be able to complete. Instead of blocking off fifteen hours a day for a hard subject and getting disappointed with yourself when it becomes unmanageable, consider blocking off realistic junks of time that allow for things like a social life and family obligations.