 Practicing good hygiene gives you a clean canvas for looking pretty and appealing every day. If you're not a morning person, shower at night. Try putting these steps into your routine:


Shower at least once a day. You don't have to wash your hair once a day (more on that later), but you should clean your body that often. Already had your daily shower, but you got sweaty working out/walking home/going to your job? Shower again.
Wash your hair often enough to keep it clean. African-style hair varies widely, but you can usually find a product to wash it at least once a week without damage, sometimes more. Other types of hair need washing every one to three days, with thinner and oilier hair needing more frequent washes. If your hair is oily, wash it every day, but if it's not, don't wash it every day
Brush, floss and use mouthwash. Do all three twice a day, and you'll have a clean mouth.
Deodorize. Put a deodorant (or combination deodorant-antiperspirant) under your armpits as soon as you get up in the morning, and reapply as necessary. Don't use spray deodorant the other ones are better for you, and for the earth.
Take care of your nails. Treat yourself to a mini mani-pedi at least once a week when you get out of the shower. Clean under all 10 fingernails and toenails, and trim them down. For extra fun, throw on a coat of nail polish. Don't bite your nails because then it will cause pain, and big nails are way more attractive.;
, If your skin is glowing and clear, you won't need much makeup to look stunning — which is handy on days when you're in a hurry. If you're under the age of 11 never use makeup because when you grow up, your skin would probably be horrible. If you're a teenager you can use makeup, but simple ones, otherwise people will think your fake, and plus you don't want to be like a joker cosplay when you go to school


Cleanse. Use a cleanser that's appropriate for you. Unless you're working out you only need to wash your face once a day. In the morning you can just use hot water to wash your face. your skin type

Tone. Use a alcohol-free toner immediately after washing your face to balance the PH of your skin. Do this twice a day.
Moisturize. Apply lotion to your skin twice a day, before putting on makeup. If you tend to have oily skin, choose something light or gel-based; if you're dry, you'll need a heavier cream.

Stay clear of acne. You can use treatments containing salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide to combat pimples on your own. If that's not working, consider seeing a dermatologist. Whatever you do, do not try to pop zits! That can scar your face and lead to more zits! And when you do pop or poke them they get red! Makeup can work to cover them up in case of acne emergency.
Protect your skin from sun damage. If you're going to be outside for more than 15 minutes, put some sunscreen on any exposed skin. (You'll be thankful in 30 years, when your tanned friends have wrinkles but your skin is still supple and firm.)

, How you choose to manage body and facial hair is up to you, but most girls in Western culture remove any facial hair other than eyebrows. Consider these options for managing growth:


Plucking. This is the best and most common way to groom your eyebrows on your own. If you're not sure where to pluck, consider having your brows professionally shaped the first time. After that, you can do maintenance on your own by simply removing the small regrowth.
Shaving. Shaving is the cheapest and most common way of removing armpit and leg hair. Make sure your razor is sharp, and spread either shaving cream or hair conditioner over the area you're shaving — not only will it help you keep track of your progress, it helps you avoid cuts. If you are scared of shaving, another better alternative is to trim with a trimmer which is a more safer alternative as there is less risk of any cuts. Check out How to Get Smooth Legs without Shaving if you want to avoid shaving.
Waxing. Waxing yourself can lead to a disaster, but visiting a professional can be an efficient way to manage hair growth if you have the money. Make sure the beautician you choose follows strict health and safety standards.
 The hairstyle that looks best on you depends on a lot of factors — such as the shape of your face or the texture of your hair — but you can do some basic maintenance without going overboard.


Keep your hair brushed or combed, trim split ends every 6 to 8 weeks, and try not to go overboard on styling products such as gel and hairspray.
Check out How to Do Simple and Cute Hairstyles for some more specific ideas.
 Not everyone chooses to wear makeup, but it can be used to enhance your natural beauty. Remember to not wear too much makeup. Here are some basic guidelines:


Wear a foundation that's as light as possible. Foundation should cover imperfections without completely hiding your skin. Start with a sheer powder and, if that's not working, move up to a matte liquid.
Lighten under-eye circles. If you tend to get dark purple marks under your eyes (whether it's because of allergies or sleep deprivation), you can apply concealer to make the skin look lighter.

Apply eye makeup. You can go small and stick to some light eyeshadow, or go all-out with eyeshadow, liner and mascara.

Use blush to make your cheeks glow. Pick a shade that's close to what your cheeks look like when you blush naturally, and use a light hand — a little goes a long way here.

Wear lipstick or lip gloss. For everyday wear, choose a colour that's only a shade or two darker than your natural lip. For special occasions, try something that's close to the color of the inside of your lips.
 Being generally clean will already help you smell good, but you can take it a step further. Use scented soaps and moisturizers, and try a few spritzes of perfume in the morning.


Figure out what works for you. Something that smells great on your friend might not work on your skin — everyone's chemistry is slightly different.
Get samples. Some websites will sell small perfume samples at a discounted price, or you can go to a department store and spray samples on pieces of paper. Try a few to figure out what you like.
 Dress yourself so that you look attractive and put-together without being immodest. Here are a few ideas to consider when you're building a wardrobe:


Buy a few classic pieces. Straight-leg jeans, white button-up shirts, a good sweater, and a nice pair of boots are all basic pieces that can go with a lot of different outfits.
Don't be a slave to trends. Fashion comes and goes, so resist the urge to buy something outrageous just because it's "in" right now. Odds are, it'll be out before you get your money's worth from it.
Don't overdo the accessories. Follow the old adage: Remove one item before you leave the house.
Make sure you always have clean laundry. Your outfit might be full of great pieces, but it'll fall flat if your clothes are dirty. Set up a laundry schedule so that you're never scrambling for clean clothes in the morning.
 Most people are attracted to confident and optimistic personalities. Why? Probably because most people can be sad and withdrawn all by themselves, but being around someone happy lifts them up. Even if you don't always feel self-assured and happy, here's how to pull it off having magnetic confidence:


Practice strong posture. Keep your shoulders back, spine straight, and chin high. How you carry yourself communicates a lot to other people, so show them that you're capable and in-charge.
Compliment others instead of competing with them. When you notice someone doing something better than you, or what you wish you could do, pay him or her a sincere compliment instead of feeling envious. You'll feel great about doing a good turn, and it shows that you're not intimidated by the accomplishments of other people.
Fake it until you make it. No one feels confident and amazing all the time. But if you pretend you feel that way, you might actually notice your confidence improve as the day goes on.
 Flashing your pearly whites is one of the best things you can do to be considered perfect.


Keep your smile natural and easy. Don't try to pull your lips too hard.
Allow your eyes to crinkle. When a smile causes your eyes to crinkle (called a Duchenne smile), people see it as more sincere.
Have a sense of humor. Laughing not only makes you feel better, it can help put other people at ease, too. Try not to take yourself or anything else too seriously.
 Presenting yourself to the world in a way that's dignified and elegant can help you win respect and admiration from other people. Consider these methods:


Practice good manners. Say "please" and "thank you," and don't badmouth anyone in public.
Try to avoid swearing. Cursing often will make others think that you're an unintelligent, immature person and would most likely ignore you. If it slips out, that can count as an "oops!" moment, but don't make it a habit.
Don't put down yourself or others. Nobody's perfect, and there will be times when you need to be critical. For the most part, though, try to avoid making criticism of yourself or other people part of your daily routine.
Remember your values. Peer pressure can be cruel and tempting, but it's only temporary. Your values are your reputation and your future. They are all you truly possess; they take a lifetime to build and a moment to destroy. Once they have been compromised, what have you got left?
Be mature. Know how to handle situations maturely and reasonably. You don't need to whine or cry to get what you want. It's fine to be goofy and have fun, but remember not to make a complete fool of yourself. Be cool, calm, and collected whenever possible.
 Your interests are what make you interesting and unique, so make time for them. Participate in sports, music, reading, hobbies or whatever else you enjoy — it'll keep you well-rounded and fascinating.


Participate in extracurricular activities. They're a great way to meet people!
Stay busy. Being busy makes you interesting, so that when you're meeting new people you have things to talk about. Think about it: you'd be more interested in someone who has several interests and always has something going on than someone who simply sits around the house all day.
 A perfect girl always tries to be smart and get good grades. Make time to study, set up a schedule for your homework, and try to take a genuine interest in what you're learning. It'll pay off big in the future.
 Always respect others and never let others tear you down, that will always lift you higher. Listen to your parents and respect them. Maybe once in a while clean up the house or do the dishes, they will appreciate it and you.


Remember to always listen to your parents, older relatives, and teachers. You might not agree with the things they say, but they are older and have more life experience. If you are obedient and pleasant when they ask something of you, they will notice and think highly of your maturity.
If you keep it up long enough, you may even be awarded more freedom. Just remember not to do anything crazy with your freedom or risk losing it.
 You should neither seek out arguments and confrontations nor let people walk all over you or take advantage of your kindness. Letting people boss you around can damage your self-esteem and self-image. You're your own person.


Instead, learn to quietly diffuse arguments by being agreeable but firm. Tell people that you definitely respect their beliefs, views, or opinions, but may not necessarily agree. If someone really bothers or scares you, don't be afraid to be firm and, if necessary, tell someone.

