 When you are setting up photos for your scrapbook, try to shoot outdoors and use natural lighting. Aim to shoot in the morning or late afternoon, when outdoor light tends to be best. Using natural light will give your photos a more golden hue and often produce nice background settings for your photos.Cloudy or overcast days are often best for shooting people. Try not to shoot people outdoors when the sun is high in the sky without clouds, as this can create harsh lighting that is not flattering for your subjects.;
, To make taking photos of your loved ones easier, you may stage a gathering at your home to then take photos. This may be useful if you want to capture loved ones all together as a group or for a special occasion, such as someone’s birthday or anniversary. Arrange gatherings in a location with nice background settings. Hold events at your home and use them as a photo opportunity for your scrapbook.


For example, you may host your daughter’s birthday party and use it as an opportunity to take photos for a scrapbook page on her birthday.
 To help you prepare for taking photos, make a list of images that you’d like to get at events or gatherings with loved ones. This way, you can make sure you get as many photos as you need to fill up the pages of your scrapbook.


For example, if you are making a page in your scrapbook on your siblings, you may make sure you get individual images of each sibling at a family gathering.
 When taking photos for the scrapbook, always use the viewfinder to make sure you are capturing a good picture of a landscape or a person. Check that there are no obstructions over the person’s face or any things from the landscape that may appear to be coming out of the person’s head, such as trees or poles. The viewfinder can help you make sure every image you capture looks good.You should also use the viewfinder to make sure you are capturing a setting or a person in good light. Check that the image is in focus and not blurry or grainy in the viewfinder before you snap the picture.
 Get the most out of the images you take by filling the frame with a landscape or a person. If you are photographing a group of people, focus on the top half of their bodies and do not worry about getting their legs or feet in the photo. Zoom in on faces and scenes so the frame is full and does not have a lot of empty space.When you are zooming into faces, make sure the person’s eyes are in focus. This will make the image more clear and ensure the subject looks engaged in the photo.
 When taking photos of subjects, make sure the backgrounds are attractive and interesting. Use the viewfinder on the camera to confirm the background is nice before you snap the photo. Ask a subject to move or gather in a spot with a nice background so the photo looks good.For example, if you are photographing a big group of people in a park, you may ask everyone to stand in front of trees in the park or a fountain, rather than by the trashcans in the park.
 Move around when you take photographs so you can get different angles and perspectives on your subjects. If you are shooting a big group, stand on a chair above the group so you can get everyone in the photo. If you are shooting one person, stand in front of them and make sure you are at their level when you take their picture.When you are taking photos of children for your scrapbook, shoot them at a low angle. This may mean squatting or sitting down so you are at the same level as the child or just a below them.
If you want to get a shot of a person standing in front of a nice background, step back from them so you can get the person and some of the background in the photo.
 If you are using a digital camera, you can try applying filters to the photos before you print them out. Upload the photos to your computer and then apply filters to the photos using the filter options in a photo editing program like iPhoto. You can also change images from color to black and white and vice versa in the photo editing program.If you are using a film camera to take photos, you may try using black and white film as well as color film so you can have options when you place the photos in your scrapbook.
You can also resize the photos to your liking in the photo editing program.
 Have more than one copy of the original photo on hand so you do not have to worry about only having access to the original when you scrapbook. It can be good to have backup copies, especially if you are going to be cutting or decorating the photos in your scrapbook.You may also try laying out the photos on a page in your scrapbook to make sure they are what you want. Having a few copies of the same photo in different sizes can give you options as you scrapbook.
 To ensure the photos look their best in the scrapbook, try to use very little glue or tape on the photos. Use small dots of wet glue on the back of the photo so the photos do not get warped when you attach them to the pages in the scrapbook.You can also use inserts or photo corners instead to attach the photos to the pages, as this will require no adhesive and ensure the photos lay flat on the page.
 As you lay the photos out in your scrapbook, consider doing so chronologically, starting with the older photos first. You may arrange photos on one page chronologically or organize the scrapbook as a whole chronologically. This will make the scrapbook feel like a chronicle of your time with your loved ones.


For example, if you are making a scrapbook about your daughter, you may start with photos from when she was born. Then, you may continue with photos of her birthdays and other landmark moments like her first step or her first bath. You may then end the scrapbook with current photos of her now.

