 Ask for the concert piano tuner - their top technician.






Local churches that have a vibrant music program. Just a few minutes talking with the music director/organist should give an idea of how they look after the piano.





;
, Or call your nearest college/school and see who tunes all their pianos.


People who've actually had good experiences with tuners. In particular, a personal recommendation from a skilled pianist that owns a fine piano is a great help.






Your local music shop. Give them a call or visit them to ask them if they can recommend a good piano tuner. They may have someone they regularly recommend or have business cards of various tuners.






The piano teacher of your friends or those you know learning the piano






If you purchased your piano second-hand, ask the person you bought from who had been tuning the piano.






Piano tuner associations. Call and ask if your tuner is a member or alternatively, get names of members there. To become a part of an association/guild, a technician or tuner must pass a series of thorough examinations. If they need help passing these tests, they must take classes until the knowledge is obtained to pass. Therefore, you can be sure that a member of this association/guild has sufficient knowledge to get the job done properly.
 The sites may give you information on how long an individual tuner has been in business and his credentials. If the tuner does not have a website, call and ask these questions.
 If some of the tuner's customers are churches or schools, you can call for a reference. Remember a high price doesn't always mean high quality. Evaluate piano tuners to get the best tuner for the best price and don't forget that just because a tuner is expensive it doesn't make them a good or qualified technician.
 During this portion of the conversation try to get a feel for the way they feel about their job, their philosophy on customer service, etc.
 If you don't like what he or she does, move on in your search. Finally, tune the piano regularly to keep up the pitch.

