


There is no point to worrying, unless you are actually coming up with a game plan to tackle something.  If you are worrying for no reason, stop. 
Don't try to control things that you really aren't able to control anyway.;
,


People will always have their opinions.  Don't worry about it. 
What God knows about you is what matters. You can never please everyone, so try hard to please Jesus Christ, by helping God's children.



This includes things you did as an adult and way back to things you have done since you were a small child.  You can't change the past; so, let it go, and move on. 
You won't really have wholeness in general until you make wholeness within yourself through Christ. 
You need to generally like yourself and get along with yourself, because you will always be there.  You can't get away from yourself.  Wherever you go, there you are. So become your own friend, then you can love others as you love yourself and can be whole within yourself. 
God, the perfect and holy one, gives you grace; so give yourself grace. 
You never have been and never will be perfect.  So get over trying to be.



Hillsong is a great worship band, and they have a lot of healing worship songs.
 Acknowledge Him in all you do.


Confess what you need to and then forget about it. 
God says "I will remove your sins as far as the east is from the west" when you confess them and admit you were wrong.  He puts them out of his mind, and you should too. 
There is no sense beating yourself up over something that you can't change.  Like the famous prayer about acceptance says, "God help me accept the things I cannot change."

, 


The only thing you can change about the past is the damage you may have done to relationships.  You may need to make amends with some people, and say, "I'm sorry!" 
Sometimes it feels like unfinished business, if something is left in a state of tension.  Break the ice, admit you were wrong in a relationship, and then you and the other person can let go of any bitterness and move on. 
Sometimes God won't let us rest with ourselves and be whole or complete in Christ unless we take care of certain things. 
The Bible says reconcile with your fellow man: "Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar, and go; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering."  (Matthew 5).
Another good related verse is: "Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your transgressions. But, if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions." (Mark 11).
 


When Jesus was asked how many times we have to forgive others He said 70 times 7, as in, countless times.  Joyce Meyer, a renowned Christian teacher says, "Do yourself a favor, and forgive," because you will never truly be spiritually whole until you forgive everyone and anyone who has done you wrong. 

, Strive to love everyone you meet. Although it may be hard to love people you disagree with, or dislike, do your best.
 There are all sorts of ways to make peace, and Reading the Bible can help you. Looking in the New Testament is a good place to start.
 Praying to God can help you find peace in your own mind, and he can speak to you and help you. Pray to God, ask him to help make you stronger, and to do peaceful things, and to help other people. God is love. Know who God is, look up to him, and He will help you find peace.


One thing you can do is try to replace any negative thoughts you have about a person with "I hope they are happy" or "May they find peace."
Remember that it is God's place to judge, not man's.
, Doing charity work for others is a great way to find peace with yourself, and it doesn't have to be hard or take much of your time.

