 Type A personalities can be very hard to work with: micromanagers who are controlling, hypercritical, and do not always work well with others. That said, though, they can also bring positive qualities to the workplace. Remind yourself of these when you are feeling particularly frustrated with a Type A boss or coworker.Try to value your colleague’s perfectionism. While they can be irritating, you can rest assured that perfectionists will do a competent job and maintain or even raise your workplace’s standards.
Perfectionists are also completely involved in their work. They will be committed and emotionally invested in the task at hand.
 Type As are competitive, have a constant sense of urgency, and are usually able to manage a large amount of unrelated tasks at the same time. They will expect the same urgency and work ethic from you, too, as a matter of course. Be aware of these traits and try to satisfy them, especially if the resident Type A is your boss.The fastest way to get on a Type A personality’s nerves is to waste her time. Try to keep up and work at the same pace she does. Be to the point when talking, too. Type As appreciate clear and succinct communication.
Show up on time for work, meetings, and any other events. By being late, a Type A personality will feel that you are not worthy of her time and that you’ve robbed her of productivity.
In the same vein, have a clear schedule, goals, and deadlines when working together. Type A personalities dislike uncertainty and will appreciate the concrete timeline.
 Type A personalities tend to criticize others but bridle when others criticize them. This is because, deep down, they are insecure about their self-worth and only hear the negatives when getting feedback. The key to working well with this sort of person is to accept criticism, letting it bounce off you while learning to give gentle feedback.If it’s from your boss, don’t take the criticism to heart. Instead, remind yourself that this is just who your boss is – it is nothing personal. Don’t be tempted to respond in kind. Doing so will only make your boss angry or defensive.
You might frame any feedback in terms of asking for advice, i.e. “I’m not sure how best to help you with this project. Tell me, what sort of feedback would you find the most helpful?” This way, you won’t demotivate or demoralize your colleague.
 You may not be able to speak your mind if the Type A personality is your boss. However, you can make it clear to other coworkers that you are willing to accommodate their personality but not to bend over backwards. Be clear, kind, and collegial and don’t apologize for it. They will only interpret a concession as a sign of weakness.Avoid confrontations with a Type A boss. Say you are working on a project and your boss objects to some ideas that you’ve added. State your reasons for the additions calmly. However, don’t argue if she still insists that you remove them. Putting your foot down will only make the relationship tense, or even get you fired.
If your boss is asking too much of you, you can try to gently assert yourself. Say something like, “I really want to do this project exactly how you want it, but I also need to preserve some balance in my life.” Then, ask your boss for his thoughts and advice. If your boss responds well, consider asking how to handle similar situations in the future.
You can be less flexible with coworkers. For instance, you don’t need to accommodate a Type A peer who criticizes the way you talk, eat, or work around the office. Just say, politely, “This is just the way I am. I don’t think I can change.”
You might try a “hit-and-run” style of communication with difficult colleagues to assert yourself. State your position or what you want and then immediately excuse yourself, saying “Sorry, I have to run. I’ll talk to you later.”

