 Your frog is native to a semi-tropical climate, so it needs a semi-tropical setup. Glass aquariums work best because they are easy to clean and the frogs are clearly visible from outside.You will need to buy an aquarium with no less than a 10 gallon capacity. If you want to go larger, your frog will appreciate it.
Try to find an enclosure that is taller than it is wide, because tree frogs prefer to have vertical mobility.
Add a screened lid on top for good ventilation. If you have other animals in the house, get one you can lock in order to keep your frogs safe.
 Artificial substrate works best, because there is no risk of a frog ingesting anything while feeding. Line the bottom of the cage carefully, making sure you don't leave any open areas at the edges where your frog can become trapped and injure itself.


A good substrate is Astroturf, which you can find at hardware stores and sometimes pet stores.
You can also use reptile carpeting, found at pet stores.
 This is your frog's home, and it will want things to climb on like logs, rocks, and branches. Arrange your wooden pieces on the diagonal, from corner to corner, and slant them upward from low to high so your frog can climb up them.Artificial cage furniture is easy to clean, and you can find a wide variety of specialized items online or at your local pet store.
 Your best choices are driftwood, cork bark, sticks and branches. If you collect items from outside, you must disinfect them before putting them in your frog's habitat.Soak outdoor items in a mild bleach and water solution overnight (one part bleach to three parts water).
Remove the items from the bleach, and soak them in clean water for an additional night.
Allow them to air dry thoroughly before adding them to the aquarium. This should kill any bacteria or bugs that may harm your frog.
Smell each item before placing it in the enclosure, to be sure the items are not releasing any fumes.
 You can use live plants or artificial ones. Live plants can be difficult to keep alive indoors, so it's usually best to go with plastic foliage. Artificial plants are also easier to clean, and you can find a wide variety of them online or at your local pet store.Another option is to use air plants, living plants that do not require soil or water – they thrive with just an occasional misting. Just be sure to protect them from harsh, direct sunlight or heat lamps, so they won't dry out.Sufficient foliage provides “cover” for your frog, helping it to feel safe and secure.
 Your frog will need a water bowl that is big enough to climb around in, because it will want to soak and defecate in its water bowl. Choose a bowl that is heavy enough that your frog won't knock it over. Most pet stores carry bowls specifically designed for small amphibians, that are shaped like little ponds to look natural in your aquarium.Be sure to clean your frog's water bowl daily – or whenever you notice it is dirty – to prevent bacterial infections.
 If you have a glass terrarium, you can use an under-tank heater placed under one end of the aquarium (never in the center.) Alternatively, you can put a nocturnal heat lamp (no stronger than 15 watts) over the tank, above the highest point in your frog's habitat.Never use an under-tank heater with a wooden enclosure, as this may cause a fire.
Try placing a rock over the heated area of the terrarium floor, which will absorb heat. Your frog may enjoy sitting on the heated rock.
If you use an overhead heat source, be sure there is a screen lid to the tank between your frog and the heating bulb.
 Green tree frogs are nocturnal, so they won't need any special lighting. However, you will need to adjust for temperature and humidity in order to keep your frog healthy and comfortable.The daytime temperature of the habitat at the warmest spot (by the heater) should be about 78 degrees Fahrenheit in the winter and about 80 degrees in the summer.
The rest the tank (the areas not immediately surrounding the heater) should be about 76 Fahrenheit degrees in winter, 78 degrees in summer.
At night, you should keep the habitat around 70 degrees in winter, 75 degrees in summer.
Keep the humidity in the tank around 30% in the winter, and 35% in the summer.
Hang temperature strips and humidity gauges in the terrarium to maintain proper levels.
 The males "chirp" very loudly at night, and it will wake you up. If noises tend to keep you awake, you may want to keep your frog in a room where you will not be trying to sleep.Females are quieter than males, but it is best to prepare for your frog to make noise sometimes.
Frogs may also chirp at vacuum cleaners, running water, lawnmowers, and certain TV commercials.
Males may make loud calls during a falling barometer, so your frog might warn you when it's about to rain.

