 Fleas can be a big problem for pets in the summer, especially for cats and dogs. Fleas can cause intense itching, which can lead to skin inflammation and infection, as well as anemia (low red blood cell count). Keeping your pet’s environment clean is a great way to protect your pet from fleas. Vacuum your home every few days, paying special attention to upholstered furniture, crevices, and baseboards where fleas could be lurking.Vacuum where your pet spends a lot of time.Throw away the vacuum bag each time you vacuum so fleas don’t accumulate in the bag.Fleas are not a big problem in horses. However, a horse could pick up fleas from a barn cat if that cat is infested with fleas., Flea larvae (early developmental stage) like to mature in dark, soft places like your pet’s bedding.To keep the flea population down in your home, wash your pet’s bedding in hot water once a week.You may want to go to a local laundromat to clean the bedding.


Wash your pet’s collar and toys as well. These items could also harbor fleas., Even if you vacuum frequently and wash your pet’s items regularly, fleas could still be a problem in your home. Fleas can ‘hitchhike’ on your dog or cat when they come back indoors, which could lead to a constant population of fleas.If you are concerned about a growing flea population, consider using an insecticide spray in your home.


Some sprays last as long as six months. Talk with your vet if you are thinking about spraying your home with an insecticide., If you have a yard, it is not necessary to spray your entire yard with a flea spray. Instead, spray only the areas where fleas are most likely to populate, such as crawl spaces and gardens.If you do not want to spray your yard yourself, hire a pest management company that can do it for you.
 Other than keeping a clean house, flea preventatives are one of the best ways to protect dogs and cats from fleas. Many flea preventatives are available that target different parts of the flea’s life cycle (eggs, larvae, adult).Because flea preventatives are usually combined with a tick preventative, the product your vet recommends to prevent ticks will also prevent fleas.


Use the product all year to ensure your dog or cat is fully protected from fleas.
Flea collars are also available, but, because they go around the neck, won’t be very effective at controlling fleas around your pet’s back end.Also, flea collars can irritate a pet’s skin.
 Combing through your dog or cat’s fur with a flea comb removes fleas. Consider putting petroleum jelly on the comb so the fleas stick to the jelly as you comb through the fur.As the flea comb fills up with fleas, dip the comb into rubbing alcohol to kill the fleas.You can use either a metal or plastic flea comb.
There is no recommended frequency for using a flea comb. Talk with your vet about how often you should use a flea comb on your pet.
 Because cats groom themselves frequently, bathing your cat probably isn’t necessary. If you have a dog, bathing it with a flea shampoo can kill adult fleas and prevent a flea infestation.Using a flea shampoo isn’t necessary, though—using a dog shampoo and combing through your dog’s fur with a flea comb during the bath is also effective at removing fleas.Because fleas like to move upward on a pet’s body, start at your dog’s head and work your way down to the back and chest. Make sure your fingers get all the way down to your dog’s skin—don’t just clean the fur.Do not bathe your dog more than once a week. Bathing more frequently could strip your dog's skin of natural oils that keep the skin moisturized.
 Fleas can become a big problem in pets whose immune systems are weak.The healthier you keep your dog or cat, the less likely they will suffer from a flea infestation. Keeping your dog or cat healthy involves feeding them good diets, keeping them physically active (e.g., walks, playtime) and taking them to the vet for regular checkups.


Your dog or cat’s health needs will change as they grow older. Taking them to your vet will help you learn how to keep them healthy throughout their lives.

