 To curl your hair with socks, you will need 3-4 clean tube socks, a brush, and a spray bottle filled with water.
 Brush out any tangles in your hair, and section it out into 3-4 parts - equal to the number of tube socks you have. If you have three socks, put one large section of hair on the top of your head and two equal-sized sections on either side of your head. If you have 4 socks, put two sections on the top of your head and two on the lower sides.To keep the sections apart, you can use hair clips or ponytails.
 Wrap your hair around the center of a tube sock, similar to the style you would wrap your hair around a hot roller. Leave the ends of your hair out of the roll until you’ve reached your scalp, and then tuck them underneath the roll you’ve created. Use the two loose ends of the tube sock to tie a knot, thus securing the sock roll.
 Use the aforementioned process to roll the remaining sections of hair into individual tube socks. Tie them off as near to your scalp as you can, as this will prevent them from coming unrolled while you sleep.
 Use your spray bottle filled with water to lightly mist your hair. This will help your hair to form the curls better, as it will dry in the spiral-shape around the sock rather than remaining limp. Don’t get your hair soaking wet, just damp to the touch.
 This style is primarily intended to be done overnight. You can set up the sock rolls before you go to bed, and then sleep on them at night for big bouncy curls in the morning. If you don’t want to sleep on the socks, you will have to wait for your hair in this style for at least 5-6 hours to get the optimum curls.
 Working from the bottom up, untie each of the socks and unroll your hair. Don’t brush through them with your fingers or anything yet, work on simply detangling them from the socks.
 Your hair should be in large, bouncy curls as a result of the socks. Mist them lightly with hairspray to help set them, and then brush through them with your fingers to break them apart a bit and to add some volume. When you’re finished playing with the style, you’re finished!







