 When your friend is going through a breakup or bad streak in school, she need you to be available for support. You don’t need to take off work or avoid your commitments. Work around your schedule to be there for your bud.


Prioritize your obligations. Cancel a date and be upfront with her about why you need to cancel.
Lend your ears. Offer your ears to the fullest extent. Nobody can heal if their friend can’t pay attention.;
, You can show you appreciate your friend in many ways. The influence of social media is particularly strong today. Make a loving post on Twitter or Facebook and detail how much you appreciate this person.You can show her appreciation through gifts as well. Try bringing one these to show your support:


Her favorite ice-cream.
A mix tape with her in mind.
Tickets to a band she likes.
A well crafted letter.
 Don’t try to offer everything to your pal at once. A lot of the time people will need personal time to overcome a hardship. Offer yourself for that person, but be prepared for her to need space. Be patient and don’t push your way into helping her out.Some people have friendships that can be pushy, but it just depends on your relationship. Feel out the situation.
Call or text her before showing up with a pint of ice-cream.
 Sometimes it is only appropriate for you to console a friend, but other times she’ll appreciate a wider support network. Feel out the situation and bring in extra support if your friend is comfortable with it., When someone comes to you feeling sad, depressed and emotionally drained one way you could help is by acting on their emotions. Act as a vessel for emotions to pass in and out of. Connect with familiar emotions you’ve experienced and tell how you dealt with it.Offer your shoulder to cry on. Tears are healthy and sometimes necessary for emotional recovery. Suppressing tears will only extend the recovering process. Tell her it’s okay to cry and say “I’m here for you no matter what.”

, When someone is feeling down, bring her up with a laugh! When she lets you talk, tell her your opinion on the whole ordeal and crack a few jokes. Not a jokes like "Knock, Knock" or "Two guys walk into a bar." Use the humor your friendship was bred on. There is a delicate line of helping and mocking when throwing in your humor. Bring up old, funny moments in both of your lives.


Bring up an inside joke.
Tell a bizarre story that happened to you recently.
Don’t push the jokes if she isn't feeling it.
 Sometimes you just cannot do it alone and that is okay. Only contact and arrange a meeting with a therapist if your friend hasn't changed moods for an extended period of time. If in one full week nothing has changed, arrange a therapist counseling session.


Prolonged depression is serious and needs to handled by professional help. Medication and psychological counseling are very effective for combating depression.