 It can be frustrating or even frightening when your airway is slightly obstructed by swelling, and children may become very upset. It’s important that you try to keep them calm, as getting too agitated can make breathing problems worse.Speak in a soothing voice and make sure your child does not see you get visibly upset about their breathing.
If your child’s breathing becomes too labored, seek immediate medical attention.;
, Like most illnesses, getting plenty of rest is an important part of recovering from croup. Because croup is caused by a viral infection, antibiotics cannot help with recovery.Croup and your child’s body fighting the illness will likely make them very tired. However, seek immediate medical attention if you child is difficult to arouse.
Make sure your child stays in bed as much as possible. Let them sleep as long as they need.
 Hydration is extremely important not only to your child’s ability to fight croup, but to your child’s health in general. Although congestion and swelling in the throat may make it difficult or painful to swallow fluids, encourage your child to drink often. Breast milk is find for infants, but older children may prefer things like popsicles as they can ease some inflammation. If your child becomes dehydrated, he or she may have to go to the hospital to receive IV fluids.
Dehydration can make the symptoms of croup like the cough and sore throat worse.
 Use hot water to steam up the bathroom. Warm, moist air can relax the vocal chords and provide your child with some relief from the symptoms of croup. The barking cough caused by croup is created by swelling of the vocal chords, so soothing them may help your child breath.Using a humidifier in your child’s room can also provide some relief while they are sleeping.
If your child’s breathing becomes strained or difficult, seek medical attention immediately.
Cold air can also also help your child breathe. You can open a window if it's cold out, or open the freezer door, and let the child breathe in the cold air for a few minutes.
 Many cold medicines are not suitable for young children, but you can treat fever with medications like acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is common in Tylenol as well as other medications.Make sure to buy medicine meant for your child’s age. Infant acetaminophen dosages are often different than those designed for older children which can lead to overdose risks.
There are two different strengths of acetaminophen sold over the counter, so it’s important to look for the right strength for your child based on age and weight requirements you can find on the package.
Alternatively, ibuprofen can be given to children over 6 months old.
 Croup can be caused by a number of different viruses, which can make it difficult to establish a timeline for recovery, but your child’s fever should usually break after about three days. Once the fever breaks, your child will no longer be contagious.If your child continues to have a fever after three days, you should see a doctor.
Croup can be extremely contagious, so prevent your child from interacting with other children until their fever breaks.
 Croup is a viral infection that can be transmitted in the same ways as the common cold or the flu. Washing your hands regularly can help prevent you and your child from transferring croup virus from your hands to your mouth or eyes.Wash your hands after coming into any contact with the bodily fluids of others, or after touching something a sick person has come into contact with.
Make sure you know how to wash your hands properly and teach your children the same.

