 Curtains and blinds are a great way to prevent lurking criminals from looking inside your house to see what you have. Keep all of your windows covered when you are not home, especially the ones facing the street.Since it is very easy to see inside windows when the lights are on and it is dark outside, make sure to keep them covered when you are home at night.
 Try to avoid placing valuable items like TVs, stereos, jewelry, game systems, and other valuables in front of windows, or in the window’s direct line of sight. Instead, place them against the wall or off to the side. If a criminal cannot determine what kind of valuable items you have, then they are less likely to break in.Additionally, make sure to cut up the delivery boxes of expensive items. Place the pieces in a trash bag and throw it away. This will prevent a lurking thief from seeing what kind of valuable items you own.
 Even if it is a basic alarm system, you should install one. Plus, many insurance companies cover home alarm systems. Contact yours to see which alarm systems are covered. ADT, Frontpoint, and Link Interactive offer great deals on home alarm systems.You can also find home alarm systems at your local hardware store.
Alarm systems give homeowners piece of mind when they are away from home, as well as while they sleeping at night.
 Install deadbolt locks on your doors and keep them locked at all times. If you have a wooden doorframe, then use strike plates and heavy-duty screws to prevent your door form being kicked in. Because they are very easy to open, avoid pushbutton locks on your doors.Alternatively, you can install an ANSI grade 1 lock if you do not want to install deadbolt locks.
To secure sliding glass doors, install a latch or a track blocker to prevent burglars from opening them easily. If you have an older sliding glass door, then install an anti-lift device as well.
 Make sure your windows have latches and keep them locked at all times, especially bottom story windows. Like doors, you can also install blocking devices onto your windows for added security.If you can, try to purchase windows that are made out of laminated or tempered glass. These types of glass are much stronger than the glass used to make traditional windows.
 Criminals are well aware of hiding spots for spare keys, like under the front door’s mat, or inside flowerpots and mailboxes. Instead, have a trusted neighbor, friend, or family member hold your spare key for you.