 Before you start any treatment plan for cataracts, consult with your doctor or ophthalmologist, which is an eye doctor. She can confirm that you have cataracts and help you figure out what the best types of treatment are for the current stage of the condition.


Your regular doctor may send you to see an ophthalmologist to get a specialist’s opinion on the best course of treatment for you.
Be aware that you may need surgery for cataracts at some point because they can significantly impair your vision.Some cataracts will develop to a certain stage and then stop progressing.In these cases, you may not need surgery.;
, Make sure to get regular eye checkups that measure your eyesight. Wearing the right prescription glasses or contacts can help counter the effects of cataracts in their early stages.You can get proper prescription glasses or contacts either from your ophthalmologist or an optometrist.Make sure to wear your prescription lenses according to your doctor’s instructions so that you can most effectively counter the cataracts.
iI is possible that as the cataract worsens, that your prescription may change rapidly. In fact, your unaided (no glasses) vision may initially improve as the cataract worsens, before it gets worse again. This is all due to the shifting refractive index/error of the lens as the cataract progresses.
 If you read a lot or are having a difficult time reading, use a magnifying glass to aid you. This can help relieve strain on your eyes and also neutralize the effects of your cataracts.There are many different types of magnifying glasses from which you can choose. Some models have lights to further assist your reading and others are specifically designed to the contour of your hand.
Ask your doctor which type of magnifying glass is best suited for your needs.
You can purchase magnifying glasses at many pharmacies and large retailers and some medical supply stores.
 In your home, replace current light bulbs for brighter options or add more lighting and lamps to your home. This can help you offset any difficulties in vision you may be experiencing from your cataracts.Purchase the strongest lighting available to you or the strongest wattage light bulbs your lamps will accommodate.Consider buying only clear light bulbs, which emit a stronger and brighter light than opalescent options.
 If you go outside during the day, decrease the amount of glare from the sun to which you’re exposed. Wearing a broad-brimmed hat or sunglasses are the best ways to do this.


You may want to inquire with your ophthalmologist or optometrist about prescription sunglasses to further boost the anti-glare and sight effects of sunglasses.
Any type of broad-brimmed hat can help reduce glare.
Wearing a hat and sunglasses has the added effect of UV-protection for your eyes. Ultraviolet light may contribute to the development of cataracts, so this can help minimize your risk of exacerbating current cataracts., People with capsular cataracts may benefit from drops that dilate their pupil(s). Speak with your doctor to see if this can help with your cataracts.Be aware that one side effect of these types of eye drops is that they can produce glare, which can make seeing with cataracts worse. Dilating drops can also affect your ability to read or focus up close.
 Glare from headlights can make seeing with cataracts difficult and cause double vision.Limit driving during the evening as much as you can to minimize your risk of getting into an accident.Ask friends or family members to drive you if you need or want to go out at night. You may also want to consider taking public transportation.
If you don’t have other options, make sure that your headlights are clean so that they can emit the most amount of light to help you see.Make sure that your windshield is clean both inside and outside so that your vision is optimal.You may also want to limit driving in the rain, which can increase glare., Your cataracts will likely get to a point where your vision is affected significantly enough to require surgery. Speak to your doctor and schedule an appointment to have your cataracts removed surgically.Consider surgery once cataracts begin to interfere with your everyday activities.Cataract surgery removes your clouded lens and replaces it with a new, clear lens.In some cases, your doctor cannot replace the lens because of other eye problems or medical issues. Your doctor can still remove the cataract and prescribe corrective lenses to help you see without a new lens implant.Cataract surgery is safe in most cases.It can cause infection or bleeding.Cataract surgery is usually done on an outpatient basis and won’t require a hospital stay.It is the most frequently performed surgery in the U.S. each year.
If you have cataracts in both eyes, your doctor will schedule two separate surgeries to help ensure that you have vision in at least one eye., Doctors have not been able to prove through studies how to prevent or slow the progression of cataracts. However, they think that several strategies can help reduce the likelihood of developing cataracts or even slow their progression., Make sure to schedule at least annual visits with your ophthalmologist. She can detect cataracts in the early stages and help formulate a treatment plan for them.You doctor can tell you how often you should schedule appointments to help treat cataracts., Recent studies have shown that smoking can increase your risk for cataracts.Either quitting or reducing how much you smoke may help you avoid cataracts or slow their progression.If you are not able to quit smoking and want to, speak with your doctor about different treatment options such as medication or counseling to help you stop., There is some evidence that alcohol consumption may increase your risk of developing cataracts.Limit the amount of alcohol you consume to help minimize your risk for getting cataracts or having them progress.The guidelines for sensible drinking recommend no more that two to three units of alcohol a day for women and three to four units per day for a man.Units are based on the total percentage of alcohol in a beverage and the amount of alcohol consumed.For example, a bottle of wine has nine to 10 units.If you are trying to limit your alcohol intake and having difficulty, either avoid situations in which alcohol is present or you may want to speak to your doctor.
 Ultraviolet light from the sun can promote the development and progression of cataracts.Wearing some form of protection from the sun can help to minimize your risk of getting cataracts.Wear sunglasses that specifically block out UVB rays.Consider getting a pair of prescription sunglasses to most effectively protect your eyes.
If you do not like wearing sunglasses, put on a hat with a large brim, which can help protect your eyes from UV rays.
 There are certain conditions such as diabetes that can increase your risk of developing cataracts.By maintaining your health and managing any health problems, you may be able to prevent cataracts.Eye conditions or trauma and past eye surgery may increase your risk of developing cataracts.Diabetes can make it more likely that you get cataracts.Long term use of steroids, antipsychotic medications, and statin drugs may increase your risk for cataracts., Scientists have shown some evidence that obesity is linked with a higher risk for cataracts.Keeping your weight at a healthy level can minimize your risk for cataracts.Staying active and keeping a healthy diet can help you maintain your weight.Stick to a diet of about 1,800-2,200 nutrient-rich calories a day, depending on how active you are.Aim to get some form of exercise or activity most days of the week.You can go for a walk or try other activities such as swimming or running.
 Eating healthy meals can help you maintain your weight. However, making sure that you choose foods high in vitamins and nutrients can also protect the health of your eyes, including minimizing the risk of cataracts.You will get proper nutrition if you incorporate foods from the five food groups every day. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.Adding a wide variety of colorful fruits and vegetables can promote the health of your eyes.You need 1-1.5 cups of fruit per day. You can get this from eating whole fruits such as raspberries, blueberries, or strawberries, or from drinking 100% fruit juice.Make sure to vary the fruits you choose so that you get a range of nutrients and don’t process them in any way. For example, eating a cup of pure berries is much cleaner than eating berries on top of a cake.
You need 2.5-3 cups of vegetables per day. You can get this from eating whole vegetables such as broccoli, carrots, or peppers, or from drinking 100% vegetable juice.Make sure to vary the vegetables you choose so that you get a range of nutrients.
Fruits and vegetables are an excellent source of fiber. Fiber will also help you to maintain your weight.