 A good enchantress always has a kind heart. You must have sympathy and kindness. The form of magic will be tainted if your heart is not kind.



Try to meditate, as it can help your soul as well as your mind. Dark thoughts can roam your mind, but you must never believe any that threatens. The world has many dark things uncovered, so, as an enchantress, you must be aware of the spiritual forms of danger. A kind heart is the best weapon to ward off evil spirits.;
, Belief is also a must. If you do this right, you will feel a power inside you. If you are not religious, a good choice would be to have your own belief. A new belief all to yourself can encourage the widening of the mind, as you will have to learn to build your belief. If you are not willing to trust your religion, you cannot be an enchantress.
 Charms can build confidence and also add spiritual power. A good enchantress has multiple charms that she uses. You must not rely on them, though, as they are not what makes magic, it is you.


Charms should be not too colorful, but a splash of color is fine. Try to use one with a rare gem, or at least one that looks splendid. Try to limit the gold, since it does not ward off spirits. Silver wards off spirits better, so you might want to try using a charm that contains silver.
 Using tools is a very important part of this practice. Tools that perform magic include: salt crystals, salt, a wand, herbs, potions, spells, and a Book of Shadows. Crystals and salt cleanse other tools, and the wand is what makes the magic. Herbs create the potions, and also add to spells. Potions and spells have many uses, mostly to heal and improve. A Book of Shadows is just a spiritual book to record your magic accomplishments and spells.
 Doing this is a must, since all tools (except crystals and salt) may not be pure, and they require some cleansing as well. Only use one out of crystals or salt, since two may cleanse out the good spirits.


Crystals could be bought in crafting stores or homemade. Salt is not the cooking salt in kitchens. The type of salt you shall use is the pure sea salt that has not gone through much processing.
 A wand is where the true magic begins, but do not buy a useless plastic wand. The true wand is a wooden stick that is hard to break and special.


You should feel a connection with it and it should be 9 to 13 inches. A wand does not turn things into something else. It wards off spirits from you or other people. The wand can also make spells and potions work, by giving them a burst of power that cannot be made in any other way.
 From alder bark to zap berries, all of the herbs has a usage. The herbs can give the potion a smell, color, or even a taste!


Herbs can also cleanse tools, but they need to be buried in salt or salt crystals for at least a day before cleansing. Herbs should be bought if you plan to consume it, but for other purposes, you can pick herbs. You will have to dry it if you plan to preserve it, though.
 They make events happen and are used for healing. Potions should be always made with care, and spells should be revised and edited. Both should represent a purpose; if they don't, the purpose may not be correct. Put potions in small bottles with labels, and spells should be written in your Book of Shadows.
 It should contain your spells, recipes for potions, herbs, and thoughts. Another way to think of it is as a journal made especially for magic practice. You can include symbols, facts, pictures, and even leaves or other items. The book should be an old-looking book with slightly yellow pages with no lines. Also, use different colors and different types of pens. Be creative!

, Have a piece of furniture, cover it with a tablecloth, and arrange your tools on it.


Add your charms and a few candles. Put souvenirs and mementos on it as well as statues. It can be simple or super fancy! You do not have to follow these guidelines exactly, but you should have something similar.
 The way you want to learn magic can be anyway. Don't be shy! Do research and branch out. That way, your magic can be the best! Never do what others do if you do not like the method. Never where enchantress-like clothing if you do not like it.

