 There are certain triggers, topics, or activities that may be triggering to you. You should let your friends know what your boundaries are so they can respect your limits and you can have a healthy, good friendship. Approach the topic calmly. If your friends have accidentally talked about a triggering topic, they probably don’t know it bothers you.You should ask your friend not to pay you compliments about your weight. You may need to tell your friends not to mention their weight problems or talk about diets around you.
You may need to let your friend know that you cannot be their emotional support right now if they are depressed or also suffering from an eating disorder.
If you have a friend who also has an eating disorder, you should set boundaries on what kind of talk you two are comfortable with. For example, you shouldn’t exchange your weight, calories eaten, or minutes of exercise. You shouldn’t discuss your eating disorders because it may trigger either of you or lead to romanticizing the eating disorder or reminiscing about the “good” times.
 Your recovery is the most important thing. You want to make sure you put yourself first. Sometimes your friends will help you push out of your comfort zone and do things that make you feel uncomfortable, which can be a good thing. Other times, you may not feel emotionally, mentally, or physically well enough to hang out. This is okay, too. Let your friends know what you can and can’t do, while also taking chances.If you are too tired to go out, let your friends know. Don’t let them guilt trip you into feeling bad for not feeling physically well enough to go out. The recovery process is a difficult one, and your well-being is most important.
You may also need to set boundaries of what you can do. You may say, “I’d love to go out tonight, but I have to leave by 11 so I can stay on a regular sleep schedule.”

, Your eating disorder recovery may mean that you have to stay away from certain types of food. You may avoid alcohol. You should let your friends know your food and drink boundaries, and make sure that they respect that. If your friends make fun of you for not eating something or try to pressure you into eating something, address it calmly. Say, “I choose not to eat this because of my health and recovery. Can you support my choices? We can still have fun, and it doesn’t bother me if you eat it.”

, One thing friends may do when they learn you have an eating disorder is treat you differently when food is involved. They may not ask you to dinner, stop eating when you’re around, or stress and stare when you eat. Let your friends know that it is okay for you to go out to eat with them or for them to eat in front of you.You may want to tell your friends that it makes you feel more stressed out and guilty if they obsess about your relationship with food. Tell them, “I appreciate your understanding about my eating disorder. However, we can do normal things. I will let you know if we do something that is triggering for me.”

