 Wearing childish brands like Hollister or Aeropostale with labels bared across your body can be seen as immature when it comes to adults who never grew up with this type "labeling". Even if you're a freshman, try to avoid this blaring mistake.;
, But don't be excessive in this. Adding a wool Burberry scarf to any winter outfit can make an 80$ pea coat magically seem 500$ more.
 These will always give off a more mature "nighttime" look that makes you seem older and more intelligent. Note: wearing all black is not chic. Dark wash denim, chocolate brown, navy, emerald green, and gray is always inter-changeable in an outfit.
 Wearing minimal or sparing amounts of makeup will make you look effortlessly beautiful. So make sure you take care of your natural beauty; invest in a good face wash kit, deep conditioner, and whitening strips. The more flawless you look without makeup on the less makeup and hair products you'll need to look your best!

, Social etiquette is key, and in any setting. Whether you're at school, out to dinner with family or friends, or even just at the movies; being loud, rowdy, or rude is completely unacceptable.
 Nothing says "devoted student" like an A+ on your report card and a great recommendation from your teacher., counts for your grades and teachers perception of you. Just because you do your homework and get great grades on tests doesn't mean you're guaranteed an A on your next report card, a part of our grade for every class is from the social aspect. Not attention, being disobedient or rowdy, and ignoring your teacher will lower your grade.
 From employers, to friends’ parents, to even older siblings; having the respect from any mature figure you meet is always important.
 Pointing out every spelling error the teacher wrights out on the board or stating a personal opinion for every word they say is always annoying, but when you comment or add to a statement your teacher has made (such as a small, but very important, background fact), or start a class discussion (or even better; debate) you prove that you're not just going through the motions of the lesson but actually taking interest in what the teacher has to say/think and that you have a personal opinion about the topic.
 It's hard for somebody at a young age to have an impressive resume, and teachers and parents will usually scoff at the idea of having a job at somewhere like Tim Horton’s or McDonald's.


However, when you can also add in that you volunteer twice a week as an English tutor or you can speak 4 different languages by choice, your teachers will quickly understand that you are an interesting individual and not just a dumb teen who likes to party.
 Why be a nine when you can be a ten?

