 Your host will want to serve the dinner hot and arriving late might delay the meal. As a general rule, you should try to arrive within 15 minutes of the requested start time. Do not show up too early. Your host may still be getting ready and it is a nuisance if someone shows up ahead of schedule.If you arrive early walk around the block a few times or read in your car until the scheduled arrival time.
If you are going to be tardy, text or call the host in advance and tell them your estimated arrival time. If you are going to be over an hour late, tell the host to begin the evening without you and apologize.
 If you are invited over to a friend's for dinner, you should always tell them about any food allergies or taste preferences in advance. Your friend would much rather plan their meal around your allergy, than feel guilty that you are unable to eat anything on the night of.

For instance, if you don't eat pork for religious reasons, or any type of meat on moral grounds, your should communicate this to the host in advance.
You could also offer to bring something along to make it easier for your friend to accommodate your dietary needs.
 If you have been invited over to a friend’s house for dinner, never show up with an additional guest who was not invited. Instead, if you would like your new partner to accompany you to a dinner party, call the host in advance to make sure this is alright. In most cases, your friend will gladly lay out another table setting., Your clothes should make you feel comfortable and confident. Make sure you know the atmosphere and theme in advance. For example, arriving in shorts when the other guests are wearing tuxedos and evening dresses does not make a good impression and you will likely feel uncomfortable and out of place all evening.
 A great gift for the host can range from a bottle of wine, to a bouquet of flowers, to an edible treat, such as fresh jams or chocolates. A gift is a nice way to thank the host for having you over for dinner and signals your appreciation.If you are invited to a casual dinner, such as a backyard barbecue or a close friend or relative's house, you could ask if there is anything you could contribute to the meal. For example, you could make a side-dish or a dessert.
In some instances a host will inform guests not to bring any gifts; if this is the case, you should respect the wishes of the host.
 It is extremely rude to spend your evening texting other people or checking your social media accounts. Instead, you should engage in the conversation. By constantly checking your phone, you are signaling to the host and other guests that you are bored or would rather be somewhere else.There are a few exceptions to this rule. If you receive an emergency call from the babysitter, for example, you can quietly duck out of the room for a few minutes to take the call.
 Talk, but try to keep your voice peaceful and polite. Do not interrupt others. Instead, let them talk and show that you are listening by nodding along and keeping eye contact. Ask questions about the host, the food, and other guests. This is the best way to demonstrate that you are engaged and enjoying the company!Avoid sensitive topics of conversations, such as politics, religion, and sex.
Instead, stick to relatable topics like work, kids, hobbies, or vacations.
 Before leaving for the evening, you should always thank your host for the delicious meal. You can even take this one step further and reciprocate the gesture by inviting the host to dine at your house next time. This is a great way to demonstrate your appreciation.If you forget to say thank-you at the end of the night, you can always send the host an email the following day.

