 Start with five words that describe your idea or concept. For example, if you want an woodland-themed party, your words might be: green, brown, deer, toadstool, fairy light/string light., Create a board on an online website, such as Pinterest or Pinterest, or a special folder in your internet browser's bookmarks. You can also use other programs, such as Evernote or Dropbox., Some search engines or websites, such as Pinterest or Google, have related images. If you click on an image that you really like, there might be related images linked below or next to it. If you click on them, you will be taken to similar images that match the theme or style. This can make your search easier.


Plan on saving about 10 to 20 images. This will give you enough to work with, but not so much that it becomes overwhelming., How you store them depends on your filing system. If you are using Pinterest, like or pin those images to your board. If you are using an interest browser, save the direct image links to your bookmark menu. You can also save the images directly to a program, such as Dropbox., Once you have enough images saves, go back through them, and notice if there is anything in common with them. Look for obvious things, such as a similar color, and less obvious things, such as specific angles or lighting. If you notice a repeating pattern, consider adding that keyword to your list., Go through your images once more. Be extra picky here. Remove any images that don't match your theme exactly, aren't good quality, or don't look nice with the other images. Keep the nice, high-quality images that do work together. How you delete them depends on how you saved them: image-saving website, bookmarks, file folder, etc.


Don't delete the images completely. As you organize your board, you may find that they may work after all!

, If you saved all of your images onto a digital board, such as Pinterest or Polyvore, you are all set! Alternatively, you create a website for your board using Google Sites, Blogger, Tumblr, etc. and insert your images there. You can also open up a blank canvas in an image editing program, and copy-paste your findings onto the document.


If you work in Photoshop (or similar), paste the images into different layers so that you can move them about.
If you saved your images onto your computer, play around with cropping or editing them first.
If an image doesn't look good with the other ones, delete it.
Need more images? Go back to your "discard" pile. One of those images might work after all!

