 This means to watch your breathing by feeling your belly movement, sound, inflow and outflow of air, gaps between inhaling and exhaling cycles, etc. It's all being run by the intelligence of your body, along with thousands of other bodily functions in a synchronous and accurate manner."Because the practice of breath meditation takes us out of the activity of thought, it is an effective way to awaken. In fact, breath, because it has no form as such, has traditionally been equated with spirit, the formless One Life.In the German language, the word atmen, meaning "breathing," is derived from atman, which in Sanskrit, the language of ancient India, refers to the innermost essence or universal self.";
, Can you just look, smell, touch, taste and listen, without any mental commentary? Focusing your attention on the sensation from the sense perceptions takes you out of the activity of thought and brings you into present.


Improve your posture. Such a simple thing as right posture can help you a lot to stay rooted in being. Have you noticed that you feel more relaxed and present when you put your legs on an object? It helps even more if you cross your legs. This is because when you do that you are more in contact with your sense perceptions (touch), as they take attention from the mind.
Keep and feel your feet connected to the ground. Focusing your attention to that sensation can calm you down dramatically.This is because you are replacing thought activity with the sensations from your sense perceptions (touch) and that's what anchors you in present moment.
 Can you feel the aliveness or energy field or spaciousness in your body? Your hands, chest, belly, waist, legs, face, head, lips, genitals etc? Just invite the presence and then feel.


This spaciousness or aliveness is always present within us but we can't feel it because we are lost in thoughts and emotions most of the time.
There is a saying in Zen: "Breathe from your heels". Does that make sense? They are talking about inner body.
Your body is like an ideal sink that absorbs the negativity and pain and all you are left with is immense peace of 'no mind'.
Being aware of your inner body not only anchors you into present moment but also strengthens your immune system. Your body loves your attention. It's like when the owner of the house is not there, all kinds of shady creatures like bugs, wasps, spiders, etc., get inside.
To help see how being aware of your inner body can increase the quality and creativity of your actions and words, here's a practice activity: from now on don't give 100% of your attention to the outer realm, like thoughts, objects, people etc. Just keep some attention within(inner body), and then monitor the quality of your life., It's subtle––what is being channeled? If you remain aware of your inner self for some time, you will notice how most of your consciousness or attention is consumed by thoughts. Its like a dirty window that doesn't let the sun shine through.


Being aware of your body creates a bridge between mind and body dimensions, which allows the mind-trapped consciousness to naturally flow into the body without any effort on your part. As this consciousness wants to become conscious of itself through you. So invite the presence in your life.
Can you keep some attention with in your body, breath and/or sense perceptions as you continue reading? Read How to Live in the Present (Spiritual Way) for more depth.
 Just be aware of your emotions. Don't think about them. Instead go deeper into your emotions and surrender to them.


If you can just single out the moment, you will observe that emotions are no more than energy movements, intense pressure, discomfort and physical movements in the space of body. It's the negative thoughts that come in response to them that make you unhappy and that's not you. Read How to Dissolve the Ego and Know Your True Self for more depth.
When you don't resist the flow of life (thoughts and emotions) within you, then 'low frequency' life energy naturally transforms into high frequency of consciousness and you become more aligned with universal intelligence. This is why there's great strength in non-reaction.
 Don't look at the concepts or words, but look where they point to. For example the word 'orange', for many people, points to a visual image of the fruit orange or the color orange. That is the conditioned mental interpretation of that word. However, when the human mind is given a phrase or object that it has never interpreted or labeled before, it will keep trying until it comes up with an interpretation on the basis of its conditioning and current information. As mind has a compulsive need to conceptualize or label things. So there is a possibility that your mind may come up with interpretation of the phrases 'being aware' or 'free yourself from concepts' etc. However, that interpretation would be another mind made concept.


This doesn't mean that labels or concepts are not to be used. In fact, they make the communication more easier and can be great pointers. So they are part of the journey to go beyond mind, but realize that doesn't matter how perfect the words or labels or concepts are, they are no more than stepping stones to be left as quickly as possible. According to a Zen saying, "Finger (concept or thought) pointing to the moon (Non conceptual intelligence) is not the moon".
True awareness is unconditioned, and non-conceptual. "Can you just observe without adding any interpretation to anything?" (Eckhart Tolle). Read How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth on this.
 In other words, be aware that your breathing doesn't change from 'automatic to manual' mode due to mind's interpretation of 'watching'. This means be aware or witness of your breath without any mental interference, rather than forcing yourself to breathe deeply. As this awareness will naturally restore its inherent depth.


Another example: Be aware, especially when you feel heavy emotions in your body, that 'watching your inner self' or "allowing it to be", doesn't get mentally interpreted as 'clinginess' or resistance or fighting.
For example: Have you noticed when you have a sore throat, you feel an impulse to swallow every few seconds to check if its healed or not? That's clinginess or interference and not a 'relaxed' awareness or alert seeing.
If you look closely, in any of the mentioned practices, in essence, there's no trying or effort involved but an alert watching or seeing.
 Physical workout in any form helps dissipate accumulated surplus energy from your body, which drastically reduces mind activity. Have you noticed that your thought activity is high when you didn't workout for few days?, Whenever you find yourself feeling fatigued or upset, listen to some peaceful music, watch some videos(like spiritual, funny or even entertaining), read some spiritual or even interesting text, or do something that you enjoy, replace it with affirmationsetc. You will notice that they work as a catalyst to help you become more present.


Its like we are replacing repetitive and negative thought(and emotional) content with constructive content or action. From there it becomes easier to become aware of present moment anchors like inner body, breath, sense perceptions etc. Read Practice 'Wheel of Awareness' Meditation to get more insight on this.
As an analogy: you are going along a fast flowing river(mental noise from years of conditioning) on an boat(constructive content or concept) as you cross the stream to get to the other shore(present moment).
Note: Its a journey and not a means to an end. Replacing clutter(mental noise) with more and more spiritual information in hope that it will get you enlightened fast, doesn't work. Spiritual growth is natural and essentially happens without any effort on your part. So get out of seeking mode and don't look for any other state than the one you are in now. , When you don't forgive yourself and others you are holding on to psychological burden of past and future. Thus you miss the present moment. "I have decided to stick with love. Hate is too great a burden to bear." Martin Luther King, Jr. Read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) and Surrender to the Present Moment for more insight.
 Thoughts can be slippery, quick and brief, including and especially pre-verbalized thoughts, but they have a great power to manipulate us like a puppet. So a high degree of alertness is required.


It helps to write your recurring thoughts and reactions, including the thought that "you have to write your thoughts". Writing will help you give them full attention and full attention implies full acceptance.Alternatively, you can also record or verbalize your thoughts. Consciously verbalizing your inner state not only helps you to go deeply into your thought process (including emotions) but also make the unobserved patterns and irrationality of mind more conscious.
Also verbalizing makes you more aware of your sense perceptions (listening and touch). Since being aware of the sense perceptions is one of the anchors to stay rooted in being, it smooths the transition from a mind-dominated to a more aware state. Also verbalizing is like taking action, and taking action is a practical way to become present.
Its like listening to your never stopping mind. Just as a therapist would. So unless you are consciously going deeper into your unobserved mind patterns, they will continue to run your life.
While you verbalize, be aware that there is a space or a sense of dis-identification between you and thoughts. You are not your thoughts. Read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings) for more insight.
 Using a structured method or routine, in the beginning, to practice the 'art of presence' is fine. For example: it's fine to start out using a particular Buddhist or Zen method of meditation, reading spiritual text, using a negative situation to become aware, replacing with constructive content etc. However, as you go along, there should be no method, so you don't become reliant on it.


This is one of the reasons that the above methods, for the most part, are structure-less and don't need you to dedicate special time to practice them. You can be aware of your sense perceptions, breathing and inner body, any and all the time. Again, in essence, there is no doing required from you but just an alert watching or seeing.
Even if you are the busiest person, you still have some moments to just look, listen, breathe, feel the inner body etc, in between or while doing your tasks.
Although, it's fine to use some of the methods from time to time to regain the touch with your 'being'. But again, don't use them as a crutch.
 Its not that easy to get in touch with being, especially when mind activity is high. As mind has an incredible momentum from years of collective mental, personal and cultural conditioningthat could drag you along like a wild river. So forcing or 'trying' to become present is not an effective practice. As most often this 'forcing' gets conceptualized or misinterpreted as suppression, which causes automatic resistance to thoughts and they come with even more intensity. Plus suppression can take you below mind which is like pseudo escape; a similar state as that of an animal. We need to go beyond mind to ensure our survival. So smoothing the transition from clutter to inner being is a pragmatic, fluid and unforced practice.Whenever you find yourself lost in thought or feeling negativity, that 'finding' is the start of coming out of thought stream. Like a sun ray peeping through a cloud.
From there either you can become aware of your breath or if its not that easy then you can experiment with any combination of above pragmatic practices such as verbalizing, smiling, replace thought content or just being their as a witnessing presence etc. Whichever agrees more with your personality. For more pragmatic practices, read Dissolve the Ego (According to Eckhart Tolle's Teachings). From there it becomes easier to go more deeply into your breath and being there as a witnessing presence. Subsequently, it becomes easier to become aware of inner body.
As an analogy, its like reducing and replacing the dose of drugs(in this case, its thoughts) of a patient gradually, but not abruptly. Which could cause severe consequences for the patient.And yes, whether you know that or not, most people are addicted to thought stream and emotions because they provide a sense of 'familiarity'. Its cause unknown(in this case, its present moment) is dangerous to mind.
 This refers to the identification with mind and form, the current state of consciousness of humanity. To truly stay rooted in being, you must dissolve the ego. It's highly recommended that you read How to Dissolve the Ego for more insight.
 "Surrender is simple but profound wisdom of yielding to rather than opposing the flow of life" (Eckhart Tolle). This means to yield to the flow of life within you at 'this' moment. What's the flow of life within you? The thoughts and emotions that come in response to anything (including circumstances, thoughts, emotions and reactions).

There's a great strength in surrender. Only a surrendered person has spiritual power. Read How to Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth.
 Have you noticed a heavy cloud of emotions or a dark entity that gets activated by a peculiar event or thought, and takes you over? That's pain body. Pain body is the collective residue of the pain from personal past, as well as the thousands of years of collective pain and suffering endured by humans.


Usually the pain body is dormant and gets activated by an event or thought that is peculiar to you. That peculiar event or thought could be women's menstrual cycle, painful memory or pattern from the past, particular people, a familiar situation, etc. However for a deeply unhappy person, the pain body may remain active all the time.
Most humans carry a varying degree of pain body in them. Usually it is more prevalent and heavier in women than men because of thousands of years of collective conditioning, exploitation and immense suffering afflicted on them. It's also heavier in people who have been through immense suffering or their ancestors have been through immense suffering.
Pain body has high momentum and can carry you with it like a wild river.
Since emotions are a reflection of mind in body so when the pain body gets activated, it makes your thinking deeply negative and vice versa. As pain body is one of the strongest things that ego can identify with.
An activated pain body usually triggers pain bodies of the people around you with similar energy frequencies. This means it may cause other people to harm you physically and verbally or you may harm them.
 Deeply realize that that pain is not you (dis-identify with it), but just a psychic parasitic patternthat takes you over and then becomes dormant. So allow it to be, smile at it with high alertness and go deeper into it. Be the alert guardian of your being. Yes, the normal response would be to escape from the pain but in the long run you may realize that there is no escape. So the only way is the way through.


Watching severs the link between thinking and the pain body; it loses energy as it doesn't let your pain body to enhance itself through thoughts. It also helps to prevent the pain body from rising up to mind and turn into thinking.
You can also become aware of your body and then you will see that pain body is no more than a bundle of accumulated emotions floating in the space of your body.
It is possible that during your spiritual journey, pain body may make you do or say things which you would never do when you are relatively conscious. However, be assured that it is an insubstantial phantom which cannot stand in the light of your presence. Be aware and allow it to be. Being with a conscious person helps as he/she can help you stay present.
Again, don't interpret the words 'watch' or 'aware' through concepts or mental conditioning. You wouldn't even realize you have been watching and acting through concepts. Even if you are, be aware that you are seeing it through concepts. As this awareness will eventually grow and take you beyond them.
Watching or go deeply into the 'pain body' may get misinterpreted as clinginess or resistance. Which usually re-energize the pain body and keeps it there. As a more precise pointer, put enough attention on your pain body, so you are just aware of it and it doesn't feel like resistance or pushing or clinginess. Mind believes that fighting or resisting the pain-body will dissolve it, which is, of course, a delusion. You need to be the larger than thought(awareness) to see the futility of resistance or clinginess.
A practical pointer: it helps to keep yourself busy especially when pain body gets activated. Read Surrender to the Present Moment for more depth.
 Either pain body can take you deeper into unconsciousness or become your greatest teacher to enlightenment. Its like a fuel that transforms into presence. The more fuel, the more awakened you become.


We are not talking about presence in abstract terms; you will feel transformation of pain body into aliveness. Like alchemy.
Most great people once had a dense and heavy pain body. This encapsulates one of the reasons why more women are reaching fully conscious state than men. Recognize the interconnection?

