 Place 2 cups (500 ml) of untreated wood chips in a large bowl and cover them with water. Allow the chips to soak for 30 minutes.


Mesquite and alder wood chips are recommended for use with this recipe.
Note that this step does not need to be done if you are using pre-soaked wood chips.;
, Fill the smoker with the appropriate fuel. The exact source of fuel will vary depending on the type of smoker you have.


For a charcoal smoker, fill the charcoal tray with an even layer of coals.
For a gas smoker, attach an appropriately sized propane tank.
For an electrical smoker, plug the power supply into an outlet.
 After the smoker achieves a high and steady heat, reduce the heat to about 250 degrees Fahrenheit (130 degrees Celsius).


Open the air vents when you start preheating the smoker. Allow the smoker to heat up for 20 to 30 minutes, at which point it will be about 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).
Turn the air vents so that they are almost completely closed. This should cause the temperature to drop. Watch the thermometer and wait until it drops between 250 and 275 degrees Fahrenheit (130 and 135 degrees Celsius).
 Stab each potato with a metal fork 8 to 12 times, spacing the marks evenly around the surface of the potato.


This step should be done while the smoker is preheating.
Piercing the skin of the potato allows steam to escape from the spud during the cooking process. While rare, potatoes can theoretically explode while being cooked if the skin is left intact.
 Brush or rub the melted butter evenly over each potato. Season well with salt and pepper.


Use enough butter to coat the entire surface of each potato.
The salt and pepper amounts provided here are only estimates. You can actually use as much salt and pepper as desired.
 Spread the soaked wood chips over the bottom of the smoker.


If you removed the rack when fueling the smoker, return the rack to its appropriate position now.
When using a gas smoker, it is recommended that you place the wood chips in a foil packet instead of laying them directly on the bottom of the appliance. Use a fork to poke holes in the top of the packet six to eight times, then place the packet near the heat source.
Wait until the wood chips begin to smoke before proceeding.
 Once the smoker and potatoes are all ready, carefully arrange the potatoes over the smoker rack.


Keep the potatoes in a single layer and try to keep at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space in between them. Better air flow will result in better, more even cooking.
 Close the smoker and smoke the potatoes for roughly 60 minutes.


The vents should be partially closed while you smoke the potatoes.
When ready, the potatoes should have the same tender consistency as a baked or microwaved potato. They should "give" a little when squeezed without completely falling apart.
 Remove the finished potatoes from the smoker and serve within several minutes.


Enjoy the smoked potato in the same way you would enjoy a baked potato. Slice it open and add butter, sour cream, cheese, chives, bacon, or any other desired toppings.

