 Impress contains 28 prepackaged Master Pages (slide masters). One of them—Default—is blank, and the rest have a background.
 This can be done at any time.


Layout

Twenty prepackaged layouts are shown. You can choose the one you want, use it as it is or modify it to your own requirements. At present it is not possible to create custom layouts.


Table Design

Eleven standard table styles are provided in this pane. You can further modify the appearance of a table with the selections to show or hide specific rows and columns, or to apply a banded appearance to the rows and columns.


Custom Animation

A variety of animations for selected elements of a slide are listed. Animation can be added to selected elements of a slide, and it can also be changed or removed later.


Slide Transition

Fifty-six transitions are available, including No Transition. You can select the transition speed (slow, medium, fast). You can also choose between an automatic or manual transition, and how long you want the selected slide to be shown (automatic transition only).


Workspace

The Workspace has five tabs: Normal, Outline, Notes, Handout, and Slide Sorter. These five tabs are called View Buttons. There are also many toolbars that can be used during slide creation; they are revealed by selecting them with View > Toolbars. The actual Workspace section is below the View Buttons. This is where you assemble the various parts of your selected slide.
Each view is designed to ease the completion of certain tasks. In summary:

Normal view is the main view for creating individual slides. Use this view to format and design slides and to add text, graphics, and animation effects.
Outline view shows topic titles, bulleted lists, and numbered lists for each slide in outline format. Use this view to rearrange the order of slides, edit titles and headings, rearrange the order of items in a list, and add new slides.
Notes view lets you add notes to each slide that are not seen when the presentation is shown.
Slide Sorter view shows a thumbnail of each slide in order. Use this view to rearrange the order of slides, produce a timed slide show, or add transitions between selected slides.
Handout view lets you print your slides for a handout. You can choose one, two, three, four, or six slides per page from Tasks pane > Layouts. Thumbnails can be re-arranged in this view by dragging and dropping them.




Normal view

There are two ways to place a slide in the Slide Design area of the Normal view: clicking the slide thumbnail in the Slides pane or using the Navigator.


To open the Navigator, click the Navigator button in the Standard Toolbar or press Ctrl+Shift+F5 and select a slide by scrolling down the Navigator list until you find the one you want and then double-click it.


Outline view

Outline view contains all of the slides of the presentation in their numbered sequence. Only the text in each slide is shown. Slide names are not included.
Outline view serves at least two purposes.

Making changes in the text of a slide:

Add or delete text in a slide just as in the Normal view.
Move the paragraphs of text in the selected slide up or down by using the up and down arrow buttons (Move Up or Move Down) on the Text Formatting toolbar.
Change the outline level for any of the paragraphs in a slide using the left and right arrow buttons (Promote or Demote).
Both move a paragraph and change its outline level using a combination of these four arrow buttons.
Comparing the slides with your outline (if you have prepared one in advance). If you notice from your outline that another slide is needed, you can create it directly in the Outline view or you can return to the Normal view to create it, then return to review all the slides against your outline in the Outline view.






If a slide is not in the correct sequence, you can move it to its proper place:
Click the slide icon of the slide you wish to move, as indicated below.
Drag and drop it where you want it.

Select the slide to which you will add notes.

Double-click the slide in the Slide pane, or
Double-click the slide’s name in the Navigator.


In the text box below the slide, click on the words Click to add notes and begin typing.
 To make changes in the text style, press the F11 key to open the Styles and Formatting window.
, Use this view to work with a group of slides or with only one slide.

Adjust the number of slides (up to a maximum of 15).
After you have adjusted the number of slides per row, View > Toolbars > Slide View will remove this toolbar from view.
 A thick black border is drawn around it.
Drag and drop it to the location you want.

As you move the slide, a black vertical line appears to one side of the slide.
Drag the slide until this black vertical line is located where you want the slide to be moved.

Use the Shift key: Click on the first slide, and while pressing the Shift key, select the final slide in the group. This selects all of the other slides in between the first and the last.
Use the cursor: Click on the first slide to be selected. Hold down the left mouse button. Drag the cursor to the last slide thumbnail. A dashed outline of a rectangle forms as you drag the cursor through the slide thumbnails and a thick black border is drawn around the selected slides. Make sure the rectangle includes all the slides you want to select.

Drag and drop the group to their new location. The same vertical black line appears to show you where the group of slides will go.

Selection of a group of slides works in a rectangular fashion. Slides that do not fall within a rectangular area cannot be grouped.
,
Delete or rename the selected slide.
Change the Slide Layout.
Change the Slide Transition.

For one slide, click the slide to select it. Then add the desired transition.
For more than one slide, select the group of slides and add the desired transition.


Mark a slide as hidden. Hidden slides will not be shown in the slide show.
Copy or cut and paste a slide.

