 Taking vitamin C in extremely high amounts was a popular — and false — remedy for colds for several years. Evidence shows no benefits to taking vitamin C in large doses, and that taking too much (2000 mg or more) may result in a greater chance of developing kidney stones.Researchers showed that smokers who took vitamin A supplements were more likely to develop lung cancer than smokers who didn't. For non-smokers too, taking in too much vitamin A can result in sickness and even death.
Vitamin E supplements have been connected with increased rates of cancer.
Be particularly careful with fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamins A, D, E, K. Vitamins that are water-soluble can be regulated by your body — you will just pee out the excess. Fat-soluble vitamins remain in your fat stores, and your body cannot remove excess amounts. There is a serious risk of toxicity from A, D, E, and K levels being too high. Make sure you follow the guidelines on the bottle or set by your doctor.
 Research suggests that people who use multivitamins over an extended period of time (over 25 years) may have increased risk of cancer and death.Older research on the use of multivitamins showed only minimal risk, but no clear benefits.Research showed an increase in the chances of being diagnosed with cancer for people taking supplements of vitamin D. No decrease in cancer diagnosis was found among those who took supplemental multivitamins, or other vitamin supplements., Most people will consume their daily requirements of vitamins and minerals from their food intake. Folic acid, for example, is added to so many food products that unless you are a pregnant woman, it's unlikely that you would need additional supplements. Yet folic acid is commonly included among the list of ingredient of a multivitamin. Your daily intake could easily rise to 1,000 mcg or more, potentially increasing the risk of colorectal and possibly prostate and breast cancers.People who consume poor-quality diets are more likely to rely on multivitamins for their health, though poor-quality American diets tend to contain many fortified foods.
Read the labels of your food when possible. Notice what percentage of a standard dietary requirement is found in each serving size.
 Many so-called "natural" vitamins are not natural. There is yet no legal definition for natural to which the makers of vitamins and supplements are forced to adhere. Because these vitamins sell for much more than their generic or synthetic alternatives, the manufacturers have a natural incentive to brand their vitamins falsely.Look for actual food sources in the vitamin. For example, if the label reads "acerola cherry powder," which contains vitamin C, it's more likely a natural vitamin. If it reads simply "vitamin C" it's likely synthetic.
Learning to recognize common synthetic forms of vitamins, such as chloride, hydrochloride, acetate or nitrate will help you recognize natural vitamins.
Some nutritional experts state that natural vitamins are better for human health than synthetic; however, research has not borne this out.

