 If you remain in touch with her, you will have a more difficult time getting over her. Therefore delete phone numbers, email addresses, and any other contact information you have for her. Even if you have memorized her contact information, deleting it will avoid you seeing her name when you look up other contacts in your phone and email.;
, That is not to say you shouldn't have another relationship, it just means that you should be fully over the current relationship, that you have taken time for yourself, and that you are really interested in pursing a legitimate relationship with the new person. Anything less than that should be avoided.
 You are allowed to release your pain and it's healthy to do. So cry and get mad if it helps you relieve any emotional "baggage," but do it as soon as possible. Holding on to negative emotions is unhealthy and will only prevent you from moving on in a healthy fashion. Don't prolong the agony, but don't rush it either. You need to genuinely get over a woman in order to move forward successfully.
 If you look to your own needs and nurture them, then your focus will be taken off the woman you are no longer with. So take up a hobby, join a gym, take up a martial art, make some friends and try to incorporate as much good into your life as you can. An exercise regimen is a great outlet for any remaining negative emotions. Becoming healthier inside and out is the best way to take care of yourself and turn your mind away from a relationship breakup.
 If they are important to you, then continue doing them, but don't focus on memories of her and you doing these activities together. Instead, invite a friend along, and create new memories that don't hurt. Take up new activities that will lead to growth and fulfill your need for something fresh.
 Focus on your goals and objectives in all areas of your life, including work. Make a plan for accomplishing those goals and start with the first steps toward those goals today. The idea is to refocus your priorities, put yourself forward and leave all the negativity, and your ex, behind you.
 Being with people who care for you will also boost your self esteem and help you build your self worth, which in turn will assist in your endeavors to recover from breakup.

