 Improving your social life is as much about knowing what you want as finding people who want to be with you. Take some time to think about the kinds of people you like to hang out with. What do they do? How do they act? What are their "perfect Friday night" plans? Think about old friends you've had and why you enjoy their company. Think about:


Hobbies (what would you do together?)
Demeanor (serious and academic vs. humorous goof-balls, or a mix of both)
Interests (similar tastes in books, movies, music, sports, etc.)
Conversation habits (sit, relax and talk vs. do a lot of activities)
Energy levels (raging at a bar vs. chilling at a quiet cafe);
, Keep a smile on your face, stay well groomed, and wear decent, clean clothes. It's not about being shallow, but about giving a good impression of yourself. This makes people feel comfortable coming up to you to spend time.


Make sure you are as clean as possible. Teeth properly brushed and flossed, good deodorant, good perfume, hair clean, deeply clean and moisturized skin and clean clothes.Keep up with a nice style that is still "you". You do not have to "dress up" to be more sociable, you just need to take care of yourself.
 This signals to people that you are willing to talk and want to be social. People will naturally flock to someone who exudes positive, social energy, and your body language is one of the easiest natural ways to do so. To have open body language:


Keep your arms to the side and your shoulders back, opening up your chest.
Make eye contact with whoever is talking.
Smile frequently.
Turn your shoulders to face people as they speak.
Keep you chin up, parallel to the floor.
Stand and sit tall; avoid looking hunched over., This is a great, low-key way to practice your social skills in a location that you feel comfortable. You can control the number of people, the activities, and the amount of time you are hanging out. If you are especially shy or have trouble initiating conversations in a group, practicing at home is a great way to improve your sociability.


Have a dinner party or invite a person to eat with you at lunch.
Host a sport or TV watch party, allowing you to tune into the TV if there is a lull in the conversation.
 Most relationships only get better with time and age, but they take some work to maintain. This helps you realize what is important to you in a friendship and the types of conversations you enjoy having. These skills will transfer over to your new friendships as well, and your old friends are often the ones who introduce you to new friendships.


Talk to your friends once a week or month.
Keep making plans with old friends.
 Don't worry if you don't immediately gel with someone. This isn't your fault, it just means that you and your friends were not compatible. Making friends and being sociable is not about "winning" or racking up the largest amount of friends. It's about finding the one or two people you feel comfortable with.


Focus on the quality of interactions, not the quantity. You don't want a bunch of half friends and acquaintances -- you want a few great friends to build a social group around., Lots of people are "normal," and no one wants the same friend over and over. Be weird, be quirky, be interesting-- be yourself. You'll attract similar friends, and these are the connections that you will cherish. Trying to change yourself will only lead to awkwardness and missed connections, because you will never keep up the act.


Being more sociable is about being friendly, not cool.