 Although it is very easy to let your mind wander and be distracted in class, try your best to pay attention. The teacher may be giving some helpful tips or explaining something that you may need to know. If you pay attention, you will learn the material much more easily, so your work will be easier and go faster. This will also help you stay on top of due dates and other announcements.


Sit near the front of the class and away from distractions like the windows. Sit next to someone who also wants to learn. This person won't disrupt you with silly notes or gossip (you can save that for your break).;
, This will make sure that, not only are you paying attention, but you are also understanding what is going on. Don't be afraid to ask or answer questions. After all, what's the point in you being there if you're not learning? In addition to helping you learn the material, participating will show your teacher you care and help you build a good relationship with your teacher, which can save you some stress later on.
 You may find this boring, but it is very important. It helps you to gain a better understanding of your schoolwork and it also helps to transfer the information from your short-term to long-term memory. Stay on top of your homework and do a little bit every day, so that you remember everything you learn. You will now have a better understanding of your work and you won't have to worry about being in trouble with your teacher. This will also make studying for exams much easier and less stressful.


Make sure that you record all of your homework in a journal so as you don't forget what has to be done for what day. This will also help to cut back on stress and make life a lot easier for you.
 For instance, before you start answering questions, quickly read through the chapter you are studying in the textbook. This will jog your memory and make it easier to get started. Always start with the homework that's due the next day first. This way if it gets late, you don't have to panic. However, if you have extra time, try to get a head start on work that's due later in the week so as to avoid last minute cramming sessions.
 By having neat handwriting it will make it much easier for you to read your notes and it will also make it easier for teachers to correct your work - this will make them much happier, and it's always best to please the person who marks your work. Separating your notes and homework can also be helpful as it makes it much easier to find what you're looking for. Either get two separate copies or else put your notes at the front and your homework at the back.
 Try to choose a space that has few distractions and is comfortable. Make sure you have your pencil case, books, a glass of water, and your homework journal. If you find there are a lot of distractions in your house, do your homework in your local library, at after-school study sessions, or at a friend or relative's house.
 Ask parents or siblings at home for help, or even ring a friend in your class. If you still can't understand, give it your best attempt and talk to your teacher before class the next day. Show them your attempts so they know that you really did try, then ask them to explain the part that you found difficult. Teachers will be more than happy to explain it to you, when they know that you really care. If you continue to have trouble with homework, consider getting a tutor.
 Put all the books for each subject together so as not to forget anything. Don't use your locker as a trash bin. Make sure everything in there is essential.


Do clear outs often. Go through your schoolbag and locker and get rid of things you no longer need, being careful though. You don't want to accidentally throw away something which might be helpful in the future. If there are some things that you're not sure if you should keep or not, either ask your teacher or keep it in a safe place at home.

