 Since you will be rotating the steering wheel, jack stands are recommended in order to allow free movement of the tires.
 Some cars will not have a catch tray. If confused, check your owner's manual. If there is any fluid in this tray it likely means you have a leak and should bring the car into a mechanic.Place a disposable pan right under the location of the catch tray to capture the fluid as you flush it.
If you are extra car savvy, make sure you disconnect the line that goes from the power steering rack to the reservoir. While not strictly necessary, this will remove more fluid and lead to a better flush., There will be multiple thin (1/2-1" thick) hoses running from your power steering. With your pan ready underneath, unhook this hose and drain the old fluid.


Be ready for the fluid to flow as soon as you unhook it. Gloves, eye protection, and long sleeves are recommended.
 In order to fully flush the system, you'll need to remove the air bubbles and push out the rest of the fluid in the hoses. Fill it roughly halfway before moving on., It is often easiest to have a friend turn the car on while you pour. You want to keep your eyes on the draining fluid as well as the current level of the reservoir. When the draining fluid is clearly new fluid, shut the car off.


Have your friend turn the wheel back and forth as you pour. This will help remove air from the lines.
The fluid will likely bubble as you fill it. This is good, as it represents the air being flushed from the system.
 Power steering fluid is not thick, so it should not be hard to close the line up once you're done working. Once the fluid is flushed, shut the car off and reattach everything how you found it.
 Once you've got the air out and the line closed, fill up the reservoir to the recommended level.
 Listen for a buzzing sound which indicates that there is air trapped in the system. Continue to turn the steering wheel until the fluid is properly circulated throughout the system, releasing any remaining air., More likely than not, your fluid level will seem to drop after you test the steering wheel. This is because fluid is being drawn out of the reservoir and into the lines. Top off the reservoir with more power steering fluid to finish the job., Turn the car on and turn the steering wheel back and forth. Ensure that the wheels can turn like normal. If they don't, bleed the system again and refill it.

