  It is not the prerogative of all women to tear each other down and no matter what current TV shows or literature claims, it is much more enjoyable to have reliable friends than a constant social war.  Remind her that friends are forever and boyfriends (or girlfriends) are whatever.;
, Morals are the foundation to not creating drama and understanding how to address drama.  Instill whatever moral values you think are important.  This can include not talking about someone behind their back, remaining truthful, standing up for a friend, or being the person who stands up for anyone.  Your daughter can create drama by gossiping about friends or insulting other girls behind their backs, or she can support her fellow women by standing up for them.  If you have a shy daughter, remind her that standing up for someone does not always mean verbally confronting another, but can also mean leaving a conversation or changing a subject when someone is being unpleasant.
  You, her parent(s), are there for her to talk about anything and to provide help.  Her school administrators are there to prevent bullying and make school pleasant.  Other adult figures, such as church group leaders, counselors, older siblings or other relatives, can also help her to deal with any situation.
  She is a human, not an object, and she has worth regardless of how the "popular" girls act toward her or how many boys ask her out.  These are hard lessons to learn, but it is easier for girls to get over social drama in one aspect of their life if they have a fleshed out sense of personality and identity.
  Respect your daughter as a person and understand if she doesn't want to talk about it immediately.  Sometimes, she can be embarrassed at her situation or her own conduct.  She might be confused or hurt or unsure of how to ask for help.  Give her time.
  Attempt to figure out the situation.  Bullying can frequently be dealt with by school administrators, but having a parent contact them to inform them of the situation is a necessary first step.  Other drama might be less obvious but just as damaging, such as other girls commenting on your daughter's weight or eating habits.  Have healthy conversations with your daughter about common issues that affect girls of her demographic, including eating disorders or mental illness.  If you are uncomfortable discussing topics of this nature, buy books on the topic geared toward her age and make them available to her.
  Have family nights or weekend trips.  Remind your daughter that she is loved and supported at home, regardless of whatever is going on with her friends and school.  Be there for her but don't push her.  This is a hard balance to achieve, and it's okay to make mistakes.  But make sure she knows she is loved.
  If something like girl scouts or a sports team becomes more pain than fun, allow your daughter to pursue a different interest.
  This might include helping her understand what she could say to stand up for herself or others in the future or how to reach out to a trusted adult.  Remind her that it's okay to cut people out of your life if they don't treat you well.  She doesn't have to be friends with everyone.

