 Trace it, leaving a one centimetre gap between the pen line and the edge of the phone. Copy the same shape to the left of the first one, connecting the middle.
 Fold it over and cut down the line you drew earlier which connects the two. Place one smaller shape on top of the other, and sew or glue it. Leave the top open. Turn the pouch inside out and check the phone fits - it should be perfect!, Wrap around your hand one hundred times. Cut the end of the yarn, slide it off, then cut a short length of yarn and tie it down the middle of the loop, facing the opposite direction to the rest of the yarn. Set aside, and repeat., Slide it off, tie it, and set it aside. Now wrap fifty times around three fingers then slide, tie, and set aside. Repeat., Cut all of the strands which loop over, to make the pom-pom loose and fluffy. Run a hairbrush over it to make a furry effect. Repeat this on all of the other pom-pom loops., Glue another 100 wrap pom-pom just above it. Leave a little space to put the 80 wrap one right at the top without it overlapping too much (it should overlap a little). Glue the smallest pom-poms on either side of the 80 wrap one for ears. Trim the pom-poms to shape. Is it starting to look like a koala bear?, Glue it on the 80 wrap pom-pom. Glue googly eyes above it. Add other features with felt if you wish (eg. pink for the inside of the ears, cheeks, mouth etc.)., Cut that amount of elasticated ribbon out. Wrap around your upper arm to check it is comfortable. If not, measure again, and cut some more elasticated ribbon of a different length., The longer sides should be the length of the circumference of your upper arm +3cm, and the shorter sides 7cm. Cut it out, then fold it in half. Glue or sew the longer side, then turn it inside out using the shorter sides., Repeat the last two steps again to create the straps for your koala bear phone armband., Then loop them around to the other side and glue. Your koala bear is complete. Have fun showing off your nifty bear whilst also using it practically!