 The following stretches can greatly reduce pain if done at least once per day:


Do the knee-to-chest stretch. Lay on your back with your knees up and your head on the ground. Lift your right knee and grab it with both hands. Pull the knee lightly toward your chest for 30 seconds. Release and repeat 2 times with both legs.Do the piriformis muscle stretch. If you suffer from pain in your sciatic nerve, the piriformis muscle is most likely extremely tense. Lie on your back with your knees up. Place the outside of your right calf on the top of your left thigh. Lift your left thigh and grab it with your hands. Bring the thigh toward you until you feel a stretch in your right buttock. Hold for 30 seconds and release. Repeat twice on each side.Focus on your neck. Stiff necks often accompany stiff backs. Lean your head forward so that your chin touches your chest. You should feel the muscles in the back of your neck stretch. Hold for 30 seconds. Lift your head up and then lean your head to the right, bringing your right ear close to your right shoulder. The muscles on the side of your neck should be pulled taught. Hold for 30 seconds and then lean your head to the left, in the same way. Hold for 30 seconds.
 Stand with your back against a wall. Then gradually lower yourself so that you are in a seated position. You should feel your back, abdomen, and quads start to tighten. Hold for 5-10 seconds depending on how long it takes you to feel the burn. Then slowly straighten your legs and return to a standing position. Do this 10 times or so each time you work out., Lie on your back and bend your knees, so that your feet rest comfortably on the floor. Then slowly lift your pelvis off of the floor until your thighs line up with your core. Do not go too far. You don’t want to over arch your back. Hold for 5 seconds and then lower your pelvis back to the floor. Repeat 10 times or so each time you work out., Find an open space for this exercise. Begin on your hands and knees like you are a crawling toddler. Hold your head straight so that you’re looking down at the floor. Holding your body firm, slowly extend one leg out behind you. Fully extend your leg so that it is on level with your back and then hold for 5 seconds. Now lower your leg back to the ground. Repeat 10 times with each leg., For this exercise, you’ll need a large rubber Swiss ball. Roll onto the ball. Your stomach should rest comfortably on it. Now extend your upper body and legs out. Then slowly walk your body forward so the ball is now under your thighs. Keep your body as straight as possible. Then walk your body back so the ball is under your stomach again. Do this 10 times per trip to the gym., 30 minutes per day of low-impact aerobic exercise, such as swimming, fast walking, or cycling on a recumbent bike, will reduce back pain caused by atrophy over time.The increased blood pressure will help wake up those dormant muscles. After 30 to 40 minutes of cardio exercise, your body will kick into endorphin production, which can alleviate back pain., Yoga will further reinforce the above stretches and exercises as well as reduce stress which can lead to back pain. Focus on your breathing, while you complete each pose.


The cobra, child’s pose, and mountain pose are excellent yoga positions for strengthening your core and stretching your back muscles.
There are dozens of other poses that focus on your core and back specifically. Try those that feel most comfortable to you. You don’t want to push yourself too far. Over extension can lead to additional back problems, if you aren’t careful. 