 Area rugs come in all different sizes, from welcome-mat to 15’ by 15’ (450 by 450 cm). It’s important to make sure the rug will fit into the room it graces. However, by the same token, don’t skimp on size. Many rooms that would look great with an 8’ by 10’ (243 cm by 305 cm) rug look strange with a 6’ by 9’ (90 by 135 cm) rug, for instance.If you’re struggling to visualize rugs of different sizes, try laying out newspapers in different sizes where you want the rug to go.;
, Your rug will be sharing space with your tables and chairs, so they should complement each other as well as possible. When you’re selecting your rug’s size and proportions, consider not only the room it’s going into, but the things that will be on top of it.A rug can really tie a living room together. Try arranging a sofa, coffee table, and chair on a big 8’ by 10’(243 cm by 305 cm) rug, or place a small 3’ by 5’ (91 by 141 cm) rug beneath a coffee table. Should you keep the legs of the sofa on or off the rug? Many design experts say that it’s up to you--just be consistent.In the dining room, measure your table, then add add 54” (140 cm) to both the length and width. These are the dimensions you’ll need so that guests can rise without pushing their chairs off the rug.If you’re buying an area rug for the bedroom, an 8’ by 10’ (243 cm by 305 cm) rug is the right size for a queen bed, and 9’ by 11’ (275 by 335 cm) is perfect for a king.You can also place a little area rug at the foot of a bed., Rugs come in all different sizes, and they’re made in all different ways as well. Some rugs are mean business, and others are fluffy as clouds. Pick a style that fits the room the rug is going to be in, factoring in traffic, washability, and comfort.


A flat weave is ideal for if the rug is going to be walked over a lot (like in a hallway or family room). This is easier to clean than a shag rug, and durable.Shag weaves are luxurious and heavy, but they are best suited for low-traffic areas like the bedroom. They should be avoided if anyone with muddy feet could come near them.A plush low pile suits a rug that’s going to be sat on a lot and walked on occasionally. It’s a good choice for kid’s rooms and playrooms., Rugs come in a dizzying array of fiber compositions, from wool to recycled t-shirts! The fiber you choose has a lot to do with your style--not just your visual aesthetic, but the feeling that you want to impart when you walk on the rug. Here are a few popular fibers to choose from.


Woven animal fibers, like wool, can be incredibly warm, soft, and comforting. They run on the pricey side and require frequent cleaning, which can be expensive.
If you want fluff, you might like synthetics, such as nylon. Synthetics are reasonably priced and easy to clean, as well.Plant fibers, like cotton and jute, can be really soft like their animal counterparts, and they clean up easily too. However, they sometimes wear out after a few years., If you’re buying a rug for a room that’s already been decorated, you probably already have a working color scheme in place. A pastel rug will complement a shabby chic aesthetic, while a burgundy Oriental carpet will add to a Victorian feel. You can also use the color of a rug to pick up smaller design elements in the room (for instance, an orange rug might call back to the sun in a print on the wall).Don’t be afraid to add a pop of color! If your room is decorated in neutrals, a bright rug might perk it up beautifully.Pale rugs can be intimidating, but they shouldn’t be overlooked. They can do a lot to brighten up a space. Furthermore, if they’re machine washable, they’re quite easy to care for., A patterned rug can do a lot to dress up a simple room! If you have a room decorated with a lot of solids, think about adding one or two brightly patterned rugs to jazz things up. Patterns range from traditional Oriental designs to bold, modern stripes and dots.