 You must have had vaginal sex to be pregnant. Oral sex doesn't count in this case. Also, consider whether you practiced safe sex. If you weren't on a birth control pill and didn't use another form of contraception (such as a diaphragm or condom), you have a much higher chance of getting pregnant than if you did practice safe sex.It actually takes about six to ten days after you have sex for the fertilized egg to start the implantation process, which is when you officially become pregnant. That's also when your body starts releasing hormones. A pregnancy test is generally not accurate until after the first day of your missed period.;
, A missed period is often one of the first signs that you may be pregnant. If you go past your expected start date by a week or more, that could be an indicator that you're pregnant.If you track your period, figuring out when you had your period last should be easy. If you don't, try to remember the last time you had your period. If it's been more than a month, it could mean you're pregnant.
However, this indicator isn't foolproof, especially if you have irregular periods.
 While your breasts will increase in size over the course of your pregnancy,you may also notice changes early on. Hormones fluctuate in your body when you become pregnant, which can cause tenderness and swelling in your breasts. Once you adapt to the hormonal changes, this particular pain should decrease., Pregnancy can often bring on fatigue. You're growing a new life inside you, and that's hard work. However, in early pregnancy, this tiredness is more due to the fact that you have an increase in the hormone progesterone, which causes drowsiness., "Morning sickness" is a common issue, which refers to nausea which tends to be more. It's a term that refers to the fact that many women get nauseous during pregnancy and typically in the morning. (Although it can occur at any time of the day). Often, this symptom starts about two weeks after conception and eases up after the first trimester.You may also experience aversion to strong smells or certain foods, while at the same time, you may start craving other foods.You may have other digestive problems like constipation.
Note that while this is a common symptom of pregnancy, many women do not have morning sickness or food or smell aversion during gestation. While it is a trope in television and movies, in reality many women do not have this issue.
Many women develop a heightened sense of smell, and pick up on noxious smells like spoilage, smoke, and body odors more sensitively. It does not necessarily lead to nausea if exposed to smells.
 One of the early symptoms you may notice is running to the bathroom to urinate more often. This symptom, like many of the symptoms you'll experience if pregnant, is due to a change in hormones.Later in the pregnancy, the baby can put pressure on your bladder, which causes you to run to the bathroom. However, early in pregnancy, frequent urination is more likely to be due to hormonal changes.
 Some women have a bit of spotting around when their period should begin. You may notice a bit of blood in your underwear or some brownish discharge. It may continue for a few weeks, but it will likely be lighter than your normal period., The hormonal changes of pregnancy can affect your moods, causing you to be euphoric one minute and crying the next minute. While not everyone gets mood swings early on, it can happen. If you find you're crying at the drop of a hat or snapping at your loved ones, that could be an indicator you're pregnant., Dizziness can happen at any time during pregnancy, including early pregnancy. In early pregnancy, the cause is likely the fact that your body is creating new blood vessels (causing a change in blood pressure). However, it could also be caused by low blood sugar.