 All dogs have varying energy levels and require exercise, but some breeds require more activity and exertion than others. Be sure to provide adequate exercise and rest for your dog to keep it happy and healthy. A high-energy, athletic dog may need to go on frequent walks and spend a lot of time running in a field or park. A low-energy dog may be content to go on a short walk and spend the rest of the day lounging around your home.


If you have a high-energy dog, consider taking it on daily runs or schedule the time to take it to a dog park several times a week.
Don’t overexert a senior dog or a low-energy dog. If your dog tries to stop, is panting loudly, or has an uneven gait, this is an indication that it has reached its limits., If you work long hours at the office or juggle other activities and projects outside the home, this may impact the well-being of your new dog. Dogs are social pack animals, and they usually thrive being surrounded by other dogs or people. Some dogs feel more vulnerable when left alone, and while others become bored and destructive.If you are away for long stretches each day, consider hiring a dog walker or look into pet daycare options in your area.


Some rescue dogs can have separation anxiety when left alone. This can be an effect of the stress and anxiety they may have experience while in a shelter. If you adopting a dog from a shelter, ask an employee about the experiences your dog has been through and how it fairs with being on its own.
 Your home, both inside and outside, should be a safe environment for your dog. Exam your home and look out for any potential dangers or hazardous materials that can threatened your dog’s health and safety. Be sure that medications, cleaning agents, and poisonous plants are removed and are not easily accessible to your dog.


If you have plants in your home, be sure that they are not poisonous to your pet. Common indoor plants such as dieffenbachia, azalea, Calla lily, and philodendron can be toxic to your dog. Remove any toxic plants from your home or be sure they are out of reach.Put away toxic chemicals such as detergents, insecticides, antifreeze, weed-killer, and other chemically harsh products. Ingesting these chemicals can be harmful and fatal to dogs.Tie up electrical cords to prevent your dog or puppy from chewing on them.
If you have a cat, keep its litter box away from your dog. Dogs may ingest the litter or cat feces, which can cause gastrointestinal obstructions or intestinal worms.