 Everyone’s body reacts to food differently, and some foods may be more irritating to some than others. To figure out which foods might be aggravating your eczema, try a fourteen-day elimination diet. Eliminate food allergens such as eggs, dairy, wheat, nuts, soy, and seafood over fourteen days.
Reintroduce the items one-by-one into your diet and see if any trigger eczema flare-ups.;
, People suffering from eczema often have issues with dairy. Dairy products, specifically cow’s milk and cheeses, are composed of large protein molecules that are tough on digestion. They’re also highly acidic foods, and consuming too much acid can aggravate eczema. If you can’t live without milk, some people find raw goat’s milk to be a tasty and healthy substitute for pasteurized milks. Raw goat’s milk is full of healthy enzymes and bacteria that aid the intestinal tract. , High-glycemic grains cause insulin levels to spike quickly, and the sugar rush can lead to a hormonal imbalance. Common grains that are considered high-glycemic are corn chips, cake, pie, processed cereal, white rice and white flour. People suffering from a gluten allergy are three times more likely to have symptoms of eczema. If you already know you have celiac disease, be sure to avoid gluten, as this might trigger your eczema. If you are unsure if you have a gluten allergy, try an elimination diet and see if your eczema symptoms decrease. , Stimulating drinks, such as coffee and high caffeine sodas and teas, contribute to stress levels. High stress levels are linked to recurring skin issues and should be managed through diet, exercise, and relaxation. Caffeinated beverages affect the adrenal glands and trigger a stress response, which can lead to symptoms of eczema.
 Generally, foods high in sugar, chemicals, and unhealthy fats are not advisable to include in your daily diet. These foods also cause inflammation, which contributes to eczema flare-ups. For those with a sweet tooth, try substituting fresh fruit or dark chocolate for your favorite junk foods. uklyhjdr4x, Foods rich in essential fatty acid, omega-3, are known to promote healthy skin. Not only does food high in omega-3 fatty acid help grow new skin, but it also reduces inflammation, which can help fight eczema.


Foods high in omega-3 fatty acids include salmon, other wild-caught fish, flaxseed oil, and nuts and seeds (pumpkin, sesame, sunflower). While some believe that it is best to get your nutrients from natural food sources, there are many excellent omega-3 supplements available as an alternative. Fermented cod liver oil is among one of the best supplement options for eczema. , Probiotics are known to promote healthy gut and immune function. They also decrease inflammation and cause the body to produce certain antibodies that stop the body from reacting poorly to allergens. Yogurt with live cultures, kefir, and kombucha are excellent ways to increase your intake of probiotics. , Constipation leads the body to look for other ways to expel toxins, most commonly through the skin. Diets high in fiber help alleviate and avoid constipation. Try to get your fiber through healthy, complex carbs such as vegetables, sprouted grains, nuts, and seeds. , Skin contains a ton of water, and good hydration is beneficial for general skin health. Water consumption helps to flush out toxins and keep your skin moisturized. Aim to drink eight cups a day, or 64 oz. , Like an elimination diet, an Immunoglobulin G test, or a food allergy test, helps you to figure out which foods are causing an allergic reaction. Food allergy tests are the only way to know for sure which foods are problematic. For more information on igG tests, contact your local physician. , Warm baths not only decrease some of that aggravating itching and burning, but also target bacteria and other infections. Depending on your personal preferences and skin sensitivity, try adding in either a bit of bleach, baking soda, or oatmeal into your bath to further soothe the skin. For a bleach bath, add ½ cup of household bleach (not concentrated bleach) to a bath and soak for about 10 minutes. Be sure not to rinse your head, and don’t do a bleach bath more than two or three times a week. For a baking soda or oatmeal bath, simply sprinkle your preferred substance into a warm tub and soak for about 10-15 minutes. Though uncooked oatmeal works fine, colloidal oatmeal is a finely ground oatmeal made specifically for baths. , Emollients are creams, oils, lotions and gels that help prevent water loss in the skin. Though some emollients may leave the skin feeling a bit greasy, they are crucial in keeping the skin moisturized and flexible. Creams and ointments are generally the best types of emollients. Cream feels a bit lighter on the skin, while ointments are a bit heavier. Try using ointments at night if you don’t want your skin to look shiny during the day. 