 Diaphragm breathing has been helpful for some when it comes to easing back pain.It's fairly easy to do and could be a simple way to reduce your pain.


You can engage in diaphragm breathing either sitting or lying down. Place one hand on your chest and another on your lower belly.To inhale, breathe through your nose. Channel air in such a way that it moves into your stomach. The hand on your belly should rise. Hold for about 3 seconds.Exhale through your mouth. Breathe out until the hand on your stomach is back in its original position. Repeat for 10 to 15 breaths., Visualization is a relaxation technique that may help alleviate back pain for some. You use your imagination to focus on picturing a calm, relaxing scene. Try to use as many sensations as possible. What does this scene look like, smell like, feel like? What kind of sounds are present? You can engage in relaxation during back pain flare ups throughout the day and before bed at night. It can help to close your eyes and strive to really put yourself in a specific scene or moment. Try as best you can to experience the sensation of existing in a relaxing setting., Sometimes, a simple distraction can help you disengage from back pain. Find something relaxing you enjoy and distract yourself with it when experiencing back pain. Listen to music. Watch a movie. Take a warm bath. Do a crossword puzzle. Any activity that is personally enjoyable for you can help alleviate your back pain by distracting you from the sensation., There are a variety of stretches you can do that will alleviate your back pain by relaxing your muscles. These can be particularly helpful for lower back pain.


Try the pelvic tilt. Lie on your back with your knees bent and the small of your back touching the floor. Tighten your abdominal muscles so your back is flat against the floor, hold for five seconds, and then release. Repeat 3 times. Gradually build up to 10 repetitions.Engage in a knees-to-chest exercise. Lie on your back with your legs bent straight. Bring one knee to your chest and hold for 5 seconds. Repeat 5 times and then repeat with the other leg.To do a back stretch, lie on your stomach. Push your upper body off the floor with your arms. Hold for 5 seconds and then repeat 10 times.