 While you can store very small objects inside a functioning watch, in most cases you'll want to remove the inner mechanism for more room, so start with the cheapest analog watch you can find. Analog watches, with hands and a circular clock face, are recommended since they will still look like a normal watch at a glance. A digital watch will end up with a dark, blank screen, which raises suspicion.


More expensive watches may also require specialized tools to remove the back, and no one wants to go through that kind of trouble to make their watch non-functional.;
, Place a jeweler's screwdriver or eyeglass screwdriver into the lip between the back and side of the watch. Carefully lever the back out, keeping the watch face-down and flat to avoid spilling the pieces inside.If you see any screws around the edge, you will need to unscrew them first, then lever out the back.Set aside the screws in a cup or other container, so you don't lose them.
 You could tape a secret message to the inside of the watch back, but anything more substantial will probably interfere with the watch's mechanism. Gut the watch to turn it into a container instead. For an analog watch, make sure to leave the watch face and watch hands in place., Leave the watch face and watch hands in the watch so it still looks like an ordinary watch at a glance. You may need to glue them in place using a toothpick dabbed in white glue or epoxy glue.


If the watch face is transparent, glue a circle of construction paper behind it. Glue the paper on the back side so the glue is not visible from the front.
 Your watch is now ready to use as a secret container. To make the compartment accessible without a screwdriver, fit a small piece of tape between the back and the edge before fitting the back in place. To open the compartment, pull on the piece of tape.


If the back is screwed on, an easy-access compartment may also require several pieces of tape around the back edge, holding it in place instead of the screws.

