 It's best to have your team at around Level 60 or higher, as well as a good variety of types. Having a Fairy-type Pokémon, such as Xerneas in Pokémon X, is a good idea for the battles, as well as at least one Pokémon that can Mega Evolve.


Have your team full. The less Pokémon you have, the more chance you have of losing if your Pokémon get knocked out.
Make sure your team is all roughly the same level. You may have a Grass-type Pokémon in your party, but if it's only level 12, it's not going to make much of a dent before it gets knocked out. The Experience Share usually helps with this, but make sure you train up all lower-level Pokémon on Victory Road.;
, Before getting to the Elite Four, make sure you stock up on the Potions you'll need, status healers, and revives. You can buy them before going on Victory Road, or you can get them at the Pokémon League after getting through Victory Road.


It's best to stick with getting Full Heals as opposed to just one of each type. It'll cost you less money and you can stock up more.
Hyper Potions will work in a pinch, but the best potion to use is the Max Potion, as it will fully heal your Pokémon regardless of how much HP it has.
It's best to buy more of each medication than you think you'll need. While it can be a little costly, you'll be grateful when your most trusted Pokémon keeps fainting or losing HP too quickly.
 The four members use different types. You can defeat them in any order you want.


Malva is a Fire-type user.
Wikstrom specializes in Steel-type Pokémon.
Siebold utilizes Water-type Pokémon.
Drasna's Pokémon consist of Dragon-types.
 The best way of defeating Malva is to use Water-types, but Ground-type or Rock-type Pokémon will work as well. Be wary of her Chandelure, as it's part Ghost-type and has a tendency to use Confusion.
 Fire-type Pokémon is the best way to fight his Steel-types, though you can also use Ground or Fighting-types.
 His Pokémon are all at least part Water-types, so you can defeat him using Electric-type and Grass-type. Be careful when using an Electric-type Pokémon on Gyarados, though - it knows Earthquake.
 Her Pokémon are Dragon-types, so the best way to defeat her is to use Ice-types, Dragon-types, and Fairy-types. If you have Pokémon X, using Xerneas can help a lot, as Xerneas is Fairy-type. However, if you have Pokémon Y, Yveltal is not a Fairy-type, so you'll have to find another way of defeating her.
 If you've defeated all of the Elite Four members, you're ready to take on the Champion! Be aware that for the Champion, you'll need to use your own mix of types and moves to defeat them - as well as a lot of Revives.

