 Types of artificial tans include spray tans, self-tanners, and bronzers. These are good options if you only need to be tan for a few days, or if you have very sensitive skin that easily burns. You can receive spray tans at the same tanning salons that you would visit for indoor tanning beds, and you can buy various self-tanners and bronzers at any drugstore.


Read reviews on the product before you buy. Some products will make you look more orange than tan.
Gradual tanners typically work better because it gradually darkens your skin slowly and you can stop at whatever shade you're most comfortable with. If you are going for the spray tan, a professional will help you pick the perfect shade to match the look you want to the skin tone you already have.
 It's always a good idea to prep your skin before tanning, as prepared skin will look healthy and radiant and not dull and dry. Be sure to exfoliate the night before your tan with a loofah in the shower, moving in circular motions to get rid of any dead surface skin as tan will sit on the outer layer of the skin. It's also best to moisturize your whole body once you have exfoliated, as this will keep your skin nourished and silky smooth for the following day.


Try to avoid exfoliating with grainy and gritty products, as this may cause tiny abrasions on the skin. The tan may seep into these abrasions, leaving you with an unprofessional finish.
Once you are tanned, it's a good idea to gently exfoliate every day with a loofah to help the tan to fade evenly over the course of the week. The tan will fade away from certain areas of your skin faster than other places, and you don't want to leave your skin looking patchy and uneven when the tan begins to fade. Exfoliating your body daily will also help if you decide you want to maintain your tan. You can reapply over the course of the week and never be without your tan again.
 If you are thinking of applying your own fake tanning products, its best to shop around and find one that is going to be the right shade for you. Tan generally comes in three shades: light, medium and dark. Some have slightly more bronze tones, and some have a shimmery effect which reflects light and gives you a glow.


If you have fair skin it's probably best for you to use a more natural looking tanning product–one that is made for fair skin, so that the tan looks more subtle–unless you are looking for a noticeably dark result.
If you have medium skin you can use a tanning product for either fair skin or medium, olive skin.
If you have dark skin and want the tan to really show up, it's best to use a dark tanning product so that it really makes a difference.
 Aside from choosing the right tone, its also important that you find a tanning product that's easy to apply, especially if this is your first time tanning and you don't have the assistance of another. Remember to always wear a tanning mitt when applying fake tan, otherwise the solution will stain your hands orange. It won't be easy to remove without ruining the rest of your gorgeous tan.
 This is the most common type of self-tan product that you will find in drugstore or beauty shops, and it is generally regarded as the easiest to apply solo.
 Lotions tend to go on just as any other lotion would. However, reaching your own back and spreading the tan over other areas evenly can be more difficult.
 Mousse tans can be quite hard to apply, depending on your experience with self-tanning products, as they dry very quickly. This is great if you're a pro and you want to go about your daily business while the tan develops on your skin, but not so great if you need the extra time to spread it onto your skin evenly.
 These are relatively easy to use, however this method is most likely to stain your fingers, as wipes are much harder to hold with a tanning mitt on your hand. You will also probably need quite a few packets of these wipes. They are generally sold in singles and one won't be enough to give your entire body the two coats to really show up your tan.


Generally, you should apply one coat, allow that to dry, and apply a second coat for a higher intensity and a deeper tan. Allow it to develop for 3-24 hours before taking a shower in lukewarm water.
Wearing old black or dark-colored clothes is best, as any excess tan may rub off and stain light-colored clothes. Avoid rinsing with any soaps or shower gels, as the ingredients in these products can break down the tan.
After your shower, try to avoid any moisturizers that contain oil, as they can break down the tan and cause it to fade rapidly.
 These products are pretty much just body make-up, and they wash off completely after you take a shower. You should always apply these while dry. Instant tan is a great alternative if you only want to look tan for one day or for a specific event before you need to wear any clothing, as they will stain your clothes.


You can also find tan products with bronzers and shimmer. If you want to appear extra dark immediately after tanning with the help of a cosmetic bronzer, look for a bronzer lotion rather than an intensifier, or "pure" lotion.
 This is like a moisturizer, except with special ingredients to preserve, protect, and extend the life of your tan. These extenders usually lack certain ingredients that will strip your color, such as sulfate. Use a tan-extending body wash in the shower, as well, for the same reason, and then use the tan extender after your shower.

