 The U.S. government and other public health agencies have developed a variety of food "pyramids" and "plates" over the past several decades. These tools are graphical representations of the various food groups you should eat — and how much of each group you should consume. Public health research institutes such as the Harvard School of Public Health have developed exceptionally helpful "pyramid" tools for evaluating your diet. The quantity of foods you eat from each category in the healthy "base" of the pyramid will vary upon your size, exercise level, and dietary preferences, but a majority of your caloric intake should come from these categories:


Carbohydrates in the form of whole grains such as oatmeal, whole wheat bread, and brown rice.
Healthy fats and oils. Healthy choices include unsaturated fats such as olive and vegetable oils; nuts, seeds, and avocados; and fatty fish such as salmon. Studies show Americans generally get 1/3 or more of their daily categories from fats, and this can be an acceptable practice — if you are consuming healthy varieties. Note that fats and oils are calorie-rich, so small quantities add up quickly. Read labels carefully.
Vegetables and fruits. Aim to fill half your plate with these foods at each meal.
Nuts, beans, seeds, and/or tofu. If you are a vegetarian, these foods are especially important sources of dietary protein.
Fish, poultry, and eggs. If you consume animal products, you may choose to consume more of these foods and fewer nuts, beans, seeds or tofu products.;
, The nutrients found in dairy, especially, are important, but on the whole you'll want to eat top-of-the-pyramid foods sparingly. Follow these guidelines:


One to two servings of dairy products per day, or vitamin D and calcium supplements if you dislike (or are allergic to) dairy foods.
Infrequent consumption of red meat, processed meat, and butter. Eat red meat no more than two times per week, and minimize processed meat and butter in your diet.
Minimal consumption of refined grains such as white rice, white bread, sugary or refined foods, and salt., If your aim is fitness as well as general good health, consider eating foods that deliver extra energy, antioxidants, calcium, or heart-healthy fats and proteins.


Dried fruits, sweet potatoes, and bananas deliver complex carbohydrates that will help you efficiently store and use energy. Each of these foods contains valuable potassium in addition to a host of other nutrients.
Broccoli and other green vegetables, tomatoes, blueberries, and cocoa all contain antioxidants that remove cell-damaging free radicals from your blood.
Milk and green vegetables provide calcium to ensure healthy bones. Warm milk consumed near bedtime has the added benefit of boosting the serotonin and melatonin that help you sleep.
Salmon and nuts deliver healthy fats and proteins. Consider adding Brazil nuts in particular to your diet, as they contain high levels of selenium, a mineral that helps bolster your immune system., Read food packaging carefully to determine portion size and the number of servings in a given package. Split value packs into portion-sized containers, and consider sharing large restaurant meals.Learn how to identify proper portions using hand-size references; guidelines are readily available online. One serving of carrots, for example, is equivalent to one cup, or approximately the size of an adult fist; a serving of dry cereal is also one cup, or one adult fist, in size.