 The Facebook Send button allows people to privately send content from your website to another person.The Like and Share buttons allow users to share your page publicly. In contrast, the Send button allows users to share the page privately, making it the perfect choice for pages that would benefit from being shared on an individual basis.
Users who hit the Send button can share content through a Facebook message, to a Facebook group, or as an e-mail.
 As with most social plugins, Facebook makes the process easy by having an established page dedicated to forming your customized code.


Find the Send button configuration page here: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/send-button


, Locate the "URL to send" box and type the URL linked to the specific content you want users to share and send.


You can use any valid URL; it doesn't need to link to a Facebook page.
Note that you'll need to create a separate code for each separate, specific page of content you want users to be able to send.
 In addition to the URL, you can also specify the width, height, and color scheme of the Send button.


If you don't make any changes to these settings, Facebook will use its default options.
 When you've completed the form, click on the "Get Code" button beneath it to generate the code for your customized Send button.


Within a few seconds, a pop-up box with two sets of code should appear.
 Highlight the entire batch of code in the top box, then copy it to your clipboard. Navigate to your website HTML editor and paste the code inside.


You should paste the code directly after the <body> tag of your website HTML.
This first set of code is the JavaScript SDK code. It sets up the necessary code framework that allows the actual Send button plugin code to work.
 Return to the code configuration page and copy the entire batch of code in the bottom box. Paste it into the HTML editor of your website.


This batch is the code that actually creates your customized Send button. You should paste it into the HTML of your page in the exact spot you want to Send button to appear.
 Save your work and exit the HTML editor for your website. Check the webpage you edited to verify that the Send button actually appears.


If the plugin doesn't show up or doesn't work, return to the original configuration page and read the additional details below the code generation form for troubleshooting help.

