 For the truffles, you’ll need 2 cups (150 g) of coconut. Use a sharp knife to finely chop the shreds and set aside for the moment.You can run the coconut through a food processor to finely chop it if you prefer.
 Add 6 cups (1.2 kg) of sugar, 1 ½ cups (355 ml) heavy cream, and ½ cup (113 g) of butter to a large pot with a candy thermometer attached. Heat the mixture over medium-high until it reaches 236 to 238 degrees Fahrenheit (113 to 114 degrees Celsius).Stir the mixture constantly with a whisk as you heat it.
If you don’t have a candy thermometer, a deep fry thermometer will also work.
 When the mixture reaches the right temperature, take the pot off the heat. Allow the mixture to cool for 8 to 10 minutes., Once the mixture has cooled, pour it out on a solid surface slab. The slab should be cool and slightly damp when you add the mixture to it.A quartz or granite countertop makes an ideal solid surface. If you don’t have the proper countertop, a quartz or granite slab cutting board will also work.
Don’t scrape out all of the mixture. If there are bits that are stuck, leave them in the pot.
 When the cream mixture is spread out on your slab, use a candy scraper or butter knife to work the mixture around the surface. Continue scraping it until it begins to thicken and is no longer glossy, which should take approximately 5 minutes. .Any straight edge tool should work for scraping the cream mixture. A clean wall scraper can even work.
 Once the cream mixture has thickened, add 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla, a dash of salt, and 1 ¼ cups (94 g) of the finely chopped coconut to it. Use clean hands to knead the ingredients into the cream mixture until they are fully incorporated.If you prefer, you can use the candy scraper or butter knife to work the vanilla, salt, and coconut into the cream mixture.
 When the truffle mixture is fully mixed, remove it from the slab and place it in a sealable plastic bag. Allow it to sit at room temperature for approximately 6 hours.If you like, you can prepare the truffle mixture the day before and allow it to sit out overnight.
 After the truffle mixture has sat for about 6 hours, remove it from the bag. Roll it into balls that are approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) large with clean hands., Once you’ve finished making the balls, add the remaining ¾ cup (56 g) of finely chopped coconut to a shallow dish. Press the balls into the coconut to coat them thoroughly, and place on a dish to serve.Store any leftover truffles in a covered, airtight container at room temperature. They will last for up to a week.

