 Positive training methods should always be favored – in part because they show your dog what you want them to do. However, if your dog has a persistent bad habit, an aversive collar can remind them not to do something they aren’t supposed to. More directly, aversive collars suppress or punish unwanted behavior. While some aversive collars employ pain, some will simply annoy your dog as punishment for a particular behavior.Limit your use of aversion collars to situations of necessity or temporary training.
If you feel it is necessary to use one for training, discontinue use periodically to see if your dog has learned not to repeat poor behavior.
 Choke chain collars are made of metal chains that tighten around your dog’s neck when they pull against their leash or tie off. A choke collar should sit high on your dog’s neck, almost to their ears. It's also important to note that it's highly preferable to avoid using a choke chain if at possible. Much safer collars can be effective, and quality obedience training can quickly make this sort of collar unnecessary.Choke chain collars do not have built-in controls on how much they can be tightened, so they pose a risk to your dog. To put it bluntly: dogs have been injured and even strangled by choke chains. Even if they do not suffer an apparent injury, a choke chain may damage your dog’s trachea, esophagus, nerves, and blood vessels, leading to nerve issues.
If you do choose to use a choke chain, have an experienced dog trainer help your properly fit the collar. You will need to add 2-3 inches to the circumference of your dog’s neck to find a chock collar’s size.
Never use a choke chain as an everyday collar.
Some choke chains have blunt prongs that protrude inwards and add to the discomfort your dog feels when the collar is tightened. While these are designed so that the prongs are not positioned against your dog’s trachea, the collar may slip and pose considerable risk to your dog.
 Shock collars include metal contact points that shock your dog via electric current. The shock itself can range from mildly tickling to quite painful. Some use shock collars as a component of an invisible fence containment mechanism. Invisible fences can be installed in your yard to establish an electronic force field of sorts. If your dog attempts to cross the field, they will be shocked. Usually, a shock will be preceded by a sound that warns the dog not to proceed.Do not use shock collars as training device otherwise. Some shock collars allow for a human to shock the dog via remote control. This is not an effective training method, and can make a dog fearful or more aggressive. The dog may not even recognize that their behavior is associated with the shock.
Never leave a shock collar on your dog for a long time.

