 If you are prone to dizziness, it is important not to make any sudden movements, as moving too quickly can wreak havoc on your blood pressure. You should move slowly and deliberately when sitting or standing up, holding on to a stable surface such as a hand railing where possible.


When you're getting up in the morning, make sure to get up in stages. First you should sit up slowly in bed, then put your feet on the floor. Take a moment to relax and breathe before slowly standing up.
When moving from a sitting to standing position, flex your legs first. This will help to get your circulation going and minimize light-headedness.
 Dehydration can affect your blood pressure, leading to symptoms of dizziness. Keep dehydration at bay by drinking 6-8 glasses of water a day. However, if you are already dehydrated, try drinking a sports drink. The electrolytes in these drinks can help you to rehydrate quickly and work better than water alone. In addition, increased salt intake can be beneficial in certain conditions.
 It is quite common to experience dizziness or light-headedness as a symptom of some viral illnesses, such as colds or the flu. Getting plenty of rest when you are suffering from a viral illness will help you to recuperate faster and minimize feelings of dizziness., It may sound strange, but by keeping track of your dizzy spells you should be able to identify what your dizziness triggers are and learn to avoid them in future.


For example, your dizziness may be caused by hunger, by standing up too quickly, or by showering with very hot water. Figure out your dizziness triggers and you should be able to head them off in advance.
 If you are prone to attacks of dizziness, wearing high heels may not be your best option. Flat shoes help your brain to read your posture better, thus keeping your body's equilibrium in check. Wearing flat shoes will also help to avoid a sprained ankle if you should fall during an episode of light-headedness.
 One of major concerns with dizziness is that the spinning sensation may cause you to fall and injure yourself. If you suffer from dizziness, you should adapt your home or work environment to minimize the chances of this happening.


Tuck away any electrical wires which you might be in danger of tripping over during dizzy spells.
Use night-lights to prevent your brain from becoming disoriented in the dark.
Avoid thick carpeting which makes it harder for your feet to register changes in position and posture.
Use non-slip mats in your bath and on your bathroom floor.
 Taking motion sickness tablets can help to relieve symptoms of dizziness associated with vertigo. You can find over-the-counter motion sickness medication, or you may be prescribed a stronger version by your doctor. Motion sickness medication includes:


Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine). Available in tablet, liquid, and suppository form, dimenhydrinate is probably the most popular antiemetic and anti-nausea drug on the market.
Meclizine (Bonine). Meclizine should not be taken by children 12 or younger, as its safety has not been thoroughly established.Diphenhydramine (Benadryl). Although more popular as an antihistamine in treating rashes and itches, diphenhydramine is commonly used in treating motion sickness, and is readily available., Dizziness is often caused by low blood pressure, so try to avoid or limit your intake of substances that affect your circulation, such as caffeine, tobacco, alcohol, and illegal drugs., Dizziness is sometimes a symptom of a more serious illness.If you suffer from frequent or prolonged bouts of dizziness it is advisable that you see your doctor.


The doctor can then do tests to check for more serious underlying conditions. Dizziness may be a symptom of:

An inner ear condition, such as labyrinthitis, BPPV or Meniere's disease.
An anxiety disorder, such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.
A heart rhythm problem, such as atrial fibrillation.
P.O.T.S. Or another circulatory issue.
syncope.



