 One thing about living alone is that you won't have anyone to remind you of important events or appointments. Manage your time by writing down your daily schedule and to-dos in a personal planner. This will help you stay informed and make sure you are on time for events.Don't forget to write down the birthdays of your friends and family members in your calendar, too.
 With advancing technology, there are tons of applications to help you compile a grocery list and cut down on costs. Visit your app store and download a shopping list app. Or, you can just use your phone's memo app. Keep it handy, so when you run out of something, you can add it to the list.You might try to recreate dishes that you ate at your parent's house, or you might explore new simple recipes. Pinterest is a great app to save your recipes.
Look for basic recipes for college students or single people. That way you won't have to waste money cooking large portions.
Try to select healthy foods that fit your budget. Choices might include oatmeal or eggs for breakfast and meat, veggies, and brown rice for dinner.
 Renter and homeowner insurance can cover damage to your home and stolen or damaged items should a burglary or fire occur. Along with giving you peace of mind, it can also prevent you from having to pay out of pocket for repairs on certain items.


Many mortgage lenders and rental properties require homeowners and tenants to purchase this type of insurance. Check with your potential lender or landlord before making the commitment to live there. Ask for recommendations if having it is a requirement., You’ll be able to sleep better and stay safe when you have an alarm system working for you. Along with alerting you of an intruder, alarm systems can also contact the fire department if your smoke alarm goes off.


Do you have a sensitive smoke detector that goes off the instant you begin cooking? Place a shower cap over it to stop it from beeping unnecessarily. Just remember to remove it as soon as you are done., Living alone means you are in charge of keeping your place clean. Having a cleaning schedule can help you keep things tidy. This could include washing dishes and laundry daily, mopping and vacuuming weekly, and cleaning surfaces every few days.


Hire a cleaning service to help if you need it. Even having someone come once a month can help you to keep your home in order., Place a handyman on speed dial if you aren’t comfortable with taking care of home maintenance yourself. Allowing issues to go unresolved can cause major problems down the road. It can also result in you losing a security deposit or paying for the damages to your landlord.


Ask friends and families for referrals for a handyman. You can also look online at sites for recommendations., If you live in a city that uses public transportation, you can often download specific apps that help you buy bus or subway passes. If you own a car and need to get from place to place, make use of the navigation on your phone, such as Google maps.


Your landlord may be able to suggest the best forms of transportation for your specific area. You might also ask a neighbor how they get around.
Look into multiple forms of transportation before deciding on the best one for you. You may also consider trying some forms that are out-of-the-box, such as riding a bike or carpooling with neighbors.

