 Think before you start up a blog. Think about what you want to blog about. It should be about something you love talking about and know much about. Something fun and creative. Honestly speaking, no one will be interested on how you got through your day. People need help, they need entertainment, and you're going to give it to them.;
, If you wants to be a professional blogger then, make a business plan or road map. To run your blog smoothly it's necessary step that you have to take. Write down about everything you could imagine to do with your blog. Think, How to run your blog? How to maintain the quality of your article? Make some strategies to run your blog for long time.
 Add up good looking templates. Hosts like WordPress and Blogger provide good looking templates which you can use to make your blog look attractive.
 While you blog, make sure you are having fun. Don't blog with the intention of being bored or tired. If you get tired or frustrated quickly, blogging probably isn't for you.
 It would be best if you could post a minimum of one post per day on your blog. People don't like to wait for days for new posts. Make sure you're a regular blogger. This will keep you viewers interested and come back for more and eventually follow the blog! For this you can use reblogged button effectively. This button is very helpful to updated your blog on regular basis. You can copy paste for this also but, with the permission of their original writers and give credit to them for that.
 At times talk to your audience about yourself. If it's about a car, talk to them about your experience. Also having an "About" navigation which will tell your audience about your blog is a very great idea.
 Don't expect your posts to go viral in a matter of days. Blogs take months or even years to get decent fans. All you need to do is keep posting and never give up. This has been the leading cause to shut-down blogs.
 Take opinions from your viewers, ask them what they are interested in and how they can help you. Think of it as a community, where you need to get to them and they need to get back to you.

