 Boys often tease others simply to get a rise out of them. The teaser knows he has the upper hand when the other person gets upset. If you want him to stop, don’t show signs that he is upsetting you.Boys often tease people when they look different. For example, maybe you just got a new hairstyle and a boy says, “Look, Sheila looks like my grandma!” This can be hurtful, annoying, or embarrassing, especially if you don’t want to look like anybody’s grandmother. Try not to get really angry, sad, or sulky. Maintain a neutral expression and keep your chin up. That way he’ll think he didn’t get to you.
Seek help if you are upset. Constant teasing that truly hurts your feelings can move into bullying territory. If you are feeling threatened by a boy or are always afraid that he is going to torment you, you should seek help. Bullying should not be taken lightly as it can have physical and emotional consequences if left unaddressed., Sometimes you can tell someone that you are not amused, and they will get the message. Look them in the eye and tell them to stop doing whatever is bothering you.


Keep it short and simple. Try saying, “Chris, seriously, stop doing that.”

, Some people have a natural way with words and have the perfect comeback for every situation. If this isn’t you, practice some comebacks with a friend, parent, or in front of the mirror. When he teases you, let him finish what he is saying, look him in the eye, and respond. Remember to use your strong voice and confident body language. Come up with short, neutral comebacks that don’t escalate the situation. Your goal is not to get into a fight, but to get the teasing to stop.


Some examples of short comebacks are, “Get a life,” “Yeah, whatever, Chris,” and “Wow! You discovered I’m different from you.”Add a little laugh or an eyeroll to show that you are done with the conversation.
 Often teasing can take various meanings depending on how the person being teased responds. If you laugh, most people--including the teaser-- will accept the comment as a joke.Laugh it off and move on. Start a conversation or get back to what you were doing.


If you feel the need to say something, try chuckling and saying, “That was so silly,” or “Whatever, Chris.”
Don’t laugh if you are truly hurt by consistent teasing. If a boy is constantly teasing you and making you feel uncomfortable, you should not keep laughing it off. Use a verbal response to let him know that you don’t like what he is doing.
 Sometimes the easiest thing to do is to simply walk away. Keep a calm body and neutral facial expression. Turn around and go find something else to do.

