 If you clean regularly, mildew is probably mild. A small film of mildew covering grout does not require special cleaners. For this mildew, stick to simply scrubbing water between the tiles. This should be enough to get rid of unwanted mildew.If mildew does not come out with water alone, you may need a stronger cleaner.;
, Mildew that is built up over time requires a cleaner. Bleach is the best course of action to remove mildew. You can buy bleach online or at a local department store.As bleach is dangerous if ingested, make sure to store it in a safe place away from children and pets.
Wear gloves when handling bleach.
 In a bucket, mix three parts water with one part bleach. The precise amount of bleach and water you need depends on how much mildew you're cleaning. Make sure to mix bleach in a well-ventilated area., Place your bleach solution is a spray bottle. Spritz a liberal amount of the solution over tiles, focusing on where you see built up mildew. Let the solution sit for about 15 minutes before continuing with the cleaning process., Use a microfiber cloth to scrub in between the towels to remove the mildew. It will take some force to scrub out mildew, especially set-in mildew, so scrub the cloth hard in areas where mildew appears.Remember to wear gloves if you're scrubbing in bleach.
 If there is mildew built up in cracks and crevices, use a toothbrush. A toothbrush is a great tool to get into corners and cracks where mildew lingers.Make sure to check cracks where grout is found for mildew. These areas are often neglected during cleaning, which can cause mildew to spread.
 There is no secret to removing mildew other than a lot of hard work. Mildew, especially if it's been built up over long periods of time, can sometimes be difficult to remove. Make sure to give yourself adequate time to fully remove the mildew. For grout that's heavily infested with mildew, the job may take over an hour to complete., Mildew can sometimes cause water deposits to build up on the walls surrounding grout and tiles. If you notice water deposits, saturate a paper towel with white vinegar. Place the towels over the water stains and leave them on for a few hours. Then, remove the paper towels and use a cloth or cleaning brush to scrub out the stains., A well-ventilated shower is key to preventing mildew to begin with. If your shower has a fan, make sure to turn that on after getting out of the shower. It also helps to crack a window in your bathroom during the day., Keep a spray bottle in your bathroom filled with one part vinegar and one part water. Two to three times a week, use this mixture to spray down your shower. This will help prevent mildew from building up on the shower walls., Mildew is hardest to remove when it's built up in grout between tiles. The best way to prevent the need for heavy cleaning is to clean your bathroom once a week. If you do a quick, mild cleaning weekly, you're unlikely to have to deal with heavy mildew removal in the future.