 For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground and after you have done everything, to stand." Ephesians 6:11-13;
, The belt of truth involves two places; our hearts and our minds. Truth keeps us secure in Christ and makes effective all the other pieces of armour. The belt of truth holds our amour in place. Commit yourself daily to walk in the light of God's truth. "Teach me your ways, O Lord, that I may live according to your truth!" Psalm 86:11

, The devil is constantly attacking with lies, accusations and reminders of past sin. Without the breastplate of righteousness, these will penetrate your heart. Become aware of who you are in Christ Jesus. Come boldly into His presence (Hebrews 4:16).
 Ephesians 6:15 - Shoes allow us to step freely and without fear while we turn our full attention to the battle at hand. They aid in our movement and defense. The shoes God gives propel us onward to proclaim the true peace, which is available in Christ. Prepare yourself to follow the Lord no matter what.
 Ephesians 6:16 - The shield not only defends our whole body but also our armor. The shield of faith has a very specific function, which the Bible makes abundantly clear: quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Not some but all of them. The shield moves with the attack no matter the direction.
 Ephesians 6:17 - Satan's target: Your mind. Satan's weapon: Lies. The enemy wants to make us doubt God and our salvation. The helmet protects our minds from doubting the truth of God's saving work for us. "Since we belong to the day, we must be serious and put the armor of faith and love on our chests, and put on a Helmet of the Hope of Salvation" 1 Thessalonians 5:8

, Ephesians 6:17 - The sword of the Spirit is the only weapon of offense in the armor, but the Word/Bible is also a tool for defense. Strongholds, arguments and thoughts are all weapons the enemy uses against us. With the Sword of the Spirit, God's word, the people are equipped to deal with them all. We need to trust in the truth of God's Word. Have confidence in the value of God's word. Get a hunger and desire for it.
 Pray in the Spirit at all times and on every occasion. Stay alert and be persistent in your prayers for all believers everywhere." Ephesians 6:18

