 Chances are, you’ve encountered a similar problem in the past. Identify times in the past that you have dealt with your issue or a similar issue. What did you do? Did it work? What else might have helped?


Write all of these thoughts down on paper or on the computer.
 If you haven’t had this problem in the past, it will be helpful to identify how others have solved the issue.How did they go about finding a solution? Was their solution straightforward and simple or did it involve multiple aspects and components?


Observe and ask questions. Watch the way others perform. Ask others how they have solved similar problems.
 Once you have researched possible options or solutions to the issue, you can begin to bring these ideas together, organize, and evaluate them.Compile a list of all possible solutions. Write down every way to solve the problem you can think of. In the example of procrastination, your list might involve: keeping a strict schedule, prioritizing tasks, writing daily reminders of important tasks, making realistic evaluations of time needed to complete projects, getting help when needed, and beginning a task at least one day earlier than needed. These are organizational and time management skills that can be learned. There will most likely be many ways to work toward solving the issue. You may also identify other behaviors that reduce the likelihood of procrastination such as: getting adequate sleep, exercising to cope with stress, and eating a healthy diet (to increase and maintain overall health).
 Thinking of the problem or question in a different way can open new paths in your brain. Your mind can have a new starting point to track in your memory or make connections within your brain.Try to think more broadly or abstractly about the issue. For example, if the issue is procrastination, another way you can think about it that perhaps you need stress in order to get things done. In this line of thinking, you will need to solve the problem of needing stress to perform instead of the procrastination itself.


Consider philosophical, religious, cultural, and components of your issue.
 Think of potential solutions as if you were a child discovering the world for the first time.


Try doing free writing or brainstorming in order to generate new ideas. Simply write down everything you think of in regards to possible solutions to the issue. Analyze your list and consider some of the options that you may not normally consider or that you think won’t work.
Consider alternative views that you normally wouldn’t. Entertain outlandish suggestions from others and at least consider them as options.For example, if procrastination is a constant struggle, perhaps making someone else do your work for you might solve your issue. This may sound silly, but even the most outlandish ideas can have a grain of truth in them. For this idea, perhaps asking for help on difficult tasks is not something you considered because getting assistance seems impractical. However, getting help can be very helpful indeed.
Do not set limits. Look at the absurd. The answer may go against convention.
Take risks. Open-mindedness can be associated with taking appropriate risks, and learning from your mistakes., This is a useful technique called the “miracle question,” which is an intervention used in Solution-Focused Brief Therapy (SFBT). Imagining the effects of the solution can help individuals think about the possibility of achieving a solution.


Imagine that a miracle occurred during the night and you woke up in the morning and this problem has magically disappeared. How would it feel? What would it look like?
Work backwards from the solution and imagine what might have needed to happen in order for your problem to go away.

