 There are a variety of reasons why you need tooth extraction surgery. Some of them include:Teeth are blocking others from coming in.
Baby teeth have not fallen out to give space for permanent teeth.
Tooth has decayed past the point of salvaging.
A decayed tooth presents a risk of infection to the rest of the mouth.
A need to create space before an orthodontic treatment.;
, If you are getting your adult teeth pulled, they will not grow back. Your oral surgeon should explain to you why tooth extraction is the best and only way to treat your problem.
 They will need to know all the vitamins, prescriptions, and over-the-counter medications you may be taking. These medications could impact the type of anesthetic they use when prepping you for surgery.Let your doctor know about any allergies or general health issues you may have, in particular any problems relating to your heart or blood.
Local anesthetics can sometimes cause reactions with certain medicines.
 Your oral surgeon should get local x-rays of the area where they will be operating. This provides them with the best plan to extract your tooth.


If you’re having your wisdom teeth taken out, the oral surgeon will take a panoramic x-ray, which takes a picture of all of your teeth. This is especially important if the wisdom teeth are impacted and may require delicate work around the jaw.
 Depending on the severity of your tooth extraction, you may be pretty out of it when you come to consciousness. This will severely impair your ability to drive, so it’s important to have transportation arranged beforehand. You may be able to get a friend or family member to drive you. If possible, find someone who can stay with you after the surgery. Getting a ride with a taxi or ride service is probably not the best option.
 You will likely need to fast the night before surgery. This reduces the risk of inhaling the contents of the stomach into the lungs while you’re out.The standard amount of time to fast before surgery is eight to 12 hours, but your doctor should let you know how long is necessary. At the very least, you should not drink or eat anything after midnight.
If you are diabetic or take any prescribed medicines, follow your normal routine. Verify this with your oral surgeon before doing so.
 You may be prescribed antibiotics if you have a weakened immune system or if you have an infection when it’s time for surgery.


If you have any illness up to a week prior to the surgery, tell your oral surgeon. They may want to reschedule your appointment until you are better.

