 Research the niche you are promoting. Look for emails on safe lists, and see what emails in that niche make you want to open the email. Some suggestions, might be "How Safe is your retirement from inflation...". It gets you thinking, and if your marketing investment ideas, or you are marketing an online MLM, this might get people to open that email.;
, This should also be compelling, because most people if they look past the subject line, they look at those two lines of text.


As they are scanning if it doesn't appeal to them, the "Delete" button is next. This should include your sub headline, and the sub headline should create a question in their mind. This is important, if you give the whole letter away in the sub headline, they won't read it and they will never see your offer
So as a part two to the headline above, "Inflation rates continue to increase, are your savings increasing at the same or higher rates?" If the reader has scanned past the subject line and reads that it almost compels them to open... Most people's savings are NOT increasing that fast.
 If you are going to take the time to start an email marketing campaign, you need to develop at least 8 subject lines and sub headlines before you ever write a word of your marketing letters..


Using the information do this first, Then proceed to the next step.
 Good! Now it's time to create the marketing letters. There are two options here. A straight up text email or if you are using one of the many auto responders out there you can use an email template with images, and links, and html coding and really make it stand it.
 A person that takes the time to write a letter, even if it is typed, shows a more personal connection to your reader. The templates are GREAT if you have a list of subscribers, and you want to send a monthly newsletter recapping the months emails, so we will talk about text emails only today.
, Start with a good greeting and if you have the ability include the recipient's first name. So a hello ~FIRSTNAME~ to start is always good.



Include: "Thank you for opening my email, I hope you are having a great day!". This shows the reader that you are engaged with them, and want to know about their day.



Go into how you are researching something that will help them do (blank, blank being the solution you are presenting them with) in relation to the above topic. "Hello Paul, Thank you for opening this email, I hope your weekend was great" "I have been researching this new plan which will help to increase your ability to save money for your retirement. Not only will it do that according to what I have found, you will be able to start living an increasingly better lifestyle starting in less than a month!".
 We have shown them a solution but in addition to that we also enticed them with an even further benefit. Also never end a thought with one period, always end it with three, this makes the brain continue to finish the thought in the reader's mind.



Your next paragraph should tell them how you are researching it just a little bit further and when you have a more complete picture you will email them again. Continuing from above example. "Imagine waking up each day and completing a few tasks that are required to keep your income growing and increasing, and then going about your regular day..." "This program is making some pretty bold claims, so let me research it a little further and when I have a more complete picture, and some proof I will let you know..." "Take care ~FIRSTNAME~ I will get back to you in a few days.
 Find a good review of the product, or if the product has a blog page attached to your affiliate link, you can link them to that blog in the next email, (still no selling, you WANT to create the desire to know more, and you WANT them to want the links you are going to send.



They don't have a blog? - create one.
Write a compelling article, again find real evidence online, and use that proof in your blog, and link your emails to that blog.
 This is when you show them your affiliate link for what you are promoting.


This email will most likely get them to have a look, though they may not buy.
Remember you are soft selling, so each email must have relevant content pertaining to your product and the research you have done to show that it is a good product.



Remember that when you are preparing your email marketing letter campaigns, and don't be discouraged and don't be in a hurry.
Your potential customer NEEDS to trust you before they are going to give you money.

