 To find a guy who has a good personality, you will need to start watching for behavioral signs that indicate he has the traits you desire. But first, think about what it is that you want in a guy. How do you define a good personality? Do you want someone who is kind? Funny? Outgoing? Honest? Open-minded?

Identify what you are looking for in a guy and write these traits down.Then, consider how you will be able to tell if a guy has these traits. What behaviors should you be on the lookout for?
For example, you might decide that a guy is funny if he makes you laugh when you are with him. Or, you might decide that a guy is open-minded if he talks in a way that seems accepting of different beliefs and opinions. Jot down some of the behaviors you will need to identify when you are out with a guy.;
, Watch for the personality behaviors you have identified in the guys you meet or date. If a guy displays some of the behaviors that you have decided you want, then this may indicate that he is someone you want to get to know better.

For example, you might decide that a guy is polite if he opens doors for you, says please and thank you, and gives you his full attention when you are talking rather than looking at his phone.
 Some behaviors can be red flags, so be on the lookout for these as well. For example, you might want to steer clear of a guy if he is rude to wait staff, says negative things about people when they are not around, criticizes you, has a sense of humor that you do not find funny, or shifts quickly from one mood to another.


Also watch out for a guy who talks about his ex, ignores you during your date, talks about himself the whole time, or who complains constantly.Jot down any other traits or behaviors that you do not want in a guy so that you can watch for these as well. For example, if you dislike sarcasm, then you might make a note of this as something you want to steer clear of for your own reasons.
 Do your personalities click? Even if you find someone who seems to have a great personality, he might not be a perfect match for you. Consider whether there is anything about his personality that might not mesh with yours.


For example, if he is really outgoing and you dislike crowded places and parties, then you might have a hard time compromising on weekend plans.
Think realistically about whether or not your personalities and interests would mesh well before you decide to pursue him.
 If you would like to attract a guy with a good personality, then the first step is to examine your own. Think about the list of personality traits you decided you want a guy to have. Do you have these traits? Can you work to improve any of them? If so, then start looking for ways to be more like the type of person you want to attract.


For example, if you want someone who is “comfortable being himself,” then consider if you are comfortable being yourself. Think about what you could do to be more authentic to yourself, such as wearing that funky outfit you’ve always wanted to wear, or taking a pottery class.
 One of the most attractive personality traits is kindness.If you want to attract a kind man, you can begin by practicing simple acts of kindness. Everywhere you turn there are opportunities to be kind, whether it is holding a door for someone or picking up a stray piece of litter. Begin practicing kindness and positive attraction will follow.


If you are going on a date with a guy try to be on time, allow them to order first, and push in your chair before leaving.
If there is a guy you like at work, let him see you offering to help out a co-worker in a pinch, or putting in the extra effort to help a customer.
 One of the cornerstones of a good personality is a positive attitude.Nobody really likes being around someone who is grumpy and negative. Start by examining the way you talk about yourself (to others or just in your own head). Are you saying nice things? Any time you catch yourself putting you down, stop in your tracks and make a change. The way you talk about yourself dictates your attitude toward the world.


Rather than saying, “I suck at everything,” try saying, “I’m up for a challenge.”
Avoid complaining. A major turnoff in any date situation is constant complaining.Don’t mention that the restaurant is too hot or too cold. Don’t gripe about the menu, the prices, or the service. If anything is bothering you, try to let it fade into the background, and focus on the fact that you’re on a date with a nice guy.
 If your personalities mesh, then your quirky interests will probably be attractive to him.So let your love of Harry Potter or obsession with making pottery shine! You can start the conversation off by asking, “What kind of books are you into?” or “Do you have any hobbies?” and let it unfold from there. A guy with a great personality will have plenty to talk about, and he will be interested enough to ask you the same.
 If you want to meet someone new, you are going to have to leave your house. And don't think a bar is the only place you can meet someone! If you'd like to meet a guy with a good personality, you must go to interesting places! Try visiting art museums, street fairs, or coffee shops (especially on an open mic night). You may also consider signing up some kind of community gathering, like a painting class, book club, or knitting circle.
 If you are in the market for love, one way to attract male attention is to travel is small groups. When you go out in large groups (more than three friends), you will likely intimidate the nice guy who wants your number. When you are out on the prowl, limit your numbers and open yourself to love.
 If you are open to being approached while you’re out, indicate this with your body language. Don’t stand with your shoulders square to the person you’re talking to, but instead, keep an open stance. Let your shoulders stay relaxed, and wear a smile. All of these little actions send out good vibes, and communicate that you're open to meeting a nice gentleman.
 Forget about playing it cool. If there is a nice guy out there that you’ve got your eye on, let him know that you’re interested. You can do this in a more subtle way by paying him a lot of attention, making eye contact, and asking questions when he speaks. Or if you’re feeling cavalier, just come right out and tell him.


You could say, “I think we have great chemistry together. Would you want to grab dinner sometime?”

