 See below for part list.;
,,,,,,,, Cut two lengths of 2"-diameter pipe 30" long and a third 6" long. On the end of one, glue on the 2"x1" SPIGOT x FIPT reducer bushing. To do this, glue the bushing into the coupling, then glue the coupling onto the pipe. Using the elbows, then make a U-shaped pipe, with the 6" section as the bottom of the U. Cut the bike tube off of the valve, leaving the valve and a small flap of rubber around then the valve, about 3/4" wide. Before gluing on the pipe end cap, drill a hole in the center of the cap just big enough for the bike valve. Insert the valve, cut from the tube, and tighten the valve on the cap using the nut. Then glue the cap on the open end of pipe. Where the female threads are, thread the 3" long pipe nipple. Be sure to use the Teflon tape on the male threads of the nipple!

, Cut a length of 2" diameter pipe 36" long (remember, you can always trim this down later!), and also cut a 4" long piece of 1"-diameter pipe. Glue the remaining reducer bushing into one end of the barrel (to do this, glue the bushing into the coupling, then glue the coupling onto the pipe), then glue the 1" pipe into the bushing. Finally, glue the 1" SOCKET x MIP adapter on the end of the 1" pipe.
 Thread the air chamber into the valve. BE SURE THE AIR WILL MOVE IN THE CORRECT DIRECTION!! Air from the chamber needs to move into the IN hole of the valve, and out of the OUT hole of the valve, as indicated by arrows. Tighten down until snug, and be sure to position the valve on the chamber so there is room for the barrel.
 Thread this into the OUT hole of the valve until snug.
 3 9v batteries wired together (in series) to make 27v works perfectly. A 12v battery will work effectively, too. Applying voltage will open the valve, cutting it off will close the valve.


,, Have fun!

, This prevents the combustion gasses from escaping around the projectile instead of pushing it forward and will result in inefficient shots.
 Use the barrel as a cookie-cutter to force a perfect circle of potato into the muzzle and force it down with a ramrod.
, Seven seconds of spraying is plenty.
,