 Though most superfood powders have few known side effects, they should be taken in moderation. You never want to take too much of a superfood powder. All of the nutrition benefits can be absorbed with a smaller dose. When you begin adding them to your diet, start with smaller doses.Starting with ½ teaspoon once or twice each day is advisable.
 After you have taken superfood powders for awhile, you can take between two teaspoons to a full tablespoon each day. It is not recommended to take more than a tablespoon each day, as too much can cause problems in your gut, such as gastrointestinal distress.If you are taking multiple superfood powders, stick to one or two each day.
You may want to take the supplements for a few days, then not take them for a few days. This can help you avoid taking too much.
 When you choose a superfood powder, make sure to read the label. It will provide suggestions on how to take the powder, how often to take it, and what dosage to take. You shouldn’t just be consistent with how you take the powder, but also with how often you take.Don’t just take the powder a few times and then forget about it. Even if you don’t take it every day, get on a schedule. For example, you may follow the recommended dosage on the label and take two teaspoons. You may do this every other day.
 Superfood powders range from approximately $20 to $150 per bottle. Powders are expensive because it takes a lot of the item (e.g., acai berries) to dry and grind into powder. You get a much higher dose of nutrients from the powder than you would from the whole food. Marketing costs also drive up the prices of superfood powders. However, most powders for 100 to 300 grams range from around $20 to $40.When choosing a bottle of superfood powder, you can research the cost of the ingredients to get a rough idea of how much it might cost to make the powder. Most powders cost $5-$25 to make.
Look at the size of the bottle. Larger bottles are going to be more expensive than smaller bottles. Determine the cost per serving so you can do a comparison to other brands.
Compare and shop around. You may find that some brands are unnecessarily expensive for no reason, or that a cheaper brand does not have the same amount of nutrients as others.

