 Adriana has a very unique personality and attitude. She loves herself, as everyone knows, and is very confident. To have her personality and attitude, read the steps below of course, and love yourself for who you are. Don't be shy and always be willing to go anywhere, who needs rules?;
, Adriana has great style and always loves to look her best. She likes to wear black leather jackets, lots of jean shorts, and hot pink tops or jackets. To get style like hers, try wearing pink, black, blue, and white. If you want some outfit ideas like hers, you may want an outfit that includes heels, jean shorts, leather jacket, and a pink or exciting top that is one color. If you want another outfit, you can wear a flower printed dress, heels and a leather jacket. She likes heels and is not afraid to wear something.
 Makeup like hers is very good-looking and varies depending on what occasion it is. To do your makeup like hers and wear tons of it, you should wear colorful eyeshadow one color, liquid black eyeliner on the upper lid, mascara, foundation, light pink blush, lip-liner, and some light or bright pink lipstick. If you don't want to wear lots of makeup, you should wear foundation, blush, and mascara. Also consider wearing some light pink lipstick.
 Adriana has blonde, curly hair. To get her color, you can wear a wig, dye your hair, or temporarily dye your hair blonde. To get her style, consider cutting or letting your hair grow out to a medium length, just at the top of your stomach. She always has her hair very curly and takes great care of it. It has lots of volume and is very shiny.
 Adriana lives in Los Angeles. To get the feeling of her life, try getting used to living by, near, or in the city life. Adriana loves drama and loves to be the center of attention when she makes it in Hollywood.
 Adriana's boyfriend is Phil Sanders. Her boyfriend's sister just happens to be Adriana's enemy. Adriana and Phil are almost always together and often go out with each other. They do not keep their relationship secret and actually love to make it more public by the minute, and they often go to each others' houses when they are not allowed the least bit. They are not afraid to break the rules and be together, no matter what the circumstances.
 Adriana is THE popular girl in High School. Everyone knows who she is and everyone knows her boyfriend, friends, and even enemies. If you will be or are in High School or Middle School, try being popular if you want to be like her. Try having a boyfriend that you are not afraid to be with. Don't try to make enemies, but Adriana also has a "posse" of friends that follow her around.
 Wash your face at least twice a day and consider providing a facial routine for yourself. Do not sleep with makeup and do anything you can to prevent acne. Adriana has never and will never has acne.
 Adriana likes to party.
 Adriana has a load of enemies. If you want to be like her, do not try to make enemies. She hates these people for no reason whatsoever, and her enemies don't particularly like her either.
 Adriana is not close to her family at all. She does not have a mom and practically hates her dad, and the other way around. Her dad is "the one" who let Loren, her main enemy become very well-known into her music by entering a music contest run by a star.
 Adriana goes around school campus with a group of about 4 -6 other "populars" around her. Adriana is always in the front and in the middle of the group, basically the center of attention. They laugh at her jokes and do whatever she tells them to.
 Adriana is clearly a jealous person of her enemies. Inside, she does not have high self esteem for herself which is why she bullies, mainly jealousy of looks, talent, anything.
 Adriana is THE popular girl in school. She has her main group of popular friends and she is always the center of attention. She loves the attention and likes to throw parties.

