 It's likely she has already completed something similar and she will be able to explain it to you.;
, If your sister is taking any of the same subjects as you, ask her if you can have her completed revision notes and past papers. You can use these to make your own revision notes.
 She will be able to tell you what each teacher is like and how strict they are. If she had a good relation with her teachers, you can use this to your advantage by telling them she's your sister. They will see you with good eyes right from the start.
 She will normally know how to match an outfit and what trends are popular at the moment.
 Your sister is likely to have had plenty of experience doing her own hair and make-up, so why not ask her to help you with yours? With an extra pair of hands helping you, you could pull off different hair styles.
 Ask her if you can borrow any of her clothes that are currently in fashion. She might think it twice before letting you borrow her clothes, just assure her you will be very careful while wearing them and do so, that way she won't be that worried when you ask her again.


Get her to do your nails. That way you can avoid messing them up. If she also needs help doing this, give her a hand.
 She will be able to tell you the best, tried and tested, methods for getting a boy to like you and how to act in a relationship.
 Your sister will protect you from bullies and keep you safe. She will help to guide you through life and help you find the answer to your problems.
 Older siblings have often had to figure out all their struggles alone. Through this, they will often have found short-cuts and cheats in life, ways to make their existence a little easier. If you're lucky, she might pass down some of her wisdom to you.
 If your sister got something she wanted from them, a car, a pet, pierced ears, a later curfew etc, ask her how she did it. You may have to wait till you're her age, but you could use her advice to help persuade your parents to give you something.
 It can be tough to save up money for something you want but by working with your big sis, you may be able to get it sooner. If the thing you want to buy is a nice present for your mother or father, then saving up together is perfect. Your parents will love that you cooperated to buy it as much as they love the gift!

, Who better to work out, train with or follow a healthy eating plan with than big sister? You can motivate and encourage each other.
 Chores are just that, a chore! Help each other to get things done faster. You could even take turns so one of you can have a day off from chores if you like!

