 Research shows that the more channels through which a child can communicate with a parent, the more satisfied the child is with the relationship. They are also more likely to reach out and respond if a parent has multiple ways to contact them. In addition to face to face time and phone calls, try texting and instant messaging your adult child.If you need help learning new technology so that you can stay in touch with your adult child, just ask them. Most of the time, they will be happy to help you learn it ― even if they do poke fun at you for it.
 As a parent, you used to make every decision for your child. Now that they are an adult, they make decisions for themselves. Avoid the urge to badger them or tell them that they should do something else. Only give advice that is sought or welcomed to avoid conflict.For example, if your adult child has kids of their own, avoid telling them how to parent their children. This is a highly personal issue, and they may not agree with your point of view. On the other hand, if they ask your advice, give it freely (but respectfully).
 When your child tries to communicate with you, you should listen carefully. This will show your child that you are interested in their feelings and activities, and that you respect them as an adult. Listening is an important way to foster the relationship with your adult child.For example, if your grown child is in college and has decided to change their major, hear them out before jumping to conclusions about wasted time and money.
 Research shows that parents who spend face to face time with their adult children have a happier relationship with them. This also leads to more involvement in their life. When possible, spend face to face time with your adult child.For example, you could grab a coffee together before work.
 If your relationship with an adult child has taken a serious hit in the past, you will need to be patient and work to restore it. Give them the space that they need to work through the past, but offer consistent support. Reach out to them often with gentle reminders that you still care and want to have a relationship with them.


For example, you could simply call them once a week at the same time to talk. If they don’t answer, try again next week.

