 The treatment goals for polyarthritis are to reduce joint inflammation and treat the underlying trigger (if there is one) causing the immune response. Achieving these goals will allow your Beagle to be in remission—free from any signs of polyarthritis.Your Beagle will need prescription medicine available through your vet.


Over-the-counter medications will not be strong enough to treat your Beagle. In addition, since they are for people, they may not be safe for your Beagle.;
, Suppressing the immune system with steroids will reduce joint inflammation. Prednisone, a steroid, is the mainstay of polyarthritis treatment in Beagles.To begin treatment, your vet will prescribe an immunosuppressive dose of prednisone. Your Beagle will remain on this dose until the polyarthritis is in remission.As your Beagle’s symptoms improve, your vet will slowly lower the prednisone dose. Lowering the dose too quickly could result in a flare up (disease recurrence).To keep the polyarthritis under control, your vet may prescribe a long-term, low dose of prednisone to be given every other day.You will give the steroid pill by mouth. Rather than putting the pill directly in your Beagle’s mouth, try hiding the pill in the food at mealtime. You could also put the pill in a small chewy treat, such as Greenies®.
 About 50% of dogs achieve remission with prednisone treatment.If prednisone is not effective in your Beagle, then you will need to discuss other treatment options with your vet. Other treatments options include chemotherapeutic drugs and drugs those that modify the immune system (immunomodulatory drugs).Chemotherapeutic drugs are typically used to treat cancer, but can be effective treatments for polyarthritis.
 Azathioprine and cyclophosphamide are chemotherapeutic drugs.They are given with prednisone if prednisone alone does not lead to remission. Treatment with azathioprine or cyclophosphamide typically lasts 2‒4 months. If your Beagle achieves remission after this time period, your vet will slowly reduce the dosage and maybe even discontinue use of the drug.Both drugs are given by mouth.
 Levamisole is primarily used to kill intestinal parasites, but can also modify the immune system. It is used in combination with prednisone if polyarthritis comes back after initial treatment.Levamisole is given by mouth either every other day or three times a week.Your vet will prescribe how often you should administer levamisole.


Levamisole enhances the immune system function.Although this effect is opposite to what should work to treat polyarthritis, levamisole still appears to be effective.
 Leflunomide also modifies the immune system. It can be used with prednisone to treat polyarthritis. Your vet will advise you to give it by mouth daily for a few days. After about 2 weeks, your vet will take a blood sample from your Beagle to measure the drug’s blood levels. Your vet will adjust the dosage up or down depending on the blood work results and the improvement of symptoms.Leflunomide suppresses the immune system and reduces inflammation., If your vet identified cause of the polyarthritis at the time of diagnosis, they will prescribe treatment to target that cause. For example, if a bacterial infection is causing the polyarthritis, then your Beagle will need an antibiotic. In some cases, treating the underlying cause is all that’s needed to resolve the polyarthritis. However, your vet may also prescribe a steroid if the joint inflammation is severe.Polyarthritis that has a known cause is typically called reactive polyarthritis.
 Your Beagle’s treatment will be more successful if you administer the medications as prescribed. Complete the full treatment course, even if your Beagle starts to improve. If you stop the treatment before talking to your vet, your Beagle’s polyarthritis may come back.


If you have any questions about how to give the drugs, or about the treatment in general, ask them during your appointment. Or, call the vet’s office if you come up with questions later.
 During the course of treatment, your Beagle may experience negative side effects from the drugs. For example, long-term prednisone use can cause urinary tract infections. Azathioprine and cyclophosphamide can suppress bone marrow function, which would decrease red blood cell production and lead to anemia.Anemia would make your Beagle feel weak and tired.


Dogs typically tolerate leflunomide very well. However, it can cause diarrhea, vomiting, decreased appetite, and skin ulcers.If your Beagle experiences these side effects, contact your vet right away. Do not stop giving the drug, or give less of it, unless your vet tells you to do so.
 Regardless of which drug regimen your Beagle is receiving, your vet will need to analyze a joint fluid sample to monitor treatment response.To withdraw the fluid with a needle and syringe, your vet will sedate your Beagle so it doesn’t feel any pain.Your vet will analyze the sample under the microscope to look for inflammatory cells. A lack of inflammatory cells is an indication of remission.


Your vet will let you know how often you should bring your Beagle in for a joint fluid analysis.
Not all dog owners like the idea of having the joint fluid repeatedly analyzed.If you are not comfortable with this procedure, ask your vet about monitoring your Beagle’s treatment response by looking for improvement of symptoms and changes in blood work (if there were any blood work abnormalities at the time of diagnosis).A clinical response to treatment would include the absence of lameness and stiffness, two common clinical signs of polyarthritis.