 You probably want to invite family first before anyone else. Again, a debut party is second only to a wedding in terms of grandeur, so family is first, then very close friends and so on. List out all the people you are considering on sending invitations to. Make a note of how likely it is for them to attend, how far they live, if they are willing to travel, etc. A typical debut will have anywhere from 100-200 people.;
, If your house is large enough, opt to have it at home. This will cut down costs tremendously. The downsides are limited parking for your guests, possible property damage, and neighbors calling the cops on you for having loud music.


When selecting a venue, keep in mind whether they rent out equipment, such as a sound system, chairs, tables, etc. Check to see if they have a kitchen, clean accessible bathrooms, enough parking, plenty of electrical outlets, etc.






If they do not have equipment for rent, then you may want to look at your local directory for party rentals for chairs and tables.
 Keep in mind that one invitation can potentially yield 5 people in return. A card per family, and you send out 50 invitations, you can have a room of 200 to 300 people.


Custom cards are nice, but can get very costly. To thwart costs, you can pick up an invitation kit from your local Target or Walmart in the party supply section. A kit can have 20-40 pairs of both a blank invitation cards and thank you cards and envelopes. To give your invites a more professional touch, purchase some vellum from an arts and crafts store, usually about a dollar depending on the design or texture.
If you don't already own one, get a single hole puncher. You will hole punch the invites and the vellum, and tie the two with a ribbon. Ribbon color will be based on your theme and motif. Instead of printing directly on to the card, you will print on to the vellum. Do a test print on ordinary paper before you start cutting your vellum.
On the invite include the name of the celebrant, date, venue, your royal court, RSVP, theme if you have one. Some relatives, may live far, so include directions on a separate insert. If you have RSVP cards, include postage on a self-addressed envelope.
 For family and friends that live close by, hand them out to them personally to cut costs on postage. Or mail them if you don't feel like driving and wasting gas, it's up to you.
 A typical debut usually has a royal court which consists of 18 males and 18 females. Oftentimes peers, or close to the age of the celebrant. Many opt to have close cousins, best friends, brothers and sisters.


The 18 roses, or 18 males, will share a dance with the celebrant, each handing a rose. The last dance is usually reserved for the father or the escort. The escort is usually the main suitor, boyfriend, or best male friend of the celebrant, but does not have to be.






The 18 candles, are the females who each will give a short speech that can either be about their relationship with the celebrant or wishes for the celebrant.






Some cases, the debut is centered around the cotillion or waltz, where the 18 roses and candles dance. Unless you plan on having rehearsals and practice, this is becoming less and less common, so you don't have to oblige you court to do so.

