 Brush your once more to help distribute the product more evenly. This method will focus on using a curling iron. If you prefer to use hair rollers instead, dampen your hair first, then apply a styling mousse to it instead.

This style is great for short hair.
This style is great for very curly or frizzy hair. If you have hair like this, you can skip over to the clipping portion., Take a small section of hair from your forehead. Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) curling iron to curl your hair towards the back of your head. Make sure that you are curling towards your head and not the ceiling. This will help give you more volume.If you can't find a curling iron that small, a ¾-inch (1.91-centimeter) one will also work.You can do this with thin hair curlers as well. Make sure that your hair is wet.
 Use your fingers to gently roll the curl back into place, facing downward. Next, slide a pin curl clip or a bobby pin through the curl and pin it to your head., You will need curls on the top, sides, and back of your head. The curls on the top of your head need to be paraelle to your forehead and pointing towards the back. The curls on the sides and back of your head should be paraelle to the floor. All curls need to be rolled downward (not upwards)., How long this takes depends how thick your hair is and how cold the room is. Once your hair cools, you can remove the pins. Start from the bottom layers first, then work your way towards the top.If you used hair curlers on wet hair, you will need to dry your hair first.
 Use your fingers to gently fluff out the curls. Be careful not to comb them out and loosen them, however. You want the curls to look fluffy, not wavy.

If you have very long hair, you may need to tease your curls. This will help give you more volume make them appear shorter., You will need to do two identical side parts, one on each side of your head. The hair below the parts should be hanging down, and the hair above the side parts gathered on top of your head., If your hair isn't naturally curly, it may not want to stay in place on top of your head. Use a comb to gently tease it towards the roots. Lightly mist it with hairspray, then let the hairspray dry. Only do this to the hair on top of your head, between the two side parts. Leave the hair on your sides alone., Use a fine-toothed comb to pull the hair upwards and to smooth it down. Keep you hair taut as you comb it. Apply some wax or pomade, if needed, to help smooth down any flyaways., Hold the hair at the crown (top-back) of your head with one hand. Use your other side to slide a bobby pin through the right side and another one through the left.You could also gather your hair, give it a slight twist, then pin it in place using a two-prong French twist pick., Use a fine-toothed comb to brush the hair on the left side of your head up towards the part you made earlier. Hold it against your head, then slide a bobby pin or two straight through it, parallel to the part. Leave the excess hair loose on top of your head. Repeat for the right side of your head.Insert the pins with the wavy/bumpy sides down. This will give you a better grip.
The hair on the sides of your head should be smooth as they go up towards the side parts.
 Your hair should be pulled up taut and smooth on the back and sides of your head. The curls should all be gathered on the top of your head. Use your fingers to gently fluff them out. Give your hair a final, light misting of hairspray.If you have very curly or frizzy hair, you can skip this step.
If you see any gaps between the side and back sections of your hair, go over them with a boar bristle brush to smooth them down.If you have long hair, you may need to roll a few curls into place and pin them down.Once you are happy with your look, give your hair a final misting of hairspray.
You can leave some curls across your forehead, or brush/pin them out of the way.

