 Most kids want to avoid chores at all costs. Mature kids know that chores are things that have to be done, even if they're not fun. Help out your parents whenever you can by volunteering for chores, to make life a little easier for them. This will make you seem very grown up.


Help with yard work in the spring and summer time, or help rake leaves in the fall when they're on the ground. Shovel the driveway if there is snow during winter.
Keep your room as clean as possible. Tidy up after yourself when you make a mess. Keep your toys and school supplies clean, and in their proper place.
Extra bonus: Help clean up other people's messes as well. If you help pick up after your sibling instead of whining about it to your parents, that will seem very mature.;
, Mature kids respect their parents, which means they will be treated with respect. Immature kids whine and complain, making their parents' job much more difficult. If you want to act more mature, listen to what your parents say. Listen even when you don't like it, and then do what you're told.


Be honest with your parents as much as possible. If you don't think it's right that you should have to clean your room on a Saturday, tell them so. But don't whine and cry about it like a little kid. Write out your reasons. Tell them clearly.
Never make your parents ask you to do something more than once. If you're acting up and they tell you to be quiet, be quiet. Immature kids are unable to control themselves, but mature kids are.
 No whining, shouting, or baby-talking. If you're going to act like a grown up, speak like one. Use a clear, firm voice when you have something to say. If you don't have anything to say, just be quiet.


Slow down when you're speaking, and think about what you say. Kids tend to talk very quickly and stumble over their words. Make sure to pronounce the words correctly, and learn how to say words that you're not sure about.
If someone is in another room, stand up and walk into that room to speak to them. Don't shout between rooms.
 Some little kids will fall to pieces whenever they don't get their way. Maturity means being able to accept bad news and take it in stride.


If your parents tell you that you can't go somewhere, or can't do something specific, calm down. Don't yell, but speak honestly. Say, "I'm disappointed, but that's ok. Thanks anyway." Often, maturity like this can even get parents to change their minds.
If you get into a fight with a sibling, relax and take a few deep breaths. Don't overreact. Act like nothing bothers you and stay cool. This will take all the wind out of your sibling's sails.
 Just because you're older doesn't necessarily mean you're more mature. If you want to act your age, or act older than you are, then make a point of being nice and looking out for your younger brothers and sisters.


If your younger siblings don't know something, don't make fun of them for it. Show them how to play a game correctly, or how to do their chores the right way.
If you have older siblings, don't let them bait you into throwing fits. Sometimes, older kids like to pick on younger kids to try to get a rise out of them. When they provoke you, say something like, "That's kind of immature." Your older siblings will be shocked.
 Even if it's just a basic weeknight meal, it's important to sit still and be quiet during dinner time. Thank your parents, or whoever provided the meal, and eat it quietly. Wait until everyone is finished eating before you leave the table, or ask to be excused if you're finished.


Sit up straight at the table and put a napkin on your lap. Chew with your mouth closed, and put your utensils down between bites of food.
When dinner is over, offer to help clean the dishes. Before dinner, offer to help set the table, or do other simple tasks.
 There's a lot to do around a house. Garbage needs to be taken out, dinner needs to be prepared, the floors need swept and cleaned. If you want to be a more mature member of your family, ask for more responsibilities and take them really seriously. Do your best work and take pride when you finish.


If you have a pet, you should be in charge of the pet, not one of your parents. If you have a dog, you need to clean up after the dog, walk the dog, and feed the dog. Not just today, but every day.
Talk to your parents about an allowance if necessary, but focus on doing the jobs first, not getting the money. The more you make it about helping out, the more likely you are to get a good allowance.
Ask your parents if you'll be allowed to get a house key. This can be a big step for a lot of kids in becoming more grown up. As you get older, you may ask for more responsibilities, like getting a part-time job, a car, and doing more things by yourself.