 Glass paint for small art projects like painting designs on wine glasses, mugs, and cups can be acquired at most local arts and crafts stores. Easy to use oven curing glass paint is best for small artistic glass painting projects. Pebeo glass paints work well for small artistic glass painting applications. These paints are inexpensive and are widely available in small bottles, paint pens, and markers. Small projects, like those listed above, can be performed at home with minimal supplies. General supplies needed include:


Glass paint
Artistic paint brushes
Paper towels
Small work table;
, It requires permanent bonding. These paints must resist various weather conditions, UV rays, temperature fluctuation, mineral deposits, chemicals, cleaners, and more.


There are a small group of companies who offer finished “back painted glass” for the glass industry. Most of these companies are located outside the USA such as Decoglaze Glass Splashbacks in Australia and Glass Kitchen Splashbacks in the United Kingdom. Back painted glass is also available in the USA through companies that use glass paint with permanent glass surface bonding properties.
Some companies use a large format oven baking process to bond specialty powder coat paints to glass, others use specialty foreign glass paints combined with heat lamps for curing.
 The most advanced glass paints available today are formulated with an active glass surface molecular modifying technology better known as “nanotechnology”. This technology ensures a true permanent glass bond in one easy step. These paints can easily be sprayed or rolled on any glass surface and cured at room temperature. In the USA, glass paint such as self priming glass paint contains this nanotechnology.
 Painting glass for the above applications requires more stringent handling and application procedures. These paints have solvent based organic odors that should not be inhaled and require ventilation and the use of organic filtered half face respirators.


Air supplied hoods need to be used if you must work in an area with low ventilation.
Solvent resistant gloves and full body Tyvek suits should also be worn when painting to avoid over exposure.
Glass can be painted in almost any location such as outdoors, in paint booths, in garages, and really anywhere that you can stand up a piece of glass.
A good method for painting glass on-site is to wet the surrounding floor and walls with water from a hose. This will hold down any dust that could cause a problem while painting.
 They include:


Permanent bonding glass paint
Paint mixing cup
Disposable paint filter screens
Proper respirator
Gloves
Tyvek suit
HVLP spray paint gun
Air filter
Air compressor
Acetone
Paper towels
Rubbing alcohol

,