 Doctors are busy people, especially if they work at hospitals. They may be on call during many weekdays, and may not get weekends. If you want to date a doctor, be understanding that plans will occasionally be cancelled.Try to have a backup plan for dates. Carve out several pockets of time during the week in which you're available to get together.
Avoid making plans that are hard to change. Buying tickets to a play or concert, for example, is a bad idea when your partner could potentially back out. Stick to more flexible plans, like planning to get dinner at a restaurant that usually does not require reservations.;
, Everyone needs a break from thinking about work. Doctors are no different and, in fact, may struggle more with the work/life balance. As a doctor's job is highly stressful, he or she may be inclined to talk about work a lot. This can create undue stress for both of you, as you may not want to hear about gory details. Try to steer the conversations away from work talk.It may be a bad idea to ask a doctor, "How was your day?" Opt for another conversation starter. Ask about a TV show you both like, or discuss news about mutual friends.
Do not go overboard, however. If you partner had a stressful day, he or she may need to talk about it. On occasion, allow your partner to rant about work-related stress. Strive to be understanding and a good listener.
 Doctors are frequently hungry. When working long shifts and managing multiple patients, meals are often neglected. If you know your partner is working a long shift, plan a date that revolves around eating.It can be a nice gesture to have food ready when your partner is expected to come home. Order takeout and have it ready or make a home cooked meal.
 Doctors need to be on call all the time during certain hours. Your partner may have patients who are very sick or may be on call at a local hospital. It's important to be understanding of work obligations. While it's often considered bad etiquette to have your cell phone out at the dinner table, be understanding. When you're dating a doctor, rules about courtesy change., If you're dating a doctor, you'll end up spending a lot of nights alone. You will not be able to get universal attention. There may be many long nights when you'll have to entertain yourself.Hang out with your friends. If your boyfriend or girlfriend can't entertain you on weekend nights, make plans with friends instead.
Find hobbies you enjoy. Take up a craft like knitting. Start reading books in your spare time.
You can learn to enjoy alone time. You may learn more about yourself and your passions with the free time you gain by dating a doctor.
 Doctors have a high stress work atmosphere. You should plan on helping your partner de-stress after work periodically. If stress is unrecognized, it can cause tension in a relationship. Learn to watch for warning signs of stress so you can effectively address the issue.If your partner is stressed, he or she may seem a little cranky. Your partner may seem somewhat withdrawn and may be quicker to anger and somewhat moody.
If you suspect your partner is experiencing stress, try not to react with anger. Calmly say something like, "Is there something bothering you? Is there any way I can help you feel better?"

, If someone is in a bad mood, you may be inclined to give advice. However, when helping someone cope with stress, it's always best to start with comfort. Advice, especially unsolicited advice, can come off the wrong way even if you have positive intentions.Try to be understanding. Actively listen to what your partner has to say, and offer apologies for the fact he or she is feeling this way. Reassure him or her you're there, and that you care.
If there is an issue that needs solving, you can get to that later. After offering initial comfort, think about ways to problem solve. Be clear that you're working with your partner. Explain you're not trying to tell him of her what to do, but want to brainstorm ideas to effectively work through the issue.
 Especially early in a relationship, you may not know how someone prefers to be comforted. Ask your partner what you can do when he or she is experiencing stress. Listen to and respect his or her needs.Ask how you can make your partner's days a little smoother. It may be something as simple as chipping in with some chores now and then.
Understand your partner's needs may be different from yours. He or she may handle stress in a way that's different from how you handle stress. Remember that different is not bad. Respect your partner's needs.
 It's important to be proactive when dating a doctor in regards to stress. Doctors face an inordinate amount of stress in their careers, so it's vital that you help your partner de-stress. Plan activities that can reduce stress.Sometimes, distraction is key. Plan for a movie night at the end of a long day, or to marathon watch a TV show you both love.
Suggest you and your practice stress reducing activities like meditation and yoga together.
 Exercise is a great way to reduce stress. Getting in regular physical activity can really help with your relationship with your partner. Think about planning hiking dates, or taking trips to the gym together., In a relationship with a doctor, you are not the priority much of the time. Your partner's patients will always come before you, as they are reliant on your partner for their physical wellbeing. Strive to be understanding of this fact.Your partner's patients may become suddenly ill. In the event of a medical emergency, the patient will come first. While you may be frustrated by this at times, remind yourself this is what you signed up for by getting involved with a doctor.
Try and think about the patients when you feel frustrated. While you may want to see your partner, they're undergoing stressful medical procedures and potentially serious conditions.
 Dating a doctor can get frustrating at times, but remember the pros. Doctors are usually intelligent and committed to their patients. Many doctors are very empathetic, and have a true passion for what they do. Not to mention, you got involved with this specific person for a reason. Try to remember what initially drew you to this person, and why the relationship is worth it for you.
 Patience is important when dating a doctor. You do not know what the schedule will be like on any given day, and it can be frustrating to always have plans in flux. However, strive for pride over frustration. Remember, your partner is doing something that he or she deeply cares about. You should be proud of his or her ambition and encourage his or her passions., You may not have time for epic date nights when dating a doctor. Try to value the small moments instead. Plan for light, flexible dates and be thankful for the time you have together.Allow for some simple rituals, like watching the sunrise together each morning.
Plan brief dates, like running to the store together or having a picnic.
Appreciate when you spend time together. Turn off your phone and eliminate distractions. Focus solely on enjoying your partner's company.

