 Although the idea of making homemade hot chocolate sounds great, it's a bit easier to buy something from the store. Make sure to read the packaging to ensure you're picking a healthier choice.


Many hot chocolate companies do sell either low-calorie, "diet" or no-sugar added mixes. Look for this wording on the packaging.
This labeling generally means these mixes are lower in calories and lower in sugar.
Note that they may also contain artificial sweeteners. If you do not want to consume these, make sure you double check the ingredient list to see what type of sweetener is used., In addition to looking at the front of the package or box, you should also flip the box over to take a look at the nutrition fact panel and ingredient list.


First look at the serving size. Many hot chocolates come in a powdered form contained in a packet. Most of the time it's one packet per serving, but always double check.
Review the calories, fat and sugar in your hot chocolate. Make sure it fits into your current diet or eating plan.
Also review the ingredient list. This will show you the type of chocolate used and the types of sweeteners used as well., If you're using a powdered hot chocolate mix from the grocery store, you'll need to mix it with liquid to make your hot chocolate. Stick to lower calorie, natural liquids for the healthiest hot chocolate. Try:


Water
Skim or 1% milk
Almond milk
Soy milk

, You may notice that some of the grocery store brands of hot chocolate aren't as flavorful or as tasty as others. If you truly enjoy the regular or higher calorie versions, incorporate some tricks to lower your overall calories.


Split the package in half. There's generally a large amount of hot chocolate powder per serving. If it's the regular type, not diet, try splitting the serving size in half.
Many of the regular hot chocolates will also tell you to mix the powder with whole milk or cream for the best flavor and texture. However, stick with water or skim milk to lessen the overall calories.
You can also indulge in the regular, higher calorie hot chocolate every once in awhile. Stick to your low-calorie homemade version or the "diet" hot chocolate the majority of the time.

