 It is rare that internal hemorrhoids cause pain, because there are very few pain receptors in the lower rectum.Pain usually only occurs if the hemorrhoid has prolapsed, meaning it comes out of your anus. This may resolve on its own, or you may be able to push it in yourself; however, if you are experiencing pain with a prolapsed hemorrhoid, it usually indicates that you will not be able to push the hemorrhoid back into your anus and will need to see a doctor.You may also experience severe itching and irritation.
If you develop a blood clot in this area, this will increase the pressure on the hemorrhoid and likely lead to constant and possibly severe pain.
 A warm Sitz bath can also help to soothe hemorrhoids. Try taking a Sitz bath after you have a bowel movement to help soothe and cleanse your hemorrhoids.To prepare a Sitz bath, fill a tub with a few inches of warm water and add about a cup of Epsom salts. Then, sit in the tub for about 15 to 20 minutes.
 Over-the-counter pain relievers may also provide some relief for painful hemorrhoids. Try taking acetaminophen, ibuprofen, or aspirin for hemorrhoid pain. Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions before use.


Ask your doctor for a recommendation if you are not sure what type of over-the-counter pain reliever you should take.
 If you are experiencing pain, a suppository might help. Suppository treatments for hemorrhoids may reduce the size of internal hemorrhoids by delivering medicine to the base of your hemorrhoids within your rectum. Reducing the size of your hemorrhoids can also reduce pain and discomfort. You can buy over-the-counter suppositories that contain witch hazel and other ingredients meant to treat hemorrhoids.


Keep in mind that suppositories need to be inserted into your anus., Sitting on a hard surface for a long period of time can cause hemorrhoid pain to feel more intense. Instead try using a cushion or a doughnut pillow. Using a cushion or doughnut pillow can make hemorrhoids feel less painful.