 One way to spot symptoms is to simply be aware of the person’s behaviors when he eats. Try to understand your friend’s relationship with food.


Notice if the person eats large quantities of food even when he is not hungry.
Observe if your friend complains of a stomach ache or having eaten too much on a regular basis. This can be a sign of binge-eating.
See if the person self-medicates with food. People with eating issues may often use food as a way to feel better. Does your friend want to eat unhealthy when he is feeling sad or angry?
Notice if your friend never wants to eat around other people, or eats secretively. Does your friend hide food that he is eating so that others won’t see?
There may be a problem if your friend repeatedly makes excuses for not eating such as saying, “I’m not hungry,” very often.
Look for food hoarding. Individuals with eating disorders may hoard food out of embarrassment. They may stash food in a secret place to use for future binging.;
, Binge eating is one of the major symptoms associated with various eating disorders.While it is not necessary to diagnose certain eating disorders, it is very common.


Binge eating involves:

eating, in a discrete period of time (for example, within any 2-hour period), an amount of food that is definitely larger than most people would eat in a similar period of time under similar circumstances, and
a sense of lack of control over eating during the episode (for example, a feeling that one cannot stop eating or control what or how much one is eating).


To be classified as binge-eating, the person will experience at least 3 of the following: eating much more rapidly than normal, eating until feeling uncomfortably full, eating large amounts of food when not feeling physically hungry, eating alone because of feeling embarrassed by how much one is eating, or feeling disgusted with oneself, depressed, or very guilty afterwards.
Binge eating also causes emotional distress, and occurs at least once per week.
 When individuals binge, sometimes they may engage in behaviors that help them feel better about the binge, or reduce the weight gain that might occur.


Purging is one type of compensatory behavior that is used to deal with the effects of a binge. This means the person purposely vomits in order to release the food out of his system. Notice if your friend goes to the bathroom repeatedly during or right after a meal. Listen for sounds of throwing up, using mouthwash, or brushing of the teeth (which will often occur after a purge).
Other compensatory behaviors include taking laxatives, diet pills, or diuretics as well as fasting or exercising excessively (several times or many hours per day).