 Start your meditation in a quiet, calm environment. You can find a quiet room in your home or a quiet area outside. Get into a comfortable, relaxing position. You can sit down with your legs crossed or lie on the floor.Ask others not to disturb you.
Turn off all electronic devices. If you listen to music, make sure it is relaxing, calm music.
 To start the meditation process, focus on your breathing. Breathe in through your nose, pushing your abdomen out as you do so. Breathe out slowly, pushing the air out so your belly is flat. Do this for about two to three seconds.Continue breathing in this way for a few minutes. It will help relax you.
Pay attention to each breath as you inhale and exhale. Be present in the moment. Gain awareness of your breathing and body.
 Part of compassion meditation is finding compassion for loved ones, random people you pass every day, and your enemies. Choose a person. Think about their suffering. Name it and make it tangible in your head.This suffering can be an illness, hardship, injury, emotional pain, loss, or difficult time in their life.
As you think about random people or enemies, think about how they are people and experience joy and suffering. Think about them as humans, with thoughts and feelings., As you visualize and focus on their suffering, pay attention to your feelings. Does it make you sad and upset? Do you feel differently in your chest? Are the warm, happy, loving feelings for this person still there?You may feel an ache or emotional pain when thinking about your loved one’s suffering. You may also visualize something different, like a cloud or a darker light.
If you are visualizing a neutral person or enemy, try to really make their suffering tangible. Part of having compassion for people is understanding their suffering and hardships.
 As you continue breathing steadily, think about that same light, balloon, bubble, or cloud. Put all your positive and loving feelings in that light, balloon, or bubble. Extend it mentally towards your loved one.Concentrate on the idea that your loved one be free from suffering and become happier.
Repeat a phrase like, “I hope you will not suffer anymore” or “I hope you find happiness and peace.”

, As your go through this meditation, go back to your heart region and focus on how you feel. Think about how you feel physically as you go through these compassion meditation practices. Log your body’s responses physically, emotionally, and mentally.