 Aim for a dark-colored fabric to go with the night. Dark blues and blacks are perfect for a night time ceremony.


Consider bringing a second set of clothing for the afterparty. Evening weddings often follow shortly after with a dinner and wedding reception. This afterparty tends to be more casual than the proceedings before it. While your reception clothing should remain elegant, you can switch up your dress for a more comfortable set such as a skirt and blouse.If you only have space for one set of clothing, aim for a formal dress that ends around the knee. That way, you'll be free to dance if you so choose., This means you can have a bit of fun with what you're wearing. Patterned ties and colored dress shirts will be deemed acceptable in this case.
 Makeup and hair for women should be more lustrous than it would be for regular events, but you shouldn't take it overboard to the point of looking outlandish. Conservative, elegant makeup tones are best for a wedding ceremony. Exceptions may apply if the couple or ceremony are going to be "alternative" in some shape or form.


Waving one's hair is considered glamorous, and works well for white-tie weddings.Curling hair is also a good way to match your look to the situation.
Makeup can include bolder colors than you'd normally use on the street, but you shouldn't get overly fancy with it.
 A tuxedo is standard fare for men at formal events. If you have the time to plan in advance and funds to spare, get a tuxedo fitted professionally by a tailor. A fitted suit will match your figure much better than a store-bought set, and it will have the added comfort to match. In lieu of a true tuxedo, a black buttoned suit should suffice.
 Dark leather shoes are the expected choice for men, while women may wear dress slippers or heels, depending on their preference and the likelihood of dancing. Whether you're wearing leather soles or heels, it is a good idea to color-coordinate your footwear with the rest of your outfit.


For an outdoor night time ceremony, women may wear sandals instead of heels.
Black socks are a given if you're wearing dress shoes.
 Where with white tie events a pique white vest is the norm, a fine white dress shirt will suffice in black tie wedding situations. Iron it out and put it on underneath your suit.


Broadcloth fabric is a good choice for dress shirts.Because you'll be wearing a white shirt, take care not to stain it with food, either before or during the wedding ceremony. Stains are notoriously difficult to get out of white clothing.
 Although it's not always expected at modern weddings, the fancy flair will make it obvious you've put effort into your appearance for the evening.
 Although clip-on versions are available, it may be seen as disrespectful to go the "easy" route. Instead, put in the manual effort for the optimal look. Some black tie weddings may tacitly expect regular business ties. If in doubt however, there are few ceremonies where a bowtie will be frowned upon.


Silk, satin and twill are all acceptable fabrics for a black tie event bowtie.

