 You must also have lived 14 years in America to run for President. (If you are not 35 yet, you can start planning early!)


There is no way around this. No, Barack Obama was not born in Kenya. You have to be a tried-and-true American. And it helps if you're an American with a squeaky clean criminal record, too.;
, Alright, we can discuss the pitfalls of America's materialism and vanity later, but the long and short of it all is that generally, the better-looking (and taller) candidate wins.So go primp yourself -- you certainly have a decent excuse to do so.


You'll need a nice suit (or two) and tie (red or blue) for your more important conventions and meetings. Then, when you're meeting with the townsfolk, you'll need to bust out that pair of pressed khakis and long-sleeved, white, button-down shirt. You can keep the cuff links in your drawer; you'll be rolling your sleeves up anyway.
Work on that smile. It needs to say, "You! Yes, you. I'm doing all of this for YOU because I CARE." Does your smile say that? When your smile says it, does your body agree?

, From this point on, you're a politician. Whether you believe what you're saying or not, you have to deliver it in a convincing and reasonable manner. You can have the words on a piece of paper to cover what comes out of your mouth, but will your body just be one giant tell?


Get yourself into uncomfortable situations. After all, you're gonna be getting some heat -- you need to know how to handle the kitchen. The last thing you want is to be a second-rate version of James Clapper, rubbing your forehead nervously while you tell the world the NSA doesn't follow around civilians. That'll lose you credit that took you years to establish.
Think in congruency. You know that one politician (one here meaning "dozens") that says something like, "I'm sincerely receptive to a dialogue with the young people," all the while shaking his finger or his fist at the audience? Neither are things you shouldn't do alone -- they're just obvious tells when combined. So get in the mirror and monitor not just your face, but your entire body.
 Prior to this election, every major party nominee since 1932 was either a current or former Vice President, Senator, Governor, or five-star general.If you're flipping burgers, you may want to start seeking out that managerial position now.


Your other option is to attract significant favorable notice from the news media, party officials, prospective campaign strategists, and donors. How you do it is up to you. But you may want to start with this next point:

, Lots and lots and lots and lots of friends. Specifically, make friends with people who have money. There is strength in numbers for sure, but you're also looking to meet people who can flit you across the country for all your campaign needs.


Don't be disheartened if you can't get the attention of a lot of people right away. These things take time. Plenty of other folks have gotten their names on the ballot with only a handful of backers. Bradford Lyttle ran in 2008 and received 111 votes. Surely you know 111 people. Jonathan E. Allen ran to the tune of 482 votes.The more the merrier, definitely -- but less won't keep you from running.

