 Eight become the reindeer and one the sleigh, so if possible, make the sleigh can different from the reindeer cans.
 On each reindeer can, make a mark about a quarter way down from the top of each can. You will be creating a hole here through to the opposite side of the can and in the exact same place on each can, to enable a dowel rod to be passed through all of the cans to keep them together.


Check that each mark is at the exact same height on every can. It helps to use the first can as the indicator.
 Make the hole big enough to fit the dowel rod through.
 Push the other dowel through the other four cans.


In the two front and two back cans in the rows of cans, make a mark about halfway down each can at the place where the cans would face each other when placed side by side. The marks must be exactly opposite each other, to ensure even joining, both ends.






Pierce holes at these marks and insert a piece of dowel about 3 inches (7.5cm) in length into the cans on one row.






Next, slip the dowel into the holes of the cans in the other row to join the two rows together. It's a good idea to add a dollop of glue too, to ensure the dowels don't shift when the ornament is hung or displayed.






The reindeer are now assembled. You'll get to decorate them shortly.


Find some strong wire and cut into two pieces about 4 inches (10cm) in length.






Pierce a hole into each can at the end of the reindeer set and insert the wires, one into each can.






Turn the sleigh can onto its side, lid end facing the reindeer. Then pierce two equivalent holes into the lid of the sleigh at to evenly spaced places in the middle half of the lid circle.






Check that the sleigh is held firmly to the reindeer––it should be hovering about halfway against the upright reindeer cans, in the air.
 Pull up the can tabs on each reindeer can. Attach antlers made from paper or wooden craft cut-outs. Stick a few tiny pompoms or glitter glue on to brighten them up. Ribbon can be zig-zagged across some of the antlers too.


Add a red pompom nose to one of the reindeer, for Rudolph.
 Glue some cotton wool onto the can for Santa's seat. Then glue a Santa figurine onto the cotton wool. Behind Santa, glue on some gifts. These can be made simply by wrapping small cubes of paper or card with Christmas paper.


For the reins, glue two long pieces of string either side of the front of the reindeer sets and bring the string up to Santa's hands (or as near an approximation of his hands as possible given your figurine).






To hang the ornament, attach a long piece of string tied to middle of the dowels in the reindeer sets and to the end of the Santa sleigh (you can use heavy duty glue or pierce two small holes in the end of Santa's sleigh and thread the string through and tie a knot).
 Check that it sits evenly––you might need to make a few adjustments to the hanger piece. Jolly good.

