 Nachos taste best while they are still warm. The longer you let them sit, the greasier they will become. If you end up having any left over, it might be best to throw them away. Nachos don't reheat well, and usually turn into a greasy, gloopy mess., Nachos are a finger food, much like French fries, so you'd want to eat them with your fingers. This is especially important if you are sharing a bowl of nachos with other people. If you are serving nachos at a party, consider including some baby wipes of hand sanitizer. This way, your guests can clean their hands before digging in—and keep them clean throughout the meal.


It is possible to eat nachos with a fork, but other people might laugh at you.
 Some hosts may put out a big bowl of tortilla chips and smaller bowls filled with various toppings. If you see this, you'd want to put a handful of tortilla chips onto your plate first, and then add the toppings. Start with the heavier items, such as meat and beans. Add on the cheese and salsa. Finish off with guacamole, sour cream, and if desired, green onion.


No matter how much you like a certain topping, don't take more than a spoonful or two until the other guests have taken their first helping. It is not polite to hog all the food.
 The most basic nacho dish consists of a bowl of tortilla chips slathered with cheese sauce. This makes a great appetizer, but a poor meal. You can take your nachos to the next level by piling on pulled pork or beans.
 When you look a bowl of nachos, you may notice that some chips are dry, and some are loaded with goodies. Take the dry nachos first, and use them to scoop up the goodies. Keep doing this until there is a thin layer of goodies. Only then can you pick up the goodie-covered chip. This will prevent you from taking too many toppings at once and making a big mess., If you don't want to get your fingers dirty while taking a goodie-covered chip, pick up a dry chip first. Place it over the covered chip, sandwiching the goodies in between. You now have a nacho sandwich that is dry on the top and bottom. You can now pick the chip up, and pop it into your mouth.

