 Even if you are only planning to spend $20 on each wedding party member, that can still add up. It's easy to go overboard when you are buying gifts for people you love, but you don't want to overspend on wedding party gifts when you are also most likely still paying for your wedding and reception.;
, The easiest way to spend the same amount on every member of your wedding party is to buy them all the same gifts. For example, buy your groomsmen engraved flasks or your bridesmaids a set of jewelry to wear on the wedding day.
 It may be difficult to find something that every member of the wedding party will like; in that case, it might be easier to pick out different gifts for each person. Make sure you keep track of how much you're spending on each person so you spend roughly the same amount on each of the gifts.
 If one of your bridesmaids is interested in wine, sign her up for a wine of the month club. If one of your groomsmen likes to hike, then buy him a book about hiking. Buying different gifts for each member of the wedding party shows that you put a lot of thought into each of the gifts.



Consider buying your groomsmen the ties they will need to wear on the day of the wedding. This will save them money, and it's a gift they can wear again.
Give your bridesmaids a bag full of things they might need on the wedding day, like tissues, flip flops, a stain stick, and gum.
 Most likely, your ring bearer and flower girl are very young, so get them something age-appropriate. You can even buy them the outfits you want them to wear on the wedding day.
 This option works well for giving a gift to the wedding officiant and the people you choose to read during the ceremony. Gift certificates are also a good fall-back gift if you simply cannot decide what to get someone in your wedding party.



If your gifts are alcohol-related, the perfect time to give them might be at the bachelor and bachelorette parties.
Give the gifts at the rehearsal dinner if you buy your wedding party items they will need on the day of the wedding.
If you choose gifts for your wedding party that they will not need for the wedding, then consider giving them on the day of the wedding. Do it early, though, so the task doesn't get forgotten in the chaos of the day.

