 If you live in an urban area, odds are there are support groups or awareness groups that you can become a part of. They may be labeled as support groups or they may just be a group of friends that gets together to celebrate who they are. Whatever it is, find a community that you can relate to. You'll strengthen them and they'll strengthen you. It may open plenty of doors as well.


Coping with stigma is one hundred times easier when you have a strong support group surrounding you. Having a wonderful network of family and friends is great, but having a group of people that have been there and that have done that will be even better. You'll have a web of advice and resources that can make each day that much brighter.
 It's easy to shut down your differences and pretend to be "normal." It's easy to stay at home and tell yourself, "I'm just not going to deal with this today." Resist! The more you get out there and make connections in your community, the more you’ll take control over the perceptions that some people may have about you.
 Your stigma may feel very specific to you, but it might be a large topic. For example, stigma around sexual orientation can manifest in a number of different ways. Same-sex parents may have trouble adopting children, or gay couples may not receive partner benefits. Or, gay men can’t donate blood. Focus on one angle as your central cause to raise awareness and make a positive change.


Enlist your awareness or support group to be involved with this cause.
 Telling your story may be what others need to hear. After all, the only way ignorance can go away is if people learn. The world will be better and wiser – and maybe more tolerant – if you share your story.


Write a book, start a blog, or give talks. Do something so the world sees that its intolerance is dated and, quite frankly, ridiculous. Make your stigmatized conditions something that's so commonly seen that it is no longer worthy of negative attention.
Putting your unique conditions in the public eye is the only way for people to get used to it. You're not fighting science or religion. You're really fighting time. The sooner you start, the sooner others will come around to the idea that your "conditions," or your "disability," isn't even something to bat an eye at. We're all different, and in that way, we're all the same.
 Once you identify an angle for raising awareness, write or call your Congressperson to ask for changes in policy.
 Use your energy to raise money for research or other awareness efforts. For example, if you have an illness that results in stigma, such as HIV, cancer, or MS, use it to raise money for research on this illness.


Talk with your local newspaper or TV station to spread the word about your fundraiser.
 Recognize that the same kind of ill treatment you're on the receiving end of happens to people all over the world for reasons of race, gender, religion, sexual preference, ethnic ancestry or mental illness (just to get started). Most people are fighting some sort of battle. While it may not be exactly like yours, it may be just as hard. Use your strength to make their battle easier.
 When you find someone who is stigmatized, support him. Rally around him to make sure he knows that he is not alone. Talk about how he is a great chef, instead of focusing on how he’s missing an arm.

