 If your neighbors ask you a lot of personal questions, tell them that it makes you uncomfortable. The next time they do it, give them a straight answer, like "That's not something I would like to share with you." Stare them down, and make it clear that you mean business. Then walk away. They'll hopefully get the message and back off.


This approach is blunt and straightforward. It may get the point across, but it may also offend your neighbor's pride.
Bear in mind that nosy neighbors aren't always trying to be obnoxious. He or she might be asking questions out of genuine curiosity. He or she may not have the tact or the social skills to know which questions are too personal. Be empathetic, but do not put up with anything that violates your space.
If you tell your neighbor to stop asking questions, but he or she continues, you may need to take more serious steps to address the problem.
 If your neighbors like to spy on you, catch them and say something that will embarrass them. Discreetly inform everyone who is with you, and then out of nowhere say something like, "Hey Mrs. Jones, having fun there?" Watch as their face turns red. If they deny it, then just ignore them, and give them a cold shoulder. If they do it again, get them alone and ask them nicely to stop.


Make jokes about them nosing. Say things like, "Now don't you go spying on me!" and they may realize that they are being too nosy. It might even make them stop.
 If they say, "So, Frank, buddy, what's up?" ninety-seven times a day, it wouldn't hurt to respond once, "Oh, just walking the dog," or "I'm good." This isn't the most exciting reply, and it makes it hard to think up further questions. Then ask, "How about you?" This can unsettle nosy people who don't like the feeling that you are nosing on them. If they aren't nosy and it's in your head, this is a great conversation starter.
 Make loud clapping noises in the backyard, play loud music, or flash your lights outside. If they keep snooping around in your business, these activities may irritate them and send them back indoors.


Be careful what you start. Escalating the situation may not drive the neighbors away—instead, it may prompt them to escalate things even further. Think before you act, and consider whether your neighbors are the type to react competitively. Remember: you need to live next to these people.
Bear in mind that if you begin to harass your neighbors, especially if you make loud noises, you are giving them grounds to call the police on you. If the police show up, it may not matter who "started it".
 If your neighbors get too nosy, you may find that your only option is to contact the local police or neighborhood watch force. If the neighbor just won't leave you alone, you may want to apply for a restraining order. If you find your neighbors snooping around on your property, stealing your things, or trying to break into your home, try calling the police so that you don't need to handle the situation on your own.

