 It is the tenth mission in the Dark Brotherhood storyline of the game. After completing the preceding “A Cure for Madness” quest, head back to the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary west of Falkreath and report to Astrid, the leader of the group, where she will tell you that you need to kill a gourmet chef serving for the emperor.;
, Take the northwestern road from the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary for a couple of miles until it leads you to a stone city with a singular stone keep towering overhead the place. This is the city of Markarth.
 Head to the middle of the city where you’ll find its main building—the Understone Keep. Enter the keep and take the main staircase up to the second floor.


Once you reach the second level, turn left and make your way straight to the last room in this area. Step inside this room and you’ll find the kitchen and a chef named Anton Virane.
 Talk to Anton and ask him where you can find Balagog Gro Nolob. He will hesitate telling you anything at first, but when an option to “intimidate” him appears on your game screen, select this option, and he will reluctantly tell you where you can find the gourmet chef.


After talking to Anton, you can opt to spare him by leaving the room or kill him.
 Based from the information Anton gave you, you’ll be able to find Balagog Gro Nolob in the Nightingale Inn. It’s located in the northeastern part of the map.


To easily get there, go to the city of Windhelm and take the road leading west to the city of Dawnstar. Around halfway, you should find a small wooden cabin near the river on the left side of the road. This is the inn you’re looking for.
 Once you get to the Inn, you’ll find Balagog either outside near the river during the day or inside the inn during nighttime. Approach and talk to him if you like, and once the conversation is over, he will try to run. Catch him and quickly kill him with whatever weapon or spell you have.


Balagog Gro Nolob has a very low health and can easily be taken care of.
 After killing him, you have the option of concealing his body. If you killed Balagog inside the inn, drag his body under the bed to hide it. If you killed him near the lake, take his body and throw it in the water.


This step is optional, but doing it earns your character bonus experience.

