 In Team Deathmatch you work with a team to get more kills than your opponents. There is no set number of lives and you don't have to worry about odd objectives or missions. This is the best mode for beginners since you don't have to sit and watch if you die and you get plenty of action in., Play a couple of private matches to learn the layout, weapon location, and spawn points (where dead players come back) of both teams. In the tight, chaotic games of Gears this knowledge is indispensable. You do not want to be under fire from your opponents at long range and have no idea where to find the sniper rifle, or accidentally hide out in the enemy base to recharge.
 Gears, unlike many shooters, has a higher premium on staying alive. There are only 5 people on your team, at most, so going down takes away 20% of your team's firing power. That can turn your death into the death of your whole team quickly if the opponent is well organized. While some risk is always necessary, you need to do everything to stay alive when possible.


Never run out into the open unless you've got someone covering with smoke grenades, Lancers, or both.
When moving in for a shotgun battle, ensure you have the element of surprise, better numbers, or both.
If you see that the other team has a power weapon, try and avoid them unless you've got a clear chance for the kill. Let them waste their ammo and put the fight back on an even playing field.
 The Boomshot, Longshot, Hammer of Dawn, and Torque Bow can and will turn the tide of the fight in your favor, and your goal as a team is to get and secure these weapons for as long as possible. Even if you don't get the weapon yourself, you want to defend the location and the teammate that has it. All four of these weapons can kill an enemy in one hit -- and that kind of power is the only way to win games.
 Teamwork is your first concern in any fight. You will be better as a team, and, without fail, the team that sticks together will win the majority of fights. While there are times when you need to venture out -- to pick up a weapon quickly or to deal with an enemy straggler -- you want to be communicating at all times with your team. Some important information to share is:


Enemy location, especially when enemies are in groups.
Your movement, especially regarding power weapons, important locations, and when you need cover.
When the enemy picks up or might win key weapons or locations.
When you need a revive or assistance, or when you see someone else who needs help and can get there.
When using explosives, like grenades.