 The side part should be above one of your eyebrows. You will start braiding from this part towards the opposite temple.


This side braid works great for shorter hairstyles., For a thin, head-band style braid, gather a 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide chunk.For a thicker, boho-style braid, gather a 2 inch (5.08 centimeters) wide chunk.
 Hold the two outside sections with one hand and the middle section with your other hand.
 Take the section closest to your hairline and cross it over the middle section. Then, take the section closest to the part, and cross it over the new middle section. After these two crossovers, you are ready to start French braiding. You do not need to standard braid anymore.









This method will give you a smooth, flat French braid. If you want a Dutch or reverse French braid, cross the outer sections under the middle sections instead of over.
 Grab the strand from your hairline. It should be the same thickness, or thinner, than the section itself. Add the strand to the hairline section. Your hairline section is now thicker.
 It is now the new middle section. If you are making a Dutch or reverse French braid, then cross the hairline section under the middle section instead.
 Grab the strand from the side part. It should be the same thickness, or thinner, than the section itself. Add the strand to the side part section. Your side part section is now thicker.
 It is now the newest middle section. If you are making a Dutch or reverse French braid, then cross the side part section under the middle section instead.
 Try to position the braid between your ear and side part. As you braid, try to keep the sections as tight as possible. Also, try to smooth the hairs down. This will give you a smoother, neater braid in the end. You can always muss it up later.


If you are doing a Dutch or reverse French braid, remember to cross the outer sections under the middle sections instead of over.
 If you are working with a thin, delicate braid, you can end it just above your ear, finish it off as a standard braid, and then tie it off with a clear hair elastic. If you are working with a thicker, boho-style braid, you can continue French braiding it so that it wraps around your head. Read on to find out how to do that.
 Start French braiding horizontally across the back of your head instead, until you reach the other side of your neck. At this point, you can tie the hair off with a hair tie. You can also continue braiding it standard fashion, and tie it off when you are 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) away from the ends., Not only will this help hide the hair tie, but it can help make your braid look more interesting. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Add a silk flower to your braid for a boho look. The bigger the flower, the better.
Consider twisting the rest of the braid into a bun and securing it with bobby pins. You can then tuck an ornate hair comb into the bun.
If you did a mini side braid, consider tying the end off with some leather lace and leaving the rest of your hair loose for a boho or elvish look.

