 One way you can help guide your teen’s fashion choices a bit more is to set limits around their wardrobe early. You may make suggestions on what your teen wears when they are younger in age and just starting to get into fashion. You may also help them get dressed when they are younger so you can encourage them to wear certain items of clothing and get them used to certain styles. This may make it easier for you to sway them on their fashion choices when they are older.For example, you may tell your teen, "It is not acceptable for you to wear your pants below your waist" or "I am not okay with you wearing clothing that show off too much skin."
If you have more than one child, you should set the same limits for all of your children so there is no preferential treatment. Having the same guidelines around clothing for everyone in your household can make it easier for you to enforce the same limits.
 You should also let your teen know what your expectations are around their wardrobe, even if they may not want to listen to what you have to say. Keep your expectations consistent and clear so your teen does not feel you are making them up on the fly.For example, you may tell your teen that you are not okay with low cut tops, booty shorts, or pants that sag below the waist. You may tell them you are fine with tops that fit them well but do not expose too much skin and pants that sit properly at the waist.
 You may also dress yourself in a certain way so your teen sees you in clothing that is appropriate. Practicing what you preach will set a good example for your teen and show them that they can still look polished and put together without showing too much skin.


For example, you may wear your pants with a belt to show your teen that you approve of wearing a belt with your pants so they sit at the waist. Or you may wear clothing that does not expose too much skin so your teens sees that they can dress without showing too much skin.
 Another way you can set guidelines around your teen’s fashion choices is to go shopping with them. Suggest a shopping date where you give them spending money or have them bring their own money to spend. Be willing to take your teen to where they’d like to shop and give feedback on outfits they choose. Do not try to control where they shop or what they buy. Instead, give your input and only put your foot down when absolutely necessary.For example, your teen may want to shop at a trendy boutique at the mall. They may go for clothing that you find appropriate as well as a few items you think are inappropriate. Suggest that they buy more of the appropriate items and try to convince them to only buy one inappropriate item. This way, you limit them without having them feel you are being too controlling.

