 Unlike infants and children, adults are capable of making independent assessments of their condition and whether assistance is needed. Before stepping in and attempting to help, always ask if you can offer assistance. If the person is in emotional pain, he may need space and time to process emotions before including another person in the coping process. Sometimes, just the offer of assistance is enough to help a person cope with distress.


If the situation is not serious and the person welcomes a distraction, tell a joke or funny story. Comment on something funny/strange that you read online. If the person is a stranger or distant acquaintance, ask him non-intrusive questions about his likes and preferences.
 Is the pain physical? Emotional? Has the person had a shock or been victimized in some way? Ask questions but also be observant of the situation and surroundings for clues.


If the person is crying and appears to have been injured or in need of medical assistance, call 911 immediately. Remain close by until help arrives. If the location is unsafe, move the person to a safer location nearby if possible.
 In the case of a friend or loved one, it may be helpful to offer a hug or hold hands. Even an arm around the shoulders can be a source of support and comfort. Different situations permit different degrees of physical contact, however; if you are unsure whether the person will take comfort from this kind of assistance, always ask.
 Without necessarily changing the subject, attempt to focus on positive aspects of what is causing emotional distress. In the case of the loss of a loved one, for example, mention good times that were shared with the person and things about her that were loved. If possible, reminisce over funny memories that may elicit a smile or possible laugh. Being able to laugh can exponentially reduce the urge to cry and improves overall mood.
 Crying is a natural response to intense emotional distress and, while there are occasions where it is in opportune or inappropriate, provided no one else is being hurt, letting someone cry could ultimately be safest, most supportive option.

