 Sit down and make a list of every recurring debt you must pay - for example: rent or mortgage payments; utilities; car payments and insurance; etc. Then make another list: which of these expenses are essential and unchanging, and which can be renegotiated or even dropped? For example, rent and mortgage payments are essential and (usually) unchanging. However, you may be able to negotiate a lower payment on your car insurance - especially if you will no longer be driving to work on a daily basis.;
, Every state has different regulations, but it is much easier to apply than it used to be. In fact, you may be able to do everything online. Just Google "unemployment" + and proceed from there. (And don't be embarrassed! Remember - you paid into this while you were working, so you're entitled to take it out now that you're not!)

, If your spouse is still employed, you still have a steady income. Sit down with your spouse and look for ways to economize. It IS possible to stretch one income to cover two people. Google "frugal"!

, This may not be something you really want to do, and if you have enough money in your savings accounts and from severance pay, you may not have to do it. But it may be an option you'll have to face. Start now by talking with family members you get along with well. Ask them if they have a spare room where you could stay for a short period of time in order to economize on rent. Offer to help with household chores, such as babysitting or doing yard work. It may seem humiliating to have to ask for help, but put yourself in their shoes: if you knew that a beloved family member were in your situation, wouldn't you want to help them in any way you could?

, Do you belong to an expensive gym? Consider dropping it and find other ways to get your exercise. Walking is free and beneficial. You may also be able to find free, or cheap, exercise equipment online at places like craigslist, or at a local thrift shop.
 If you live in or near a large city, there are undoubtedly lots of thrift stores (like Goodwill and Salvation Army). Don't overlook them as a source for clothing and other household goods. You may even find new, unwrapped toys, which you can set aside to give your children for special occasions.
 While you were working, you probably spent a lot of money eating breakfast and/or lunch out. Take advantage of this down time to learn to cook your own, and your family's meals. You can save a lot of money and improve your family's health at the same time.
 It's a good idea because not only will you be helping your local community, but some volunteer jobs may lead to paying employment. Even if it doesn't, it will give you something to put on your resume. Potential employers will be impressed if you've continued to work and improve your skills, regardless of whether you got paid or not.
 Perhaps you dreamed about this while you were working full-time. Now's your chance to see if you can really do this. Consider selling used books on Amazon or collectibles on eBay. Start with books and other items you already have around the house, to hone your selling skills. Even if it doesn't work out, chances are good you will bring in a little extra cash.
 For many people, long periods of unemployment can lead to despair and depression. Take care of yourself in whatever way you can. Reward yourself and your family for your economizing efforts at least once a week. Go out to a nice (not too expensive) restaurant, or visit a local park.
 There are a lot of other people in your position right now. Connect with them through forums and chat boards on the Internet. Sometimes it helps just knowing that other people understand what you are going through.

