 Though this experience may be a bit overwhelming for you, you can combat this through doing a bit of information-digging. Do some research on the area, country, or town that you are in. Having a greater context and understanding will help you to adjust better and have more knowledge of the culture.For instance, perhaps you were accepted into a University that is located in a predominantly Native American community and you were not aware of that beforehand. Research the local tribe as well as the community’s history. You will likely develop a greater appreciation because of it.
 Find out as much as you can about the culture of the area so that you don’t commit any social faux pas. For instance, if you are in Israel, you may want to keep your shoulders and thighs covered at all times. You do not want to offend others out of your own ignorance of the customs., Familiarize yourself with the setting that you are in. Take some time each day to walk and explore your surroundings. If you are in a safe area, you can go alone or ask a friend to walk with you.Keep your phone on you so that you can find your way home should you get lost.
 Take some time to truly immerse yourself in the language of your location. Try to learn at least a few basic terms and phrases that will help you get by during your stay. If you will be in the area an excess of six months, however, you might want to consider learning more. Try to learn at least one or two new phrases per day.


Try to have conversations with local speakers.
Watch television shows or movies in the language to learn it more readily.
 Though you might be missing the food from home, you now have the opportunity to experience an entirely new array of dishes that you might love. Try as many of these foods as you can. Find a buddy to try them with you and ask the locals for the best spots to visit., Find ways to get more involved in the community that you are in. Perhaps you come from a predominantly Black community and now find yourself in a town where over 90% of the population is white. Try to find a community of people with interests similar to you, while also finding those who you can identify with racially.For instance, perhaps there is a local book club who is scheduled to read a book that you are interested in. Join this club and try it out for a while.
 Once you begin to become a bit more acclimated to the culture, avoid the urge to “go Native.” While it is okay to appreciate and participate, avoid the desire to immerse yourself so fully that you forget your own culture. An example would be travelling to India and getting henna tattoos without understanding the deeper meaning of the ink, which is traditionally used in wedding ceremonies.
 Perhaps during your journey in this new place, you have made a few mistakes. Forgive yourself and work to avoid these missteps in the future. Consult with locals, your supervisor if you are on a study abroad trip, as well as websites related to the culture there.


For instance, in certain cultures, if you are in someone’s home, it is considered rude to turn down food. Find out the norms in your area and practice them.
 Finally, you should set goals for yourself and then plan action items that will help you achieve them. Perhaps you have a goal of having a 10 minute conversation in Spanish within two months, or making three local friends. Whatever your goals, stick to them so that you can adapt more successfully and intentionally.