 Hopefully you have completed the intro if not then look at the tips section.;
,, After this you should have very little problem making it to the little solos after choruses get as much star power as possible in this 1st chorus .


The 1st solo shouldn't knock you out. there are two star powers in this solo and you should use yours after getting or missing the 2nd star power. after the star power is gone it should be the next part which is an easy combination of green red yellow and blue frets keeping your rock meter high.
After this, there shouldn't be a worry either. A few tricky parts, but nothing to knock you out.
 here is the second chorus where there is star power to be collected. when long notes, whammy for as much star power as possible. this part is very easy and you should get your star power back. if not don't worry because there is more before the main solo

, Next after the chorus is another mini solo. This shouldn't knock you out either but will take your rock meter down a lot but still keep your star power. From now on is where it gets tricky.
 now we are 1/2 way through the song and at the synth death. The 1st few notes are the easiest star power of the song and should be collected. Whammy on the final note for more star power. hopefully at this point you will have full star power. Then there are plenty of hammer ons which is tricky. on the red and yellow only points keep your finger on the red and just press the yellow when necessary. The slides up and down may catch you out but you must go for every note as possible. The star power at the end of synth death isn't much bother.
 At this point your rock meter is most likely very low. But don't use your star power just yet because then there is the grinding scales and solo fills. the grinding scales are a life saver after synth death as it can help get your rock meter right back up to the top as it easy an easy case of just strumming up and down and changing fingers. This is not fast at all. these and the solo fills shouldn't be much bother.
 This is tricky at the end as this normally gets me flashing red on my rock meter. This will probably do the same for you and you must use your star power about 1 or 2 seconds before Herman's solo begins. if you use it earlier the solo will be harder as you will be doing parts of the solo without star power. if you use it during Herman's solo you will miss a star power needed for the solo. To see when to use it go on practice and go on the climactic build up. from here it is easy to see where the last note is. Now the main solo begins!


Herman's solo: This is very fast and can knock out many talented guitar hero players. However, if you have used the star power when mentioned above, then this should be a walk in the park. hopefully your star power will run out right before the easy part of the solo which contains star power. you WILL need this. if missed then you will fail.
Sam's solo: For many this can be very very hard. However, in many parts of this there are points where you can hold the lowest note and just pull off on higher notes for example. There is a point where there is a sequence involving green then red, green then yellow, green then blue. Just hold the green down in this case and press the rest of the frets and you will be fine.
Herman's solo2: this isn't very fast but can catch people out. The hardest part of this is the part to collect the star power which you will need to collect. if not you will have to survive the extremely fast "what the" without it! It's possible but the odds of doing it are not very high.

what the: if you have collected the 2 star powers from Herman's solo 1 and Herman's solo 2 then use here and you will have no problem. if however your rock meter is in the top 1/2 of the green, you can probably do this without it which will make the twin solo easier.
twin solo: this is the final part of the solo. This may feel good to get to but the challenge isn't over as this is considered by many as the hardest part. The 1st 1/2 up to the star power is easy and won't take much of your rock meter out. If you have completed the what the using star power then you are in for a challenge. if you have completed the "what the" without using star power, use it immediately after getting the one in the middle of this solo. this will carry you through the solo all the way to the end of the solo. if you haven't then you are in trouble of failing here. The only advice i can give here is that only the final part where there is a continuous chain of 3 notes, hold the bottom note and tap the other 2 otherwise you will fail guaranteed.
 it's not over yet. this bit is easy and you won't need to collect the star power.
 After is the final chorus containing a very challenging star power involving many reds. Your rock meter should be high at this point and you can make it through this is if you go for as many reds and greens and oranges as possible. don't try to do tapping with our other hand just strum with it and go for as many as possible You are almost certain not to get the star power but as this lasts about 2 seconds this won't be much bother.
 this is the same as the post instabilities at the start of the song. your rock meter shall go back up to the top here. there are some star powers here to. They aren't needed but they will be nice for points

,: this is the final part of the song and you should complete as long as you keep your finger on the red and go for the blue and orange.
