 Thigh high socks are inherently bold and definitely lean toward the sexy side of chic fashion, even if you carefully plan the rest of your outfit around them. Don't be too surprised if you raise a few eyebrows when you slip them on. Fashion is a mode of self expression and it shouldn't matter what people's eyebrows do.


That being said, there are definitely ways to wear thigh high socks without looking trashy. Balance is key, and pairing the socks with with casual or structured pieces can tone down a night look for going out, to a more casual or conservative outfit.
Since thigh high socks are somewhat provocative, they won't be appropriate for every setting or occasion. As a general rule, you should avoid wearing them at the office or to formal events. They usually work best when incorporated into a daytime weekend look.;
, If you've never worn thigh high socks, it's best to start with dark neutral colors.Black, dark gray, dark brown, and navy blue socks are some of the easiest to work with.


If you feel adventurous, consider choosing thigh high socks in a non-neutral dark color, like plum or burnt orange. The deep shade will still tone the socks down enough to make them look fashionable acceptable in most social circles.
Patterned thigh high socks are difficult to coordinate, but as long as the pattern is classy and the rest of the outfit is relatively muted, you might be able to make them work.
In most circumstances, you should avoid white thigh high socks and other notably light colors. At best, white socks will make it seem as though you're dressing up as a school girl, resulting in an overall juvenile or costume-like appearance. At worst, they could make your outfit look cheap rather than sophisticated.
 Textured socks are a great way to add a little visual interest without taking your look too far over-the-top. Keep the color of the socks relatively dark and basic, though, and avoid socks that have both texture and pattern.


For casual ensembles, consider ribbed or crocheted socks. Loose, scrunchy socks are also fairly casual, but they have an additional cute or youthful edge very 90s though so know what you're getting into with those.
For sultrier styles, consider choosing sheer thigh high socks. Avoid the fishnet look, however, since these socks can quickly make your style look desperate and cheap.
 If thigh high socks seem a little too bold for you, tone them down by layering them with tights or other socks. Doing so will keep more or all of your leg covered, providing extra coverage and added warmth.


Sheer tights are a favorite among many fashionistas.Choose tights that match the color of your socks to maintain an even, unbroken appearance and elongate the leg.
Patterned tights are a good choice if you want to make your outfit cute or whimsical. Since many patterned tights can seem too overwhelming when worn alone, slipping thigh high socks over them can actually downplay the effect and make the pattern seem less loud.
If you still want to show a little skin, consider wearing knee high socks over your thigh high socks. Choose two colors that are distinct from one another yet still neutral. You'll end up looking a little more covered without losing the seductive edge offered by thigh high socks in their natural state., Flats and moderately low heels work well with thigh high socks since they tend to seem subtle and classy.Most low heels work well with thigh high socks, but professional or sophisticated styles may work better than evening styles. As a rule of thumb, opt for shoes with a sturdy heel and closed, rounded/square toes. Oxford heels are one good option worth exploring.
 Boots look great with thigh high socks, too. Choose ankle high to knee high boots; anything taller might rise about the tops of your socks, which defeats the point of wearing them.


Both ankle boots and knee high boots work equally well with thigh high socks, so the choice is merely a matter of personal preference.
Color is actually a more pressing concern. If you match the color of your socks to the color of your boots, you can create the appearance of faux thigh high boots. If you want to keep your boots and socks distinct, however, you should make sure that the colors coordinate without matching.
 It's a bold choice that leans on the sexy side. But that's your decision.


Skip shoes with notably tall, skinny heels and pointed toes. These styles tend to have a sexy edge, which is fine under many circumstances, but it might be too much when paired with the naturally sultry thigh-high sock.
On a similar note, you should also avoid footwear that seems too loud, even if the style isn't necessarily sexy. Thigh high socks are a bold fashion choice, so if you pair them with equally bold or loud shoes, you might create a disjointed style instead of a coordinated one.
 This is one of the most important rules to remember when you're wearing thigh high socks. Since these socks lean toward the provocative side of fashion, you need to balance them out with conservative tops and bottoms.


In other words, you should avoid wearing your thigh highs with pieces you usually consider sexy. Pass on skin-tight garments, tops with a notably low neckline, or tops with an open back.
Keep your outfit fairly subdued in terms of color and pattern, too. Loud patterns may not make your outfit look too seductive, but they could make it seem too busy since they'll likely compete with your eye-catching socks instead of coordinating with them.
 There are plenty of tops that work well with thigh high socks. Oversized tops and proportionate flowing tops tend to keep the look more casual. If you want to make your look a little more sophisticated, gravitate toward structured garments.


Some good casual options include baggy sweaters, tunics, kimono-style blouses, and comfortable cardigans.
For something a little dressier, consider button-down blouses, fitted jackets, or fitted blouses with high necklines (think turtlenecks and Mandarin collars).
 Skirts and dresses are probably some of the easiest garments to pair with thigh high socks. Since thigh high socks highlight your womanly curves, they coordinate well with these naturally feminine pieces.


During the autumn and spring, you can pair thigh high socks with spring and summer dresses to prolong the garment's season. In cold winter months, thigh high socks work great with sweater dresses and other heavy winter styles.
Regardless of the exact style, try to stick with skirts that flow away from the body instead of hugging your hips. Good options include skater style skirts, A-line skirts, and circle skirts.
 Shorts and rompers both work well during the autumn and spring months, when warm weather just left or is just around the corner. Wearing thigh high socks with shorts and rompers will usually create a notably casual look, but this may vary depending on the style shorts you choose.


For instance, if you wear the socks with denim shorts, casual khaki shorts, or patterned shorts, you'll likely create a fairly laid back look.
On the other hand, if you pair the socks with structured, tailored shorts made from formal trouser material, you'll create something a little more savvy chic.
Note that rompers usually fall under “higher end” fashion when compared to shorts, so choosing a romper over shorts and a separate shirt is an easy way to stay stylish. Some rompers are still more casual than others, however, and the exact look will change depending on fabric, color, and pattern., To make the most of your thigh high socks, you need to find a good balance between “too high” and “too low” as far as your lower hemline is concerned.


The hem of your shorts or skirt should be high enough for the tops of your socks to show; otherwise, you may as well skip the socks and go for tights.
On the other hand, hems need to be long enough to avoid straying into “slutty” territory. If there's a chance that your undergarments could peek through from beneath your skirt or shorts as you go about your day, your bottom hemline is way to high.
As a general guideline, aim for 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.5) of space between the top edge of your sock and the bottom hemline of your skirt or shorts. This amount will vary depending on how long or short your legs are.
 If warmth is your primary interest, you could easily pair thigh high socks with a pair of skinny jeans. This is probably one of the most conservative ways to wear these types of socks.


Wearing the socks over skinny jeans still gives your style fashionable flair. You could technically wear thigh high socks under loose-fitting flared jeans, but since no one can see them, they won't earn you any additional fashion points.
The best way to do this is to match your skinny jeans and thigh high socks with knee high boots. You only want a little of the sock to show above the top of your boot; too much can look awkward and out of place.
 The exact accessories you choose will need to vary on your overall outfit, but as a general rule, stick to simple pieces that pull the look together instead of loud pieces that demand the spotlight.


Since thigh high socks are often worn in autumn and winter, scarves and hats are some of the most natural accessories you'll see.
Match the style of your accessories to the style of your overall outfit. Avoid berets and beanies, you'll look like you're straight out of a movie from 2005.

