 When your partner is feeling jealous and hurls an accusation at you, it can be tempting to lie. However, it's better to come clean and talk about what you're feeling in that moment.For example, if your partner accuses you of flirting with someone, you could say, "Yes, I was being a little too nice to that person. I'm sorry that I hurt your feelings. I want you to know that while they're attractive, I'm totally in love with you, heart, mind, and soul."

, If you're the jealous partner, you may be tempted to snoop on your partner to find out if they're cheating on you or being unfaithful. Unfortunately, social media makes this pastime all too easy. If you're looking for something to catch your partner on, you'll probably find it because you'll read too much into every interaction. The more you "find," the more you'll want to snoop. Instead, it's best to avoid this activity altogether., That is, it's one thing to say "I love you," or "I value you," and it's another thing to show that in your actions. To build trust, you need to make sure that your actions aren't contradicting what you're saying.For instance, if you say, "I value your time" but you're constantly making excuses to get out of dates or time with that person, your actions are contradicting your words.
 You may want to earn trust overnight, but that's not realistic. It's particularly a problem if your partner has had their trust betrayed in the past, either by you or someone else. It can take as long as several years to earn someone's full trust., If jealousy is causing major rifts in your relationship, you may want to see a counselor with your partner. A counselor can help you work through your issues together, as well as help you identify what triggers jealousy in you or your partner.To find a therapist, first consult your insurance to see what coverage you have. Look at your coverage to find an in-network counselor. You can also ask for recommendations from close friends.
If you don't have insurance or your insurance doesn't cover therapy, look at sliding scale clinics, which charge based on your income.

