 This is the first and most important part of creating your own FanDuel league. Will this be a friendly game between drinking buddies who want to try their hand at managing their fantasy football teams? Or will your league be an intense competition between serious fantasy managers willing to put down cold, hard cash on their ability to foresee a player’s performance in future matches?
, Free leagues or low entry fees are excellent for new players seeking to create a casual and experimental environment while drafting teams for each of the game days. On the other hand, leagues with high entry fees will draw in serious fantasy managers, but also tend to intimidate new players to the point where they become reluctant to join in. Defining the stakes will allow you to attract the kind of participants you want to bring into your league., There’s an Android and an iOS version of the FanDuel app, not to mention the browser version that can be accessed on virtually any device. What new players might not understand, however, is the scoring system of FanDuel as well as the simple fact that it deals in daily fantasy sports games – not weekly or seasonal games. Point them to FanDuel’s rules section, which can be found at fanduel.com/rules, so that everyone will be on the same page when it comes to how FanDuel works., As of writing, the current versions of the FanDuel app (version 1.2 on Android, version 1.9.1 on iOS) do not support contest creation. You’ll have to log into your FanDuel account using a browser on your mobile device. This is easily done as your mobile device should have a browser built into the system., Once you’ve logged into the FanDuel website using a browser, tap the “Create Contest” on the upper right-hand side of the Lobby screen. Select the specific league you want to draw your games (NFL or CFB), set the date and time for your contest. Select the “League” contest type, set the contest to “Friends Only,” select the size of the league, set the entry fee and set the prize structure. Name your contest if you wish. You will then be moved to a screen where you’ll draft your roster, although you don’t need to do this at that moment. You can form your team any time before the games start, but the important thing is that the contest has been created and you can start inviting people to join in., If you want to create a private league between friends, they need to be signed up on FanDuel. You then need to send out invites to their FanDuel accounts once the contest has been created for them to be added to your friends list., FanDuel will cancel any privately created contest if the entries are not all filled. This is why it is very important that the people you invite to the league will be able to fill their lineups before the game is scheduled to begin. If someone is unable to do so and the games are about to begin, you can email FanDuel support and make a request to open up your contest to the public in order to fill the slots. Or you can cancel the slots and adjust your league stats accordingly., FanDuel focuses on daily games, not weekly or season-long leagues. This means that you’ll have to manually track each individual participant’s scores. This is best done using a spreadsheet set up to automatically calculate scores for you., List down the names of all your participants in the first column. On the second column, jot down the total points each participant’s fantasy lineup has accrued during the day’s games. Copy this format from the third column onwards. This will give you a record for everyone’s performance throughout the season’s games.

You can also calculate the average rank of each participant accumulates over multiple game days. This statistic will be pretty useful for determining the overall winner in your custom-built league by determining who finishes the highest once the league is done and over with.
Use colors to make the spreadsheet easier to understand and more interesting to check out. One example is to shade the cell one color (light gold) to indicate the overall winner of the week, another color (light silver) for the second-placer and another color (light bronze) for the third-placer.
It is also highly recommended that you incentivize players to keep participating each week. You can do this by offering an additional prize for top-scoring players, like treating him or her to free beers on top of the cash prize gained by winning the day’s fantasy contest. You can go the opposite route by having the last-placer treat everyone with beers. These incentives will keep players interested in the league while doing their best to formulate a high-scoring lineup.

