 Social anxiety disorder involves extreme feelings of shyness and self-consciousness and can lead to feeling uncomfortable in everyday social situations. Tasks like meeting new people, participating in group activities, making eye contact, or talking with other kids at lunch may seem too difficult. If the fears of social interaction affect the child’s ability to interact with others, it may be more than shyness and be considered social anxiety disorder.Answering some questions might help you to identify social anxiety disorder in your child. Seeking help from a mental health professional is still necessary, but "yes" answers to certain questions may indicate that your child has social anxiety disorder. Some questions to ask include:


Does the child fear meeting people or making small talk?
Is there a fear of being the center of attention?
Does the child fear being called on in class, speaking up in groups, or taking exams?
Is there a fear of speaking in public or feeling fearful, embarrassed, teased or criticized?;
, Social anxiety disorder can have a wide range of symptoms that a mental health professional may use to diagnose a child with social anxiety disorder. If you suspect that your child has social anxiety disorder, then you will need to take him or her to see a mental health professional for a diagnosis. When you take your child to see a mental health professional, she may be asked about the feelings she has in certain social settings. Some emotional symptoms your child may report to you or a therapist include:feeling extremely self-conscious and anxious in normal situations, such as at school or around other kids
having intense fear about an upcoming social situation in the weeks or months leading up to it, such as attending a birthday party
worrying that other people are looking at him or her
being afraid that other children will notice that he or she is nervous
being afraid of situations where he or she might be embarrassed

, Social anxiety disorder can also cause some physical symptoms when the child is in a frightening social situation. A mental health professional may also use these symptoms to make a diagnosis. Some physical symptoms that you may notice in your child include:blushing
being short of breath
having an upset stomach
trembling
feeling tightness in the chest or a rapid heartbeat
sweating or feeling hot
feeling dizzy or faint

, To avoid feeling uncomfortable or to cope with uncomfortable feelings, your child may change his or her behavior. These behavioral changes may also be considered by a mental health professional when making a diagnosis. Some behaviors to watch for include:not wanting to go to school and possibly even playing sick to avoid having to go
not talking to other kids or adults
clinging to you or to a friend
refusing to speak or read in class

, A proper diagnosis is required to treat social anxiety. A mental health professional can diagnose the child by using a review of symptoms and concerns, family history and personal history, medical and psychiatric history, and a mental status exam.This person may ask about duration of symptoms and symptom intensity, age of onset, and how the symptoms affect functioning at home, school, or other environments.


Once the mental health professional has made a diagnosis, he or she will discuss treatment options with you.
You may wish to see your child’s pediatrician to discuss social anxiety and obtain a referral to a mental health professional.
 Behavior therapy is effective with long-term results for social anxiety in children.Behavior therapy helps the child to recognize thoughts and feelings that contribute to feeling anxious, and then learn new ways to approach these behaviors. Children respond especially well to cognitive behavior therapy. Look for a specialist in anxiety disorders.


For information on how to choose a therapist, check out How to Choose a Therapist.
 A therapist may include parents in treatment as a means to help the child overcome the anxiety with the help of parents. Parents help play a role to reinforce positive behaviors and coping skills when the child is having a difficult time.This may include educating the parents about social anxiety, what environments or situations may trigger social anxiety in a child, and how to handle difficult moments effectively.
 Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is the treatment method of choice. If an older child or adolescent does not respond to CBT and symptoms are severe, some therapists may suggest combining therapy with medication.Generally for children, Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) medication is recommended first before benzodiazepines or other medications.Make an appointment with a child psychiatrist to discuss medication options.


Medication is a way to cope with symptoms, not treat disorders. Many medications run the risk of adverse side-effects.If you do choose medication, ensure that the benefits outweigh the risks and side-effects.
Many anxiety medications (such as benzodiazepines) can become addictive.They can also cause behavioral inhibition.When treating children with medication, watch for adverse side effects and habit forming behaviors.
 As your child goes through therapy, you should notice some improvement in your child’s symptoms, even if the changes are small at first. Your child may receive “homework” assignments to complete as part of his or her therapy. Make sure that your child completes these assignments.


You may also want to talk to your child’s therapist to find out what else you can do to help your child at home and at school.
 Anxiety often manifests in the body, so teaching your child some ways to calm him or herself down may help when she is feeling anxious. One way to do this is to teach your child how to do a deep breathing exercise. Let your child know that he or she can practice calm breathing any time and any place, and no one will even notice what is happening.


Teach him or her calm breathing. Start by inhaling through the nose for four seconds, holding the breath for one to two seconds, then exhaling through the mouth for four seconds.Make sure that you check with your child’s therapist before advising your child to sue deep breathing.
 Start with the least scary situation and encourage your child to courageously confront the fear. As tasks become easier, move on to more difficult situations.For example, you may want to start by sitting on a bench with your child at the park. Spend a month or two doing this until your child feels comfortable. Then have your child sit on a park bench closer to the playground with a game or coloring book and see how he or she reacts.
 Older children and teens may benefit from learning how to challenge negative thoughts. Your child’s therapist can help your child to reduce the self-focus by encouraging him or her to look to the immediate surroundings. When you notice the child engaging in negative thought patterns, challenge them. Are people really staring or making fun of the child? What will happen if he or she does embarrass himself or herself?Get the child to start asking questions of the self. Are people really seeing him or her in a negative light? Does the child feel like he or she “knows” things will go wrong? Is he or she blowing things out of proportion or attributing disastrous results to the situation?

, Bullying is a serious problem and you should do something if you think your child might be being bullied. If your child seems worried about what people think of him or her, then try to determine if other kids are actually picking on your child.


Ask your child what’s going on and talk to your child’s teacher as well.
You should also find out about the bullying policy at your child’s school to determine what is being done to stop and prevent bullying.
 Your child may have a lot of strong feelings, but he or she may not yet know how to understand them, label them, or figure out where they come from. Your child may recognize the feeling, but not much else. Teach your child about anxiety and how it may feel.Say, “Anxiety is something that helps our minds and bodies signal danger. If you go to the edge of a cliff or see a bear, your body will react in a way that signals danger to help you get through that scary situation. Sometimes, the body can react in the same way as seeing a bear even when there isn’t a big danger ahead. That’s called anxiety. The body signals danger even when there isn’t any.”

, Explain to your child that some people feel scared or embarrassed when in front of other people. It might be scary to talk to people in a group, be around other people, or speak in front of people. Let him or her know that feeling this way is normal and that he or she is not the only person who feels this way.Say, “There are times you might feel like everyone is watching you or that you are “on stage” when in front of people. You might feel embarrassed about saying the wrong thing, or that you’ll do something wrong, or that people will think badly of you. A lot of children and adults have this exact same fear.”

, While it may be frustrating to have a child with social anxiety, be as supportive and helpful as possible. Avoid the lectures, put-downs, and criticisms and instead, focus on encouraging the child to be courageous and face the fears.Praise the attempts at social interaction, even when they don’t turn out perfectly. Praise the effort and brainstorm ways to help him or her be more successful in the future.
 When a social situation is coming up, help your child prepare for the situation. You can help him or her prepare for conversation by having topics to talk about, or help the child prepare by having the clothes picked out and any items in place.Talk about the social situation beforehand and discuss any problems that may arise and how to solve them.
Encourage your child to feel calm and comfortable going into the situation.
Reflect on previous social interactions that have gone well. Talk about what was positive and how it can be applied to the coming social situation.

