 Saying, "I want to lose 50 pounds in the next couple of weeks" is just plain unrealistic. The weight did not go on that quickly, so it will not come off that quickly. If you set goals that you cannot possibly obtain, of course you will be discouraged.


Consult a medical professional to determine what a sensible weekly or monthly goal should be. What is right for one person will be unhealthy for another, depending on your starting weight, age, activity level, gender, and so on.
Consider getting a trainer (more on this later). When becoming more physically fit, it helps to know what you are capable of, and you simply may not know what is realistic and what is not. A good trainer can help you develop a goal and a plan to help you reach your potential.
In general, the slower the weight comes off, the more likely it will stay off. A drastic weight loss will usually be interpreted by your body as a famine situation, creating a nasty cycle in which metabolism drops, you suffer physical discomfort, and generally you cannot keep it up.
One pound is 3,500 calories. To lose a pound a week, you can cut 500 calories a day from your diet, burn an extra 500 calories a day through exercise, or some combination of the two.;
, Finding a partner lets you tap into the power of teamwork. Having someone to cheer you on, be accountable to, and work out with will keep you more likely to stay on track.


Ideally, have an individual with similar health goals. If you are a 45 year old woman trying to lose 40 pounds, you may be mismatched with your 21 year old co-worker who is trying to lose 10 pounds.
You can find online weight loss partners, too. There are many online weight loss sites that help you pair up with a partner. This is especially helpful if you do not have a good person to choose in your social circle, or perhaps want to keep your weight loss private.
Make sure you like your partner. If you do not like your partner, or he or she turns it into an unpleasant experience, you will be less motivated to continue.
Depending on your regimen, this person should either aid you in eating better, working out more, or both. Even a grocery shopping buddy would help! Just make sure to choose someone who makes you feel better about the whole process – not someone who turns it into a competition.
 Whether or not you have a workout buddy, consider joining a class. You may pay for classes up front, which will motivate you to attend. Some even take attendance, which may cause some healthy guilt if you don't go. The best classes can feel like having thirty buddies and a coach.


There are a lot of exercise classes available. No one type of exercise class is right for everyone, and there are more options than ever before. And feel free to look beyond the gym or fitness center. You could take lessons in horseback riding, skiing, or tai chi.
Find a level that suits you. A good yoga studio, for example, may have workouts for seniors, serious athletes, pregnant women, beginning adults, parents with young children, and more.
Consider learning a new skill. There is a vast world of physical skills out there to explore. While there is nothing wrong with just walking, some people like to learn something. This could be taking salsa lessons, karate, rock climbing, or belly dance.
 Writing down your progress makes everything concrete. You can choose to write it down however you like, but we'll cover two forms:


Start an exercise (and food) log. This is where you'll write down what you do every day, how many calories you've burned, how close you are to your goal, and the food choices you've made. If you have a buddy, share it with them for extra responsibility.
Start an exercise blog. This will be published to the Internet world -- ultimate exposure (if anyone reads it, of course). With this, you take a more creative route, including all of the factors of an exercise log, but also how you feel about it, the obstacles you're facing, and how it feels to be making the progress. Just make sure you keep writing!

, Don't have a friend that wouldn't either totally school you or encourage you to go to Starbucks instead? Well then, a trainer may be your best bet. Find one that jives with your personality though; one that makes you feel terrible will end up in you faking sick.


Generally, any gym can provide you with a trainer. Hopefully, you can try out a couple introductory sessions for free. Ask around for those with a good reputation and only work with those that clearly know what they're doing and respect your weight loss goals.
Some trainers offer a small group rate so you can go with a couple friends to save money.
 When you have an official "due date" on your fitness, it becomes a specific goal to work towards. Be sure it is something you would find enjoyable and appropriate to your physical abilities. Some examples:


Participating at your local Relay for Life event.
Running a 5K race.
Able to go snorkeling on your vacation.
Be able to hike the entire trail at a local park.
Defeat an opponent in a fencing tournament.

Ballroom dance at your son's wedding.
Many training programs and apps are available to help you go from "Couch to 5K" by alternating walking and running. It's totally okay to take walking breaks! RunningintheUSA.comand NextBiboffer comprehensive lists of runs in the USA. So no excuses; signing up is just a few button clicks away!

, Posting pictures of yourself when you were younger, skinnier, more athletic, or whatever can ultimately be de-motivating. Even if you lose weight, you will not become that former version of you. Comparing yourself at age 50 to a teen version of you is unfair: teenagers typically have faster metabolisms, have not had children, as many health issues, and often have more "free time" to exercise. Instead try putting up images more reflective of what should motivate you and inspire you today:


Pictures that you think you look good in recently. You do not have to look skinny, but looking happy, relaxed, silly, in a recital you are proud of--whatever makes you happy when you look at it. Feeling good at looking at yourself encourages you to take care of you.
Photos of favorite places to be active: The tropical island you are hoping to kayak around, your favorite swimming beach, that picture of you at the finish line of the Fun Run.
Photos of your friends, family, and other loved ones. You are taking care of you so you can take care and be with these people.
Inspirational quotes. Whether it is a favorite Bible verse, a movie quote, or what someone wrote in your yearbook, inspiration can help move you forward.
 Some people make the mistake of trying to diet into a piece of clothing as a goal. Repeatedly trying on clothing that does not fit you can be de-motivating. Also, instead of choosing clothing that flatters you, you are trying to force clothing to determine how you feel about you--which can lead to you feeling poorly about your body. If you feel bad about your body, you may not take care of it as you should.


The old idea is that if you constantly feel tight and pinched and uncomfortable in your clothes, it will be a constant reminder to keep to the diet plan. But being in discomfort is not usually inspiring. Usually what happens is a person feels miserable and ashamed, and more depressed about being overweight. This misery tends to lead to more overeating and not exercising. Instead of being inspired by clothing, clothing ends up being a source of misery.
Another old idea is to have a clothing size as a weight-loss goal. However, clothing sizes are often not standard, especially for women. The cut of a garment can greatly affect the fit and look on a body. Also, there is always the possibility the dress size you had in high school is not a realistic goal as a 45 year old woman, for example.
Feel free to give yourself a "fresh start" with clothing. Just get rid of all the clothes that do not fit or flatter your body at the present and buy a small number of outfits that look good on you now. While you lose weight sensibly, you will feel better about yourself now. Also, this will reflect an outlook of focusing on the present, one day at a time.
 Holding yourself accountable is often a key element of a health plan. When you feel that what you do will be communicated to others, you are more likely to make smart decisions. Also, those close to you can encourage you and help you on your way.


You do not have to make yourself vulnerable to criticism, however. Some people may not be the best people to get involved with your health plans. It is OK to keep your plans only to people you feel comfortable with including in your plans. Sometimes there are people in our lives who are unsupportive, overly critical, or who should not be privy to your weight-loss program.
Likewise, you may want to keep your plans to a select list of people. For example, posting what you ate during the day and your workout to Facebook can work as a sort of blogging. But does everyone on your friend's list want to get daily updates on what you ate for breakfast? Do you really want people at work to know how much you weigh? And if you skip Zumba class, will your sister make a snarky comment on that instead of saying something useful? It may be better to have a private list for this.
Letting others know can help them plan accordingly. For instance, if you are on a diet and exercise plan, you can suggest for the beach weekend you would love to walk on the beach but avoid the ice cream parlor.
 Seeing that hundreds of others have gone through the same thing you have can be incredibly motivating. Some of their stories may even touch your heart. It can help to see that others have succeeded.


Successful weight loss stories can be found all over the place. Try AuthenticallyEmmie.com, Canyoustayfordinner.com, and bloggingrunner.comfor starters. Especially if you do not have a lot of role models around you, it can be helpful to hear other people's stories. Not only will you be motivated, but these can be used as resources, too.
 However smart we think we are, all humans still respond to the same basic impulses. Set up the right reward system and your brain will be putty in your hands.


Some like to devise a point system. For every good decision (be it food or exercise), you get a point. When you reach 100 points, treat yourself to something you'd enjoy (like a massage or a shopping trip). Don't reward yourself with unhealthy decisions, such as going to McDonalds or buying more sweets that are high in sugar! This will only undo your hard work.Some like to bank their progress. Every time you have a good day, you put some money into a jar. That money goes to your reward, whatever it is.
Your reward doesn't only have to be at the end! Set it for a certain amount of miles, a certain amount of calories cut or weight lost, or a certain amount of days you've gone without caving. Making them constant will keep them in sight.
 If your thought process solely consists of, "I'm so fat. I'll never make any progress" you risk living a self-fulfilling prophecy. When you start thinking positively, the idea of accomplishing something difficult becomes more believable because you feel better about yourself. You know you can do it. And you can.


If positive thinking is particularly difficult for you (which is totally normal), set aside a few minutes every day to focus on it. When you start thinking negatively, stop and start over. What do you like about yourself? What do others say they like about you? What are you good at? Over time, this will become easier and easier, just like anything else.

