 Nearly every team in the Republic Of Ireland are two stars or below. There are very few that are higher than that. However, there is a two star or below team in nearly every country. Pick a team that has low star rating, but are not awful so you can still pass and dribble etc.;
, The team's first eleven might not contain the best players in the team. While it sounds strange, resting your best players on the bench is not completely unheard of and is often quite common in low rated teams, where you save your best players until you really need them. While the team's layout is really up to you, there are some basic guidelines. For example:


Goalkeepers are the last line of defence on the football team. For that reason, you will want them to have high stats in diving, penalties, footwork and speed. Five star team strikers are often quite quick and you will need to be prepared to defend against them.
Defenders stop the other team from getting through. For this reason, you will want them to have high stats in strength, so that they can slow the opposing team's speed so that they can catch up with them and tackling so that you don't give away silly free kicks. If you're going to have three defenders, make the middle one the strongest and the two outer ones the fastest.
Midfielders carry the ball forward. For this reason, you will want them to have high stats in speed, passing -long and short-, strength so that they don't get pulled down and tackling so they can help out the defenders if needed. There are usually three or four defenders on the team and you want them all to be equally good. If that's not possible, make the middle ones the strongest and the outer ones the fastest.
Strikers finish off all that hard work. You will want your attackers to have the highest stats in shooting, speed, strength and shooting techniques such as curving. With all of these things combined, your strikers should be able to score at least one goal. There are usually two or three attackers. The outer attackers need to be fast and good at crossing while the middle attackers need to be good at headers and shooting.
 When you start the game, click the left button on the D-Pad three times to go into ultra-defensive mode. This will automatically move your team into a more defensive formation. Against a five star team, all you can really do is defend and counter attack when they make mistakes. For this reason, you want your team to be as defensive as possible. Don't let you players get tired as they won't play as well, substitute them for an equally good or better player. When the other team become frustrated and make a mistake, start the counter attack.
 As soon as the other team make a mistake, clear the ball out of your box with your defenders. The ball should end up with one of your defenders. Don't boot the ball as hard and as randomly as you can, it's just going to end up with the opposing team again. Instead, keep it with your midfielders until you see an opening. Pass the ball around and keep possession until you can release the ball to your attackers. With the fastest of your strikers, sprint towards the goalkeeper and slot it in to the back of the net. Now you can repeat these steps or hold that one goal.

