 You won't see cutworms during the day, since they feed at night. Most gardeners don't know they have a cutworm problem until they see evidence in the morning after a night of feasting has occurred. By then, there's no telling how many worms are in the garden. Catching the population before it explodes will help save your garden. Here's what to look for:


Plants cut off near the base of their stems.
Plants that are wilting or damaged.
Cutworm droppings.
Cutworms themselves, which you can find by overturning the soil with your hands in the vicinity of the damage.They can be many different colors, including grey, brown, pink, black, and so on. Some are spotted, some have stripes, and some have no markings.;
, Go out at night with a flashlight and pick them off your plants, one by one. Place them in a pail of soapy water to drown and then discard them. Repeat this every few nights until you notice the cutworm population declining. Keep checking throughout the summer for more cutworms.
 Cutworms like to feast on plants by chewing through the stems, essentially decapitating your precious vegetable garden. If you place barriers around the stems, the cutworms have a much more difficult time accessing the stems. Cut 4-inch pieces of cardboard, plastic, or another firm material cut in the shape of a tube to serve as collars for your plants. You could also use cardboard tubes or metal cans with the ends removed.


The downside to collaring is that every single stem will need its own collar to keep the cutworms away. If you have a large garden with hundreds of plants, you may need to combine this method with others so you don't spend your whole summer fashioning little plant collars.
 Push them into the soil about an inch deep, so the collars stand about 3 inches (7.6 cm) high. The cutworms won't be able to climb the surface of the cardboard and metal or scoot in underneath the bottom. If you cut out the collars from cardboard or plastic, make sure the seam is securely taped so that there's no gap for cutworms to crawl in.
 To further protect the plants, you can bolster the stems to prevent cutworms from being about to eat through them. Cut a plastic drinking straw to the appropriate lengths. Then, cut a slit in each piece lengthwise and slip the straws over the plant stems. Poke the ends beneath the surface of the soil.


Alternatively, you can wrap each stem with a piece of cardboard, thick paper or aluminum foil, taking care to push the sleeve below the soil.

