 Avoid summer dates. Fall and Spring are better choices. Keep a calendar of big dance events in your area, as well as sporting events, etc. You don't want to hold your event on a "big game" day like Super Bowl or the weekend another teacher holds her annual recital.;
, For tax purposes as well as managing your money.
 Travel out of your area to attend a workshop with an instructor. If you like her, ask her about coming to your area before you leave. Instructors charge $100 to $300 an hour plus room and travel. Luckily, the teaching fee generally includes a free performance. Do not hire instructors other sponsors bring to your area. Do not hire instructors from a video because you like their performance. Great artists are not always great teachers. If you have never taken a class with the instructor you are considering, make sure she is active on the workshop circuit. Hiring your favorite performer from overseas may be tempting, but adds a possible language barrier and work-visa challenge.
 The venue, not the instructor, will mostly likely be the most expensive part of your investment. Some venues are insured, others, like schools, may expect you to purchase one-day event insurance.

How much will you need to charge each dancer to cover that cost?
Can you have swap tables or vendors?
What type of flooring?(serious dancers prefer a wooden floor)
Are there mirrors?
Is there a place for performers to dress besides the bathrooms?
Is there a sound system or must you bring your own?
Will participants have trouble parking?
Is there food and drink available nearby?

, This will add to the cost of what you must charge. Belly dancers are generally hobbyists on a tight budget. Don't go over-board. A small benefit can be providing food will encourage dancers to bring their friends & families.
 You do not need to be completely web savvy to make a simple free web-page containing all the information you have on your flyer.
 For every one person you wish to attract, you may need to print about 10-20 flyers or 250-500 flyers for a workshop of 30 people. Be economical: a tri-folded standard piece of paper, printed double-sided black & white works well. It can hold all the details a person needs to know. Postcards are attractive, but do not allow for much information. Ask your instructor to provide you with her own photo postcard or business card to enclose with your flyer event.
 Use clip art to create a theme, but use large, easy to read font, for important information. Include these items:


A photo of the instructor
A short Bio of her, including website
Level of workshop: beginner, advanced, speciality, etc.
The source of the music she will use to teach
A description of the techniques or choreography she will teach.
Props students must bring (zills, skirt, veil, etc)
Your contact information, address & phone.
Venue address & phone.
Advance ticket prices, at the door prices. Discounts for groups (5 or more works well)
Directions and/or map
Accurate dates and times, including day of the week.
vendor names & websites
Payment options: considering setting up a PayPal account to take credit cards in advance.
Are children welcome and will they have a special price.
Are cameras and videos allowed?
Disclaimers. No refunds for Acts of God, but allowing refunds more than 3 days in advance is considerate. Include a "Hold Harmless" agreements: a simple statement declaring participants are taking this class at their own risk and you will not pay the medical bill when a sword accidentally punctures a foot. You can find examples of such "Hold Harmless" agreements on the web.
Each flyer should have detachable form with a place for the participant's name, phone, email, disclaimers and signature. Everyone should complete one, even if they sign-up on-line, they may complete it at registration.
Allow workshop participants to sign up and perform in the show. Keep this on a strict, first come, first served basis and put others on a waiting list. Have time limits. 15 performers will work out to be about a two hour show if a 6 minute maximum is set for soloists and 10 minutes for troupes.
 You can begin distributing flyers 6 months before your event. This will prevent dancers from planning other events on your date. If you plan to mail out flyers to your event, this should done about 6 weeks before, just like wedding invitations.
 They most likely have been doing this longer than you and can be a great help to you. Do not try to profit from the fee you charge them, but the number of people they can help you attract. Describe your event and let them make an offer to pay what they feel will be fair. Ask them for help advertising your event and provide them with your flyers. Starting with just one vendor is a good start. Once you advertise your event other vendors may contact you. Having only one from the start allows you to choose another who might offer something different. For smaller informal events, swaps work great.
 Use this number to create a list you will use at your registration table. The email should contain what the person has paid and what she has signed up for.
, A list of performers is helpful for everyone even at the most informal event. You may include performer websites, some advertising, thank-yous and contact information. Include a dinner menu when appropriate.
 Be there to let them in.
, They can't take the class until everyone has arrived.
,,, Put sticky labels and sharpie markers in the box and tell performers to label their music with their name and track they wish to use. Index cards for a performer to write how she wishes to be introduced or to describe her dance are nice too. Use your program to put the music in order.
 Have some mood music playing.
 Introduce yourself and some teasers about the performers. Introduce important people & other teachers in the audience.
,, End with some open dancing for everyone.

