 In order to reset your iPhone without knowing the Restrictions passcode, you'll need to use a computer and iTunes. This doesn't have to be your computer, and you don't need to have used iTunes before.

This method will delete all of the data on your iPhone. You will not be able to restore a backup because the backup will restore the Restrictions passcode. If you don't want to start over from scratch, you can try to reset your passcode with iBackupBot.;
, If the computer doesn't have iTunes installed, it can be downloaded from Apple.

You can find iTunes in the Dock on a Mac, or in the Applications list in the Windows Start menu.
 This will force the iPhone to restart.

If you're using an iPhone 7 or newer, press and hold the Power and Volume Down buttons instead.
 You'll see the Apple logo before this, but don't release the buttons until you see the iTunes logo on the iPhone's screen., This window will appear when iTunes detects an iPhone in recovery mode., This may take a few minutes to complete. You'll see a progress bar on your device's screen., This is the setup process that you go through when the device is new out of the box.,, You’ll need to be connected to the internet during the setup process.

If there is no wireless network available, tap Use Cellular Connection. This requires an activated cellular data plan.
 You’ll be prompted for the network’s password after tapping it., You can choose to enable Location Services or keep it disabled. It’s recommended to enable this service to get the most from many of your apps., This will allow you start fresh with the iPhone.


Do not restore from a backup. If you choose to restore from an iCloud or iTunes backup instead of setting up as new, your Restrictions passcode will be restored as well and you’ll have to start all over.
, When you sign in, you’ll be able to access all of your iCloud contacts, mail, calendars, and iTunes and App Store purchases and downloads, This will sync your iCloud data, including your contacts and calendars., Once you finish setup, you can begin using your iPhone without the Restrictions passcode. You’ll be able to redownload all of your previous apps and purchases from the online stores.