


Keep crayons, paints and colored pencils available for when your child wants to create something.
Hang artwork on the walls and discuss everything you display with your children. Remember to hang their own artwork too, either on the refrigerator or on the walls in their bedrooms or playrooms.;
, In addition to coloring books and construction paper, keep sidewalk chalk available for outside drawings, use clay for sculpting projects and encourage your child to play dress up and write stories.
 This can mean singing along to a kid-friendly radio station in the car or playing classical music at home during dinner.


Expose your child to different kinds of music. Let your child decide what he or she likes and does not like. Their tastes may change over time, so continue letting them hear different types of songs and instruments.
 Your local Public Broadcasting System (PBS) station should have art-focused programs.


Answer questions and encourage discussion. If your child knows you are interested too, he or she will be more responsive and engaged in what you are watching.
 There could be an outdoor art festival, a paint your own pottery shop or a performance at your local library.
 Little children can often get in free and there should be reduced admission for school-aged kids.


Go to museums when you travel as well. Letting your kids see different types of exhibits and art museums will increase their appreciation for art.
 There may be after school programs available, or lessons at your local recreational center or community college.


Let your child pick what to try first, whether it is painting, music or dance. Encourage him or her to stick through an entire session and then offer something else, or another class in that same art form.
 If you demonstrate your appreciate for art of all kinds, your child will notice.


Become an advocate for art and art education. If your child sees you standing up for funding that supports that arts, he or she will understand the importance of art in society.
 There should be sections of books on art and artists.


Read these books with your child and discuss what you read once the book is finished.

