 In Arizona, you can receive an order of protection only against certain individuals. In order to qualify, the defendant must be your spouse, former spouse, roommate, former roommate, parent of your child, someone you were/are involved with romantically, or close relatives.If the possible defendant does not fall within one of these categories, you will not be able to get an order of protection in Arizona. However, check with your local law enforcement agency or court to see what other options might be available to you.;
, To qualify for an order of protection, the defendant must have committed (or is about to commit) some illegal act. If a child is involved, you can ask the court for help if the defendant has (or is about to) committed murder, assault, molestation, abuse, kidnapping, or some drug related crimes. In addition, even if a child is not involved, you should go to your local courthouse if the defendant:Endangers
Threatens
Assaults
Kidnaps
Trespasses
Abuses
Intimidates
Harasses

, If you qualify for an order of protection, you will need to obtain certain documents to take with you to the courthouse. The information you bring will help you fill out the court forms and answer questions. While each local courthouse may have different requirements, in general, you should have the following documents close and available:Your picture ID
Addresses of places you would like protected (e.g., schools, homes, work)
Personal information about the defendant
Details about the incidents that led you to apply for an order of protection
Information about minor children that are involved

, With information in hand, take a trip to your local superior court. If you do not know where your local superior court is located, visit the Arizona courts website. Once there, you will be able to find courts in your area.Once you get to the courthouse, expect to be there for about two hours. Be aware that children will usually not be allowed inside the courtroom with you., When you arrive at the courthouse, ask the information desk for help applying for an order of protection. Most courthouses will have a protective order center, which is a safe space you can use to fill out the required paperwork. Once you are in a protective order center, you will usually be able to complete paperwork using a computerized prompt system. This will make your application process incredibly easy and straightforward. If you need help with the process, court staff will be available.


The main form you will need to fill out is the petition. In your petition you will provide details of the incidents that led you to apply for an order of protection. You must name each person you want protection from. At the end of your petition, you must sign and swear to the truth of your description., After your paperwork is completed, you will go before a judge and tell them about your situation. If the judge agrees with you and finds enough evidence to grant your order of protection, they will do so. This initial discussion with the judge is relatively informal, but you need to make sure you are prepared to discuss your case., If the judge signs off on your order of protection, you must give a copy to the defendant. The court will not do this for you. To accomplish service, you must use a local law enforcement agency or registered process server. If you use local law enforcement, you will not be charged a fee. You will be given a list of law enforcement agencies that can help you when you fill out your petition.


Once service is completed, the server will file an affidavit with the court proving that service was successful.
Make sure you a keep a copy of the order of protection close to you. If the defendant fails to abide by the order of protection, call emergency services immediately and explain the situation., If the defendant disagrees with the order of protection, they will have an opportunity to request a hearing on the matter. Once the defendant files a hearing request, a hearing will be scheduled within five to ten days of that request being made.As soon as you hear about this hearing, you need to start preparing. At this hearing you will have to present evidence that backs up your claims as to why an order of protection was needed. However, during this hearing, you will not simply be able to present anything you want. Instead, you have to follow certain rules of evidence., As soon as you receive notice that the defendant has asked for a hearing, you need to determine what evidence you will present. However, before you can compile evidence to use, you need to know what will be admissible. In normal state court cases (i.e., criminal cases, tort cases), the Arizona Rules of Evidence would usually apply. In protective order hearings, Arizona has decided that different evidentiary rules should apply., The rules of evidence that will apply to your protective order hearing can be found online. In addition, if you do not have consistent access to the internet, you should be able to find these rules at the courthouse. In Arizona, the rules that apply to protective order cases are called the Arizona Rules of Protective Order Procedure. These rules will govern any protective order proceeding in an Arizona court. Any other rules will apply to your hearing unless they are inconsistent with the Rules of Protective Order Procedure.If you need help gaining access to these rules, ask for help at your courthouse. If they are unable to help, visit your local law library. Ask the law librarian for help finding the Arizona Rules of Protective Order Procedure. They should be able to help.
 If your order of protection was granted as part of a larger family law case (e.g., a divorce, child custody, alimony), the Arizona Rules of Family Law Procedure may also apply.However, the Rules of Protective Order Procedure are clear in saying that the Rules of Family Law Procedure will only apply to the extent those rules are consistent. Therefore, if a rule in the Rules of Family Law Procedure is at odds with a rule in the Rules of Protective Order Procedure, the rule in the Rules of Protective Order Procedure will apply.In almost every case, the evidence rules within the Rules of Protective Order Procedure are more lenient and will apply. However, if you have any doubt as to what rules of evidence you need to apply, speak with a lawyer, court employees, or a law librarian. These individuals will be well equipped to help you ease your concerns.
 As a general evidentiary rule in protective order cases, all relevant evidence is admissible.Evidence is relevant if it has the effect of making a fact more or less probable than it would be without that evidence. In addition, the fact must be of some consequence in your protective order hearing.In other words, evidence is relevant if it helps prove (or disprove) an important fact in your case.


For example, pictures of bruises and cuts you sustained by the defendant during an altercation that led you to ask for a protective order would be relevant. This is the case because those pictures would help prove the fact that the defendant physically assaulted you, which can lead to a protective order being issued.
 While all relevant evidence may be admissible, the court, during your hearing, might choose to exclude certain pieces for various reasons. One of the reasons a court may exclude evidence is if it is particularly prejudicial to the defendant.Prejudicial evidence is often evidence that appeals to emotion as opposed to reason.With that said, this can be a difficult line to draw in protective order hearings, which are highly emotional to begin with.


For example, a judge might choose to exclude, and not allow you to present, evidence of past the defendant's convictions for the purpose of showing that the defendant was the one who assaulted you on this occasion. The judge might say that this evidence unfairly casts guilt on the defendant for actions that have already been resolved by the court. However, some judges might also admit this evidence because it tends to prove that the defendant is a violent person.
 Another reason a judge might exclude evidence is if that evidence is confusing.When a judge listens to your arguments during the hearing, they want the presentation to be as clear as possible. If you start presenting evidence that confuses things, it will hurt your case and it will make it difficult for the defendant to respond.


For example, a judge might exclude evidence of physical harm to your child if you are only filing for a protective order on behalf of yourself. In this example, assume you want to present evidence (e.g., pictures, a bloody shirt) that the defendant has physically harmed your child. However, this evidence would confuse the issues because, in this particular case, the issue is about harm to yourself, not someone else.
 As an untrained individual presenting evidence at a hearing, you may find yourself putting as much evidence on the table as you can possibly find. However, a court may start to exclude evidence when presenting it causes a delay in the proceedings.When you prepare for your hearing, look at the overall amount of evidence you have and make sure everything has a purpose. Do not present evidence that will waste the court's time.


For example, a judge might exclude a three hour video of you and the defendant arguing. While pieces of this video may help prove or disprove some important fact, the judge will likely determine that watching the whole thing would be unnecessary and would delay the hearing. In this scenario, pick and choose the important pieces of the video to show.
 You want to make sure that you present enough evidence to show the court the protective order is necessary. However, you need to make sure you only present your best evidence. In some cases, judges will exclude evidence that starts to be cumulative and repetitive.Therefore, it is important that you pick only the best pieces of evidence that help you prove each important fact.


For example, do not try to present 400 pictures of one bruise on your arm. Pick the best pictures that effectively show your injury and leave the rest at home. If you start showing the same type of picture multiple times, the court will start to exclude that cumulative evidence.
 Any piece of evidence you present at your protective order hearing needs to be trustworthy. In a lot of cases, this might mean backing up one piece of evidence with another piece of evidence (e.g., backing up a photo with testimony that the photo is what you say it is). If your evidence is not reliable, it may be excluded by the judge.Consider this rule carefully when preparing for your hearing.


For example, if you plan on presenting a bloody shirt at your hearing, which you claim helps prove that the defendant assaulted you on a particular day, you will also need to present evidence tending to prove that you were wearing that shirt on the day of the assault and that the blood is yours. Therefore, in addition to presenting the bloody shirt, you may also need to present photos of you wearing that shirt on a particular day. You should also be prepared to present evidence that the blood on the shirt is in fact yours.
 In regular family law cases, you would be required to disclose the evidence you plan to present to the defendant before the actual hearing. This general rule gives the defendant an opportunity to prepare and rebut anything you present.However, the Arizona Rules of Protective Order Procedure explicitly state that these general rules do not apply in protective order hearings.Therefore, unless the judge orders you to make disclosures, you are not required to show the defendant what you plan on presenting.

