 Scheduling it somewhere between two weeks and a month out should make it close enough that you don't lose sight of it, but not so close that tapering off feels impossible. If you think this is really unrealistic, you can give yourself a few months to really quit. If pot has really become a major fixture in your life, it will be hard to just give it up after a few weeks.
 Plot out how much you'll use between now and your quit date. Try to make it a linear process — for example, at the halfway point between today and the quit date, you should be using half as much as you are now.


Put your plan on a calendar, marking how much you'll use for every day, and stick to it. Put the calendar in a place where you have to look at it every day, like next to the bathroom mirror or on the refrigerator.
 Instead of relying on yourself in the moment to only take what's in your tapering plan, set up your portions ahead of time. That way you don't have to think about it — you just take what you've promised yourself you will. Just like taking your medication.
 As your pot use tapers down and you're spending less time using, find activities to do immediately after you smoke. Transition straight from that to doing another hobby or sport you enjoy, so that you don't have time to notice the difference. Though you should still make time to be alone and relax, try to keep your day filled with hobbies, social activities, schoolwork, or anything else that can keep you focused on something other than smoking pot.


Take a look at your schedule and try to fill it with as many social engagements and activities as you can without feeling overwhelmed.
 If you really want to quit, then you have to keep your eyes on the prize. Remind yourself why you want to quit, whether it's to improve your health, your thinking, your social life, or your overall perspective on life, and stay focused on that goal like a laser. Write it down and tape it above your desk, keep an index card with your motives in your pocket, or just keep your goals in an accessible place that you can easily reach whenever you're losing steam.


Whenever you're having a moment of weakness, consider all of the things you can do once you stop smoking for good. You'll feel more active, more energetic, and more motivated to do all of the things you want to do.

