 Physical activity stimulates the digestive system to increase bowel movements.Maintaining a healthy lifestyle can help to ensure your colon stays healthy and functional. Make sure you are exercising on a regular basis, such as every day or at least three times a week. Go for a thirty minute walk every day or schedule in a workout at the gym three times a week to ensure you are burning calories and staying healthy.


You can also try doing a home workout with resistance bands to stretch your muscles and build strength. Or you may take an exercise class to help you workout regularly, such as a yoga class or an aerobics class.
 Often, maintaining a high fiber diet, drinking enough water, and exercising regularly can help your colon function properly. If you are still having issues after making lifestyle changes, consult with your physician before turning to laxatives. There could be an underlying medical problem. If your doctor recommends that you try taking laxatives, ask for a recommendation. Always follow the dosage instructions on the label of the laxatives and never take more than the recommended amount. Do not take laxatives long term, as this can lead to serious health issues.If you are experiencing irritable bowel syndrome, irregular bowel movements, or digestive issues, you may try bulk-forming laxatives such as Metamucil, Citrucel or Psyllium. Take bulk-forming laxatives with lots of water. Side effects can include bloating, gas, cramping, and increased constipation.
If you are struggling with passing stool, you can try stool softeners. Stool softeners are generally safe for use and generate less bloating than bulk-forming laxatives.
Never take laxatives as a weight loss supplement. This is damaging to your health and may cause other medical issues., If you are considering a colon cleansing product for daily use, make sure you research the product before using it. These products have not been proven to offer any health benefits.Also, keep in mind that these products are not regulated by the government, so the potency, purity and safety of these products is not guaranteed. Just because a product is labeled as "natural" does not mean it is safe.Talk to your doctor before using any colon cleansing products.
Check the ingredients list on the product and make sure the specific herbal ingredients are clearly noted. If you are concerned you may be allergic to any of the ingredients or you cannot identify any of the ingredients in the colon cleansing product, do not use the product.Make sure you drink a lot of water while taking a colon cleansing product. This will ensure you do not become dehydrated and that the product can work properly.
Do not use colon cleansing products as a way to lose weight or diet. This is an unhealthy way to lose weight and can lead to other health issues. It has also been shown to be an ineffective way to lose weight.