 Preschools come in many forms, from daycare style to academically-rigorous. Consider what type of environment would help your child flourish and look for schools that best fit your child’s learning style.Take a look at the educational philosophies. Does the school believe in learning by play or studying? When do they introduce reading and math? Does the school follow a particular model such as the Montessori Method or the Waldorf approach?
Pay attention to the school’s atmosphere. Do the children seem happy? Are the classrooms and teachers inviting and do they foster a positive learning environment in which your child or children will flourish?
Consider your own child’s learning needs. Think about what your child needs in addition to what you want for your child. Will they be comfortable in big classes or a smaller environment? Can they focus in a group or do they need one-on-one time?
Many preschools will allow a prospective child to spend half a day in their programs to see if it is a good fit. It is important to provide this preliminary exposure to the child and ask them how they felt about their experiences. Often times what we see from the outside may not be what is truly experienced by the child interacting within that environment.
Enquire About the Safety Procedure. Kids are born mischievous; they like to play around and do adventurous things. They must get an environment where they can explore themselves without the fear of getting hurt. Thus, parents must ask the school staff about the safety and security procedures adopted for the kids.;
, Every preschool is different, but often schools fill up fast. Contact preschools that you think would work for your child about a year before you plan to enroll them. This gives you more time to plan financially and make sure you receive a spot.Ask the school, “What are the requirements for admitting a child into your school?” Admissions processes vary greatly, so asking directly often gets you the best information.
If you are looking at a preschool that is part of an elite or prestigious elementary school, consider contacting the school about a year and half before enrollment and prepare for a longer admissions process.
 This is the time when the school gets to know you and your child. Be honest about your family life and your child’s personality. The school is there to help your child bolster their strengths and improve their weaknesses, so it's important to let the school know what those are.Focus less on proving your child’s intelligence and more on letting their personality shine through. Many schools are interested in the interpersonal fit more than the academic fit at this age.
Ask thoughtful questions based on your conversation. This lets the school know that you are interested and engaged in the admissions process. Try a question like, "My child enjoys creative activities and spaces. What sort of programs do you offer that will help nurture their creative side?" It may be helpful to write a list of questions you may have prior to the interview.
There’s no need for a resume or portfolio at this age. While this is a trend among some parents at some elite schools, admissions officers generally agree it does nothing for the admissions process.
 Getting on the waitlist isn’t generally too much of a problem. If your first choice school wait lists your child, though, you can always appeal to the directors to reconsider. Do not admonish them for not accepting your child. Rather, provide sincere information as to why your child would be best served in their school.Appeal directly to the director. They are the school’s gatekeeper and have more sway than anyone.
Let the director know what your child will get at their school that they cannot find somewhere else, and why it is important for your child to be a part of this community.
Tell them directly, "I believe this school is the best option for my child because of the programs and resources it has to offer. I see my child learning and performing better in this school than in any other, and I would like to ask you to reconsider their waitlist position."
Do not expect that this will automatically change anything. The director is unlikely to bump an existing student when you are on the waitlist. You must still be patient.
It is okay to ask them why they chose not to accept your child. Sometimes the answers they provide you will help you to possibly place your child at an alternate school of choice, or for reapplying to the same school when appropriate. It also shows your interest and initiative to learn more about their decision making process and may even change their mind to accept your child.

