 You can terminate the doctor-patient relationship in most situations. However, things get complicated if the patient needs ongoing or follow-up treatment.You also might not be able to end the relationship if the patient is in an acute phase, such as immediately after surgery.If the patient is a member of a prepaid health plan, then you’ll need to work with the third party payer to transfer the patient to someone else before terminating them.
In these situations, you will need to meet with an attorney or call your professional liability provider to have your questions answered. You may still be able to terminate, but you will need to give the patient plenty of notice.
 You should provide the patient with written notice that you are ending the relationship. Have your professional liability carrier review all of your notices before sending them.Make sure your letter contains the following:the reason you are ending the relationship (optional)
the date you will stop being the patient’s doctor (typically 30 days after you mail the notice)
an acknowledgement that you will continue to provide routine care until they find a new doctor
suggestions on how to find a new doctor
a reminder that the patient will be responsible for their care after the relationship is terminated
notice that you will give the new doctor copies of the patient’s records
information about medication refills

, Make sure to send the letter both certified mail, return receipt requested and regular mail. Hold onto the receipt as it is proof that the patient received it. Also keep a copy of the letter for your records., You have to give the patient sufficient time to find a new doctor. Generally, 30 days is enough time.If the patient comes to you with questions during the 30-day window, you should answer them.


Do what you can to help the patient find a new doctor. For example, in your termination letter, you can tell the patient that they can find a doctor by contacting their insurer or the county medical society.