 Rather than allow your parents to spend money on new school clothing every year or new school supplies, try to repair any damaged or worn items and reuse them. This will cut down on your parents’ yearly spending and allow them to save more money to put towards other bills.


You may have a pair of shoes that are worn, for example, but still wearable. You may bring your shoes to a shoe cobbler to repair the shoes for a small fee, rather than have your parents spend more money on getting new shoes. You can also repair damaged clothing yourself by sewing or mending it, or take them to a seamstress to get them repairs. Repairing and reusing old items will be nominally less expensive than asking your parents to buy you new items.;
, If there are other members of your family who have hand me down items you can use or wear, accept them as a way to cut down on your parents’ expenses. Though it may be tempting to get your parents to buy you new items, be willing to take hand me downs from friends and siblings instead, as this will help your parents save money and ensure the hand me down items do not go to waste.


You can also look for free hand me downs at your local clothing drive. If you do need to replace damaged or broken items, suggest to your parents that you go shopping at charity shops or second hand stores for these items so your parents will spend less money on them.
 While it may be tempting to throw away your school lunch or refuse your dinner, following a no waste policy will show your parents that their hand earned money is not going to waste. Try to eat everything on your plate at dinner and finish any homemade school lunches.


You can also follow a no waste policy by recycling and reusing any items used in your household. This could be plastic cartons or glass jars that you then reuse to store items or cardboard that you save for craft projects. Focusing on no waste will allow you to be proactive about helping your parents to save money in the future.
 Cut down your parents’ transportation expenses by asking to carpool to school with a friend or by taking the bus every morning. Doing so will help your parents to save money on gas and perhaps put the travel time toward working more shifts or longer hours at work.

