 This is the informal, singular way to say "take care" in French. As such, it is only useful for talking to one person who you are familiar with.Warning: this is very rarely used and you will sound clumsy, awkward. To avoid this, add "de toi" at the end of the sentence (pronounced "deh touah")

Pronounced "pron swan." It sounds bit like a stereotypical French accent saying the English name "Bronson." Try to barely pronounce the final "n" sound in soin.;
, "Prenez" is the vous form of "prendre," which means "to take." The vous form is for second-person plural ("you all") and for the formal tense (anyone you would call "sir, "ma'am," "Mr," or "Mrs"). You can use "prenez soin" just like you would use the English expression "take care:"It is more common to add "de vous" at the end of the sentence: "prenez soin" sound really weird.

Pronounced "pren-eh swan (deh vou)" To be extra native sounding, you want a gravelly, guttural sound with the "n' in prenez, like a stereotypical French accent.
 This is a simple and easy way to spice up your dialogue. Simply go from "prenez soin de vous" meaning "take care," to "prenez bien soin de vous" meaning "take good care." The change is subtle, but you can use it to mix up your phrases."Bien" is pronounced bee-en

, The de allows you to add a person, place, or thing, changing the expression to "take care of ________." For example, "prends soin de ma mère" means "take care of my mom." You'll need to conjugate prendre to make the phrase work, changing the verb depending on who you're talking to. Though it is irregular, it is an easy conjugation:



Je Prends

Tu Prends

Il/elle/on Prend

Nous Prenons

Vous Prenez

Ils/Elles Prennent, Just like in English, this is the longer version of the full goodbye. You'll need to conjugate the verb "prendre," of course, to fit the subject of the person you're talking, as well as the subject.



Informal: "Prends bien soin de toi." Translates literally as "take good care of yourself."

Formal or Plural: "Prenez bien soin de vous." Translates literally as "take good care of yourself/yourselves.", To convert "take care" into a question, simply add "est-ce que" and the subject. You end up with "Est-ce que tu prends (bien) soin de toi?" which translates to "Do you take (good) care of yourself?"


Est-ce que is pronounced "es-suh-kuh."
You can also use inversion to ask questions in French: "prends-tu bien soin de toi?"