 For example, you should choose physics, journalism, sports or online marketing if you feel motivated to learn about it in your personal, as well as professional, time.;
, Talent is simply an aptitude for the subject and an ability to improve over time. It is difficult to believe that anyone can be an expert in anything. Although practice is a huge portion of the equation, a person who doesn’t have an aptitude for music is unlikely to become an expert pianist.
 If you want to be an expert, expect to put in 10,000 hours of deliberate practice before you can call yourself a master in the subject.
 Few people accomplish those 10,000 in less than 10 years. Work hard in your industry or at your hobby for 10 years and you will have the experience on your resume to back you up when you start to refer to yourself as an expert.


Understand that it will vary greatly depending upon the subject. For example, it takes approximately 700 hours to become an expert at yoga and over 42,000 hours to become an expert neurosurgeon. Trade publications may tell you how much time you can expect to devote to the task. , Back up your experience with study and research. Stay on top of the newest trends in your industry. , Enroll in classes, conferences and certifications that prove you have learned from the best.
 Go for a master’s or doctorate degree, if you plan to work in the business or science world. Education, both self-taught and degree-related, is an important part of marketing yourself as an expert.


If you are learning a sport or certain kinds of music, it may not be necessary.
 Tell them you would like to write articles for blogs or company newsletters. Become the face of your current employer.
 Throw out expert advice. Make sure your posts cater to industry professionals, not just a general audience.


Become a guest blogger. Contact other industry blogs and volunteer to do an occasional blog on their site.
Optimize your blog for social media. Be a presence on Facebook and Twitter, so that people can find you and follow your blog links.
 Look for openings at your local university or Lifelong Learning Center. Learning to teach your expertise is essential for selling yourself as an expert consultant.
 Sign up for Pivot Planet or Skill Share startups as an expert in your field. Add it to your resume along with your experience and education. These sites are another way to teach a class, but uses the Internet to enable meetings and video classes.
You can also post your own video classes on YouTube or Vimeo. Post them to your blog as “expert advice.”

, Teach classes or get on the keynote speaker circuit. When trade conferences start asking you to speak without an application, you will know you are recognized as an expert.
 Monetize your expert knowledge with a website and business-to-business consulting. You can also become a coach to younger people starting out in your industry. 