 Cover the entire canvas or paper with black acrylic paint using a wide flat paintbrush. Use even strokes and spread the paint evenly. Make sure the black looks solid and no canvas or paper shows through. Allow the background to dry before proceeding.It usually takes about 20 to 30 minutes for acrylic paint to dry completely.
Lightly touch the paint to confirm it’s dry. If no paint comes off on your finger, proceed., Dip a flat paintbrush of medium width into white acrylic paint. Touch the loaded paintbrush to the canvas where you want to make your first firework shape. Spread the paint in a small circle to get it off your brush. Then, starting in the center of the white dot, pull the paint outward in all directions to create a starburst shape.Cover your canvas/paper with white starbursts – paint as many of them as you want. You will add color on top of the white paint.
The white background will help the color of the fireworks stand out from the black background.
 Choose at least three different colors for the fireworks. Use the flat brush to paint a colored starburst directly over a white one. Start with the center dot and then brush the colored paint outward. Alternate colors so that you have a variety of different colored fireworks in your painting.Use any combination of colors that appeals to you. Red, white, yellow, blue, green, pink and purple are all great choices.
If you aren’t sure what colors to pick, think about fireworks you’ve seen before, reference pictures or just use your imagination!

, Hold the glitter paint tube directly over the center of one of the fireworks. Squeeze the tube gently until the paint comes out. Create a streak of glitter that extends out from the center of the firework. Accent the fireworks with as many glitter streaks as you want.You can choose one glitter color, like silver or gold, to use on all the fireworks. You could also match the glitter to the fireworks – red glitter streaks for the red fireworks, blue glitter streaks for the blue fireworks, etc.

