 Pick a shape that is appropriate to your level of expertise in carving and melting foam.


If this is your first time working with foam, try making something simple like the heart depicted in the image above.
If you are confident in your molding abilities, try something 3D such as a sphere or pyramid.;
, Ideally the drawing should fit on a standard piece of printer paper, but it does not need to take up the entire page. This drawing will be used as a template to produce the actual sized drawing of your shape.


Make sure that the drawing is as close to your desired shape as possible. If you have trouble with this, you may trace a shape using an object or another image.
 Record both the height and width of the shape you have drawn as well as their units (inch, centimeter, etc.).


If your drawn shape is already drawn to scale, skip to Part 2 Step 4. The steps in-between are only necessary if you need to rescale your drawn shape to your desired size.
Measure your shape's height and width from its highest and widest points respectively.
 Decide on what you want the width, height, and depth of your final foam shape to be.


Keep the ratios of height to width the same when working from your drawing's dimensions to your desired dimensions. This ensures that your drawing will be scaled to actual size correctly.
 Use a ruler to draw your squares to ensure that they are all the same size. The squares can be any size you choose, but commit to one sized squares throughout the grid.The squares will guide you in drawing your scaled shape, so draw the amount of squares that will be most helpful for you.


Draw squares to the end of the page even if they are partially cut off as shown in the image above.
 Choose points that correspond to sharp edges, changes in curves, high points, and low points. You will be connecting a scaled version of these dots to create your actual sized drawing later.
 The conversion factor is how you scale your drawing's dimensions to your desired dimensions. Because the ratio of height to width is kept constant, the conversion factors for both dimensions are the same.


Pick either the height or width value you recorded from your drawing.
Make sure your recorded value and desired value are in the same units (inches and inches, meters and meters, etc.).
Set the recorded value times CF equal to your desired value: Desired Value = Recorded Value x CF.
Divide both sides by your recorded value to obtain the value of CF: Desired Value / Recorded Value = CF. A calculator may be helpful for this step.
If CF has many decimal places, round to the nearest hundredth.
 The new grid is a scaled version of your original grid. Multiply the original height and width of your squares by CF to obtain the height and width of squares for the new grid. Draw the same number of squares you did for your original grid.


Depending on how big your new grid is, you may want to use larger pieces of paper to draw it.
 The location of points on your new grid should be in the same place as the original grid. For example, if you drew a point in the middle of the left lowermost square on your original grid, you would draw a point in the middle of the left lowermost square on your new grid.
 If this is difficult, you may want to draw more points on the original grid and transfer them to your new grid.
 Cut along the shape's lines as closely as possible.
 Make sure the block of foam is large enough to hold the entire cut-out shape.
 Use the black permanent marker to trace around the cut-out shape. The number of cut-out shapes you trace out depends on the depth of the foam and the desired depth of your shape. The traced shapes will be cut out and attached to produce your desired depth.


Divide your shape's desired depth by the depth of your foam, the number you get is the number of tracings you need to make. If the number is not whole, round the number up. The extra depth can be melted off later.
 Use an electrical socket that is near the area where you will be cutting the foam.


Follow all safety procedures in accordance with your electric saw's instruction manual.
Put on safety glasses to ensure that no foam pieces will enter your eyes while you are cutting.
 Make sure you cut along or just outside the shape's lines. The cuts do not need to be perfect; fine details will be made using the hot wire foam cutter.
 Spray the cross-sections of the shapes that will be attached until they are completely covered with a light layer of adhesive. The adhesive spray is blue in the image above for emphasis.


After spraying one foam shape's cross-section, gently lay the foam on its cross-section that contains no adhesive. Otherwise, the foam will stick to whatever it is placed on.
Finish spraying the cross-sections of the two-shapes in under 1 minute. Otherwise, when the two sprayed cross-sections are clasped together to be attached, the adhesive will be dry and the cross-sections will not stick together.
 The foam adhesive dries in about 1 minute from when it was sprayed, so quickly clasp the two cross-sections together making sure that their edges line up.


Continue to hold the two foam pieces together until 30 seconds have passed to ensure that they will not come apart.
Repeat the foam adhesion and attachment step until all foam pieces are attached to each other.
 Use an electrical socket that is near the area where you will be melting the foam.


Follow all safety procedures in accordance with your hot wire foam cutter's instruction manual.
Unplug the electric saw and use that electrical socket for your hot wire foam cutter. The electric saw will not be needed again.
While the foam cutter is not in use, place it on an area or item that is heat resistant.
Keep an extinguishing agent near you at all times in case the foam catches fire.
 Lightly place the foam cutter on the foam, it will melt through it very quickly. Once you have melted the shape you desired, you are done.


Melt your foam in a well ventilated area, such as outdoors, or wear a respirator because the fumes released by the melting foam are potentially toxic.
Use small and fast strokes to ensure that the foam will not be over melted.

