 The Fatal Blow skill for the Swordsman can result in you stunning a target upon impact. To unlock this skill, visit Leon Von Frich inside the Prontera Knight's Guild, found at the top-left corner of Prontera City. Talk to him and he will ask you to bring 10 Fire Arrows, 10 Silver Arrows, 1 Banana Juice, 30 Tentacles, and 5 Royal Jelly.

In order for you to learn this skill, you must be a job level 25 or higher Swordsman. This does not apply to Knight or Crusader.
The Fire Arrows can be obtained from Horong or Archer Skeleton Monsters found in Payon Cave F4.
The Silver Arrows can be purchased from Prontera's Weapon Dealer. To find his location, asked the Prontera guard for directions.
Banana Juice can be bought from other players or obtained from the monster Choco. Choco can be found in Prontera Field (prt_fild03) and in Hoomga Forest (um_fild02).
Tentacle is dropped from Penomena and Hydra in Undersea Tunnel F1 to Undersea Tunnel F3.
Royal Jelly is a common drop of MVP monster such as Baphomet, Mistress, and Pharaoh. But since you're still a Swordsman, this is best gathered from the Live Peach Tree or Enchanted Peach Tree found in Shrine of Gonryun Queen (gon_dun01), and Hermit's Checkers (gon_dun02).
After you have gathered the requirements, return to Leon Von Frich with the items, and he will teach you the Fatal Blow Skill.;
, This skill regenerates HP while walking. Usually, players can only have their HP regenerated (without the use of Heal) while sitting. This is very useful for players who are tanks and prefers to level up solo.

To get this skill, Knight De Thomas inside the house located at the Eastern Island of Izlude. Give him 200 Empty Bottles and 1 pair of Moth Wings.
If you are a Swordsman, you must be Job level 35 or higher to learn this skill. This doesn't apply for Knights or Crusaders.
The best way to obtain Empty Bottle is to hunt down Goat in Einbroch Field (ein_fild06) or Ant Eggs in Ant Hell (B1 to B2).
Moth Wings can only be obtained from Dustiness. You can find them at Mt. Mjolnir (mjolnir_12) or in Geffen Field (gef_fild05).
 Auto Berserk activates when your HP goes below 25%. You gain the effect of Provoke level 10 on yourself. To get this, you need to visit Juan in a room inside Prontera's Weapon Refine Shop. Bring him 35 Powder of Butterfly, 10 Horrendous Mouths, 10 Decayed Nails, and 10 Honey.

If you are a Swordsman, you must be Job level 30 or higher to learn this skill. This doesn't apply for Knights and Crusaders.
Powder of Butterfly and Honey can be obtained from Creamy in Britoniah (gef_fild13) and in Mt Mjolnir (mjolnir_01).
Horrendous Mouth and Decayed Nail can be obtained from Zombies or Ghoul in Payon Cave F1 or in Geffen Dungeon F2 to F3.
 A Mage only has one Platinum skill - Energy Coat. Energy Coat reduces damage from physical attacks by draining SP. Unlock this skill by visiting the Great Wizard inside the Mage Guild in Geffen. She will ask you to bring her 3 Glass Beads, A one carat Diamond, 5 shells, and 1 solid shell.

You must be at a job level of 35 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Wizards and Sages.
 You can obtain the Glass Bead from Prontera Gift Merchant, found at the southwest part of the city (105, 87). Each Glass Bead cost 1,400z., He's located at the west side of the map (moc_ruins 52, 85). 1carat Diamond cost 10,000z., It can obtained from Chonchon and Steel Chonchon in Sograt Desert (moc_fild18)., Go to Hunter Fly in Labyrinth Forest F3 (prt_maze03)., She will teach you Energy Coat., Arrow Crafting is an important skill for an Archer. This skill creates arrows from an item, and each item gives different amounts and types of arrows. You can only use this skill if your weight is below 50%. To unlock this skill, visit Roberto at the center of Morroc Ruin. Talk to him and he will ask you to bring 20 Resin, 7 Mushroom Spore, 41 Tough Scalelike Stem, 13 Trunk, and 1 Red Potion.

If you are an Archer, you must be at Job Level 30 or above to learn this skill. This does not apply for Hunters, Bards, and Dancers.
Resin and Trunk can be obtained from Elder Willow. Elder Willow are found in Payon Forest (pay_fild07) and in Sograt Desert (moc_fild03).
Mushroom Spore can be obtained from Spore in Payon Forest (pay_fild01).
Tough Scalelike Stem can only be obtained from Stem Worm. They can be found at Mt. Mjolnir (mjolnir_12) and in Luluka Forest (um_fild01).
Red Potion can be purchased from any Tool Dealer at 50z each.
 Visit Jason at the lower-left corner of Payon to get this skill. He's standing next to a tree. Talk to him and he will ask you to bring 2 Emeralds, 3 Yoyo Tails, 10 Tentacles, 10 Bill of Birds, and 36 Banana Juices. If you are an Archer, you must be at Job Level 35 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Hunters, Bards, and Dancers.

Emerald can be purchased from the Jeweler NPC at Morroc Ruins (moc_ruins (110, 105). Each Emerald costs 6,000z.
Yoyo Tail can be obtained from Yoyo or Choco at Prontera Field (prt_field03).
Tentacle is dropped by Penomena and Hydra at the Undersea Tunnel.
Bill of Birds can be purchased from the Item Collector in Morroc Ruins (81, 113). Bill of Birds cost 64z each.
Banana Juice is dropped by Choco at Prontera Field (prt_fild03) but can also be created using the Juice Making Quest. This quest requires 1 Banana and 1 Empty Bottle.
 Acolytes only have one Platinum skill, Holy Light.

Talk to the Cleric in Prontera Church. She will ask you to gather 1 Opal, 1 Crystal Blue, and 1 Rosary.
If you are an Acolyte, you must be Job level 30 or higher to learn the skill. This does not apply for Priests and Monks.
 Rosary costs 15,000z., The Opal is dropped from Zombies in Payon Cave., It can be obtained from Black Mushroom at Undersea Tunnel F1 (iz_dun00) or Payon Cave F3 (pay_dun02)., Cart Revolution is an offensive skill for Merchant class. Enemies hit by the attack are pushed back 2 cells. The appearance of this attack is just like Magnum Break, except you also see your cart go flying over your head and hitting the ground in front of you. Putting items in your cart increases the damage by up to 100% more (1% per 80 weight as it has 8,000 weight max). The total you can do is 250% damage.

To learn Card Revolution, you must have the skill Pushcart.
Visit Gershuan at the eastern part of Alberta City, near the water and harbors. Talk to him and he will ask you to bring 2 Grape Juices, 15–23 Irons, 25–32 Sticky Mucus, 15–23 Fly Wings, and 5–6 Tentacles (he will not specify the actual number of items, so it's best to bring extra).
If he refuses to accept your amount, he will take a Banana Juice from you. You can keep talking to him until he accepts your items.
If you are a Merchant, you must be job level 35 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Blacksmiths and Alchemists.
 Grape Juice can be obtained by purchasing it from other players if they have any. You can also make it through the Juice Making Quest using 1 Grape and 1 Empty Bottle (for 1 Grape Juice)., Iron can be obtained from Pitman and Waste Stove or Old Stove in Mine Dungeon F1 (ein_dun01). This is also dropped from Skeleton Worker in Mjolnir Dead Pit F2 (mjo_dun02) and from Golems at Sograt Desert (moc_fild11)., Sticky Mucus can be obtained from Poporing at Sograt Desert (pay_fild04)., They can be purchased from Tool Dealers in every city of the game. One Fly Wing costs 60z., They can be gotten from Penomena and Hydra at Undersea Tunnel., After you've obtained the materials he will teach you the skill Cart Revolution., Change Cart will let you change the appearance of your cart. You need to have the Pushcart skill to have Change Cart. Meet Charlron at Alberta. He's sitting on a table outside and to the right of the Alberta Hotel. Talk to him and he will ask you to gather 50 Trunks, 10 Irons, and 20 Animal Skins. If you are a Merchant, you must be job level 30 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Blacksmiths and Alchemists.

Get the Trunks. They can be obtained from Willow and Elder Willow at the Payon Field, just right outside the Payon City.
 Irons can be obtained from Golem at the Sograt Desert (moc_fild11)., They can be purchased from the Item Collector at the Morroc Ruins., He will teach you Change Cart., This is an active skill. Most Merchants and Blacksmiths have this skill because it adds STR for additional damage. To get this skill, to talk to Necko. You can find him at the middle of the second street in Alberta, near a tree. He will tell you to bring 7 Pears, 1 Banana Juice, and 50 Mushroom Spores. If you are a Merchant, you must be job level 15 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Blacksmiths and Alchemists.

The Pears can be obtained from Myst Case at Toy Factory Warehouse (xmas_dun01) and Toy Monitoring Room (xmas_dun02).
Banana Juice is dropped by Choco at Geffen Field (gef_fild02) and can be bought from other players as well. You can also create Banana Juice through the Juice Making Quest ( 1 Banana and 1 Empty Bottle to produce 1 Banana Juice).


Talk to Necko again with the complete requirements in your inventory. He will then teach you Loud Exclamation.
The iRO name of this skill is called Crazy Uproar.
 To unlock this skill, visit Alcouskou inside the Morroc Pyramids - the room opposite to the Thief Guild.

Talk to him and choose the menu option for “Sand Attack.” He will ask you to bring him 5 Fine Grits and 1 Leather Bag of Infinity.
 They can be obtained from Scorpion; Scorpion can be found at Sograt Desert, at Continental Guard Quarantine (moc_fild20), and at Sograt Desert (moc_fild17).

In iRO, this skill is called Sand Attack.
 Meet the Bag Seller at Payon, RuRumuni. You can find him at the southwest corner of the city in an area with many poles. Talk to him and he will ask you to bring 1 Cobweb, 1 Cactus Needle, and 1 Earthworm Peeling.

You must have already talked to Alcouskou about Sand Attack; otherwise, he will not make you the bag.
Cobweb can be obtained from Argos at Mt. Mjolnir (mjolnir_10).
Cactus Needle can be obtained from Muka at Sograt Desert (moc_fild18)
Earthworm Peeling can be obtained from Hode at the Sograt Desert (moc_fild16).
After you have obtained the materials for the Leather Bag, talk to the Bag Seller again, and he will give you the item.
 Go straight to the Thief Guild to talk to Alcouskou again. Give him the materials, and he will teach you the skill Sprinkle Sand (Sand Attack in iRO)., This skill moves you backward 5 cells, depending on the direction you are facing. This skill, however, cannot be used in GvG maps or in Battleground. To learn this skill, you need to talk to Alcouskou, the same location as the Sand Attack NPC. Choose the menu option for “Back Slide,” and he will ask you to bring him 20 Grasshopper's Leg, which can be obtained from Rocker at the Prontera Field.

If you are a Thief, you must be job level 35 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Assassins and Rogues.
 This skill adds one stone item to your inventory. It will not work if you are overweight (more than 50% total weight capacity.) This skill is required for the Platinum skill Throw Stone.

To get this skill, approach Alcouskou and choose “Pick Stone” from the menu option. He will ask you to bring 1 Zargon (bought from Trader in Geffen City), 1 Bear's Footskin (obtained from Bigfoot at Payon Forest, pay_fild09), and 5 Spawn (from Thara Frog at Mao, beach_dun3).
If you are a Thief, you must be job level 20 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Assassins and Rogues.
 This skill makes your character throw a stone at an enemy that deals 50 damage. It has a 5% chance of stunning or blinding the enemy. 1 stone is required to use this skill. Pick Stone is needed for you to get Throw Stone.

To obtain this skill, talk to Alcouskou again and choose “Stone Fling”. He will ask you for 2 Garlet (purchased from Trader at Geffen) and 2 Scell (bought from Item Collector at Morroc Ruins). Once you have obtained these items, talk to the NPC again, and he will give you the skill.
If you are a Thief, you must be job level 15 or higher to learn this skill. This does not apply for Assassins and Rogues.

