 Over-the-counter medicines like oral decongestants and nasal sprays can be very effective if you have excess mucus but still need to function at work or school; however, you should not take them for longer than about three days.Taking these products for longer than three days can lead to a boomerang effect in which your mucus builds up even more than it did before.
Many of these products also have side effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate.
 Decongestants give relief to nasal congestion by reducing the swelling of the nasal tissues in the nasal passages. The mucus is dried up in the lungs, allowing the airway passages to open. The mucus is able to easily pass through, preventing an increase in mucus production.Over-the-counter (OTC) decongestants come in 12 hour or 24 hour treatments. Try Tylenol Cold and Flu or Advil Cold and Sinus.
Decongestants are prepared in different forms such as pills, liquids, and nasal sprays.
Before taking decongestants, take the time to read the label and ingredients of the medications.
If you have hypertension, seek medical counsel before taking any decongestants that contain the active ingredients phenylephrine or pseudoephedrine, because these can elevate blood pressure.
 A cough suppressant, such as dextromethorphan, inhibits the cough reflex and reduces the adhesiveness and surface tension of mucus. This allows mucus to exit the body more easily, helps relieve chest pain caused by excessive coughing, and removes secretions from the upper and lower airways.Guaifenesin (Mucinex) is a cough expectorant that thins the mucus for faster and easier release from the respiratory passage.


You may benefit from a medication that combines both dextromethorphan and guaifenesin, such as Robitussin DM.
Side effects that you need to watch out for include nausea and vomiting, headache, and dizziness.
 Nasal spray is medication that is sprayed directly into the nasal cavity. Nasal spray can narrow the blood vessels that line the nose, shrinking the nasal tissue and reducing the swelling inside the nose and sinuses. This helps stop the production of extra mucus and eases the clearing of the nasal pathways, making breathing easier and drying up mucus faster.You will need to see a doctor to get a prescription for nasal steroids, such as Flonase.
 Antihistamine cold medications block histamines, substances that can trigger allergic reactions and cause the tissue in your nose to swell and release mucus.Common over-the-counter antihistamines that dry up mucus include diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and loratidine (Claritin).


Antihistamines should be taken once at bedtime.
Note that drowsiness is one side effect of antihistamines, so never take the medication if you are going for a drive or operating other heavy machinery.
Also be wary of other side effects such as headache, dizziness, and dry mouth.
Antihistamines should not be taken with expectorants.
If your allergies are persistent and severe, talk to your doctor about allergy shots., Also called nasal lavage, nasal irrigation is the process of draining the nasal passages manually, using water. The principle behind nasal irrigation is that you shoot a solution of salty water (saline) up one nostril in order to loosen the mucus build up and then drain it out on the other nostril. This can remove build up and hasten drying.You can either use a Neti pot or a bulb syringe.
Make sure that the solution you are using (salt water) comes from sterile, distilled, or boiled water to prevent the introduction of bacteria.
Remember to properly rinse the irrigation device after every use and air dry it afterwards.
Limit the use of nasal irrigation, because frequent irrigation can wash out some of the natural protective substances that help fight off infections.
Gargling with salt water can have a similar effect.