 This is probably the most vital part of the process. Believe it or not, no matter how bad you feel about yourself, you are not alone. So many girls, especially during, feel depressed or in competition with others. Take a look at yourself. What are your best personal features? Maybe you are the top in your class: Do people tease you about that? Just think that in ten years time, you will be in a successful, well-paid job! Maybe you're bigger than your friends: Don't feel you have to diet, just choose clothes that suit you, get enough exercise, and smile...anyway, most people first notice your smile before anything else.;
, Don't allow other people to tell you what to feel. If you're happy, go ahead and smile. If you're angry, give 'em a scowl. And if you're sad, cry, weep, or just stay calm. Be yourself.

Do not chew gum in school/libraries/in interviews/at work. There is nothing worse than gum falling out of your mouth at an important moment.
 You don't need to fork out on expensive gym memberships. You can run around the block, cycle to the local shop on errands, or get off the bus a stop early. Every little thing helps. Also, the fresh air works wonders on conditions such as acne! Bonus!

, Stand up. Place your left foot in a direct vertical line downwards from your shoulder. Place your right foot's heel at the arch of your left foot, and turn out about 20*. See? Easy elegance. This not only makes you appear more poised and glamorous, but it also makes your legs seem slimmer! When walking, look straight ahead, with your shoulders down and comfortably back. Imagine a wire coming from your head to the sky which you must not bend or move. There! The perfect posture. When sitting, try not to slouch. If you can, sit all the way back on your chair, with your feet on the floor, and your back on the back of the seat. If you often come home feeling tight and sore around your neck and shoulders, take time to lie flat on the floor and stretch. Then lie upside-down on the sofa with your head pointing towards the ground. This will help elongate the spine and help to relieve the aches. Keep in mind, though, that sometimes it's okay to relax, lean, or slouch. Good posture is generally good for your long term health, but do it because you want to and it fits the mood, not because you think other people want you to look that way.
 What do you love doing? If you're a beach bum at heart, try to swim as much as possible, and get to the beach whenever you can. Just add mates and plenty of sun cream and you have a great day. Or perhaps you're an avid shopaholic. To avoid wasting all your money, feel free to go shopping and impulse buy -- but keep the receipts, leave all tags on, hang them up in your room. A week later, if you wish you hadn't bought them, then you can simply return them!

, If you like to dress up, go for it. If you just want to be comfortable, that's okay to. The ideal girl is the one who chooses clothes that are appropriate to a situation and her mood, and not to what others tell her.
 Choose people who understand you, who listen to you, and who you connect with. Friends (and more than friends) are what make you happy and successful, not jewelry or other accessories.
 The truth is that most skin issues are either genetic, are temporary (almost everyone has problems with their skin as a teenager), or are caused by things like the food you eat, where you live, and what you do.
 Look however you want, and be proud of it. An ideal girl spends more time on her mind, her friendships, and her spirit than on her looks.
 Whether you're at college, middle school or sixth form, getting grades is massively important. Working hard earlier on makes life easier later on when it comes to finding a job, paying the bills, or attracting the man of your dreams. Organize your schoolwork and get useful apps. If your school mates are giving you a hard time for being clever, tell them to shut up Being a well paid business woman is much cooler than working in McDonald's for your whole life.
 Do not starve yourself to lose weight. Being healthy doesn't mean eating less, it just means eating more of the right foods and less of the wrong foods. Make sure you get a lot of protein in your diet - meat tends to have lots of protein. Your body also needs the vitamins and fibers from other foods such as fruit. An example of a healthy diet change is eating whole grain or black bean pasta instead of normal pasta. More protein, less carbs! Also, make sure that you drink enough water a day. If you begin to feel hungry, have a glass of water before eating. Often, you will feel hungry if you're actually thirsty!

, Try learning a musical instrument, like the saxophone. Join a local music group; not only are these a great way to improve your skill, but it's a great way to make like minded friends and guys! Or maybe you could learn a language; you can travel all over the world and communicate with locals, making your stay so much more fun. You can also meet lots of people that you wouldn't ordinarily meet through a language! You may be really good at sports so join a dance class or soccer class. Why not give it a go? It's easier than you may think! Just think of all the hot Italians/Spaniards/French guys you could meet!

, Don't ever change yourself to meet the pressures of your peers. If someone gives you criticism, just think: 'Do I trust the person?' 'Do I value their advice?' 'Do they have a point?'. After saying yes to all these questions, consider taking action on the criticism. If the answers are no, just brush them off...they're probably jealous anyway! Finally, never change for a guy. If he doesn't appreciate you for how you really are, he will never love you as truly as you want. Keep your eyes open for that perfect guy, you never know, he could be hiding in the least likely place!

, Your idea of "ideal" might be very different from somebody else's. So, you should try to be what you think is ideal -- not what somebody else tells you is ideal.

