 It is important that you choose a cat shampoo that is made specifically for cats. Don’t use human shampoo or dog shampoo on your cat. Shampoos not made for cats can dry out their skin.Human shampoo could also hurt your cat if they groom their fur and the human shampoo has chemicals that are toxic to a cat.
Human shampoos may also contain harmful dyes and chemicals that can irritate or hurt your cat's skin.;
, Look for products that have simple ingredients you recognize. This is important because cats groom themselves all the time, which means they will be licking and ingesting whatever is on their coats. You can avoid problems if you know exactly what’s in the shampoo.


Don’t put stock in labels like “natural” and “organic.” They don’t mean much. Lots of perfectly “natural” ingredients like tea tree oil are toxic to cats and can make them very sick.Also remember that just because a shampoo claims it is all-natural doesn’t mean it doesn't contain chemicals. Read the label to double check.
There are certain instances, like if your cat has a bad case of fleas, that may require shampoos with chemicals. However, talk to your vet before choosing one of these shampoos.
 Whenever you buy any shampoo, make sure to read the label. There are certain chemicals you should avoid. These chemicals may even show up in products labelled as "natural" or "organic." Don’t buy cat shampoos that contain artificial dyes, parabens, sulfates, or petrochemicals.


Make sure to read the label before purchasing your cat shampoo.
 If your cat has fleas and ticks, you can bathe them with a flea and tick shampoo. This can help reduce allergic reactions to bites and kill the fleas on your cat’s body. You can’t use a flea shampoo on kittens that are under six weeks old.Flea shampoos are a temporary solution. They get rid of living fleas but do not kill eggs, so they won’t help prevent future outbreaks. There are lots of effective options – talk to your vet about flea other prevention methods.
Be sure to use flea shampoo designed for cats. Flea shampoos made for dogs can have ingredients that are harmful to cats, even if “natural.”

, If your cat has itchy skin, dandruff, irritated skin, or sensitive skin, find a shampoo made to treat these issues. Some shampoos contain ingredients to help soothe your cat’s skin problem., If your cat suffers from skin irritation and allergic reactions, you may want to try a medicated shampoo. These shampoos can work to reduce inflammation and redness, along with decreasing the itching.Be careful when it comes to ingredients. We often think things like aloe vera, tea tree oil, or chamomile oil as good for soothing skin. But these can actually be toxic for cats.If your cat has badly irritated skin, it may have a serious medical issue. Consider talking to a vet about your cat’s skin and how to treat the problem.

