 In most states, running away from home is not considered a crime. If you run away repeatedly, you may become under the supervision of juvenile court or family court. The legal system can provide services to your family or can punish (e.g. fines, drug testing, curfews, suspended driving privileges) you and your family.You also may have to go live with a family member or in a foster home.


It is illegal to run away in Georgia, Idaho, Kentucky, Nebraska, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, and Wyoming if you are under the age of 18. If you do run away in one of these states, then you may be detained by the police, taken to a homeless shelter, or the police officer may try to take you back home.You may also be subject to penalties, such as suspension of your license, a curfew, or drug testing., If a police officer stops you, do not resist. If you resist, you could be charged with a crime or become injured. Tell the police that you have run away from home because of abuse. The police officer can report the abuse to child protective services, and they will conduct an investigation into your abuse allegations.The police may also take you to a shelter, crisis center, or Juvenile Hall to keep you safe. Be sure to tell the police that you are afraid to go home.
While some states do have criminal charges for children who run away from home, there are also services available to children who run away from home and for their families as well.Talking to a police office may help you to access these services, which is preferable to a life on the streets., Legal custody can be transferred from your parents to another adult over the age of 18. If you have a relative or an adult friend who is willing to become your legal guardian, this may be an option for you. Your parents do not have to agree with your decision. A judge can decide if this is the best option for you.The National Runaway Safeline can refer you to legal services to help you complete your paperwork and get information. These process can be very overwhelming and difficult to complete on your own.
You must file your guardianship paperwork at the courthouse and make an appointment to meet with he judge. Once you meet with the judge, the judge will decide if guardianship is best for you. Your parents will be notified that you have filed the papers.A legal guardian will assume all the rights and responsibilities that your parents had.
The process for filing papers varies by state.
 Emancipation is a good option if you already have a job, a place to live, and are able to support yourself. Once you become legally emancipated, you are given all of the rights and responsibilities of someone who is 18 years of age or older.You will have to file papers and go before a judge to plead your case. You must show the judge that you can take care of yourself and have good reason to seek emancipation.
Emancipation is permanent and there is no going back. Be sure this is what you want to do.
In most states, the minimum age for legal emancipation is 16, but in California children as young as 14 may be emancipated.