 You can demonstrate a stubborn, strong-willed nature by being persistent and not taking “no” for an answer. Try to figure out a way to get what you want and satisfy the needs of others. Finding a way to get a “yes” means you are able to channel your aggression into productive results.For example, perhaps you are trying to apply for insurance coverage for a family member who is ill. Insurance companies can be difficult to deal with and may end up turning your application down. Rather than accept their “no”, you may call them persistently or calmly refuse to leave their office until the matter is resolved or you speak to an authority figure who can help you. Do not yell, berate, or bully — instead, remain calm and be very clear about what you want, avoiding abusive language. It's ok to stand your ground, but do not get inflamed over it.
 Having an assertive personality also means that you are not shy about your opinions or thoughts. You should be willing to openly state your feelings to others and not try to hide them. Being honest and upfront will show others that you are strong-willed.For example, you may have a co-worker who asks your opinion on how to best serve a picky client. Rather than brush off his question, you should state your opinion and tell the co-worker how you would address the issue. Offer to work with your co-worker to make the client happy, using your assertive personality for something productive and helpful.
 You should also stand up for what you believe in and demonstrate your strong will during an argument or a discussion. You should be willing to stick to your stance. This will show others that you are determined and willing to act assertively.For example, maybe you get in a heated debate about abortion rights with a friend. Rather than back down on your stance, you may decide to stand your ground and defend your position. Though you and your friend may agree to disagree in the end, at least you will have stood your ground and made it clear how you feel about the issue.

