 Invite friends, family, or neighbors to your party. Send, or email, Hawaiian-themed invitations. You could decorate the invitations with palm trees, hula girls, or surfers. You could also choose invitations with beach themes, flowers, or ocean scenes., It won’t be much of a stretch to ask your guests to wear their swimsuits, sundresses, or shorts. Hawaiian-style (flower printed or "island" themed) shirts, board shorts, or skirts are easy to find during the summer. Ask your guests to wear sandals, or provide them with inexpensive flip-flops decorated with fake flowers., If you are planning to make real flower leis, you can make them the night before the party. If not, paper leis are great as well. Place one over the head of each guest as they arrive to get them in the spirit of the party., Hawaii is green, lush, and filled with tropical flowers. Emulate the Hawaiian landscape by decorating your space with bright colors. Choose tablecloths in bright colors like red or blue or prints such as flowers or tiki masks. Add accents in complementary colors., You could fill vases or bowls with fresh flowers, such as plumeria, hibiscus, or bird of paradise to give your tables a Hawaiian feel. Another idea is to fill small buckets with sand and place shells, flowers, or even tea lights in the sand. You could even hollow out a pineapple and fill it with flowers or tiny paper umbrellas., Not only is bamboo biodegradable and compostable, it will also help set the stage for your Hawaiian party. Pick up plates, forks, knives, and spoons made from bamboo at a party store, or order them online. Pair them with festive cloth napkins., Tiki torches are reminiscent of Hawaiian beach parties. Grab some from a party supply store or garden store, and firmly stake them around your yard. Depending where you live, tiki torches may be hard to find. You can substitute them with any kind of outside light such as lanterns.Keep a fire extinguisher handy in case of any accidents.
 Choose candles in scents like coconut, lime, plumeria, or ocean air. Set them around your space to give off tropical scents and set the mood., Using greenery to decorate your space will be sure to put your guests in a Hawaiian mood. Check your local garden store for greenery to decorate with. Put potted plants around your space, or decorate your table with a grass skirt. You can even line your serving trays with banana or palm leaves., Stock up on inflatable items, from beach balls to palm trees and sharks. These would be perfect for a pool party, but can also be placed around your yard or home. You could use a small inflatable pool as your cooler; simply fill it with ice and add drinks., Nothing says Hawaii quite like a delicious seafood dish. Grill mahi mahi or salmon, or serve sushi. You could also set out cocktail shrimp for an appetizer, or make seafood kabobs., Ham and pineapple are the traditional toppings for a Hawaiian pizza. Create a station so guests can make their own pizzas, or make them ahead of time. You can even order pizza if you don’t want to spend your time cooking., Though a hamburger may not be traditional Hawaiian fare, it’s perfect for a Hawaiian-themed party happening stateside. Offer a couple varieties, like veggie burgers, cheeseburgers, or burgers stuffed with bacon or onions. Set out a variety of toppings as well, like lettuce, tomato, mayonnaise, ketchup, and mustard., Poi is a traditional Hawaiian dish made from taro root. To make your own, simply peel and steam taro root. Mash the taro with a stone pestle or a “poi pounder.” Add water until the poi is smooth and sticky. Then serve it to your guests for an authentic Hawaiian meal., Pineapple, guava, papaya, lychee, and coconut are perfect for a Hawaiian party. You could also add dragon fruit, bananas, starfruit, and raspberries. Serve them separately, or slice them up and make a big fruit salad for your guests., Something spicy will be perfect for your Hawaiian party. Scoop out the inside of jalapenos, and stuff them with cheese, bacon, or shrimp. Then, simply toss them on the grill., Cocktails such as a Blue Hawaii or a Mai Tai would be perfect for your adult guests. For children, offer tropical juice, like pineapple, or water infused with fruit. Garnish the drinks with fruit or paper umbrellas. You can even serve them in coconut halves to take your theme all the way.
 Pineapple upside down cake is a perfect dish for this party. Make your own, or buy one from the market, and serve it to your guests for a refreshing and delicious dessert., Playing a movie based in Hawaii is a great way to set the mood for your event. Consider movies such as Blue Hawaii, 50 First Dates, or Blue Crush for adults, and Moana or Lilo and Stitch for children., Make a beach or Hawaiian-themed Bingo board for your guests. Use words associated with Hawaii, such as luau, hula, and island. Call out the terms and have your guests mark them down if they have them on their card. Choose a winner based on the first person to get a row or column, or even their entire board marked off., Get a CD of Hawaiian music or download Hawaiian .mp3s from the internet. For relaxing moods, you could play Kapena or Israel Kamakawiwo'ole. Or, choose upbeat music like Three Plus or Ten Feet. Research local artists, such as Pepper and Jack Johnson.Another option is to hire Polynesian drummers or Hawaiian musicians for your party., Grass skirts are traditional Hawaiian apparel. You can make or buy the grass skirts ahead of time, or make them as a group activity. It would be extra fun if you can find someone who can teach you all a few hula moves. Play the music and dance the night away.
 The limbo is a fun activity for your Hawaiian party. Get a bamboo pole from your local hardware store to use as the pole and see how low you can go! Set aside a pretty lei for the winner, or award them with sunblock or a Hawaiian shirt., Get several hula hoops for your guests to use. Lay them out around the yard for people to use as they like. You could also hold a contest, such as seeing who can hula hoop the longest, or who can do the most loops in 2 minutes., If you have the space, and the budget, consider hiring fire dancers for your party. Hawaiian fire dancing is a tradition dating back to ancient times, originating after volcanoes erupted and spread lava over the islands. Hiring Hawaiian fire dancers will give your party an authentic island feel.