 You can also finish your bed later, if you prefer.;
, Don't use the glossy, colored, advertising brochures, just newsprint. Use your neighbour's papers, too.


Another option for the bottom layer is cardboard, as shown in the photo. Use plain, brown cardboard. A bit of printing is ok, but avoid shiny or glossy stuff. It's usually plastic coated. Also, remove tape, staples, and adhesive labels. You can moisten the cardboard first or simply let it get rained on.



If you don't care about the appearance of your mulch, collect leaves in autumn and use those. They will gradually break down and nourish the soil underneath, and while they do, they will keep moisture in and weeds in check.
 You will be covering this space with cardboard or wet newspaper three or four sheets thick with a couple of inches overlap all round. Get a rough idea of how much you will require. This is not rocket science.
 A hoe is another option. If you wish, scatter "blood and bone" or a good multi-feed in powder or pellet form.
 A no-dig garden can retain water underneath fairly well, but it can also tend to cause water to run off, especially while it is becoming established.
, If the ground is uneven, use more paper.


Spread thickly enough, the paper and other matter will block light to whatever weeds or sod you cover with it. What you put on top of the paper will hold the paper down, conceal the paper from view, and make anything new that grows on top much easier to pull.
Certain weeds, such as Bermuda grass, don't respond especially well to smothering and seem to come up through just about anything. If you try newspaper for such weeds, use extra and make sure that the offending weeds remain buried on all sides for at least two years., Spread a thick layer of finished compost. This step is optional, but it will allow you to plant sooner and above, rather than through, the newspaper. This option works well with a raised bed, if you choose to build one.


Worm castings and composted herbivore manure (rabbit, cow, horse) can also be blended with this layer if you have them.
 A thick layer will keep the newspaper down if you didn't put a planting layer on top. In any case, mulch helps contain the moisture in your bed, keep the weeds down, and give a finished appearance.
 How you finish the edges is your choice. You can use large rocks, concrete blocks, or wood edging, depending on what materials are available and what look you want the bed to have.
 If you added a planting layer of at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) in a raised bed, don't puncture the newspaper to plant. Just plant on top of it. The newspaper will eventually break down, but by then your bed should be established.

