 This is a simple card trick that uses math and has even fooled some of the most talented magicians like Penn & Teller. To start grab a regular deck of cards.


This trick does involve a bit of preparation. You will take the two Jokers and place each in the deck facing the opposite direction from the rest of the deck. To help you with practicing, you can write the number 43 on one Joker, and the number 18 on the other.
During the performance of this trick you don’t need to have these numbers written on your Joker cards, you just need to remember each number.
 You are setting your cards up in positions 9, 18, and 25. Deal out 9 cards and place the higher Joker, number 43 face up, on the bottom of that pile. Then deal out 18 cards, placing the number 18 Joker face up on the bottom of that pile. Place your pile of 18 with the Joker under your first pile. You will now have the 25 remaining cards. Place that pile on the bottom. 








You have now placed the Jokers in the 10 and 29 positions in your deck. This allows you to ask a spectator to cut a third of the deck. It is unlikely that the spectator will cut before the 10th card, your first Joker, and after the 29th card, your second Joker.
 You can lay the deck on the table and ask your fist spectator to cut a third of the deck and remember the bottom card. Once the deck is cut, place the pile that was cut from the deck down on the table.









If you don’t feel confident that your spectator will cut the deck correctly, you can hold the deck and run your thumb along the edges of the card asking the spectator to say stop. This will give you control over how fast you go, ensuring that when a third of the deck is cut, it is after the first Joker and before the second.
 Using the remaining deck, have your spectator cut this portion of the deck in half. It is unlikely the cut will be made above the second Joker as it is now toward the top. Ask your spectator to remember the card and place the cut portion of the deck on the table next to your first cut.









Once again, if you want to ensure that the cut is correct, run your thumb along the edges of the cards and have your spectator tell you to stop at about the halfway point.
 You will now have three piles of cards, roughly of equal numbers. Take Spectator One’s pile, the first one you cut, and place it back on top of the remaining deck. Then take Spectator Two’s pile and place it on top of that.









You are now taking the first third that was cut and placing it in the middle of your deck while taking the second cut and placing it on the top of the pile.
 Fan the cards out horizontally. Take the Jokers and slide each out, creating a break after each one. You will have three separate piles again.









The Joker should be the last card in your break. So when you separate the cards, the card to the right of each Joker is the bottom card on the first two piles.
You will once again have three piles of cards. The pile to the far left is Spectator Two’s pile. The pile to the far right is Spectator One’s pile.
 Take the far left pile, Spectator Two’s pile, and place it on top of the middle pile. The take Spectator One’s pile, on the far right, and place it on top.


When placing the cards back into one deck, leave the Jokers out.
Your deck will now be in the original order it was, minus the Jokers.
 Point to the Joker on the right. Say that this Joker knows where Spectator One's card is, and has whispered the location to you. Count out 18 cards, flipping the 18th card over. This last card will be Spectator One’s card. Point to the other Joker and say this one will tell you the location of the second card. Continue counting up from 18 to get to the 43rd card, which is Spectator Two’s card. Flip it over to reveal.









This trick uses simple math to help you find the cards. The Jokers mark the number of cards you will count to find the right ones.
The way to remember the positions of cards is simple. The first position, 9, when doubled is 18. 18+25=43, which is the position of the second card.
During the trick, keep your audience engaged by spinning a story about two tricky Jokers who have been spying on the cards. These Jokers have been speaking to you, telling where to find the spectators’ cards in the deck.

