 This can be done with the cabling scissors by applying pressure from the scissors to the cable and rotating the scissors around the cable. After you have punctured the cables jacket, you should be able pull the jacket off easily leaving exposed wires.
 Most twisted pair Cat5, Cat5e and Cat6 cables have a small string inside the cable to assist with this., Cut the string after you have enough exposed cable.,

All Cat5,Cat5e and Cat6 cables follow a standard color pattern for the individual wires. Blue, Orange, Green and Brown. There are two wires per color. White/Blue and Blue, White/Orange and Orange, White/Green and Green, White/Brown and Brown. If you look at the back side of your patch panel, you will see the corresponding colors where you will terminate the cable to.

Note: There are two color patterns, T568A and T568B. Make sure to terminate both sides of the cable on the same pattern. If you have already terminated one side of the cable, look to see what pattern was used! If you have not already terminated, choose a standard that you will always use. Both patterns will produce the same results.
 It is general practice to terminate in ascending order so start at the lowest number. First cable should be terminate to the 1st port and so on., Place the wires into the appropriate color slot on the patch panel. Make sure to place the wires as tightly as possible in the slots in regards to the jacket. There should be as little exposed and untwisted wire as possible to keep the signal strength as high as possible. Make sure to place the White/Blue in the White/Blue spot and not the solid Blue spot. The White/Color wire is not the same as the solid color., After all the wires are in the correct spot and double checked to make sure as little amount of exposed wires will be left as possible, use the punch down tool with the 110 blade and terminate each wire individually. The 110 blade will fully cover the wire connector on the patch panel. Push down until the tool clicks and cuts the end of the wire off. Repeat this step if the wire was not fully cut.,,