 If you want to vote—in person, absentee, or otherwise—you’ll need to be registered. Thirty-one states allow citizens to register to vote online, and every state has printable voter registration forms online that can be mailed in or dropped off at a county board of elections.


If you would like to register, simply go to https://vote.usa.gov/, and indicate in which state you would like to vote. The website will take you to the appropriate state website, where you can register online if your state allows.
Make sure that you register within the deadline, which is usually 15-30 days before an election, although some states have Election Day voter registration. You can see a list of deadlines at https://www.usa.gov/voter-registration-deadlines.;
, In 27 states, a voter needs no special reason to cast an absentee ballot.This is called “no-excuse” absentee voting. In no-excuse absentee voting states, as long as the voter is registered within the deadline, they are eligible to cast an absentee ballot. In 20 others, a voter needs a special reason to vote absentee. These reasons can be more or less restrictive depending on the state, ranging from old age or infirmity to having to work, and the voter will have to determine whether they fit into an eligible category.


You can see where your state lines up at https://www.ncsl.org/legislatures-elections/elections/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx, which is a listing maintained by the National Council of State Legislatures.
 If you are registered and eligible, your next step is requesting the ballot. By far, the easiest way to request an absentee ballot is by going to a website like https://www.usvotefoundation.org/ or https://www.vote.org/.If you enter your address, they’ll email you an absentee ballot application for your state, and provide the proper return address and along with any deadlines associated with getting you ballot in on time.


If you must get your absentee ballot in another way, you can go to the website for your state’s secretary of state, where you should be able to request one. The National Association of Secretaries of State maintains a portal that links to all 50 of the various secretary of state’s websites at http://www.canivote.org/.
Each state has different types of Voter ID laws. Curiously, the requirements for presenting ID to vote absentee are usually less stringent than the requirements for voting in person.You can research your state’s Voter ID laws at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/voter-id.aspx.
 Once you have received your ballot, seal it and mail it into your local board of elections. Make sure that it is properly signed, sealed, and delivered within the proper deadlines, which vary from state to state, but will be clearly indicated on your ballot.

