 If you intend to ask for spousal support, hiring an experienced family law attorney can ensure that your interests are well represented. An attorney's expertise and assistance is especially crucial if you anticipate your spouse will dispute your request.If you're not familiar with any family law attorneys in your area, look up the website of your state or local bar association. They typically have a searchable attorney directory.
Bar associations also may have a referral program where you can find attorneys that take cases similar to yours by answering a few questions about your case.
Try to interview three or four attorneys, and ask each of them lots of questions so you can find an attorney that's right for you.
Keep in mind this attorney will be working with you through an intense, personal situation. You need someone you trust and with whom you feel comfortable.;
, To get a divorce, you must first file a petition with the family court located in the county where you and your spouse live. If you want alimony, you must request it in your petition.Keep in mind that while most courts have forms you can fill out to file for divorce on your own, you typically can't use these forms if you have children or if you're seeking alimony.
Your attorney will draft a petition that includes information about yourself, your spouse, and your marriage.
Once your petition is complete, your attorney will file the petition and pay the filing fee. Then the petition will be served on your spouse.
 The court may grant you temporary spousal support so you can pay your bills and support yourself during the months before the divorce is finalized.Because you were only married for a short period of time, you are much more likely to get this temporary spousal support than you are to get more long-term alimony once your divorce is granted.
To determine whether you're eligible for temporary support, the court considers the income and assets you and your spouse have at the moment the divorce is filed, and whether you have enough to meet your basic financial needs.
Keep in mind that this sort of temporary spousal support typically has no bearing on whether you will be eligible for alimony after the divorce is finalized. Courts way different factors when determining eligibility for different types of alimony.
 The court will have financial disclosure forms that both you and your spouse must complete. These forms require information about your income and assets, both those that are joint and those that are separate.Depending on where you live, you may have to file your financial disclosure forms when you file your petition, or you may have a few months to complete them.
Both you and your spouse must complete financial disclosure forms, which include information about your income and assets, as well as all debts, whether joint or separate.
The court may use the information on the financial disclosure forms to determine whether you're eligible for temporary support, but more often this information is used solely to determine whether the court will award alimony after the divorce.
 If you've requested temporary support while your divorce is pending, the judge may hold a hearing to evaluate the financial situation of you and your spouse and determine whether temporary spousal support is appropriate.Your attorney will let you know if your presence is required at this hearing. The judge may want to ask you questions about your income and the assets you have available.
If the judge finds that your spouse should be making support payments to you while the divorce is pending, the order entered will specify the amount of those payments, to be made each month.
This temporary spousal support will end when your divorce is finalized. After that, you won't receive further payments unless the judge has ruled you are eligible for additional alimony.
 While financial considerations typically carry the most weight, most courts also look at other aspects of your marriage. Particularly if you've only been married for a short period of time, these other factors may turn out to be the deciding factor in whether you are awarded spousal support.Age is one such factor. If you are significantly older or significantly younger than your spouse, this age difference can weigh in favor of you being dependent on your spouse – despite the fact you were only married for a short time.
If you are unable to work because you are disabled, this also is a factor the court will consider.
The court also will look at your lifestyle and the decisions you made after becoming married. For example, suppose you are a 20-year-old woman who married a 42-year-old man. Your husband is a doctor, and when you married you soon became pregnant. As a result, you quit school and work to care for the child.
Three years later you discovered your husband was cheating on you and filed for divorce. Clearly, as a young mother without a college degree you cannot afford the same standard of living to which you were accustomed as a doctor's wife.
The context of the decisions made in this example could convince a judge that alimony is appropriate in your case, despite the fact that you were only married for a few years.
 Even if it's called "permanent" alimony, no alimony or spousal support is forever. Typically, alimony lasts approximately one-third of the length of your marriage.Additionally, courts are predisposed to disfavor alimony in situations where the couple has only been married for a short period of time.
Legally, a "short period" typically is defined as less than seven years – although in some states it's as few as five years and in others it's as many as ten.
Your attorney will evaluate your situation based on the law in your state and court decisions in cases similar to yours.
Keep in mind that if you were married for less than a couple years, the court probably will not award you alimony payments. Whatever payments you get while the divorce is pending will more likely than not be it.
However, in extremely short marriages, you may be able to argue for a lump-sum alimony payment that levels the playing field a bit,rather than getting nothing at all.
 Your attorney will help you look at your state's list of factors the way a judge would. Use this analysis to focus on particular factors that weigh heavily in favor of you getting alimony.The court looks primarily at the financial disparities between you and your spouse, but other, non-monetary factors do come into play as well.
The more those factors, such as age, education, and physical condition, come out in your favor, the more likely you are to get alimony.
However, keep in mind that all of those factors must overcome the general presumption against alimony in cases where the marriage only lasts a short period of time.
 Not every factor is going to come out to your benefit. For factors that weigh against alimony, you and your attorney will have to figure out how to convince the judge that those factors are less important in your situation, or should carry less weight.The biggest hurdle you must overcome is the length of your marriage. It is exceedingly difficult to demonstrate dependency on your spouse when you have only been married for a few years.
Essentially, the court will look at how you lived before you were married. If you're still capable of living in that way, you're unlikely to get alimony.
The fact that you happened to marry someone who was financially well off, for example, does not necessarily entitle you to get payments from your spouse that would allow you to have the same standard of living that you enjoyed as a couple.
This is particularly true in situations where you only actually enjoyed that standard of living for a brief period of time. To overcome this, you must point to sacrifices that you made for your spouse. It also may help if you are ending the marriage because of some wrongdoing on the part of your spouse.
 Ultimately, the decision of whether to grant alimony turns on how depends you were on your spouse over the course of the marriage. If your spouse provided all or the vast majority of the income, the judge typically will consider you dependent on your spouse.That established, you still must overcome the presumption against alimony awards after the end of a brief marriage. This is part of the reason it's important to hire an experienced attorney who has practiced for awhile in your county.
If your attorney is familiar with the family court judges, they'll know what factors the judge in your case will consider more compelling, and can use those to help bolster your case.
Often, you stand a greater chance of getting alimony when only married for a short period if the decisions you made, which put you at a financial disadvantage relative to your spouse, were made in anticipation of future rewards together.
The court also might have sympathy for you if you didn't work or complete a degree at your spouse's behest.
If your spouse insisted that you stay at home with the kids, or refused to allow you to take a particular job or continue an educational program, this increases the chances you will be found dependent on your spouse.
 If your former spouse isn't paying the spousal support the court ordered, ask them about it first. Before you go to court and take additional steps to enforce the judgment, make sure there's not a good reason for your spouse's failure to pay.If you and your former spouse aren't on speaking terms, this may be easier said than done. But regardless of the context, your spouse probably will appreciate the fact that you said something before going to the courts.
If you don't feel comfortable calling your former spouse, you may want to write a letter. Send it using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you'll know when he gets it.
Give your former spouse the benefit of the doubt. There may be a legitimate reason payments have stopped – especially if the first payments were made regularly. For example, your spouse may have lost their job, or had other unexpected expenses come up.
In these situations, unless you are in dire financial straits, some understanding can pay off in the long run.
 If your spouse refuses to pay the spousal support ordered, you'll have to go to court to enforce the order. The best thing to do is to first talk to the attorney who worked with you on your divorce.It's not tremendous work on the attorney's part to file a motion to enforce the order, so it shouldn't cost you very much in additional attorney's fees.
Some attorneys may even be willing to handle this matter for you at no cost.
If you can't afford the attorney's fees, be open about this with your attorney and see if you can work something out. Otherwise, the court typically has forms you can use to file the motion on your own.
 To enforce your spousal support order, you must file a motion in the same court that granted your divorce. This motion typically is a motion for contempt, although different courts may have different names.If you're filing the motion on your own, ask the clerk of the court if there's a form available that you can use to file your motion.
Take your motion along with a couple of copies to the clerk's office when you're ready to file it. Some courts don't charge filing fees if all you're doing is trying to enforce an existing order, but most charge a fee of less than a hundred dollars.
You may qualify for a fee waiver if you're unable to pay the filing fee to file your motion. Ask the clerk for an application.
When your order is filed, the clerk will stamp your originals and copies and set a date for a hearing on the motion. You'll get your copies back – one for your own records and one for your former spouse.
 You must have the motion delivered to your former spouse so they have legal notice of the fact that you've filed a motion to enforce the spousal support order. This way they'll also know when the hearing is scheduled.Typically you'll pay a small fee to have the court documents hand-delivered to your former spouse by a sheriff's deputy.
You also may have the option of mailing the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get back in the mail serves as your proof of service.
Your former spouse may file a written response to your motion, but typically this isn't required. All they have to do is show up at the hearing.
 You must appear in court at the date and time your motion is scheduled to be heard so you can explain the situation to the judge. If you fail to appear, the judge may dismiss your motion.If your former spouse fails to appear, on the other hand, the judge will grant your motion by default.
Bring your copy of your motion, as well as your proof of service, along with you to the hearing. You also should bring a copy of your divorce decree or the order establishing alimony, along with some proof that your former spouse isn't making payments as ordered.
Keep in mind that judges typically hear a number of motions in one day, so you may have to wait awhile before you're called. Take a seat in the gallery of the courtroom until the judge calls your name.
When the judge is ready to hear your motion, all you have to do is explain that alimony was originally ordered and your former spouse has not been paying.
If your former spouse is present, the judge will give him or her an opportunity to speak, and may ask questions to determine the reason alimony isn't being paid.
 The judge will make a decision on how to enforce the order after hearing from both you and your former spouse. Judges typically have several options to choose from when determining how to enforce the order.If your former spouse receives a regular paycheck, the simplest method to get alimony payments is to institute a wage garnishment. The order entered by the judge will permit this.
The court clerk will explain how to begin wage garnishment. Typically your former spouse must first provide information to the court about their employer and the amount of their paychecks.
If your former spouse fails to comply with court orders, he or she will be held in contempt and may face jail time, as well as significant fines, as a result.

