 Fishing rods hold different stats while some require a higher tier for you to use them. You can buy fishing rods from Anglers Anonymous Merchants such as Ken in Navea (X: 274, Y: 404) or Alyssa in Ventos (X: 468, Y: 202).


Only basic rods are available for purchase. You can find advanced rods in crates you can receive while fishing.
You can get basic fishing equipment for free by completing Fishing Quests.;
, Different fish require different types of bait. Each fish drops different items, such as fishing equipment and even rare costumes. You can buy bait from Anglers Anonymous Merchants. You can see which type of bait you need for the fish you want by looking at the fish's description.


White bait costs 18 silver. You will be able to catch White and Blue fish with White bait.
Blue bait costs 35 silver. You will be able to catch Green fish with the correct Blue Bait.
Green bait costs 67 silver. You will be able to catch Orange fish with the correct Green Bait.
Orange bait can only be found or received as a quest reward. By doing your daily fish quests, you may receive orange bait as reward. If you have enough tokens, you can buy the bait from the fish merchant for 50 tokens, or you can simply fish for orange fish. They sometimes give orange baits as drop.
Doing fishing quests will also reward you with rare baits.
 This is optional for lower-level fishing, but is absolutely essential when going after the bigger fish. There are a variety of different styles and Tiers of fishing equipment, and they all provide bonuses to fishing specific types of fish.


Fishing equipment also increases your gear’s durability, line strength, reeling speed, rod strength, and decreases the stamina of prey.
 If you don't know where the fishing spots are in the map, open your map by pressing M and then look for the white fish icon.


Different maps in the game give different levels and types of fish. The higher the level of the map, the tougher and higher tier equipment needed to fish.
If you plan on fishing at a level 45+ map, it's advisable that you get a better fishing rod, bait, and equipment.
 After choosing a fishing spot, head to it and stand on dry land or shallow water. Click on the Fishing icon in the water to throw out your line. A circular window will appear on your screen with an image of a fishing line. There are three different fishing modes available:


Passive - This is the default fishing mode. As soon as you cast out your line, your character goes into Passive mode, and will automatically pull in fish until you are either out of bait or your inventory is full. This is great for farming equipment such as the Green fishing set. You cannot catch Orange fish in passive mode.
Active - In this mode, you control your rod. To do this, once a fish takes your bait, click the fish icon in the circular window to start reeling. See the next Step for details on how to fish in Active mode. Active Mode is time-consuming and has a greater possibility of bandits appearing.
Semi-Active - In this mode, you will control your rod whenever you desire. For instance, if your indicator shows that a weak fish caught your bait, you can leave it to passive. If the indicator tells you that you caught a powerful fish, you can take control to successfully catch it. This mode is still time-consuming, and bandits may still spawn.
 This is the only way to catch valuable Orange fish, so it pays to start practicing early. The goal is to keep the moving bar in the blue area to avoid damaging the durability of your rod. There are a few things to keep your eye on during Active fishing:


Target Durability - This is the fish's "health". When the bar empties, the fish is caught.
Fishing Equipment Durability - This is your "health". When the bar empties, your line will break and the fish will get away.
Fishing window - This is where you click to start Active fishing, and displays an image of the fish in the water. Click here to reel the fish in.
Fish slider - This is located to the right of the Fishing window. As you fight the fish, the slider will move to the left and right. Clicking and holding in the Fishing window will move the slider to the left, releasing it will move it to the right. Try to keep it in the Blue section to lower the Target Durability. Both the Red and Orange sections will lower your Equipment Durability, and the Orange section will heal the fish.
 Fishing while in a party will double the tokens gained. It's advisable that you have only one other player in a party to avoid killing each other's Bandit spawn. Bandit spawn gives you tokens that can be used to buy lucky bags.
 When you're just starting out, you'll only have some basic fishing gear. While you can use this to start catching fish, you'll want to upgrade quickly in order to get the good stuff. An easy way to get these upgrades is to AFK fish using the Passive method.


Purchase about 500 Blue worms as bait.
Clear out your inventory. You'll want as much space as possible before you start AFK fishing, as you'll stop as soon as your inventory is full.
Start fishing. Your goal is to get as many Blue boxes as possible. These can contain Green fishing gear, which will give you a significant boost in stats.
 When you're active fishing, bandits will occasionally appear when you catch larger fish.


Penguin Bandit - This purple-colored Bandit spawns whenever you catch a big Green fish. When killed, Penguin Bandit will drop a token that you can trade in Navea. A Lucky Bag from a Penguin Bandit will give you a chance to obtain a Tier 2 Penguin Bandit set or Orange ingredients.
Nymphet - This pink-colored Bandit appears whenever you capture an orange fish. Once killed, Nymphets will drop tokens that you can trade for a lucky bag. Lucky bags from Nymphets contain yellow ingredients and a Tier 3 Nymphet set.
Nebuchadnezzar - This blue-colored Bandit spawns whenever you capture the legendary King Fish. Once killed, it will drop tokens that can be used to purchase a Lucky Bag containing a couple of yellow ingredients and a Tier 4 Nebuchadnezzar set.
 To increase your fishing stat, you need a proper fishing gear, which can greatly help you in capturing King fish. To successfully choose a good stat for your character, you need to understand their uses.


Line - Line stats determine the safety zone of your reeling bar. Fishing gear with high Line makes your blue safety zone in the slider wider.
Rod - All fish have strength; the higher the strength they have, the longer it takes to have their Durability reduced to 0. Fishing gear with high Rod stats shorten the time needed. It's advisable that your Rod stat be at least 10 points higher than the King Fish's strength.
Reel - Fishing gear with high Reel gives you control to the movement of the bobber, which is good against fish with high speed. If you're going to capture King Fish, make sure that your Reel stat is much higher compared to your prey. The hardest King Fish to catch is the Crystal Lobster since it possesses a speed of 610.
 The King Fish is a legendary fish in Aura Kingdom. Hunting it is a global event where any players can participate as long as they have a high-tier fishing set and the required bait to capture the fish. Most King Fish baits are acquired by doing daily fishing quests or can be purchased from the Fishing NPC using your tokens. When the King Fish event is active, a yellow fish icon will appear on your map, indicating the King Fish's location.

