 Accurately counting macros means using the serving size to determine the macro content of whatever you ate. Look for the serving size just below the large “nutrition facts” header on the nutrition label.Serving sizes vary according to different types of food. Some will be listed in ounces, others in fluid ounces, some in grams, some in units of food (i.e., “10 crackers”) and so on.
Be sure to check the servings per container, too. If a can of beets says that one serving has 80 grams of carbs and there are three servings per container, the whole can of beets contains 240 grams of carbs.;
, Many nutrition labels have a total for all fat, then separate totals for saturated fat and unsaturated fat. There is no need to tally the different sorts of fat differently. Just make a note of the total fat, typically denoted in grams, in a small notebook. Alternately, add the totals in a fitness tracking app of your choice., Just like the fat total, the carbohydrate totals are usually denoted in grams. Make a note of the total carbs in your macronutrient notebook or fitness tracking app.Sugar is often listed as a subcategory just below the carb count. However, you don’t need to create a separate category for sugar, since the total amount of sugar in a given food is included in the total carb count.
 Protein is the third and final element in the macro-counting triumvirate. Protein, like the carbohydrate and fat totals, is expressed in grams. Write the protein count of the food you’re eating in a notebook or in your fitness tracking app alongside the other two., Lots of information on the nutrition label is irrelevant from a macro-counting perspective. For instance, don’t bother counting calories. Likewise, you don’t need to know the cholesterol or sodium contents of a given food (though you should always aim to consume low-sodium and low-cholesterol foods to keep your heart healthy).Dietary fiber counts are also unnecessary when counting macros – though you should aim to get an adequate amount of fiber in your diet. Eat whole grain bread and pasta, and at least four cups of fruits and vegetables each day.

