 In order to create a job for yourself, you need to think about how exactly you will go about it, what you will do, etc. Set aside a notebook or folder for your planning. Make a list of all your work experience, skills, and achievements. Then, using these suggestions, think about what you want to do in the way of a self made job. Will you be working for someone else as an agent or contractor, or really be self-employed?


Decide what area or field you want to work in? Will this be a full-time or part-time job that you will create?;
, Do you need lots of training or classes to be qualified for the job? If so, how will you get that? Maybe you can work and get free training or the job/and valuable experience at the same time. So, if you want to become a freelance writer, for example, but have no experience in writing for publications, you are not likely to be successful without a few courses, or published articles in your portfolio.
 Look into up-and-coming fields or check out businesses in the area to see what is missing and fill that void.
 Once you have a fairly clear idea of what you want in the way of a job, you need to prepare. Do you have an up-to-date resume? Do you have friends, relatives, or associates that may be able to help you? Do you need to take any courses or complete additional training in the field?

, and seek out opportunities. Be kind to everyone you meet so you can gain an excellent reputation in your community. Networking is key at this stage. Maintain ongoing professional relationships by contacting them with specific but brief thank you notes, and congratulations to your business contacts/colleagues, and be sure to meet or exceed all expectations and deadlines. Be sure to sell your services nicely/effectively, by not being pushy or rude to anyone.
 If you can't make a go of it in one area, don't beat yourself up. There are many reasons the job you are attempting to create may not work out. For one thing, if the job is too specific or 'niche' for most people/businesses, you are likely not going to succeed. A narrow idea such as a reptile pet grooming and care salon, for example, may not do as well as an animal grooming salon that services dogs, cats, and birds as well. However, there is also the danger of overextending yourself, losing focusing by too broad a target, instead.
 Do some research. If you are looking to create a job for yourself within an existing business, don't be too disappointed, if you are turned down. If the current state of the economy is where many businesses are letting employees go, they may not be able to take on another good person. Don't take a rejection personally.
 Even if your present job is a success and you are making money, a better opportunity may present itself. If you feel you can do better some other way, or you see a great new idea that will make you more money, take it!

