 Many cities across Europe host Christmas and holiday markets, so they make a great destination before Christmas. You'll find local handmade crafts, treats, and other delights at these markets.Some cities that feature Christmas markets include Nurembourg and Heidelburg Germany, Strasbourg, France, and Bruges, Belgium.If you want to go after Christmas, try the International Film Festival in Dublin (January), the Kiruna Snow Festival (January), or Carnival in Venice (February).The Salzburg Music Festival also happens in winter., Another option for winter in Europe is to engage in winter sports, such as skiing. Parts of Europe are iconic for these types of sports, including the Scandinavian countries and any country connected to the Alps.Winter sports and activities include more than just skiing and sledding. You can also go ice fishing, snow kiting, or ice skating, to name a few.
 While you'll likely find museums and indoor attractions in many European cities, winter can be a good time to visit the large cities that are rife with indoor cultural attractions. For instance, in cities like London, Paris, and Berlin, you'll find plenty of art museums, art galleries, theaters, and historic locations to keep you warm and entertained., The aurora or Northern Lights can be seen in the Scandinavian countries during the winter months; you may also be able see it in the northern parts of Scotland during the winter. Seeing this phenomenon is a once-in-a-lifetime experience, and a perfectly good reason to visit Europe in the winter., Winter is the perfect time to visit a chilly location that boasts an ice hotel. Most of these hotels are located in Scandinavia. Each winter, they are rebuilt completely from ice, and they make a truly unique destination., In colder countries, the locals know how to do it up right, taking warm baths in local springs and tubs and getting the spa treatment. Winter in Europe is a great time to experience this luxurious treatment for yourself, and you'll find these types of destinations in places like Finland, Sweden, and Switzerland, just to name a few.