 Mix up flavorful and healthy muffins that features whole grain flour, oats, brown sugar, and cranberry sauce. The cranberry sauce will sweeten the muffins and add a little zip. If you use whole berry cranberry sauce, your muffins will also have a little texture. Consider adding in:Chopped nuts
Orange zest
Chocolate chips

, You can add cranberry sauce to a number of your favorite smoothies or make one where the cranberry flavor really shines. For a cranberry sauce smoothie blend these ingredients until they're smooth:1 cup (240 ml) of almond or regular milk
1/2 cup (135 g) of cranberry sauce
1/2 cup (142 g) of plain Greek yogurt
1/2 tablespoon of honey
1/4 teaspoon of vanilla extract
1 cup of ice cubes

, One of the simplest ways to use up leftover cranberry sauce is to use it as a sandwich spread. Use it on cold sandwiches or sandwiches that you want to grill. For a few starter ideas, try cranberry sauce in:Turkey sandwiches
Grilled cheese sandwiches
Ham and cheese sandwiches
Peanut butter and jelly (substitute the sauce for the jelly)

, Use cranberry sauce to finish braising chicken or pork. To braise a chicken or pork, brown chicken or pork pieces in a pan and add onion, garlic, and ginger. Once the onion is soft, stir in the cranberry sauce and a little stock or white wine. Cover and simmer or bake the meat until it's cooked.You can also make a quick cranberry glaze for a ham. Just brush cranberry sauce mixed with vinegar and mustard over a fully cooked ham. Heat the ham in the oven until it's hot throughout.
 Cook a batch of your favorite oatmeal or porridge. Add a few spoonfuls of cranberry sauce to the cooked porridge and stir the mixture until the cranberry sauce is incorporated. Taste the oatmeal and add more sauce according to your taste. Sprinkle some chopped pecans or drizzle a little cream over the oatmeal before serving it.If you're trying to reduce your sugar intake or just cut out refined sugars, sweeten the oatmeal with a mashed banana.
 Most people don't think of cranberries when it comes to dessert. For a really fast and decadent dessert, make a bowl of sweetened whipped cream. Add the cranberry sauce and gently fold the mixture together so it remains light and fluffy. Serve the cranberry whipped cream with shortbread cookies.For a healthier take on this dessert, use sweetened yogurt. For example, fold the cranberry sauce into vanilla Greek yogurt for a lightened version.

