 Since nose bleeds can be caused by personal actions, there are some preventative methods that will help you prevent nose bleeds in the future. You should avoid picking your nose. Picking can cause an injury to the inner sensitive blood vessels of the nose. It can also detach the blood clots covering previously injured blood vessels and cause further bleeding. You should also keep your mouth open while sneezing to prevent expulsion of air through the nose.


You should keep the inner lining of your nose moist by gently apply a coating of petroleum jelly or nasal gel inside your nose with a cotton swab twice a day.Always blow your nose gently and do it one side at a time.
You should also clip the fingernails of children to avoid further injury.
 To increase the humidity in your environment, you should buy a humidifier. You can use a humidifier at home or work to prevent excessive dryness, especially in the wintertime.


If you do not have a humidifier, a metal container with water can be placed on top of heating radiators to humidify the air.
 Constipation can lead to bearing down to pass hard stool, which causes an increase in nose bleeds because it strains your blood vessels. This can increase arterial pressure momentarily and dislodge blood clots covering previously injured blood vessels, which can eventually result in further nose bleeds. Constipation can be prevented by eating foods high in fiber and increasing your fluid intake.
 Do not bear down during bowel movements, since this increases the intra-cerebral arterial pressure thereby increasing the chance of small sensitive blood vessel rupture in the noseEating 6 to 12 prunes a day are more effective than dietary fibers and can be used to prevent constipation.You should also avoid hot and spicy foods. Heat can dilate blood vessels and precipitate bleeding., Saline nose sprays can be used several times each day to keep the nose moist.These nasal sprays are not addictive as they only contain salt. If you don't want to buy them, you can make your own.


To make your own, take a clean container. Mix 3 heaping teaspoons of iodide-free salt and 1 rounded teaspoon of baking soda. Mix both the powders together. Then take 1 teaspoon of the powdered mixture and add it to 8 ounces of lukewarm distilled or boiled water. Mix well., Flavonoids, which are a group of natural chemical compounds present in citrus fruits, can improve fragility of blood capillaries.Because of this, you should consider increasing your consumption of citrus fruits. Other foods with a high flavonoid content include parsley, onions, blueberries and other berries, black tea, green tea and oolong tea, bananas, all citrus fruits, Ginkgo biloba, red wine, sea-buckthorns, and dark chocolate (with a cocoa content of 70% or greater).


You should not take flavonoid supplements, such as ginkgo pills, quercetin tablets, grape seed extract, and flaxseed, because they result in a higher flavonoid content and eventual toxicity.