 All fighting games have one thing in common: a health bar. At the end of the match, it decides who is the winner and who is the loser. But in Street Fighter Alpha 3, there are other bars on screen.



Health Bar = Red Arrow. Attacking your opponent with various moves lowers their health bar until it is empty.

Guard Gauge = Blue Arrow. To keep your health from reaching zero, you need to have defense. Holding back (away from the opponent) to block stops normal attacks from reducing your health bar and reduces special attacks' damage. However, blocking for too many attacks reduces the gauge and when the gauge empties, the character is 'guard broken,' meaning their guard gauge is smaller than before and they're open for a free attack.

Super Combo Gauge = Green Arrow. The meter bar varies depending on what style the player choose before the match. Different styles offer different advantages. This bar is filled whenever the player attacks, defends, is attacked, and uses special moves.;
, In Street Fighter, there are 6 attack buttons. Low punch (jab), Medium punch (straight), High punch (fierce), Low kick (short), Medium kick (forward), High kick (roundhouse), and 8 directions of movement.
 When moving around in Street Fighter, pressing Up will cause your character to jump. This can be combined with towards the opponent or away from the opponent by pressing Up and Left or Up and Right. These can also be combined with attacks when in the air.
 In order to win in Street Fighter, you need to block opponent attacks. To block, press the directional button that is away from the opponent. For example, if the opponent is on the right side of the screen, press and hold the Left directional button, if the opponent is on the left side, then press and hold the Right directional button.


Also, there are 2 types of blocking: High blocks and Low blocks. High blocks are performed by pressing away from the opponent, but if they are across the screen, then you will back yourself into the corner. To stop that, most of your blocks should be low blocks. Low blocks are performed by pressing away from the opponent and down, a diagonal direction. Blocking low will block most attacks on the ground and keep your position. However, if an opponent is jumping at you, you have to block high or else you will get hit.
 Knowing the basics, go to Training Mode, select a character, and get used to the controls.


Note: Not all characters play the same. For example, most characters have the same jump but Dhalsim has a 'floaty' jump and long limb attacks.

