 It is a process, a journey. It is likely that some moments, times or days, the pain will overwhelm you, while other days you will feel more in control. Understanding that the struggle is likely to be ongoing can help you to be more accepting of the pain overall, allowing you to start learning to live with it.Patience can be hard at times, yet pain often teaches people patience, especially for those who are used to doing everything and doing it quickly. Pain slows people down; there is a need to take things more slowly during healing and recovery. Unfortunately, this is often at odds with the fast-paced world in which we live, which can amplify pain if you pretend that you can cope when you can't. Realize that busyness will never go away. Allow yourself the time to recuperate and renew your strength. Going back to activities before you heal usually results in greater damage, not a medal.
 Writing down your feelings and emotions can be both cathartic and revealing. You don't have to share any of what you write with anyone, so you can write down whatever you need to express. Reading back over the journal can reveal patterns of times when the pain is worse than other times, allowing you to pinpoint actions or omissions that will help you to reduce the pain.Use your writing to explore your thinking. How many negative thoughts are you experiencing? Is your thinking often negative or do you experience peaks and troughs of such thoughts? While it is important to let your negative thoughts surface so that they can be experienced, it is equally important to let go of them once you've acknowledged their presence. Writing them down can help you to work through them, then release them, and this can help to alleviate pain too, as you stop feeling so confused or bogged in negativity.
 It is frequent to hear people dismiss pain in an attempt to "act tough," "not be a wimp" or "tough it out." Pain is a very personal experience and there is no way that one person can assume that another's person pain isn't real, severe or debilitating. While each person suffering pain can seek and make use of methods that might relieve the pain, the reality is that some pain cannot be easily treated and some pain, no matter what is done, does not go away. Do not judge yourself or allow others to judge you.Read all you can about your type of pain. Learn what others have to say about it and have done about it. Borrow the techniques and solutions that you think will work for you and see what happens (of course, keep it safe and sensible).
Some people may dismiss pain as being “all in your head.” As researchers learn more about the relationship between your mind and your body, there is increasing evidence that shows that pain being “all in your head” doesn’t mean it isn’t also real.Realize that depression and anxiety are bed-mates of those suffering chronic pain. They need treating too, so be sure to seek help. Asking for help from a therapist is a sign of strength and courage, not of weakness. You may find that if you can deal with these conditions, the pain experience will lessen somewhat as your perception changes. Finding hope in your life is vital to pain recovery.

