 When it's over, you will end up with nothing, so go get any kind of weapon. (Scimitars are best, but you won't be able to get that kind of weapon yet).;
,, What you can do is head to the GE (Grand Exchange) and either buy full bronze and shrimps, or full iron and shrimps. If you want you can just fish them yourself and save yourself the trouble of buying it. This fishing experience will be useful in the future.
 You can head to the monastery and train on level 5 monks. Or, you can train on level 9 Al Kharid Warriors - but be careful because they will pile you if they see you attacking one of their brothers. Just train on what you feel comfortable with until you have 30 Combat.
 What I would suggest would be to start training other skills (e.g. Woodcutting, Fishing, Runecrafting) - any skill that you can make money on. Another option is to start those quests! They can hand you a lot of quick experience that would take you a while to get. At this time you should at least have steel or mithril armor, depending on how you decide to make your money. If that be the case, train on Barbarians, OR monsters in the Stronghold of Security until you have 30 Combat.
 I suggest either scorpions, guards, or the elemental mages found next to Malignus Mortifier. They drop a good span of runes and talismans.
 If not, then stop and either work on Fishing, Mining, or Woodcutting. By now you should at least have adamant, or rune armor on you. I also advise you to think about starting the almighty Dragon Slayer, because it awards you a good amount of Defense and Strength experience. Otherwise, train on Hill Giants until you have 60 Combat.
 Yes, it is smart to have rune armor; no it is not too expensive your just lazy.
 You can keep on training, or you can kick back and relax and train other stats. If you wish to continue training, then read on. Train on Cockroach Soldiers until you have 80+ Combat. They can drop rune scimitars and rune square shields.
 Collect their dragonhide, and their dragon bones to make money and train prayer.
