 If you wait too long, your opportunity to help mend things will pass. That is, your friend may get angrier the longer you wait to apologize. It's hard to swallow your pride, but it's important to put your relationship first. That means apologizing as soon as you can.The longer you wait to apologize, the guiltier you'll feel, and it's not good for your own mental health to wait that long.
Of course, you do want to wait until you can be sincere. If you can't offer a sincere apology, it's not going to mean much.;
, Saying "I'm sorry" is both the easiest and hardest part of apologizing. It's just one little sentence, but it can be hard to get out. It's the best way to start an apology, though, because it establishes upfront that you want to make amends.Of course, you don't need to use that exact phrasing. You could also say, "I apologize," or, " I am sincerely sorry."

, You also need to admit to what you actually did wrong. It's not enough to just say "I'm sorry." You also have to say what you're sorry for, as that shows you are accepting responsibility for exactly what you did, not making some blanket statement to try to make things better.For example, you could say, "I'm sorry that I wasn't at your graduation."
Alternatively, you could say, "I apologize for talking about you behind your back."

, Your best friend knows you well and is going to be able to tell whether you are being sincere or not. You really need to own your apology for it to mean something. Plus, your friend is more likely to accept your apology if you are sincere.One part of owning your apology is making sure you don't try to explain away your behavior. If you try to offer excuses, that takes away from the sincerity of your apology. Saying "I'm sorry, but..." can negate the power of your apology.

Avoid being defensive. When you're making an apology, it can be easy to slip into defensiveness. After all, if you've fought with your best friend, it's likely you're both to blame in the situation; however, when you're apologizing, you're taking blame, so you can't be defensive at the same time.
 Showing remorse is acknowledging that you caused the other person harm, in your words and body language, such as "I know you expected me to be at your graduation. I imagine you're feeling very hurt that I wasn't there for you at this big moment in your life." Another option is, "It was a horrible thing for me to do, to talk about your private life to other people, and I should know better. I know you must be very upset and hurt."This is your best friend, so make sure he knows how much his friendship means to you. Try something like, "You are my closest friend, and your friendship is incredibly important to me."

