 Get a fresh piece of paper, or start a new journal. Jot down notes on the areas of your life that aren’t working well for you. Some experts believe it is better to focus on one goal at a time to stay focused, however, you may feel like tackling several goals at once. Pinpoint specific areas in your life that have burdened you for months, or years. For example, if you smoke, now might be the time to make that goal to quit! Areas to consider:


Health and fitness
Relationships
Career
Finances
Habits and lifestyle choices
Education;
, Get a piece of paper and begin writing down what you want to achieve. When you write down your goals, studies show it is more likely you will commit to them.Create four headings at the top of the page. The first heading should be "Goal Area" and the next four headings should be "One Month," "Six Months," "One Year," and "Five Years." If you like, you can continue with "Ten Years" and so on. Under the goal area, make a list of things you want to change. For example, "Career" or "Finances." Then under the time headings, state what you would like to have change by that time in your life.


Make sure your goals are stated in the positive. For example, "I will.." not "I might" or "I hope..." The more confident your statements are, the more motivating they will be for you.
Be specific when you write down your goals. For example, instead of "I will lose weight" try "I will lose 5 pounds by increasing my activity level and decreasing my caloric intake."
At the bottom of the page make a section called "Action Steps" and write down all the steps you will take to help push you towards your goals. For example, "I will walk one mile per day" or "I will eat a fresh salad every day."

, Do you have the skills, knowledge, tools and resources to make it happen? For example, you may consider taking a night class, investing in exercise equipment, or hiring a business coach. You will feel more inspired and prepared moving towards your goals, if you do everything you can to prepare.
 Most successful business people have had a great mentor along the way. Find a successful businessperson, athlete, or public figure that you admire. If you know them, ask them if they would be interested in mentoring you. If you don't know them, then read up on how they accomplished their goals. Study what they did and find inspiration in their motivation. They will most likely have a blog or article where they share their success story. For example, "How I made my first million dollars..."