 Use a tape measure to determine the width and length of the window you want covered.
 Add 2 inches (5 cm) of seam allowance to the length measurement. For a 72-inch (1.8-m) long window, the fabric and lining should each be 74 inches (1.88 m) long.

Determine the width of the fabric and lining.
Divide the window width plus seam allowance by the width of the fabric that you have. For a window 36 inches (91.4 cm) wide with a 2-inch (5-cm) seam allowance, and fabric 12 inches (30.5 cm) wide, the result is 3.2.
Round the total up to a whole number. This is the number of fabric panels you will need to make your blinds. If the number is 3.2, you will need 4 widths of fabric in the length determined.
Repeat the calculation to determine how many panels of lining you will need to make your blinds.
 Cut out the determined amounts of fabric and lining.,

Sew together the panels of fabric lengthwise.
Sew together the panels of lining lengthwise.


Lay the fabric flat with right side up.
Place the lining over the fabric with right side down.
Align the edges of the fabric and lining.
Join the edges of the fabric and lining with straight pins.
Sew together the bottom and side edges. Sew 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the edges.
 Cut the corners from the bottom edges of the blinds. Make a 45-degree cut.,

Place an additional line of stitching .25 inches (6.3 mm) from the bottom edge.
Remove the pins.
 Slide a dowel between the bottom rows of stitching., The right sides of the blind should face outwards.,

Lay the blind flat with lining facing up.
Use a tape measure and pencil to mark a line 2 inches (5 cm) below the top of the blind.
Draw horizontal lines spaced equally over the rest of the blind. Each line should be between 8 and 12 inches (20.3 and 30.5 cm) apart.
Ensure that the final bottom section of the blind is half the distance between the other lines.
 For each space between the horizontal lines, cut a strip of matching fabric. The fabric should be as wide as the width of the blinds and 3 inches (7.6 cm) high.,

Join the edges of the pocket. The wrong side of the fabric should face outwards.
Sew together the long edge and 1 shorter edge of the pocket.
Flip the pocket right side out.
Repeat the process for the rest of the pockets.
 Sew the edges of the pockets to the horizontal lines.

Insert the dowels. Slide a dowel into each pocket. Sew the open ends of each pocket.
Attach the rings. Use a needle and thread to sew 3 plastic rings along the length of each pocket. Place the rings evenly along each pocket. You should have 3 vertical rows of rings when finished.


Cut a strip of fabric fastener, such as Velcro, as long as the width of the top edge of the blinds.
Fold 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the top edge of the blind towards the wrong side of the blind.
Remove the "positive" and "negative" sides of the fabric fastener.
Place 1 side of fabric fastener over the fold. The fabric fastener material should face away from the fabric.
Use a needle and thread to sew the fastener and fabric together.
Attach the sticky edge of the other side of the fabric fastener to the wall where you will hang your blind.
Screw a wall batten onto the wall. The batten should cover the strip of fabric fastener and lie above the window.


Screw eyelets into the overhanging edge of the batten. Each eyelet should line up with each vertical line of plastic rings on the blind.
Screw in the fourth eyelet on 1 side of the batten. You will use this eyelet to hold the cords that raise and lower the blind.
Attach a wall cleat. Screw a wall cleat into the wall. The cleat should be on the same side of the blind as the fourth side eyelet. Attach the cleat where it is easy to reach.


Measure a piece of nylon cord.
Multiply the length of the blinds by 2. For a 72-inch (1.8-m) blind, the result is 144 inches (3.6 m).
Add the width of the blinds. A 36-inch (91.4-cm) wide blind gives you 180 inches (4.6 m).
Multiply this number by 3. Using the measurements above, the result is 540 inches (13.8 m).
Cut the needed length of cord.
Cut the cord into 3 equal lengths.
Tie the end of each cord to 1 of the bottom plastic rings on the blind.
Bring each cord up through the vertical line of plastic rings and the eyelet above each line.
Bring all of the cords through the fourth eyelet on the side of the blind.
 Press the fabric fastener on the blind to the fabric fastener on the wall. The back side of the blind should face the window., Pull the cords until the blind has reached the height you desire.

Wind the cords around the wall cleat.

