 Mix together equal parts sodium bicarbonate, clay cat litter and dry sand. Keep it in buckets near your workstation. Create a dry mixture if you intend to absorb the spill. Some might attempt to dilute the spill and use it to clean the affected area.Liquid ammonia is a common cleaning agent. You can dilute the spill with water and use the mixture as an impromptu cleaner. You'll need to add a higher ratio of water to ammonia, so if you spilled too much, use the dry mixture.
This combination of dry ingredients is a safe way of containing and disposing large amounts of liquid ammonia.
 An acid or alkaline compound can be used to neutralize ammonia, making it safer to handle. You could use hydrochloric or sulfuric neutralizers. Application of these products to the spill will cause a chemical reaction that will neutralize the ammonia.Search for ammonia neutralizers. Some brands develop a mixture of acids to be used to neutralize ammonia.
 Cover the spill with your dry spill mix. You should use enough spill mix so that the surface is completely dry. Wait for the mix to absorb the liquid.
 Wear a mask while doing this. If possible, place the compound in a fume hood.Turn the fume hood on for the remainder of the process.


Throw this mixture directly into your outdoor trash bin if you don’t have access to a fume hood.
 Fill a pail with cold water. Slowly add the liquid neutralizers into the cold water. Only add a tenth of the chemical neutralizer to the water.


If you added too much, the neutralizer will still do the job, but may need more applications of water to the spill area.Stir the mixture for about thirty seconds.
 Add a small amount of liquid mixture created earlier to the area of the spill. Add small dollops at a time. On the surface clean thoroughly with a clean mop. Allow the area to dry before cleaning a second time.

On the second cleaning, use water and a surface cleaner to ensure a thorough cleaning of the area.
Never use bleach to clean ammonia because the combined chemicals will create a poisonous gas harmful to people.