 Stay composed. Don't start freaking out and start screaming. You might scare the person away. Just because they're celebrities doesn't mean they enjoy hearing fans scream in their face. Try not to act too suspicious either.;
, Doing this will give you confidence and you will be able to hold your nerves. It will acknowledge your presence and let them know, "Hey! I'm here and interested!" Remember to smile; it will make you seem friendly and approachable. Try not to smile so long that it creeps them out, though.
 If s/he acknowledges it with a similar nonverbal gesture, it's your cue to say, "Hey there. How are you?" or something along those lines. If s/he ignores you, give it up and walk away. S/he probably does not want to be bothered. If they reply, start your conversation.
 Try to talk about ordinary everyday things, things you would talk about to any other person. Ensure that the conversation has a significant purpose and you're not just chitchatting. Don't bother asking them about the weather or something boring.
 They don't have all the time in the world, and as much as they love their fans, they'd most likely rather not hear your life story. Talk for a couple minutes and then end the conversation. You may want to think of a backup thing to say before you ever meet a celebrity, therefore you won't panic, and will already know what to say. If you really idolize this person, keep the conversation short, but never boring. Try to make it something they remember, considering they probably see hundreds of other fans a day.
 Don't talk for a long time if she/he doesn't seem interested. Example: "It was really nice talking to you, but I have to go. Would you mind signing this little sheet of paper for me?"

, If she/he obliges, say "Thank you" and walk away with a little wave.
 If she/he refuses, say "Oh well, that's okay. I still enjoyed meeting you. Have a nice day." A graceful ending is always best.
 They will most likely deny. They may feel like it is an invasion of privacy, and it will make the situation feel awkward.

