 Learning a foreign language well takes time - there’s no way around it. Long, infrequent cram sessions just won’t work. Instead, study or quiz yourself in short bursts of 5-10 minutes. Try to do several of these throughout the day.Once you build up a good knowledge of the language, you will retain more from longer sessions.;
, While they seem like the bane of any language student’s existence, flashcards are actually a proven way to learn vocabulary. They’re also cheap and easy to make. You can keep a stack of flashcards on you and quiz yourself whenever you have a few spare minutes throughout the day. Just focus on a few words at a time.You can use index cards for a traditional choice, or websites or apps to create virtual cards.
The key to flashcards is repetition--use them often, and quiz yourself on old flashcards, too. Use the words as often as you can to help them stick.
 Studies show that learners need to encounter words several times in different contexts before they really stick. To speed this process up, whenever you learn a new word, look at how it is used in context, and then follow a series of steps:Pronounce the word and spell it
Study the meaning of the word (look it up if you don’t know it)
Create a sentence in your own words using the word
Write the new word and its meaning several times

, The same holds true for learning a new phrase. Say it outloud, check their meaning if you aren’t sure, and make up new sentences that use the phrase.To retain vocabulary, keep using these words and phrases, even after a test or after moving on to new topics.
 Practicing your foreign language with native speaker or someone who knows it well supercharges your learning. Not only will you have the chance to put your knowledge into action and build confidence in speaking, you’ll also learn new vocabulary from you partner. All while having fun!You can find a friend, tutor, or teacher who you can practice with. Check with a language instructor, look online for language groups in your area, or look for someone to practice with online via language learning sites.
You can also try a tandem partnership with someone who is trying to learn your language. Spend part of the time practicing the language that is foreign to you, then switch to your own language and help your partner learn.

