 Your lighting fixtures can create a mood in your room. You can hang a statement piece like a chandelier or pendant light, or you can install recessed lighting for a minimalistic look.

If you install a dimmer switch, you’ll be able to adjust the lighting to suit the mood of the meal. For example, you could dim the light for a romantic dinner.Install candle sconces around the room at eye level. Place fresh tapers in these to add dramatic lighting, or leave them unlit to add to the ambiance.
 A centerpiece is a fun way to accessorize your table without compromising its function. You can craft a centerpiece, or buy a premade decorative item that fits the look you want.


Consider using a seasonal centerpiece to celebrate the time of year.
Try a candle cluster for an easy centerpiece.
Use fresh or faux flowers for a traditional centerpiece.
 A rug can create visual interest in the room, and it can tie a room together. A rug can also make a room feel more intimate. No matter the size of your room, you can find a rug that fits it. Make sure that the rug is larger than your dining room table by measuring both the table and the room before buying your rug.If you don’t yet have a dining room table, buy a rug that is larger than a standard table. Then carry the measurements of the rug when you go table shopping.
 Curtains can help you carry your color scheme throughout your room. They also allow you to control the amount of light that enters the room. If you choose printed curtains, you may be able to use the curtains as your main decorative piece.Bring out a favorite color in your rug by hanging matching curtains.
If your space is small, consider getting curtains in a fun print instead of hanging wall art.
 If your table feels bare, try a tablecloth or a table runner. A table covering works best as a seasonal item, but it can work for everyday if the look fits your style.


Tablecloths can be a fun way to change the look of your room or to celebrate a holiday.
If you have neutral colors in your decor, use tablecloths to add a punch of color.
Don’t forget to clean your table covering.
 To complete the look of your space, look for dishes that complement the style and color of your room. Choosing a solid color can make it easier to find dishes that fit with the rest of the pieces, but you may be able to use a simple print such as a stripe or polka dots.

For example, if your dining room has a vintage theme, look for dishes at a flea market or for dishes that evoke a vintage style.
For a contemporary look, choose black, dark grey, or matte white dishes.

