 It's best to know some of the people who will attend and those who are local are your best bet. You can usually see where people come from by reading their location status on Twitter, although some people choose to keep this secret. Focus on the people you know to be local or who can get to the location with ease. That said, don't dismiss people who might be able to turn up even if they live somewhere other than locally––people travel a lot and may be able to drop in when in your area on business or they may even make a special effort to turn up, especially if they can get a cheap flight or a lift with someone else.


To narrow down people who are in your local area, there are services such as Twitterlocaland Twellow.;
, Name the date, time and location, along with giving a very clear reason for the meeting. For example: Tweetup 4 Coffee Lovers - Barney's Coffee Shop Tues Mar 4th 6:00 PM.


Be prepared to accept ideas and suggestions from your followers. Perhaps you suggested a certain time but most of those keen to come suggest that an alternative time would work better––be flexible about it. Or, maybe you have suggested that the event will be to do X, but many of your followers suggest that maybe Y would be more interesting. Again, be flexible and ready to take on board what everyone is enthusiastic about.
Answer all questions about the Tweetup clearly on your Twitter account, so that all of your followers can gather the information together.
 Having a specific hashtag can help your followers recognize tweets specifically relating to the event, as well as finding all relevant tweets quickly.


Encourage retweeting so that the message gets spread far and wide.
You may need to try a few times before finding a hashtag that is free to use. Aim to keep it as short as possible––Tweetup can be abbreviated to TU, for example.
 Although this is primarily about getting your Twitter friends together, there are other resources online for gathering the masses. Make use of them and use at least one of the online meeting sites as well as your Twitter call-to-action. Sites like Meetup.com and Eventbrite are very helpful for spreading the word even further. If using such sites, a link can be supplied on your Twitter invite too (saying something like: "more details on Meetup").


As well, use Facebook and Google+ as another avenue for spreading the word. Any social media networking site can be used to promote your Tweetup.

