 Many topical and oral flea preventatives are available only with a prescription from your vet. Some professionals believe these are more effective and safer than buying over-the-counter medication. Most oral preventatives require a prescription, while many topical preventatives can be purchased without one.If you need to take your pet to the vet, you can discuss getting a prescription preventative during a regular visit. You may be able to call your vet and ask for a prescription without taking your pet in.
If you don’t want to go through a vet, you may want to choose an over-the-counter method.
 Many preventatives that protect against fleas also protect against ticks, mosquitoes, and heart disease. These multi-preventatives can be found in oral and topical preventatives.Determine what you want to protect your pet against. For example, you may not need a tick preventative, but you may need a heartworm preventative instead. Talk to your vet if you are unsure what you should protect your pet from.
 If you have small children in the house, you may consider whether or not you can safely allow a topical product to dry. If your children touch any topical preventatives that have not finished drying, there is a pesticide risk.If you follow the directions on the label and allow the topical flea preventative to dry, your children should be safe.
If you feel uncomfortable with the potential risk, give your pet oral preventatives.
 Having multiple pets may also be another concern when you are trying to decide between an oral and topical preventative. If you use a topical preventative, make sure that your pets don’t lick, groom, or play with each other until the preventative is dry.As long as you let the topical preventative dry on each pet before they play, lick, or touch each other, using a topical preventative should not be a problem. You may want to keep your pets in different rooms until the preventative dries. You can also keep them in separate kennels or place some pets outside.
You can use oral preventatives to reduce any risk of this problem.
 There are many topical flea preventatives marketed for dogs. You shouldn’t use these topical products on cats unless they are safe and designed to be used on cats. Using canine preventatives on a cat can cause serious health issues or even death.If you have both dogs and cats, use caution with topical canine preventatives around your cat. If you use a spot-on treatment, make sure that your dog is completely dry before it interacts with your cat.

