 If your tools are not clean, you risk contaminating your eyeshadow. This can lead to irritations and infections. Wash everything with soap and water, then dry it off using a paper towel.
 This will create the base for your eyeshadow. The measuring cup must be made out of glass, as you will be putting it into the microwave. The spout part will help you pour the fluid into a jar later on.
 After every 10 seconds, take the measuring cup out of the microwave and stir the ingredients. This will help them melt more evenly. Put the cup back into the microwave, and cook it for another 10 seconds. It will take 1 to 1½ minutes for the was and butter to melt completely.
 You can also use 24 drops of jojoba oil and 12 drops of vitamin E oil instead of the ¼ teaspoon of vitamin E oil.
 Scrape enough eyeshadow into a small dish to fill 2 to 2¼ teaspoons. Grind the eyeshadow into a fine powder using a toothpick or the end of a spoon. Make sure that there are no clumps or chunks, or the eyeshadow will end up lumpy and grainy. You can use all one color, or combine different colors to create a custom shade.









Some people find that the eyeshadow darkens once it sets. Consider using a lighter shade.
If you can't find an eyeshadow color you like, use 2 to 2¼ teaspoons of cosmetic pigment powder instead.You can buy it online or in a beauty supply shop.
 There should be no lumps, clumps, or chunks; the consistency should be smooth. Also, make sure that the color is even. There should be no streaks or swirls of color.
 The jar should be small enough for the eyeshadow to fill it completely (about 5 grams). You don't want the eyeshadow to be sitting at the bottom of the jar in a small lump. If needed, use a spoon to help guide the eyeshadow into the jar.









Contact cases and tiny paint jars make great containers.
You can also buy makeup jars online and from beauty supply shops.
 The eyeshadow will be mostly liquid at first, because of the melted beeswax and shea butter. It will take about one day for everything to harden into a creamy consistency.

