 Some possible motivations are discussed below.

Identifying changes to make to your site's content (articles, videos, products), style, and user flow. While demographic and interest data are potentially useful, the most valuable information here is actual user behavior on the site, which is not the focus of this guide. Nonetheless, the analysis presented here can be useful, at least as a sanity check. For instance, if you have a website that deals with news in California, but it is getting most of its traffic from Illinois, then that is concerning and might lead you to reimagine or rethink how you are presenting your website content and how you are promoting or advertising it.
Identifying external advertising or promoted content (not affiliated directly with your site) to show to users, to better monetize your site. Demographic and interest data help you identify things you can show to your users that are relevant to them, even if not directly connected with your site. For instance, if your site is visited by many college students, showing ads for cheap college textbooks or study notes sites might make sense, even if your site is a music site. Conversely, an academic site targeted at college students may be a great place to advertise non-academic products targeted at college students.
Identifying ways of marketing your site or product offsite, e.g., through social media, search engine optimization, search ads, display ads, or real-life advertising. Once again, demographic and interest data are helpful because they help you understand where to find potential new visitors, customers, or community members. In addition to marketing your product through targeted advertising (online or offline) you may also be interested in conducting targeted surveys using tools such as SurveyMonkey Audience or Google Consumer Surveys.;
,

Note that all analytics services in widespread use work by sending data through Javascript to third-party websites, and use cookies (first-party for tracking a user within a site, and third-party for tracking users across sites) to identify users. In particular, no data is collected for users who have either disabled Javascript or have an adblocker on that blocks analytics tools. uBlock is an adblocker that defaults to blocking analytics tools as listed in the EasyPrivacy list, including GA.Moreover, if the user has disabled cookies, or is using incognito/private browsing or a different browser or device, the user may not be correctly identified and the user's activity may not be properly connected together.
Some information, such as language, location, network, operating system, and browser, is implicitly collected from the environment in which the user interacts with the website.
Some information is inferred from the user's entire web activity, tracked using third-party cookies. Interests are typically inferred this way; other data (including demographic data) may also be inferred this way when not present in a more reliable form. This information is missing or inaccurate on browsers (such as Safari) where third-party cookies are mostly disallowed,as well as for users using most adblockers.
Some information is explicitly entered by the user, such as information that users enter into their Facebook or Google profiles. While generally the most reliable, this does depend on trusting the user to enter the data accurately (in most cases, this information is not verified by third parties). Google offers a hybrid solution for ad customization: it infers interest data automatically from browsing behavior but also allows logged-in users to edit their interests manually., One key consideration in identifying dimensions is the typical dimensions used by analytics providers and advertisers. These may not exactly match your goals, but they may be the best you can get. The following dimensions are typically used when people think of user profiling. Their availability in different analytics tools is indicated parenthetically.


Language (available in GA): GA reads language from the user's browser as the user's language of first preference. Data may not reflect the user's actual language of interest.Languages are specified using two- or four-letter codes.Location (available in GA and QM down to the level of city): GA infers location from the user's IP address, but does not display actual IP addresses to protect privacy.Location data may be incorrect for users using a VPN or a mobile browser (such as Opera Mini) where page requests are handled server-side.
Network: This is inferred from the user's IP address.This may be incorrect for users using a VPN or a mobile browser (such as Opera Mini) where page requests are handled server-side.
Operating system and browser: This is inferred from the user agent string used by the browser. This is generally accurate, except in cases where the user is running an emulator or virtual machine that emulates a different browser or operating system.Gender and age (available in GA if activated; available in QM): This is collected only if you as a website owner opt in. You need to first upgrade Google Analytics to enable remarketing and advertising features,then turn on demographics and interest reports.Google Analytics joins user data with the following three data sources to identify users: the third-party DoubleClick cookie (DoubleClick, also known as the Google Ad Exchange, is a display advertising network owned by Google), the Android Advertising ID (for apps on Android devices), and the iOS Identifier for Advertisers (for apps on iOS devices). Of these three, the only one relevant to web activity is the DoubleClick cookie.Interests (in-market segments and affinity categories) (available in GA if activated; available in QM): As with gender and age data, interest data is available only if you as a website opt in by first enabling remarketing and advertising features and them turning on demographics and interest reports.Highest education level completed or currently pursuing (not available in GA; available in QM)
Income level (not available in GA; available in QM)
Race/ethnicity (not available in GA; available in QM)

,


For any dimension (such as age, gender, ethnicity, income bucket) we can consider the composition of your website visitors based on that dimension. Consider gender, the simplest example of a dimension you might be interested in. The composition of your website visitors by gender will read something like "45% male, 55% female." Composition data is available in GA and QM for any dimension that is being tracked.
Another idea related to composition is that of the index (as Quantcast calls it).The index becomes relevant when the overall sizes of the populations for various values of the dimension are different. For instance, in the United States, African-Americans constitute 13% of the population. Thus, a website that gets 26% of its traffic from African-Americans is over-represented among them (also known as "over-indexed"), even though they are still a minority of users. The index is essentially the ratio of the composition among website visitors to composition in the overall population, expressed as a percentage (i.e., out of 100), though usually quoted without the "%" sign in front. So in this case (with 26% of website traffic from a subpopulation that is 13% of the population), the index is 26%/13% * 100 = 200. An index above 100 means the subpopulation is over-indexed, whereas an index less than 100 means the subpopulation is under-indexed.
Unlike composition, that can be inferred purely based on the visitors to the website, the index requires the use of data for a general population. Moreover, the index can be different depending on what general population we use for benchmarking. For instance, for a local news website for a city, do we use the population of the city, or the population of the country, or world population? Do we restrict to people with Internet access, or to all people?
Note that for large subpopulations, the index has a ceiling effect. For instance, non-Hispanic whites in the United States are 62% of the population, so even if a website gets 100% of its traffic from Caucasians, the index is still only 161. On the other hand, for a subpopulation that is only 5% of the whole population, the index could be as high as 2000.
The distinction between index and composition is less important when looking at gender, especially in developed countries, because the number of men and women using the Internet is almost equal.


The composition is a measure of the relative proportion from different subpopulations. The index is a similar measure, but adjusting for overall population sizes.
For instance, a website can have a 95% male audience (so a male index of about 190), and yet be popular among a negligible minority of males. On the other hand, another website can have only a 30% male audience, and yet be visited by many more males, because it has way more overall traffic.
Put another way, changes to the composition may be in a direction opposite to changes in absolute numbers. For instance, if a website suddenly becomes popular in a forum visited mostly by females, the overall traffic from both males and females could go up, with the proportion of males going down.
 If you (intentionally or unintentionally) make your website more visible or prominent to some subpopulations, that will be reflected in the statistics. This could create a feedback loop: you advertise your website to a subpopulation, they use it more, and you focus your energies more on the subpopulation. There are three ways of identifying and countering this feedback loop.

Filter for traffic with referral sources or channels where you know you are not introducing any bias.
Use the population distribution in the channels that you are attracting traffic from as the baseline relative to which you index your site's visitors. For instance, if you are advertising your site on a forum where the audience is 70% female, and yet only 60% of the visitors from that forum are female, that might be an indication that your website appeals less to females, even though a majority of your site visitors are still female.
Restrict attention to visitors who are highly engaged (for instance, based on a threshold of number of pages viewed) or repeat visitors. Compare the composition of highly engaged or repeat visitors against the composition of all visitors.
 You can change what you do on your site (in terms of content or advertising) but your influence on society and culture are likely to be small to begin with.,


Since websites do not usually share their GA data, your best option for getting good benchmarks is Quantcast data. You can access Quantcast data for a website by typing in quantcast.com/domainname (you can exclude initial "www." from the domain name). Many websites do not use QM. Others use QM but make only some of the data visible to the public. You should scroll down to the section on demographic data to see if the website has allowed for sharing the information.
One key limitation of Quantcast is that most of the websites that share data with Quantcast and allow Quantcast to show the data publicly tend to be media websites whose business model is advertising-based. Moreover, most of them are either based in on have a significant presence in the United States, since Quantcast data is most reliable and most useful to show to advertisers for United States audiences. In particular, if the topic of your website is not one that media companies and publishing groups have interest in, it can be hard to find examples to benchmark against.
Another thing to keep in mind regarding the availability of Quantcast data is that the decision to share data with Quantcast is made at the level of the media company or publishing group, rather than the individual website. Therefore, either all (or most) of the websites under a given publishing group would have QM data publicly visible, or none would. Some publishing groups and companies that have publicly available QM data for most of their sites include: the Stack Exchange Network (Stack Overflow and all Stack Exchange sites), Tegna, Woven Digital (Uproxx, Brobible, and some other male-focused humor and celebrity news sites), Vox Media Network (Vox, Eater, Racked, and a few other sites), Onion Media Network (The Onion and sister sites), COED Media Group Network (COED, College Candy, and Busted Coverage), Bonnier Corporation Network (many outdoors sporting sites as well as popsci.com), and Idle Media (HipHopEarly and sister sites).
Quantcast data is available for most websites on the Stack Exchange Network. Therefore, looking for the closest site on the Stack Exchange network to your site can provide some insight. However, Stack Exchange sites are Q&A sites and traffic patterns to Q&A sites differ from those to other sites covering the same topics. The adjustments for different demographic dimensions are discussed at more length later in this guide.
In order to better understand whether GA and QM data might diverge for sites like yours, you could turn on QM on your own site for a while and then compare that data against GA data for your own site. If the two are in agreement, then the numbers are likely to be reliable for other websites in your category.



Keep in mind that, due to limitations in the data Facebook shares through its API, sociograph.io is unable to display demographic and geographic summaries of users. It does, however, show the list of top visitors, that you can then manually examine to determine their demographics, interest, and location.
One important point to note is that top participants may not be representative of the general audience. For instance, they may be more likely to be male (since males are more likely to participate publicly in groups and discussion fora, and are also more likely to engage in extreme behaviors).
 As a general rule, gender, age, and interest inference for your website, as well as gender information for other websites to use for benchmarking, are most widely available and reliable in the United States. Some data is available for other large countries (United Kingdom, Canada, India, etc.). For small countries, as well as countries with significant Internet censorship (such as China) data is spotty and unreliable. Note that location data tends to be reasonably reliable around the world, since it is based on IP addresses, with the exception of places where the use of mobile Opera Mini browsing is prevalent., You can use GA on your own website to drill down by multiple dimensions together.


For instance, rather than simply seeing the distribution by gender and age separately, you can see the distribution by combinations of gender and age. For instance, you might discover that your site is more popular among middle-aged males than middle-aged females, but also more popular among college-age females than college-age males. Similarly, you can drill down by combinations of gender and location, or age and location. GA's default interface only allows up to two drilldown dimensions at a time (a primary dimension and a secondary dimension),but you can create custom reports in GA that filter based on more than two dimensions. Unfortunately, publicly available QM data does not include benchmarks for combinations of dimensions.
You can even combine demographic and interest dimensions (that are the focus of this page) with content-type dimensions, such as a specific page URL, or a type of visitor (based on engagement, session length, or whether the user is a new or repeat user). In particular, you can get insight about what pages on your website are visited more by people with particular demographics and interests. Note that this data may not be very useful if your overall site traffic is not large enough for the segments to have statistically robust information. Unfortunately, the benchmarks you obtain using publicly available QM data do not allow you to access corresponding data on other websites. One workaround is to use QM data on multiple websites as benchmarks for the performance of different sections of your website. For instance, if your online magazine has a cooking section and a fashion section, you can benchmark the cooking section against cooking websites and the fashion section against fashion websites.
You can also look at the changes over time in various metrics for the dimensions you are considering.



In particular, pewinternet.org, a project of the Pew Research Center, has conducted and published the results of many surveys of Internet use. This differs from GA and QM data in that it involves directly asking people how they use the Internet, rather than relying on tracking. The main advantage of these surveys is that they can probe into greater depth what is going on in people's minds as they interact with websites, and how they relate to specific websites as well as to the Internet at large.You might also be able to find studies specific to Internet use in the domain of interest to you.
You might also be able to use research on gender, age, and location differences in participation in various topics and communities (ranging from politics to gaming), including ones that are about offline behavior (i.e., not directly related to the Internet). One advantage of this is that you get a much wider field of research to use. A disadvantage is that the findings may not cross-apply fully to online behavior.


GA generally maintains a relatively high standard: GA displays only those metrics for which it can make high-quality predictions. Third-party sources have generally found GA's aggregate data (i.e., the overall proportions of visitors of various types) to match other trustworthy sources.On the level of individual impressions, GA may not be that reliable. For instance, a study by the Pew Research Center compared inferred gender used in Google Surveys (that uses the same methodology as Google Analytics) with self-reported gender, and found that inferred gender and self-reported gender matched for 75% of respondents.Overall reliability is higher than reliability on individual impressions because the errors mostly cancel out.
Other tools like QM (from Quantcast) and comScore's service are often less reliable, but offer a greater wealth of data. Quantcast and comScore maintain a large panel of users who enter detailed personal information. They track the behavior of these users, and build models correlating user characteristics (such as age and gender) with the websites they visit. They then use the models they build to study the cross-site behavior of other users outside their panel and classify those users' age, gender, and other attributes. The process is a series of sophisticated guesses that is biased towards rediscovering stereotypes (so that a man with feminine interests will be classified as a female). They are, however, still reasonable guesses that provide a starting point.,

One of the most important determinants of expected gender composition of a website is the topic or domain of the website. Domains range from heavily female-over-indexed (such as cooking and fashion) to somewhat female-over-indexed (celebrity news, pop culture, and feel-good stories) to somewhat male-over-indexed (politics news and technology) to heavily male-over-indexed (hardcore technology, gaming and sports).
A second determinant of gender composition is the format of presentation. This is a little tricky to understand because there are a number of mutually cancelling factors at play. As a general rule, a website based around transactions (such as a question-and-answer website) or impersonal discussion (such as an online topic-focused discussion forum) is indexed more on males, whereas a website centered around social interaction (in particular, sharing) would be indexed more on females, holding the underlying topic constant. Another general rule is around imagery: pictures of scantily clad women predict more male use, whereas all other kinds of pictures (including pictures of women that are intended to highlight their dresses or particular fashion choices, but also pictures of food) are more indexed on females. While these observations can be verified directly using QM data for a lot of websites (as documented below), there is also direct survey evidence based on survey data collected by the Pew Research Center, including data on Facebook use,Reddit use,social media use,and overall Internet use.The reasons for these disparities by gender are difficult questions of social science. It is not, however, necessary for you to fully understand the reasons. The exception might be cases where you are explicitly trying to cater to a counter-cultural niche.
 Look into the following.


Overall gender composition of your website traffic and how it has changed over time.
Gender composition based on referral type ("default channel group" in GA parlance).
Gender composition of people who have viewed individual pages.



The "Your Fans" option shows cumulative data on all people who have liked your page.
The "People Reached" option shows data on people reached in the past 28 days (deduplicated, so even if a person is reached multiple times, that person is shown only once).
 Quantcast data on gender for large websites is generally reliable and agrees with Google Analytics data where both are available, so you can use QM data for other websites to benchmark. The gender compositions of websites by category are described below. In addition to references to QM, references to sociograph.io snapshots and other relevant discussions of the gender composition are also included.

Perhaps the most extreme gender ratios are seen on websites in the Stack Exchange network for technology communities, with the proportion of males ranging from 90% to 97%. This is because these websites combine two attributes favoring males: they are about technology and programming topics, where males are over-represented, and they use the Q&A format, which seems to elicit more participation from males.The annual Stack Overflow Developer Survey, which is advertised on Stack Overflow and in its Facebook groups, reports a similar gender ratio.The topic has also been the subject of third-party research.The gender disparity in technology occupations has been widely discussed, and you can learn more by searching the Internet about women in technology and women in STEM.Sports news and hardcore gaming websites tend to be heavily male-over-indexed, with the proportion of users that is male usually higher than 80% and possibly even higher than 90%.It's important to keep in mind that, in contrast to hardcore gaming, casual gaming has an almost even gender split, with a slight over-indexing of females.Pornography websites tend to be male-over-indexed, but not as heavily as you might naively think. For instance, leading pornography website Pornhub estimates that 24% of their visitors in 2015 were female, and also expects that the percentage of females viewing porn will increase over time.Real-time politics news websites (specifically, those dealing with national rather than local news) tend to get around 75% to 85% of their traffic from males. This may be attributed partly to the sports-like nature of politics news, and partly to the fact that males are over-represented in sectors such as politics and government lobbying where people need to keep track of real-time news.Gender differences in political participation and voting have been the subject of significant academic study and popular debate, with the names "political gender gap" and "gender gap in voting" used.Websites covering political and policy news tend to be male-over-indexed, though generally less so than the heavily real-time-focused ones. The percentage of males varies between 65% and 85%. The male skew tends to increase with the heterodox nature of the political and policy positions espoused by the website. For instance, policy-focused news and analysis website Vox is 70% male,whereas Reason, a libertarian magazine, is 84% male.Conservative news sites also tend to be more heavily male, partly driven by the bias towards older people and the fact that among older age groups, Internet use is more heavily male.However, even liberal sites, like Talking Points Memo, can be quite over-indexed on males.See the references for the preceding bullet point for more background.
Science and technology news websites tend to be moderately male-over-indexed, with the percentage of audience that is male being between 65% and 85%. Both the science/technology aspect and the news aspect tend to bias in favor of males, though neither bias is very strong.Humor websites tend to be between 65% and 80% male, even when the humor is not particularly gender-specific. Examples include The Onion, CollegeHumor,and The Chive.Image and GIF websites, that is not exclusively about humor but where the bulk of images have a humor angle, also serve as examples: Imgur,Gfycat,and Giphy.Mainstream news websites such as CNN and MSNBC are between 60% and 70% male.Local news websites (without a specific topical focus) are slightly over-indexed on females. Typically, between 48% and 65% of the users are female. You can get many examples by looking at Quantcast data for news website in the Tegna network, such as WBIR (East Tennessee),KSDK (St. Louis, Missouri)WHAS (Louisville, Kentucky),WZZMWUSA (Washington, D.C.),KTHV (Little Rock, Arkansas),and KXTV (Sacramento, California).Some examples that are not part of the Tegna Network include: KLRT-TV and KARK-TV (both owned by Nexstar Media Group working with Mission Broadcasting, and operating in Arkansas)newspaper websites under the Gatehouse Media Network such as the Holland Sentinel,and the Grand Haven Tribune.News/commentary websites that are explicitly female-focused can have anywhere between 50% and 70% audiences. An example is Jezebel.Academic websites at the early college or lower level tend to be somewhat over-indexed on females (with a composition of somewhere between 55% and 65% females, though it can vary a bit based on the choice of subject).Note, however, that for websites covering more advanced topics, the gender composition will skew in the direction of the overall gender composition of people studying those advanced topics. Also, Q&A sites, such as those on the Stack Exchange network, tend to be more heavily male.Celebrity news, entertainment news, and light-hearted entertainment websites tend to be moderately female-over-indexed, with the percentage of audience that is female being between 50% and 80%. An example is NBC.com, that is about 60% female.Another example is Soompi, an English-language website focusing on the happenings in South Korean drama, that trends 80% female.However, a celebrity news site that focuses more on pictures of scantily clad women, or semi-pornographic material, and less on gossip will tend to be more male-over-indexed. Presentation matters too: a website targeted at males will use words like "hot", "sexy" and "girls" or other objectification-loaded terms whereas one targeted at women will use "beauty", "style", or other agency-loaded terms when referring to female models and celebrities. For instance, a website such as The Chive or Uproxx will be male-over-indexed,whereas a more BuzzFeed-like website (such as Upworthy or LifeBuzz) will be female-over-indexed.Food consumption websites (not focused on recipes or cooking) can range anywhere from even (50% for each gender) to moderately female over-indexed (70% female) depending on the type of content.Cooking and home furnishing sites are likely to be heavily female-over-indexed, usually somewhere between 70% and 90% female. The style of the site is an important determinant in how extreme the female skew is.The online websites for women's magazines, as well as websites with tips for women, tend to be over-indexed on females.However, if the material is of general interest (such as tips on work-life balance), the over-indexing could be less pronounced.Fashion, style, and beauty sites are likely to be very female-over-indexed, with the proportion varying between 70% and 90%.,

In the United States, the number of male and female Internet users is approximately equal, so for the US as a whole, no adjustment needs to be made. However, in some other countries, such as India, Internet users tend to be disproportionately male (the skew could be partly misleading because of the use of shared computers between family members, that are registered in the name of a male member).In this case, rather than just looking at the percentage of users by gender, it is more helpful to look at this percentage adjusted for the overall percentage of Internet users. Quantcast's reports do so and call it an "index"but Google Analytics does not report this number directly.
Different age groups might have different gender distributions of Internet users. In particular, younger age groups are likely to have a closer-to-equal gender ratio, whereas older age groups are more likely to skew male. However, this can vary by location so it's best to look up the data in your target audience.
 Look into the following:


Overall age composition of your website traffic and how it has changed over time.
Age composition based on referral type ("default channel group" in GA parlance).
Age composition of people who have liked and engaged with your content on Facebook, using FBI.
Age composition of people who have viewed individual pages.



The "Your Fans" option shows cumulative data on all people who have liked your page.
The "People Reached" option shows data on people reached in the past 28 days (deduplicated, so even if a person is reached multiple times, that person is shown only once).


One reason is that a lot of Internet use is concentrated among people between the age of 18 and 34. Therefore, if you look at composition alone, you are likely to see that most of your site's users are within age buckets in this range. On the other hand, index (relative to active Internet users) can paint a different picture.
Another reason that index is more robust than composition is that the age buckets tend to be of different sizes, both age buckets used in the same analytics tool and age buckets across analytics tools. Therefore, even aside from the fact that people use the Internet to different extents at different ages, the comparison is not a fair one.
 Quantcast data on websites that have it available can be good for obtaining benchmarks.

In general, a site that is intended to target a workplace need is likely to be most over-indexed among populations of working age. Similarly, a site that is intended to target a student need is likely to be the most over-indexed among student populations. The age bucket with the highest indexing depends heavily on the occupation and the age structure of people in that work occupation or for that topic and level of study. Even subtle differences in specialty can lead to significant differences in the age composition. For instance, Stack Overflow and ServerFault are both sites on the Stack Exchange network targeted at people in the technology sector. However, whereas Stack Overflow is most heavily indexed in the 25-34 age group, ServerFault is most heavily indexed in the 35-44 age group. This reflects the somewhat greater age (possibly because of the requirement of more experience) of the target audience of ServerFault.(In addition to Quantcast data, we have the Stack Overflow Developer Survey data for Stack Overflow, though not for ServerFault, and this corroborates the QM data).Similarly, algebra.com, Math Stack Exchange, and MathOverflow are all sites that cater to academic mathematics, but the different levels of the subject that they deal with lead to them being most over-indexed in different age groups (< 18, 18-24, and 25-34 respectively).Politics news sites tend to be indexed higher on older age groups, with the indexing being highest on the 65+ age group. This includes news sites that report on politics news,and it also includes conservative politics news and discussion sites.However, even liberally slanted politics news and discussion sites, that are not targeted at a younger audience per se, are over-indexed on older age groups.The greater interest in politics might partly reflect older people using the Internet less for other purposes (including work, study, outdoors activities, and pop culture). There has been some survey research on the differences in the level and nature of political engagement between young and old people.Local news sites (associated with local TV stations and newspapers) are indexed higher on older age groups, but the indexing is not as strong as for politics news sites, and different types of local news sites might peak at different age groups. Some peak at the highest age group (65+) whereas others peak for the 45-54 age group.However, websites that cater to the developing world may be most popular among younger age groups, reflecting the greater age-based digital divide in developing countries.Sports sites tend to be most popular among middle-aged groups, specifically the 35-44 age group.Gaming sites tend to be most popular among younger age groups (< 18 or 18-24).Food consumption websites (not focused on recipes and cooking) are most over-indexed for the 25-34 age group and then the 35-44 and 18-24 age groups.Cooking and home improvement websites are most over-indexed for the 25-34 age group and then the 35-44 and 18-24 age groups.The popularity of celebrity news and entertainment sites among different age groups depends on a variety of factors. Those associated with brand names that are relatively old, and covering segments of celebrity news and entertainment that are more mainstream and established, tend to be a little more popular among middle-aged and older groups. In contrast, those dealing with newer forms of entertainment, or entertainment in other countries, tend to be more popular among younger age groups. For instance, the indexing of NBC by age group increases steadily till the 55-64 bucket,whereas Soompi (an English-language website about the South Korean drama scene) and HipHopEarly (a hiphop website) are indexed most heavily in the 18-24 age group.Fashion, style, and beauty websites tend to be mostly over-indexed toward the younger age groups (< 18, 18-24, 25-34). A typical serious, no-nonsense fashion site would be most over-indexed in the 25-34 age group.Sites targeted at younger audiences tend to be less exclusively focused on fashion but tend to mix fashion advice with other advice related to sex, relationships, and coming of age., Look into the following.


Top countries.
Top cities.
Top locations at other subdivision levels (such as state, if in the United States).
Trends in these over time.
How the above differ when drilling down by secondary dimensions, such as default channel grouping, or demographic dimensions, such as age and gender.



The "Your Fans" option shows cumulative data on all people who have liked your page.
The "People Reached" option shows data on people reached in the past 28 days (deduplicated, so even if a person is reached multiple times, that person is shown only once).



Unless your website gets a really huge amount of traffic, the data for cities other than the top few would be too noisy and unreliable. As a general rule of thumb, the number of top cities to consider can vary from 10 (for a moderately popular website that gets 1,000 or more pageviews a day) to 100 (for a very popular website that gets millions of pageviews a month). Also, use as large a date range as possible.

Within these top cities, control for the city's population (i.e., use index rather than composition) where possible. Quantcast uses the term affinity rather than index when reporting data for cities. The main difference between affinity and index is that whereas index is reported as being out of 100 (so an index of 100 means that the website is as popular with the sub-demographic as it is with the whole demographic, affinity is reported out of 1.
If examining your website's data using Quantcast, click on "View Details" to see all the values (affinity, composition, and index) for each of the global cities.
To get a sense of how well your top cities match the top cities in the world, you can use various lists of top cities and metropolitan areas. Depending on the analytics tool you are using, it might count all traffic from the metropolitan area (outside the city proper) as traffic from the city, or it might not.,

If using QM, use the "View Details" view to get more information on the top countries, including the affinity, composition, and uniques. After identifying the top countries, use the affinity metric to control for population and get an idea of the countries where your content is most popular per capita.


Websites whose topic of interest is specific to a particular region (for instance, covering local news, or local celebrities, or general stuff but mostly applicable within a narrow cultural context) the traffic to the website will be concentrated in that region. This effect is strongest for local news stations. For instance:

Consider news site WBIR that serves East Tennessee.The three most popular cities (in absolute terms, not just affinity) are Knoxville, Maryville, and Nashville, all Tennessee cities. In terms of affinity, all but one of the top 50 cities are in East Tennessee.
Consider news site WZZM that serves the part of Michigan from Grand Rapids to Kalamazoo.The six most popular cities in absolute terms are in Michigan: Grand Rapids, Muskegon, Detroit, Holland, Rockford, and Lansing. In terms of affinity, the top 100 cities by affinity are all in Michigan.
Consider news site WUSA that serves the Washington, D.C. area.The three top cities in absolute terms are in the Washington, D.C. area: Washington, D.C., Ashburn, and Manassas. The top 100 cities by affinity, excluding Washington, D.C. itself, are all in the nearby states of Virginia and Maryland. A similar story holds for NBC Washington.In general, the language in which a website's content is presented affects the geographical regions where it is likely to be used. For instance, English websites will be more widely used in English-speaking countries. However, this effect is less pronounced in cases where the topic deals with a particular niche (such as programming) where the userbase is international and English is the lingua franca of global communication.
For websites that focus on content relevant to people in particular occupations, the cities with the largest number of people in those occupations are likely to send the most traffic to that website. Similarly, the cities with the largest proportion of people in those occupations are likely to have the largest affinity for the website.
One rule of thumb is that in the United States, urbanization levels for high-skilled professions are lower than in Asian countries. In other words, you are likely to find people in small towns in the United States engaged in high-skilled professions. In contrast, in South and East Asia as well as Russia, almost all the people in high-skilled professions are concentrated in the cities or university towns. This means that it could well be the case that India, China, or South Korea has a lower affinity for a website than the United States does, but the top cities in these countries have a much higher affinity than the top cities in the United States.


Technology Q&A sites tend to have fairly global audiences, and (interestingly) report extremely high composition and index in a few Indian cities (Bangalore, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, and to a lesser extent, Delhi), Seoul (South Korea), Moscow (Russia), Hong Kong, Singapore, London, Shanghai, and San Francisco. Although major global cities such as New York City also contribute a large share of users, their affinity is relatively lower and for some sites, even lower than 1.Educational websites are a little trickier to predict. Some of them have global appeal, whereas others appeal only within specific territories, even if their content is global in principle. In general, websites that cater to people at lower education levels are likely to have more regionally limited appeal (because education at lower levels is more constrained by linguistic and cultural barriers, and minor differences in syllabi and notation, and there is also a larger plethora of online resources in different languages). Thus, for instance, the top cities for algebra.com (focused on middle-school and high-school mathematics) are all in the United States,whereas those for Math StackExchange and MathOverflow are more global in nature.Politics news websites have high affinity with the regions whose politics are the focus of the sites. Sites that cover global news, such as CNN, have a fairly global audience, although they are still concentrated more in the countries where they originated.In contrast, a site such as Politicoor Talking Points Memo,which is almost exclusively focused on United States politics, gets most of its readers from the United States. At the city level, the capital city would have the highest affinity among all cities (in the United States, this is Washington, D.C.).For global news websites such as CNN, capital cities across the world, as well as city-states such as Singapore, would have the highest affinity.For websites with coverage of restaurants, New York City, Seattle, Boston, and San Francisco tend to have the highest affinity among major cities. Since the cities other than New York City has a small population, it still ranks quite low in composition. The greater affinity of Seattle, Boston, and San Francisco may be explained by their greater ethnic diversity as well as their role as tech hubs, with a lot of the food-focused websites built by technology companies collaborating with restaurants.The older the site, the less heavy its affinity for new, tech-savvy cities.The appeal of fashion websites tends to be quite region-specific. For instance, a fashion website such as Refinery29 or the Zoe Report gets the majority of traffic from the United States (this is also one reason that fashion websites that aim for international audiences need to maintain different versions for the audiences in different regions). In general, fashion websites tend to have higher affinity on cities, even cities (such as Los Angeles) where most other websites have low affinity. However, the affinity is related more to income levels (and therefore more in cities with higher median incomes) than it is to our conception of how much the region has an interest in fashion (thus, for instance, San Francisco has a much higher affinity than Los Angeles).