 There is broad agreement that human beings have certain inviolable rights, such as the right to life and the right not to be killed, yet the question of whether non-human animals also share these rights remains an open philosophical question. Nonetheless there are a few arguments you can reference.


Some philosophers argue that animals also have a right to life, which humans violate when they kill animals for food, especially given that such killing is not necessary for human flourishing. Animal rights activists and philosophers use the term "speciesism," to refer to the human disregard for the interests of non-human animals. Many philosophers argue that this is morally unjustifiable., Similar to the question of animal rights is the principle that killing animals for food, particularly as we do in the current system of meat production, constitutes unnecessary cruelty.


Animals are sentient beings who are aware that they are alive and can be said to have consciousness. A prominent group of cognitive neuroscientists supported this with The Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness in 2012.Therefore, they also experience suffering. This suffering is unnecessary and cruel, because humans can survive and indeed thrive off of a diet consisting of only plant materials.
Furthermore, vegetation that produces crops (i.e. fruits, vegetables, grains and legumes) will rot or otherwise go unused if not imminently consumed. This involves no loss of life whereas the consumption of animals involves the premature termination of their lives.
 There are several common arguments that those in favor of eating meat will bring up. Here's some ways to respond to them.



Eating meat is natural. Both vegetarians and non-vegetarians use arguments about nature to support their position.The fact that there is evidence to support both conclusions shows just how open to interpretation apparently "natural" facts may be.Question why we make such appeals to nature. Current evidence suggests that most people in modern societies (who do not need to eat meat out of necessity) can live healthy and sustainable lives without eating meat.
We might conclude that the current norms about eating meat are historically and socially conditioned. Indeed they vary considerably from culture to culture.The choice whether or not to eat meat therefore unfolds within a particular cultural and social context, and it is not just a question of doing what is natural.

