 If your loved one in question is still alive, make sure to spend quality time with him in his final days.


Talk to your loved one about shared memories, as well as what you appreciate about him.
Make sure you emphasize how you feel about your loved one. Tell him you love him.
These end-of-life conversations can be very difficult, but you want to make sure you get what you want to convey across so that you don't have regrets. You can try writing down what you what to convey to your loved one before you tell him.
 Families who stick together in continuity and support during times of loss are better at enduring difficult emotions associated with loss.If you feel the need to talk to a family member or friend, consider asking them. Chances are, you aren't the only person who needs comforting.Surround yourself with family members and create unity through talking about shared memories or engaging in activities together.
 Not only do family interactions assist in lessening the fear of losing a loved one, but relationships outside the family are also useful in increasing ones ability to positively cope with the anticipation of loss.It is helpful to discuss your feelings and thoughts with others in order to reduce fear and anxiety.If you are religious or spiritual, try talking to your service leaders to comfort you and help find some appropriate prayers.
 Not only do we need social support when we are worried about someone dying, but giving social support to others is a great way to feel better.Talk to Your Children About Death. If you have children, make sure to spend some special time talking about the subject of passing on. Most public libraries will have children's books to help you and your children with the subject in a graceful manner.
 One of the biggest fears people have when considering the death of a loved one is the ending of that relationship.However, a relationship with someone lives on past death, in your memories, your prayers, your feelings and thoughts about the person.


Focus on the fact that your relationship and connection with this person can never die.

