 If you have a desire to reboot your life, it may be because you don’t feel like you are living according to your principles. Values are the beliefs, opinions, and ideas that drive your decision-making and serve as a foundation for your life. To ensure that your life reset gets off on the right foot, figure out your values.Perform a self-assessment in order to pinpoint your personal values. Ask yourself:

What kind of things get you fired up talking about?
What would you be willing to sacrifice your life for?
If your home was on fire, assuming all living beings had been rescued, what three items would you want to take with you?
What aspects of your community or the world would you like to change?

;
, To further direct your path, do a visualization exercise. Visualization can be a powerful tool to clarify our desires and move us closer to obtaining them. Spend some time imagining who you would like to be in 5, 10, or 15 years.Go someplace quiet where you can sit without distractions. Close your eyes. Picture in your mind’s eye yourself at a specific point in the future (e.g. 1 year or 5 years). Imagine that you are at the peak of success during this time. You have realized all your goals.
What are you doing in this vision? What is your career? What kind of lifestyle do you have? Who are you surrounded by? What do you do for fun?
Absorb this image fully. Then, grab some paper and write out some details about it. What skills or strengths do you need to make this vision a reality? How can you gain these skills?

, It’s often said that most people overestimate what they can do in a year, but underestimate what they can do in a day. True enough, life consists of weeks, months, and years. However, you get there day by day. Think about the kinds of things you do daily. Do these actions or habits line up with your ultimate goals?, After you have spent time envisioning your dreams and assessing what you are doing daily, you can develop an action plan to bring you closer to where you want to be. What can you do today to get you closer where you want to be tomorrow? Set SMART goals that you can break down into smaller steps. That way, you can take some positive action towards reaching your goals every day.For example, perhaps in the visualization exercise you saw yourself running your own business. Your ultimate goal may be to “Be an entrepreneur,” but that’s a lofty goal to take on all at once.
Break your goals down. You might need to “Develop a business idea/plan,” “Secure investors,” or “Rent a location” to house your business. These steps may serve as starting places to move you closer to the larger goal.

