,, You should have half of the horse face with ribbon. Cut the ribbon., You should have a jump ring with a few millimeters of ribbon depending on what scale you horse is, then a jump ring., Glue a jump ring to your measurement. You should have a jump ring with a few millimeters of ribbon then another jump ring then a couple of millimeters of ribbon then a jump ring., You should have a nose band., Glue ribbon the side jump ring. Measure to just past the eye of your model, leaving a few millimeters to glue the jump ring on. After that glue the jump ring on it should be just past the eye. Repeat to the other side. You should have a noseband and cheek pieces., Choose a side which you would like your buckle to be on. To make a buckle, you get your pliers and grab your wire. Put your wire a few millimeters in depending how big you ribbon is. This is important, and this will be where the ribbon wraps around. If it is too big it will come off. Then wrap around to whole plier. Take it off and cut off excess wire at the side and middle, Glue to the head collar cheek piece jump ring. Next glue the ribbon to the other side and do up the buckle with ribbon this will give you a chance to decide how long you want your head collar piece., Glue ribbon to the eye/cheek piece jump ring . Measure around the jaw of the horse to the other side of the horse, leaving a couple of millimeters to glue. Feed the the few millimeters into the jump ring, and glue. You should now have a simple head collar. Read on the next two steps to find out how to do the connection strap and the lead rope., Once that is done connect the jump ring back. Glue your ribbon to the jump ring you attached to the noseband. After that measure up to the throatlatch and cut your measure . Now you should have your halter!, To make a lead rope open up a jumpring and ad a clasp then close. Add ribbon to the jumpring. You can choose your length. So the model person can hold on to the rope, curl the ribbon a few millimeters and glue this will leave you a handle, Thanks for reading if you don't understand at all a tutorial on YouTube might help also tips and warnings are down below.