 Depending on the quality of sound you are trying to attain in your recording, you may need to use a sizable amp to richly capture the upper and lower range of your ax, as well as features like distortion and sizzle. Using the equipment available to you, decide which amp best achieves your target sound quality.


A "guitar amp" is frequently referred to, professionally, as a speaker cabinet. This is due to the fact that traditional amps are a combination of both speakers and an amplifier contained in a housing, called a cabinet., For home recording, it may not be possible for you to record your wicked guitar solo at the volume you need without being interrupted by family, neighbors, external noises, or a visit from the police due to a noise complaint. If your location is not conducive to recording at your target volume, you might consider:


A change of location.
Sound dampening measures (blankets, sound absorbing foam, etc.).
Using amp volume-output control equipment, like a power soak or speaker chamber/closet.

Two layers of sound blankets is generally sufficient for noise reduction., A power soak is a supplemental piece of equipment used in-line to reduce the volume output of an amp while maintaining tone and sustain. The signal moves through the line to the power soak, which absorbs part of the full power of the amp. This adjusted signal is transmitted to the amp, resulting in quieter volumes.A Power Soak converts the power of your amp into heat and can become very hot. Use caution and follow the directions that came with your power soak for best operation., A speaker chamber is an insulated wooden box built with its own speaker and microphone stand.This box works on the same principle as a studio isolation booth on a smaller scale.


Speaker chambers can be bought at local music/sound production stores or online.
These units are even used in a professional studio environment, or sometimes on-stage to reduce stage noise., Different styles of microphone are able to capture different ranges or qualities of sound. Some mics, like the Sennheiser e906, are designed expressly for the purpose of recording a guitar cabinet.Test your mic by:


Placing it 6" to 8" away from your speaker.
Positioning it to be slightly off center from the speaker cone.
Listening to the mic with headphones to check sound quality.
Adjusting the position of the mic until you find the "sweet spot."
NOTE: low-end sound can best be captured with your mic at a closer distance (2" to 5")., If you have found that your mic really doesn't capture sound the way you need, you'll have to research to find the right mic for your situation. For example, you might use a large diaphragm condenser mic to capture crisp, pop rock tones.However, you should be able to achieve consistently good recordings with the use of either a common:


Dynamic instrument microphone
Ribbon microphone