 Protecting your skin from the sun’s damaging UVA and UVB rays will prolong the health of your skin. As little as 10 minutes of exposure to UVA rays each day can alter and age your skin. Apply sunscreen, ideally SPF 30, every day. When you are outside for extended periods of time, reapply your sun tan lotion.Consider wearing protective clothing when you are outdoors. Cover your arms, chests, legs, and scalp., Washing your face once or twice a day unclogs your pores of dirt, bacteria, oils, and products. Wash your face with warm water and a gentle cleanser in the morning and before bed. By removing the top layer of grime, you reduce your risk of breakouts and skin irritation.


As you age your oil production decreases. As a result, washing your face twice a day may dry out your skin. Instead, cleanse with warm water in the morning and wash your face thoroughly with a gentle cleanser before bed., In addition to hydrating your skin, moisturizers also serve as a layer of protection. Lotions replenish dry, flaky skin. They seal in your skin’s natural moisture and provide an additional layer of protection from the elements. Moisturize in the morning, evening, after washing your face, and after showering.Instead of a lotion or cream, try coconut oil.
Don’t forget to moisturize your neck.If you have dry skin, avoid products that contain alcohol.
If you have oily skin, avoid oil based products., Removing the top layers of skin with an exfoliant promotes cell renewal and collagen production. Exfoliate your skin once or twice a week—during the spring and summer you may wish to increase the number of times you exfoliate each week.There are several types of exfoliants to choose from:


Rotating brushes deeply cleanse your face, while removing layers of dead skin and unclogging pores.Damp washcloths gently exfoliate the skin and can be used daily.Chemical exfoliants rely on acids, such as salicylic acid, and enzymes to remove dead layers of skin. Use once per week., You can increase or decrease the pressure as your see fit., Retinoids, a derivative of vitamin A, help to reduce the visible effects of aging. These products increase the speed at which cells turn over and stimulate the increased production of collagen. While the most effective retinoid creams and serums require a prescription, lower-strength varieties are available over the counter.


Initially, apply one, pea-sized drop to your face every three nights. Gradually reduce the time in between applications as you build up your tolerance.