 You should consume enough calories for your body. Otherwise, your body will go into starvation mode, which means your metabolism will decrease dramatically to save energy. In starvation mode, you won’t be burning many calories. To avoid this scenario, you should eat enough to match your resting metabolic rate.


If you want to figure out how many calories to eat during the day, you could use a resting metabolic rate calculator: http://www.shapesense.com/fitness-exercise/calculators/resting-metabolic-rate-rmr-calculator.shtml%7C
;
, Rather than gorging at the end of the day, you should nibble on small meals throughout the day. This habit will keep your blood sugar levels steady and give you consistent energy, while ensuring that you get adequate calories., If you are looking to lose weight, it’s not a good idea to skip breakfast. Try eating a cup of yogurt in the morning to speed up your metabolism.A cup of whole milk yogurt has 149 calories, including 8 grams of fat, 11 grams of carbohydrates and 9 grams of protein. Yogurt also has lots of healthy bacteria, which is good for your digestive system., The pesticides found in conventional food will slow down your metabolism, so you should choose organic foods wherever possible. Choose organic avocados, yogurt, almonds and other fatty foods whenever you have the chance., Enjoy a glass of milk as a snack in the afternoon. The calcium found in milk will help your body to metabolize fat. You could enjoy it on its own or alongside a few almonds. Choose whole, organic milk., Salmon contains omega-3 fatty acids DHA and EPA and also has loads of protein. The omega-3 fatty acids will help to improve your metabolism.You will get about 1,500 miligrams of omega-3 fatty acids from a three ounce portion.Salmon activates the thyroid to increase metabolism. Eating enough protein is also essential for any plan to increase your metabolism and lose weight.Try eating smoked salmon for breakfast. You can enjoy it on its own, on a piece of rye bread, or on a cracker. One hundred grams of smoked salmon has 117 calories, including 18 grams of protein.
You could grill up salmon steaks or salmon filet for dinner. One salmon filet has about 255 calories, including 12 grams of fat and 35 grams of protein.
Try putting some canned salmon on a sandwich for lunch. 100 grams of canned salmon has 139 calories, including 6 grams of fat and 20 grams of protein.
 You will get about 1,500 miligrams of omega-3 fatty acids in a three ounce portion of cooked mackerel.Alongside salmon, lake trout, herring and sardines, mackerel is one of the fish with the highest concentrations of omega-3 fatty acids. When preparing the mackerel, you should try to bake or broil it because it is healthier than deep frying.There are lots of ways to enjoy mackerel, which is an oily and meaty fish:Eat smoked mackerel on toast for breakfast.
Prepare a whole mackerel for a dinner party.
If you are shopping, look for a mackerel with glistening skin and bright eyes, which indicates freshness.
 A three ounce portion of cooked herring has 1,500 milligrams of omega-3 fatty acids.By integrating more herring in your diet, you will get the omega-3 fatty acids that should help speed up your metabolism.There are lots of ways to get more herring in your diet, such as herring salads, pickled herring, cooked herring, smoked herring or herring rolls., You can find fish oil supplements at your local health food store. If you do not like the taste of fish but want to make sure you get enough omega-3 fatty acids in your diet, you could get a fish oil supplement. Although fish oil supplements don’t usually have bad side effects, you should take note of the following:There are studies that link fish oil supplementation with increased risk of prostate cancer.
If you are taking any drugs that extend bleeding time, you should talk to your doctor.
Some people experience minor digestive problems.
If you are allergic to shellfish, it’s not clear whether these supplements are safe.

