 There are three levels of managers within a traditionally structured organization, the First line Managers, Middle line Managers and the Top managers.;
, First line Managers are also known as supervisory / operative level of management. It consists of supervisors, foreman, section officers, superintendent etc. The role of the first line manager is arguably one of the most important tasks in any organisation or business.Gaining the commitment of front line staff, meeting the needs of customers and middle /senior managers at the same time is pivotal if the organisation or business is to achieve success.Getting the best out of staff, often in circumstances where time and resources are limited, is a demanding task for all managers but for newly appointed first line managers and those with limited experience of managing people the challenges are daunting.
 They are responsible to the top management for the functioning of their department. They devote more time to organizational and directional functions.Middle managers are responsible for implementing the top management's policies and plans and typically have two management levels below them. Usually among the first to be slashed in the 're-sizing' of a firm, middle management constitutes the thickest layer of managers in a traditional (tall pyramid shaped) organization.
 Top line managers are consists of board of directors, chief executive or managing director. The top management is the ultimate source of authority and it manages goals and policies for an enterprise. It devotes more time on planning and coordinating functions.Top managers in most organizations have a great deal of managerial experience and have moved up through the ranks of management within the company or in another firm. An exception to this is a top manager who is also an entrepreneur; such an individual may start a small company and manage it until it grows enough to support several levels of management. Many top managers possess an advanced degree, such as a Masters in Business Administration, but such a degree is not required.

