 If your cat is extremely hoarse or has lost its voice completely, you should have it checked out by a veterinarian. A veterinarian will be able to inspect the cat's throat and vocal chords in order to find the cause.

It is likely that your veterinarian will ask you about the cat's symptoms first. Then they will do an examination of the cat.
Your veterinarian may have to do a variety of tests on the cat, including blood tests and imaging tests to look internally at its throat. These tests may require your cat to be put under anesthesia.;
, Your veterinarian may find that your cat has gotten something stuck in its throat, and that’s causing the hoarseness. For instance, it is not uncommon for cats to swallow thread with the needle still attached, and then this gets stuck somewhere. Your veterinarian can treat the problem by carefully removing whatever foreign item is there., If your veterinarian discovers that your cat has some sort of infection, such as those associated with viral upper respiratory infections or obstructive inflammatory laryngeal disease, then they will suggest treatment options. With most cases, medication will be prescribed to eliminate the infection.In the case of obstructive inflammatory laryngeal disease, your veterinarian is likely to prescribe both corticosteriods and antibiotics to control the infection.
 If your veterinarian finds growths or tumors have caused your cat's hoarseness, they will typically suggest surgical removal and treatment with medicine. Discuss your veterinarian's treatment plan and why they are suggesting it.Squamous cell carcinoma and other tumors in the oral or nasal cavity can cause hoarseness in cats. Treatment depends on what type of tumor your cat has and where it is located, but in most cases includes removal followed by radiation therapy or chemotherapy., Hyperthyroidism is a problem with the thyroid that results in an overproduction of hormones. It usually occurs when there is a tumor on the thyroid. Hoarseness is a known symptom of hyperthyroidism in cats. In order to eliminate the hoarseness, the hyperthyroidism needs to be treated. This is usually done with either medication, surgery, or radioactive-iodine therapy.Discuss treatment options for your cat with your veterinarian. Depending on the severity of your cat's hyperthyroidism, your veterinarian may suggest one, two, or all three types of treatment.
 Just like people, cats can become allergic to things in the environment, such as pollen and dust mites. This can make their throat sore, which can cause hoarseness. Ask your veterinarian which medications they recommend you give your cat for managing allergies., Laryngeal paralysis is a rare condition in cats, but it can be the cause of hoarseness. When the larynx is paralyzed, the cat is unable to vocalize and breathing can be compromised.In the rare cases of laryngeal paralysis in cats, the cat will likely require surgery to relieve any obstruction and allow it to vocalize.In very rare cases, rabies can cause laryngeal paralysis. Be sure that your cat is tested for rabies if it is diagnosed with this condition and there is any chance that it has been exposed to rabies.This surgery can be very risky for cats, as it has a high rate of pneumonia during recovery.

