 Savings bonds—also known as Treasury Securities—do not offer high financial return rates, but they’re a safe and stable way to begin investing your money. Savings bonds pay off the investment when they mature, and can be purchased with maturities ranging from 30 days to many years. You can begin purchasing savings bonds for as little as $100.You can purchase savings bonds online through the U.S. government’s securities portal: Treasury Direct.
 While planning ahead for retirement is not on many college graduates’ minds, after college is a great time to start investing in a retirement account. Many employers will offer an 401(k) individual retirement plan (IRA) and will match your annual contributions up to a certain level. If you look at this as a type of investment, you can secure your financial future with the help of your employer’s contributions.There are two types of IRA: Traditional and Roth. Traditional IRAs take the IRA deduction out of your paycheck prior to taxes; Roth IRAs take the deduction after taxes. Recent college graduates should open a Traditional IRA, to maximize your monthly take-home.
If your employer offers a different financial retirement model, take advantage of any contribution-matching limits. Without exhausting yourself financially, set aside into your retirement account as much money as your employer will match.
 This is another personal investment that will not return substantial amounts of money, but which will offer serious personal benefits. College graduates often decide not to pay for health insurance until later in life, but it’s a wise investment to begin paying for employer-provided health care as soon as it’s available. Once you’ve graduated from college and are off of your parents’ health insurance, you should sign up for health care under your employer. Study the different health-insurance plans that your employer offers, and talk with an HR representative if you have questions.Your employer will typically pay part of the monthly premium, leaving you with a small portion of the premium to pay. Investing in your medical insurance will provide health benefits with relatively little financial expenditure on your part.

