 While it may seem surprising to read about the necessity of consuming fats, the important distinction when looking to slim down is ensuring that you’re only eating the right types of fats. In fact, there are many types of food that include a high amount of unsaturated fats that will likely help you lose weight! A few initial dietary changes may include:Switching to cold-pressed olive oil for use as an ingredient – especially in salad dressings – and for stovetop cooking.
Eat olives on their own too! Olives offer an especially interesting combination of nutritional attributes: they are high in healthy fats, but low in calories. Accordingly, olives are an ideal snack to make you feel full without undermining your effort to cut down overall calories. However, keep in mind that olives are also high in salt, so limit how many you eat.
Snack on avocados and nuts in moderation. Avocados and various types of nuts are not only healthy, they are flavorful and satisfying. Try swapping these for other snacks, such as wings and chips. The more you eat snacks like these, the more you’ll crave them.
 As you increase your physical activity and take other immediate steps to reduce body fat and tone your arms, you should make changes to your diet that will have an even longer-term impact on your mission to slenderize your arms. In particular, you need to become more aware of the amounts and types of fat that you’re consuming, as the wrong sort of diet will prevent your arms – not to mention the rest of your body – from becoming slender.Avoid eating processed meats and anything from a fast food restaurant, which contain immense amounts of unhealthy fats.
Vary your meat consumption generally by prominently including low fat meats like poultry in your meals. When you do eat red meat, opt for organic, grass-fed options. When consuming fattier cuts like pork chops or steak, trim off the fat and don't eat it!
The source of any saturated fat you do eat is important. For instance, a glass of whole milk, or a bit of butter with a serving of vegetables may lead to more filling and satisfying meals that may even lead to eating less overall.
 You don’t have to all of the sudden eat less food to start losing weight. You can eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, and foods that are high in fiber. These are the foods most likely to give you the nutrition you need, satiate a craving, and even keep you feeling full for longer. You can even add to your meals by building up sandwiches or entrees with lettuce, tomato, greens, and avocado. In fact, add a whole course to dinner: eat a salad to help you fill up before getting to the heavier portions of the meal.If you’re insistent on embellishing your veggies with a bit of kitchen flair, steam them with herbs, spices, and olive oil, or a bit of butter.
Eat plenty of beans – garbanzo, lentil, black, etc. – as these have plenty of fiber too. Add them to salads or entrees to increase portion size while keeping nutritional quality high.
If you still need a midday snack between meals, eat carrots or another veggie with hummus. Soon, you’ll prefer healthy snacks to the chips and other tempting options that will keep you from losing weight.
 One of the most prevalent culprits of unnecessary calorie consumption is food that is high in sugar. Further, sugar actually makes burning fat harder, as eating lots of sugar reduces the efficiency of the enzymes that are capable of burning fat. If you’re serious about achieving a more slender body composition, you’ve got to eliminate the soda and sweets habit starting today.If you’re having sugar cravings, opt for a sweet fruit such as a mango. Before you know it, you’ll start craving fruit instead of candy bars.
High-fiber cereals, oatmeal, and multigrain breads make for a great breakfast. Add fruit to the meal if you favor sweetness, and keep yourself from eating sugary cereals or pastries.Just make sure that you check the label for added sugar.
For more specific advice about nutrition, see the wikiHow article on eating a healthy, balanced diet.

