 For a talk this important, you’ll want to set aside time when you won’t be disturbed. Choose a moment when you aren’t rushed and a place where you won’t encounter distractions. Try to find a moment when you’re feeling calm, as well, to better put the child at ease.Consider eliminating possible distractions. Turn off your phone, the stove, the laundry machine, and other devices. Let out the dog, if you have one. You’ll want to avoid interruptions.
Avoid raising the subject before bed or an important event – aim for a time when the kids can take in the information.
Try to have another adult with you, as well, like a partner, family member, or even a medical professional. That way, the children will know that there are other adults that they can talk to.
Think about what you want to say beforehand and try to anticipate questions. Formulate answers at a level the children can understand.;
, It can be a good idea to talk to kids one-by-one rather than as a group. For one thing, they might be separated by age and level of understanding. Talking to them separately allows you to tailor information and to see how they respond to it. It will also let the child ask questions away from others and away from distractions.Try to find out what the child knows about cancer already and where they learned it. Say something like, “I want to talk to you about an illness. Have you ever heard of cancer before?”

, Children may already know a bit about cancer or they may know nothing at all. Likewise, they may have a lot of questions or they may become upset and withdrawn. Prepare yourself for a range of reactions, but try to keep the conversation open. Answer any and all questions honestly.Be ready to repeat information, maybe many times. Also check to understand that the child understands what you’re saying.
Avoid telling the child that everything will be OK if you yourself are unsure, or you could lose the child’s trust. Try to be honest even if the news is bad.
Be frank and show the child that you’re willing to talk with them about cancer. That way, they won’t see the illness as a taboo subject.
 A small child may well need you to explain cancer in basic terms. This doesn’t mean oversimplifying things so much as choosing the right words and giving the right amount of information. Think about what you want to say and the words to use – for example, you’ll probably want to opt for easier words like “doctor” for “oncologist” or “medicine” instead of “chemotherapy.”A child younger than 8 can understand that the body has many parts. You can tell them that now and then something goes wrong with one of these parts. It stops working the way it should and isn’t normal.
Say that the body part that’s stopped working over time develops a tumor or lump. This lump can spread to other parts of the body, so it has to be taken out or stopped from growing. This is what the doctors will do.
Children over 8 may be able to understand a more complex discussion and want to see pictures of cancer cells or read about treatment. You can also tell them the name of the cancer, what body part it is affecting, and how different cancers need different treatments.
 Explaining cancer is only part of the conversation. Children will very likely want to know what will happen, so, again, you’ll need to explain cancer treatment in basic strokes. Younger kids understand taking medicine and you can frame chemotherapy in these terms. Surgery or radiation therapy might be harder.Ask the children what they know, i.e. “Do you know what chemotherapy is?” or “Do you know what radiotherapy is?”
Aim for the basic idea that cancer – the lump that keeps a body part from working – needs to be stopped. It can spread and hurt other body parts. Doctors can do this with medicine, beams of energy called radiation, or by taking it out.
Explain possible side effects from treatment. Children may see hair or weight loss, fatigue, or nausea as signs that the illness is getting worse. Let them know that the treatment might cause these things and does not mean the cancer is getting worse.
Offer to let the child go to treatment sessions to watch and to interact, if possible. This may help to demystify the process of treatment.
 Younger children will probably need reassurance about the illness and other worries. The most important thing is that they know they are loved and that someone will look after them, no matter what. However, be ready to address some specific and important concerns.Kids engage in “magical thinking” and might be afraid that they have somehow caused the cancer. Reassure them that they didn’t do anything wrong. Say, for instance, “Doctors say that no one can cause another person to get cancer. It just sometimes happens.”
Be clear also that cancer isn’t contagious. Neither the child nor a parent or other loved one will “catch” the cancer. It’s OK to hug, kiss, or snuggle with a person who has cancer.
Try to be optimistic while being honest. You might say, “People do die from cancer. But we know a lot of ways to treat and cure cancer now. People can live with it rather than dying.”

, You’ll need to share the same details about cancer with teenagers, but without as much need to cover the basics or to put things in simple terms. Most teenagers know what cancer is. But they may be curious about the specific kind of cancer, where it is, and the prognosis.Use the actual terms when talking with teens and be specific. Name the illness, whether it’s breast cancer, leukemia, colon cancer, or sarcoma.
Be specific too about the body part that is affected, how the cancer usually progresses, what sorts of symptoms it causes, and what the final prognosis is.
Be truthful about the diagnosis, above all. Teens can tell if you are keeping something from them, and you don’t want to damage their trust in you.
Connect the teen to more information like pamphlets or books. You might also try books written specifically for teens who have a loved one with cancer.
 Like the illness, teens may want to know more about the course of treatment. You don’t need to spare the details and, in fact, it’s best to be open and honest about what it will involve. Be sure to tell them about the methods the doctor is considering – surgery, chemo, or radiation – as well as the possible side effects.Let the teen know that you will keep them updated on the treatment, with regular family meetings or sit-down talks.
Teens may also be willing or able to take on extra responsibility during the cancer treatment, either around the house or elsewhere. Let them know how they can help or how their duties will change.
 Teens may meet news of cancer with grief. They may also show seemingly inappropriate reactions, like anger, embarrassment, or remoteness. This is not because they don’t care but because of their own stage of emotional development. Whatever your teen’s reaction, try to keep the lines of communication open and check in frequently. Be patient and ready to answer questions about the future, as well.Teens will know about cancer and may ask about death. Try to be honest if the prognosis is serious. However, you can also be hopeful if the situation calls for it, i.e. “The cancer is treatable and we’ll do everything it takes to get better.” Or, “We don’t know what will happen. But, the doctors think there’s a good chance of survival.”
Teens are growing up – they need space and a sense of normalcy like other kids, even if they are helping out at home. Let teens know that they still need to focus on schoolwork, see friends, and have a life outside of the house.

