 Old, black mastic can contain asbestos, which causes illness or death when inhaled. Using tools to break up the mastic send the asbestos fibers into the air, which makes it more dangerous than the chemical method above. Find testing professionals in the US at the EPA website.

If asbestos is present, this method is not recommended, and may violate workplace safety regulations. Consider hiring a professional, or use the chemical method above.
 Even if there is no asbestos, you should protect yourself from debris. Wear safety glasses, a paper mask, and work gloves.


If asbestos is present, this method is not recommended. If you continue anyway, use a tight-fitting respirator mask, safety goggles, and disposable rubber gloves. Wear old clothing, and throw it away at the end of the project.Turn off all air circulation to the rest of the building.
 This should be available from any tool rental service. This is also called a floor buffer.

A floor grinder will work instead, with no mastic removal block required. Ask the rental service about its effect on wooden surfaces if necessary.
 This is a round base that attaches to your floor machine. It should have several blades at the base, to cut the mastic.This is typically safe for hardwood floors, but check with the tool rental service.You can also use a base intended to remove thinset from concrete. Avoid titanium blocks, which may melt the mastic and make removal messy.
 Nails, screws, and staples can damage the equipment.Remove these from the floor using a claw hammer., Lightly water the mastic. This will keep the dust cloud to a minimum.


Avoid electrical hazards with a ground fault circuit interrupter. This will cut off the circuit rapidly if water causes an electrical short.
 Plug in and turn on the machine. Push it over the mastic. Move slowly, and cover each area several times. You'll typically finish about 100 square feet (9.3 square meters) per hour.

Stop periodically and sweep up the broken mastic. This will make it easier to see where mastic remains.
 The machine should remove almost all of the mastic. Mop a degreasing solution over anything left. Let sit 10 minutes or according to the label.If you are cleaning a hardwood floor, check the degreaser label before buying. Some products may damage wood.
 Put a scrubbing brush or stripping pad on the floor machine. Turn it on and move it over the last pieces of mastic.

Alternatively, scrape it up using a putty knife.
 Rent a wet vacuum with a front-attached squeegee to vacuum up the broken mastic. Once finished, mop the floor with soapy water and use the wet vac again.