 The FTC maintains a website that enables you to easily file a complaint about online auction fraud.


You also can file a complaint by calling 1-877-FTC-HELP.Although the FTC does not resolve individual complaints, it does have tips on recovering your money.Additionally, complaints are entered in the FTC's online database, which is used by federal, state, and local law enforcement and regulatory agencies nationwide to uncover patterns of fraud and connect past incidents to open investigations of fraudulent activity., You should choose the category for internet services to begin the complaint process.


The internet services category includes online auctions, but if there were other aspects to the fraudulent transaction such as the theft of your debit or credit card number, you may wish to choose a different category that more appropriately represents your situation., Each category includes a number of sub-categories you can use to further define your complaint, or you can select the "no match found" option.If you initially chose the category for "internet services, online shopping, or computers," you'll find a sub-category that specifically lists online auctions., To begin your complaint, type a summary of the listing or the transaction, including the reasons you believe it was fraudulent.


The Complaint Assistant will ask specific details about how much money you were asked to pay, how you paid, how you were contacted and when, and other information. You only have to fill in responses for any information that actually applies to your case.After you complete the specifics, you will be given the opportunity to explain the incident in your own words. You should make sure your description doesn't include any sensitive information such as your Social Security or driver's license number., Although you may not have correct legal names or email addresses for the buyer or seller, include whatever identifying information you were provided.


If you don't have information such as a company phone number, you can simply leave that line blank. Only include the information you were given. If the user was an individual rather than a company, use the information you have for the individual including any email address or their eBay user name, if applicable., Although you have the option of remaining anonymous, if you don't enter your name and contact information you won't be able to follow up with your complaint.


Additionally, the FTC or other agencies will be unable to contact you if further information is needed to investigate the fraud. The FTC includes a link to its privacy policy, which you can review before you decide how much personal information to provide., The FTC allows you to review the information you've submitted for completeness and accuracy before you submit it.


If you want to change an answer to any of the questions or add more information, you can go back and do so. Once you're satisfied with your answers, you have the option of printing a copy of the complaint for your records before you submit it., Once you submit your complaint, the FTC will review it and include the information you provided in electronic databases that are available to federal, state, and local law enforcement.Your complaint will be available on the FTC's Consumer Sentinel Network, a database of millions of consumer complaints that is available free of charge to federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, as well as some international agencies.