 Your rat's cage should give your rats plenty of ventilation. Don't use aquariums or fully enclosed cages, but instead use wire cages with plenty of open air.Aquariums and plastic enclosures keep in dust and ammonia in the cage. These can make your rat sick because they are not getting enough fresh air.
Wire cages, made of either plastic or metal, are better for giving your rat plenty of fresh air. A solid body bottom, rather than wire bottom, can be better for your rat's feet.
 A solid body bottom to your cage can protect your rat's feet. If you have a wire floor to your cage, consider getting a solid body covering for the bottom of your cage.


If you have a wire cage bottom, your pet rat can contract bumblefoot. This condition can cause swelling and infection in your pet rat's feet.
You can buy plastic laminate, which is used on kitchen floors, in wire cages to protect your pet rat's feet. This material can be purchased at most hardware stores.
 Plastic cages can usually be cleaned easily when necessary without any damage. If you get a metal cage, it's best to be Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) coated to avoid rust and general cage damage.


If you have a plastic cage, make sure the plastic can be cleaned without cracking. Plastic cages that crack will not last as long as those that stay in good shape.
Metal cages need PVC coating to avoid rust. However, PVC coating will still wear, but not as quickly or thoroughly as metal cages without finish.
 You should be able to reach into the cage and move around the cage supplies. Additionally, you want to be able to get your pet rat out safely without squeezing them.


Shelves and doors should be easy for you to reach. Your rat should not be closed in by the size and shape of the cage.
The door of the cage should easily pop open so you rat can come out or you can take them out. If you have to move your hand around too much to reach your rat, the cage may be too small and cause you to squeeze your rat when taking them out.
 In a wire cage, it's important for the bar spacing to be far enough apart to not cause your pet rat to get stuck. Additionally, you want the bar spacing to be small enough that your rat cannot escape.


For baby rats, bar spacing of about 1/2 inch is ideal. For adult rats, up to 1 inch spacing between bars is better.
Consider the size of your rat when choosing the bar spacing. You may need to get a bigger cage with different bar spacing as your rat grows up.

