 Vampires hate the sunlight and are often photosensitive, prone to sunburns, and are sluggish during the day.If you want to appear to be a vampire, you need to make sure to stay out of the sun and be awake and active during the night.


If you work, try to find a job with a night shift.
If you are forced to be awake during the daytime, act as if you are tired and scared of the sun.
 Something that makes vampires interesting is how mysterious they are. Don't divulge a lot of information to your friends about your lifestyle, and don't go around boasting about being a vampire. The more you keep to yourself, the more mystery that's built around you.


If someone asks you "What are you doing tonight?" you can say something like, "It's none of your business."
If someone asks "Why do you look like a vampire?" you can say, "That's for me to know and it's no one else's business."

, Vampires are known to have serious mood swings which cause them to get angry quickly. If you want to appear to be a vampire, you must act moody, sullen, depressed, misanthropic, and was withdrawn.Be entirely selfish, and slightly annoyed with those that don't associate with your vampiric lifestyle.
 Vampires often have a slow, deliberate way of walking. Don't act energetic or cheerful or else you may come off as being a normal human. Throw concerns about being late out the window and walk as if you have a purpose wherever you are going.


You can increase your gait if you feel like you aren't getting to places fast enough.
 One of the biggest staples of being a vampire is drinking blood. While drinking human blood requires a donor, you can create artificial blood by mixing corn syrup and red dye. One of the easiest ways to look like a vampire is to drink blood in front of other people.


Drinking blood in front of your friends may scare them and prevent them from hanging out with you again.
Drinking blood can be toxic and can cause serious health problems like liver damage, fluid in your lungs, low blood pressure, dehydration and nervous system disorders.