 Note only criteria that are interfering with your child's ability to act normally or feel okay. A mentally ill child may feel one or more of the following:


Inability to concentrate
Easily distracted
Difficulty problem-solving and maintaining school performance
Hearing voices or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations)
Persistent disobedience or aggressive behavior
Mood swings
Persistent feelings of sadness and worry
Hyper-energetic
Aches, pains, or sleeping problems that nothing seems to explain
Speaks rapidly and is difficult to interrupt;
, Ask how their day was, and listen closely, asking questions to help you understand better. This will strengthen the bond between you, and let them know that they can confide to you when they have a problem. Mentally ill children may have more bad days, and/or experience more physical symptoms, like headaches and stomachaches.
 Behavior changes may be very different depending on the disorder.


Some mentally ill children become aggressive: fighting frequently, using weapons or expressing a desire to badly hurt others
Others become overly passive: withdrawing from other people, losing interest in their favorite activities, neglecting to make decisions
A child may swing between two extremes. For example, sometimes they may act hyper and giddy, then quickly become crabby and lethargic.
Out-of-control behavior is not necessarily dangerous. For example, if a child has been crying for half an hour straight and nothing can stop her, something is clearly wrong.
 Mentally ill children can exhibit physical symptoms such as...


Headaches
Stomachaches
Soreness/tension
Sleeping trouble or fatigue
Mystery illnesses (e.g. fever and exhaustion) that doctors can't seem to explain

, Children may act out because they don't know how else to express their frustration, or as a cry for help. If a child begins acting out, don't immediately call them naughty and plan the best punishment. Calm them down and then ask why they did what they did.


If they can't provide a good reason regarding why they did something, it was probably due to overwhelming emotions.
 Anxious children may ask the same question over and over again, or ask questions when the answer is obvious to them. This is because their brain is full of irrational thoughts that they are trying to silence.


For example: "Mom comes home soon, right?" (five minutes later) "Mom comes home soon?" The child may be experiencing an intense fear that their mom will die in an accident.
Usually it's best to reassure them, even if you say things that aren't completely certain. ("Yes, you'll do fine at your new school.") Rationally, they know that it's impossible to predict the future—they're just looking for reassurance that it won't be a disaster.
 Look up your child's symptoms, and find a few different disorders that could be causing them.


Rid yourself of the myth that mentally ill people are violent.The media often spreads untrue stereotypes about this, and it says nothing about your child.Recognize that it may not necessarily be a mental illness, but another disability, such as autism,or the onset of an illness that is changing their behavior.
 Sometimes, mental illness appears as a result of experiencing psychological trauma.


Severe emotional, physical, or sexual abuse
Witnessing abuse
Disasters such as earthquakes or floods
Compliance-based therapies such as ABAAn important early loss, such at the loss of a parent or guardian
Severe illness or injury
A situation in which they feared for their life (or someone else's)

