 This will cleanse and open the pore.Use mild, non-oily soaps to avoid irritating your skin.
If the pimple is very swollen, applying warm water may cause it to break open and release a small amount of pus. If this occurs, continue washing gently until the pus is gone.
Do not scrub. This will irritate the already inflamed skin.;
, This will make it easier to apply the medication only to the area you want.


This is important because the cream can be an irritant if applied to areas where it is not needed.
 Remove the cap and use the spike on the cap to break the seal.If the tube is new, remove the cap and check to be sure that the seal is not broken before opening it yourself. If it is broken, return the tube and get a new one.
 The medication should be applied three to four times per day, unless directed otherwise by your doctor.Continue the treatment until the pimple heals.


Rub the medication in with a clean finger or a sterile cotton swab.
Use no more than a pea-sized amount and rub it into the skin until you can no longer see it.
Wash your hands afterwards to prevent the medication from irritating the skin on your hands.
Do not apply Fucidin to uninfected areas as it may cause irritation.
 Similarly, do not use it on a young child or infant without discussing it with your doctor first., Be sure to apply it only to the pimple.


If you are applying the medication to your face, be careful not to get it in your eyes.
Do not swallow the medication and keep it out of reach of small children.
Do not apply it to mucous membranes such as your mouth or genitals.
 Side effects are uncommon, but if they do occur, discontinue the medication immediately and get medical help. Possible side effects include: Irritation where it has been applied. Symptoms may include pain, burning, stinging, itching, redness, a rash, eczema, hives, swelling, blistering.
Conjunctivitis.
Topical application of Fucidin should not interfere with your ability to drive.
 Know what ingredients are contained in Fucidin. If you show symptoms of an allergic reaction (difficulty breathing, swelling of the face or throat, a rash/hives, etc.) seek medical help immediately.2% fusidic acid (active ingredient).
Other ingredients include butylhydroxyanisole (E320), cetyl alcohol, glycerol, liquid paraffin, polysorbate 60, potassium sorbate, purified water, all-rac-α-tocopherol, hydrochloric acid and white soft paraffin.
In particular, butylhydroxyanisole (E320), cetyl alcohol, and potassium sorbate may cause an itchy rash or inflammation where applied. If you show these symptoms, discontinue the medication and consult your doctor.

