 Ask your doctor or gynecologist for a referral to a physical therapist with experience treating vulvodynia. A good physical therapist can use gentle manual manipulation to help you strengthen your pelvic floor muscles and deal with tension and pain.


Some patients find that physical therapy alone reduces or eliminates their symptoms. However, you can certainly try physical therapy in combination with medication and other treatment options.
 Biofeedback therapy is a technique in which patients learn to control and manipulate physical processes that usually occur involuntarily. Through biofeedback, patients with vulvodynia can learn to contract and relax the pelvic floor muscles voluntarily. This allows the patient more control over the way this area of the body responds to pain signals.


Some patients find relief with biofeedback alone, but you can also combine the technique with medication or other treatment options.
 Acupuncture is a medical technique that involves inserting very thin needles into specific points on your body. There is some evidence that it can relieve acute and chronic pain. It has been used to treat migraines, muscle problems, neurological conditions, reproductive ailments and rheumatic diseases. Some patients with vulvodynia report that acupuncture relieves symptoms., Counseling can provide an important source of support, increasing your knowledge about your condition, helping you develop coping mechanisms and giving you a place to express your feelings about your condition. Vulvodynia can be stressful and upsetting, affecting your quality of life by limiting activities and making sexual and romantic relationships difficult. Counseling will help you deal with all of this.


Note that counseling tends to be non-directive. Your counselor will listen to you and help you make your own decisions, but he or she will not typically give direct advice or suggest particular treatment options.
 CBT is a specific form of counseling that focuses on practical coping strategies.A cognitive-behavioral therapist will help you understand the way that you think, feel and act. He or she will then offer strategies for modifying your behaviors. For patients with vulvodynia, this can be an effective tool for dealing with symptoms.


There is evidence that cognitive-behavior therapy, when adapted particularly for women with vulvodynia, can help you take control of your pain. This self-management therapy allows you to recognize the connection between your thoughts, feelings and behaviors regarding pain, sexuality and emotional function.
 In addition to counseling, consider other forms of support, such as support groups in your area or an online support group. It can be helpful to find others dealing with the same problem. Check your local hospital for information on support groups nearby.

