 If you're going to sell your home without an agent, it's advisable to have a real estate attorney standing by to help if needed. See below for instances where you might need an attorney. You would have to pay only for legal services actually rendered, as opposed to paying a commission to an agent.;
, Prior to deciding to self-list, speak with at least one real estate agent. Get a sense of what they can do by asking about their years of experience, average time to find a buyer, how their services would relieve you of liability, suggested pricing, and why they think you should sign up with an agent rather than selling on your own. Naturally they will favor hiring an agent, but at least consider what they have to say. They do offer value for what you pay them. Also, keep in mind that the agent you hire to list your house may not be the one who sells it.


The average self-listing often achieves the asking price while avoiding the agent's commission of 6% or more. A 2008 Consumer Reports study found that nearly all homeowners in their survey who sold on their own got their asking price, while sellers using agents received an average of $5,000 below their asking price. Similarly, National Association of Realtors figures show the average sales price in by-owner listings was 97.5 percent of the asking price — while sellers with agents got just 95 percent. This may also be due in part to agents negotiating on behalf of their buyers and sellers raising the price to cover the real estate commissions.
Not all agents are equal. Not everyone has the same experience, expertise and dedication toward maximizing their clients' selling price. Before you decide whether to sell on your own, ask a prospective agent questions that concern you. Ask for references, too.
 There are certain times of the year more likely to yield a profitable sale. Generally you want to sell when the weather is good, before school begins and not near the December holidays.


In the U.S. some suggest that the week after the Super Bowl is the best time to list your home (meaning February). While studies show that this time is ideal and has the most buyers, it also tends to be the time of year with the most sellers. Some find that the spring is the best time to list.
It will be more difficult to sell a family-sized home at an advantageous price once school has started. After all, it can be tough for families with children to change schools mid-semester.
 Sooner is generally better if you want to "beat other homes onto the market," but think about the weather. Depending on your location, you may have excessive cold and/or snow to deal with. How does your yard look with two feet of snow? Would your home look better in the spring when your yard and landscaping are at their most appealing? If the yard is not that great looking, then your home might look more appealing when the yard is covered in two feet of snow.


Weather-related websites or newspaper offices can provide you with historical data regarding the best time of year to sell in your area. Keep in mind that job relocations occur throughout the year.
 One way to do this is to hire a professional real estate appraiser. This person will objectively seek out properties similar to yours and research the prices of recent sales. You can do this research yourself, because there are several websites that provide recent home sales data by geographic location.


You can price the house on the high side for awhile, and if you aren't seeing any interest, you can lower the price. Buyers will be expecting a lower price since they know you are selling without an agent. You do not want your home to become "stale" from sitting too long on the market because you priced it too high.
 When packing things for your eventual move, be sure to leave essentials. Remember you may still need to sleep, eat, and live in this home in the short-term, but now is the time to remove anything which is not essential. If you are not taking something with you, give it away, sell it, or trash it.


Extra furniture and items of clutter make homes look smaller and give the impression that there is less room than there is. Children should choose a limited number of toys, then pack the rest. If necessary, the toys can be rotated.

Store it! Lots of companies specialize in storage, from off-site storage units to companies that pick up and drop off storage units at your door. This way you can get rid of all non-essential furniture, silverware, books, etc.
Sell or donate. Although some of your things may not be coming with you, it may be difficult to part with items you feel are valuable. Give yourself a budget and a time line, and try to sell these items until either the budget or the time have expired. In the end your life and your upcoming move are more important.
 Try to make your home "neutral." The idea is to let the buyers imagine themselves in the home without any overlays of your own preferences, beliefs, styles, etc.


Remove religious items and most, if not all, family photos.
Remove unique decorations, and paint in neutral colors. Colors which have universal appeal are typically tan, beige, and gray.
Clean and organize the house, including floors, carpets, closets, and windows.
Many sellers hire a professional stager to advise them about what to store and what needs to be painted, as well as how to furnish a room to make it look attractive to buyers.
If possible, make arrangements for pets, children, and other family members to be out of the house when it's being shown. Distractions may interfere with a buyer's ability to concentrate on the home. First impressions are formed quickly. Don't let your prospective buyer waste time looking at your photos or your pet.
 Do whatever repairs and clean-up required to make that first impression positive. It is particularly important to have the front entrance looking good.


In the winter make sure walkways and steps are shoveled and safe to walk on. Think about access to the backyard and detached garage, too.
In the spring and summer consider refreshing the home with paint, and plant flowerbeds or pots to make the home more inviting.
 As buyers will be wandering throughout your home, keep all valuables safely and securely locked up. Since you don't want to feel like you need to tail buyers while they look, cash and jewelry should be in a safe or simply well hidden.
 Various sites offer templates where you can customize the text and upload digital photos. Then put out a flyer box next to your "for sale" sign so potential buyers can read all about your property.


If you decide to list with an agent, he or she may prepare your flyers, videos and postcards. Keep in mind that this may not be included in the agent’s services. Be sure to ask them if they do these things before you list with them.
 This should include the approximate dates the improvements were made, especially for the roof and furnace. You might also make a list of all items to be excluded from the sale such as light fixtures. Include anything you would consider selling under separate negotiations.
 Prospective buyers will probably not be familiar with roads, schools or local transportation. Be prepared to answer questions about why you are selling.


Local Realtors have access to helpful charts about the community that they may be willing to share with you if you work with them.
 Some disclosures are not mandatory in the case of a "For Sale By Owner" (FSBO), but having such a document available can answer many buyer questions about your home. Appropriate disclosures include information on previous fires or floods. However, keep in mind that different states have different laws about disclosures, so check with your attorney to ensure that you have disclosed all of the necessary information.



Lead paint disclosure is mandatory even with a FSBO, so make sure you have a form for your home, particularly if it was built before 1978. This form can be obtained online at hud.gov.Disclosure forms are generally available online for your particular area (search "Disclosure form, Michigan" for example) and at your local office-supply store.Most real estate offices can provide you with all necessary disclosure forms, but only if you are using their services.
 Selling a home is about exposure, so anything that will expose your home to more people is beneficial. Consider the cost of local newspaper advertising, flyers, writing and printing property-information sheets, and taking the time to tell your neighbors and friends. Costs can add up quickly, so keep in mind what you are willing to spend.


Put a sign in your yard with your contact information. Place other signs around town, too, with your address and Open House hours. Choose busy locations for your signs.
 Choose your sites carefully, as many of them are designed mostly to promote themselves. If their home listings have not been recently updated, there may be several homes listed that are already sold. Buyers may get frustrated and never even notice your listing. Popular For Sale by Owner websites include Zillow, Owner.com, Hotpads and Trulia. Each of these sites can send your listing to Realtor.com. Advertise your home on Craigslist, and update the content whenever appropriate. Advertise on your Facebook page and LinkedIn. Email photos and information about your listing to everyone you work with (assuming this is permitted), and ask them to pass the information along to others.
 If you live alone, be smart. You probably shouldn't be the only one home when your house is open for viewing. Not everyone may be coming just to buy or look.
 Accept written offers only. If your buyer is serious, s/he will write up an offer and include a deposit. You need a contract for the buyer to use. You can find one online, or ask a real estate attorney for one. Remember that the buyer knows you won't be paying an agent's commission. As a result, s/he may try to negotiate a lower price than you'd like. Be prepared to defend your asking price with evidence of other recent prices in your area.
 Contract forms are available online or through an attorney, which is highly recommended. Consider the completed contract carefully before you sign it. Do so only if it has been reviewed and approved by a real estate attorney. The contract should be accompanied by a mortgage pre-approval from a qualified lender as well as the initial deposit check or money order. If they are a cash buyer, then request a bank letter indicating that they have the required amount of cash the same day that the offer has been made.


If you accept a "contingency offer," typically that means you would have to wait until the buyer sells his/her own home before they can buy yours. That leaves you in limbo until the other party's home sells. You have no alternative but to start over if the buyer backs out of the deal once they experience difficulty in selling their own place.
Another typical contingency allows the buyer to back out if s/he does not like the results of the home inspection.
You may also include a bump clause that allows you to force the buyer to waive the contingency or rescind and allow you to sell if there is a backup offer.
Some typical types of contingencies include financing, appraisal, title, insurance, seller disclosures, neighborhood, feasibility, association, and any other event or idea that you would like to have named as a contingency. This allows the buyer to cancel the contract and get back their earnest money if the contingency is not waived or satisfied.
 You will want the buyer to put up a non-refundable deposit. Otherwise, the buyer could renounce the contract at any time, leaving you with no recourse but a lawsuit. It is common, however, to include a written stipulation that there are certain situations in which the deposit could be returned to the buyer, such as a bad inspection or the discovery of information that should have been disclosed to the buyer but was not.
 Have the contract and closing paperwork checked by your attorney immediately. Be sure that the mortgage papers and the deed are prepared properly for your protection. You will be signing over your rights to the other party, including the deed, so it has to be done correctly.
 If there are any title problems found after the closing, title insurance will be responsible for fixing them. The buyer's agent will arrange for title insurance. If you are not working with an agent, then you will have to open title with a title company and perform a preliminary title search. The buyer is responsible for buying an insurance policy for the lender and the seller buys one for the buyer.
 The buyer's agent may not have the knowledge to explain minor defects vs. major ones in a home. During inspection, anything the inspector points out is of concern (especially to a first-time buyer).


Be prepared to respond to the buyer's concerns. Inspection issues are a common reason contracts are rescinded. Without an agent to advise you on what is a reasonable issue and what is customary, you will need to discuss these things with an attorney. Ultimately, it always comes down to how badly you want to sell your home and how badly the buyer wants to purchase it. You may have to drop your price or offer to pay for repairs, unless the sale is listed “as is.” If certain repairs were not apparent to the seller, it would be appropriate to renegotiate.
Obtain a "Certificate of Occupancy" or "Fire and Safety Inspection." Check with your town clerk and find out which regulations you need to comply with. If you need a Certificate of Occupancy, find out what the inspector will be looking for. If you need only the fire and safety inspection, find out the requirements for the smoke detector, fire extinguisher and carbon monoxide detector so that when the inspector comes there will be no issues, and you will get the certificate you need for closing. Another test often required is for radon gas in basements. Do-it-yourself kits are available for this. Keep in mind that this varies from state to state so it is important to consult with an attorney.
 The bank making the loan to the buyer will want to appraise your property. Banks are not usually generous with appraisals. Without an agent to help you evaluate an appraisal, you will have to trust the appraiser to pick the right comparable properties.


If your home does not appraise as expected, discuss your options with your attorney and ask him or her to talk to the buyer's attorney. If you really need to sell, you may have to lower your price to the bank appraisal, even if that is below the contract price.
 Additional reasons may arise for not going through with the deal. The buyer may not be able to get their loan. Bank regulations keep changing, and it's getting harder to qualify. Buyers who use a non-bank or large, well-known reputable lender may be held up for days or weeks even when there are no real issues with their qualifying for the loan.


Sometimes circumstances change, and the buyers no longer qualify and can’t get the loan.
Inspection issues and the bank appraisal are contract contingencies. If you and the buyer cannot come to an agreement, the contract is canceled, and the buyer will get their deposit back. This can be costly to you, as not only is your home now “older inventory,” but another buyer may be concerned that there are inspection issues that they cannot see. In a declining market, the price you need to set when you go back on the market may be lower than your original price.
 This information needs to be sent directly to the attorneys who are preparing the closing. They must ensure that payment is made for the outstanding water bill out of the proceeds of the sale.
 If everything goes well and all contingencies are met, prepare to move. You are responsible for keeping the house in the same condition as when the buyers inspected it except for repairs or replacements you agreed to make. Buyers will go through the house again before closing, so make sure you plan to be moved out at least the night before.
 Floors should be swept or vacuumed and the inside of cabinets and the refrigerator wiped down. If you have leftover paint that matches the current paint on the walls, leave it in the basement or closet. Make sure the paint is not exposed to extreme temperatures and that it is out of the reach of children.

