 You were created to make a mark in this life and not just born to survive.;
, You may not realize it but one way or another, someone feels so blessed with your existence.So stop saying you’re nobody.
 Most of life is a choice, having the freedom to act and decide on your own.Start deciding and stop complaining.
 Rushing isn’t all beneficial.Take time to smell the flowers. Don’t overdo yourself. Learn to appreciate life today, for tomorrow, you may not have the chance to do so.
 There are two types of people, a proactive and a reactive. The reactive always see the trouble and blames the circumstance to other people, while proactive see troubles as a bridge to success. What are you?

, One of the big disadvantages of a hurried lifestyle is the lack of meditation or reflection. We are too busy, too preoccupied. But if you really want to find true happiness in this life, you have to be still, to quiet your mind so you can hear your heart.
 Knowing that life is imperfect gives you enough space to expect it to be hard. You have to accept that life’s circumstance is not ALWAYS within our control and all you can do is accept, understand and to keep moving forward. Life is 99% choice and 1% chance.
 In times of affliction, it can be tough to see the lighter side. But do always remember, that all storms have endings. Just keep looking forward.
 A goal without action is nothing but a dream.It’s very good to know what you want and set your plans. However, if it’s only written, it can’t be realized. You have to take action. You have to wake up and stand up.
 Remember, life is 99% choice and 1% chance.We are in control of our life 99% of the time and yet a lot of us give this all to chances. We let things happen instead of making it happen.
 One of the differences between achievers and non-achievers is the size of their dreams. Big people achieve big dreams because they think big. The same is true to small people. They achieve smaller dreams because they think small.The key is to have confidence in oneself and think BIG!

, Worry is a complete waste of energy. Even how much you think about it over and over, it will not solve anything. Worry gives you nothing but bad feelings.
 When faced with bad situations or problems, a lot of us leave it behind undecided. We may think that the safest solution is leaving it to chances. However, indecision does not solve the problem, it just gives you temporary relief. But sooner or later, you will feel its impact. Most of the time, it’s bigger than the original. Don’t avoid problems, instead, be brave enough to face and solve it so you can move forward in life. Stop being a coward! Instead of investing your time thinking of the problem, shift your thoughts on how you can solve it.
 People who seldom succeed in life are those who live in the shadow of the past. They cling too much of what they used to have that they seldom adapt and move forward in life. Remember that you can no longer alter what happened in the past but you can create your future. Accept what happened and move on.
 Everyday, you do the same thing, like a cycle that just goes round and round. You get too lax that you find life too boring. But instead of focusing on the negative feeling of boredom, why not take charge and create a change. Sometimes, change does not only happen by surprise. You have the capacity to create change. And why not do it now? Who knows, it might give you the big break you’ve been dreaming of.
 Because no one else does. The only person that’s burdened when you are too serious is you. Keep a mature mind but a young heart. Smile, you look better when you do.
 True friendship lasts forever. You may not see them often but when friendship is true, even how time and distance separates you, true friends are the ones that stay with you. If you have found this type of friends, care and treasure them. For it’s one of the best gifts you will ever receive in your life.
 As long as you’re alive, you have all the chance to achieve your goal. Don’t get discouraged by past failures. Keep striving. Remember, success comes from multiple failures. Those who win have finished the race.
 Have faith with your dreams until you achieve it. Nothing is impossible when you believe.
 Often times we resist change because we think that it’s too late for us to change. Remember that we all have countless chances in this life. You just have to accept change.
 Really think about it. Go back as far as you remember, all the things you dreamed about. This can include your ambitions for your family life, career, finances, hobbies and awards, anything! If you have any old wish books or bucket lists reread them and add them to your notebook. You will know when you're done when you feel relief and probably a little frustration or even anger. Ok stop...put the emotions on the side for now.
 Everything! If you were a good friend, supported an ill friend or family member, got a new job that you enjoy, or made new friends on holiday, write it down! Whatever it is write it down. Things that you don't even think are important, like returning a lost wallet or helping someone cross the road, write it down. When you're done you should feel like a weight has been lifted from your shoulders. You feel lighter. If at any point in time you remember something else, add it!

, Start reading your first list, do you see anything on the other list that looks familiar? Keep reading and comparing. Keep doing that, you will see that what you actually have done is pretty great. Some of the things on your past ambitions list probably seem silly now as well, things like wanting to be an astronaut are almost impossible for anybody to achieve.
 Google it, get as much information on it as possible. Keep notes on it if you need to. Research it for at least a week. After the week has passed do you still want to do it? If you do now you need to figure out how you will do it. If not, well pick the next thing on your list and do the same again. Most things you will find look good, but when you see what's actually involved aren't quite so appealing anymore. Cross off your past ambitions one by one as you reject the idea.
 Never feel guilty about not doing something. Give yourself a pat on the back for everything you have done and all the things that you still want to do. Enjoy the little things. Watch a baby crack up when someone is making weird faces at it. Watch a puppy chasing a duck...whatever. Feel good about yourself and all that you are. You are a special being!

