 If your cat likes to claw, place a sisal scratching post next to the place it usually scratches. Your cat might prefer this rough, natural fiber as long as the post is solid and won't tip over. If your cat likes to scratch wooden legs of your furniture, use a cedar scratching post. Or if your cat prefers to scratch the soft upholstery of furniture, set out a carpeted scratching post., Rub a little catnip on the scratching posts to attract your cat to them. You might need to occasionally add more catnip to keep your cat interested. You may want to set up more than one post or scratching space in your house, especially if your cat likes to scratch several pieces of furniture.

Try to place them in a variety of places so your cat can choose when and where to scratch.
 As soon as you notice your cat using the scratching post instead of the furniture, reinforce the good behavior. Give your cat verbal praise or put a treat at the base of the post. Or you could give your cat a few belly rubs.For example, when you see your cat scratching the post say, "Good cat!" in a friendly tone and rub it behind its ears.
 If you see your cat scratching the furniture instead of the post, make a loud noise (like clapping) to startle them. Remove them from the furniture and firmly say "no." Do this every time you see your cat scratching the furniture.Don't yell or get angry at your cat. Remember that cats need to scratch in order to keep their nails trimmed. It's also a way that they communicate with other cats.
 Some cats may keep scratching furniture even if you tell them no and remove them. Try startling your cat every time you see it misbehaving. For example, if your cat jumps up onto a couch where you don't want it, walk towards your cat while shaking a can that contains a few pennies.If your cat doesn't mind the rattling or surprising noises, consider squirting your cat with a little water.
 Cats are more likely to scratch on furniture if they're bored or need attention. Spend time playing with your cat. Staying active and entertained can reduce misbehavior. For example, you could dangle ribbons on a stick, toss small balls or toys to your cat, or hide treats in puzzle balls for it to find.Consider setting up a play area for your cat that includes items it can scratch. For example, buy an indoor play tree that has a scratching post. Place this near your cat's favorite furniture or by a window so it can look outside.

