 It is located at the base of your spine and is your connection to earth, family, survival, health, and progression. If this chakra is out of balance you may experience a lack of confidence, loneliness, depression, anxiety, addiction, low-back pain, lower body pains and strains, constipation or diarrhea, and water retention.Red or black crystals such as garnet, ruby, and black tourmaline are best.;
, It is also located at the base of your spine and is your connection to other people, confidence, creativity, energy levels, and sexual health.If this chakra is out of balance you may experience eating disorders, low sex drive, sexual disorders, menstrual cycle problems, urinary tract infections, infertility, and problems with your intestines.Orange crystals such as carnelian, orange calcite, and orange garnet are good.
 It is located at your diaphragm and is your connection to your emotions, desires, sense of self, and self-control. If this chakra is out of balance you may experience insomnia, trouble concentrating and remembering things, fear, sugar addiction, digestive problems, acne, eczema, diabetes, obesity, and metabolism issues.Use yellow crystals such as citrine, yellow jasper, and golden calcite to balance.
 It is located in the same place as your physical heart and is the center of your being and all your other chakras. It is your connection to love, relationships, forgiveness, trust, and safety. If this chakra is out of balance you may experience feeling hopeless, feeling apathetic, unable to forgive, commitment issues, respiratory problems, shoulder pain, and upper-back pain.Green or pink crystals such as rose quartz, green fluorite, and rhodochrosite are best.
 It is located at the base of your throat and is your connection to your communication, freedom, and leadership. If this chakra is out of balance you may experience difficulty communicating, be nervous, trouble coping, sinus problems, jaw pain, thyroid problems, and throat and dental problems.A light blue crystal such as blue lace agate, turquoise, and blue kyanite will work.
 It is located just above your physical eyes and connects to your thoughts, mind, dreams, and psychic abilities. If this chakra is out of balance you may experience headaches, nightmares, difficulty learning, brain disorders, eye problems, ear problems, and scalp and hair issues.Try dark blue crystals such as blue tigers eye, lapis, and dumortierite for balancing.
 It is located at the top of your head and connects to your spirituality, wisdom, enlightenment, and connection to the universe. If your crown chakra is out of balance, you may experience lack of faith, mental health problems, autoimmune disorders, mental health issues, and dementia.White or violet crystals such as clear quartz, amethyst, and clear topaz can be used for balancing.

