 Monk Abbey is where you can take all your exams. To get there, exit Prontera from the east portal, head one map north and two maps east.


An alternative way to reach Monk Abbey is to go to Prontera Church in the northeastern corner of the city.;
, Ask Priest Paulin, "What should I do?" Then select, "Go to the convent." He will then teleport you to the abbey.
 You will see the guard monk as you enter the abbey. Talk to him before entering the portal.
 You will find Sensei Moohae inside the building. Talk to him to start your first quest in becoming a Monk. He will assign you one of the 7 sets of items to be gathered.


Items in each set are listed below, including the monster or NPC for each loot.
Though there are many monsters where you can get the item, only the monster with highest drop rate will be mentioned.
Set 1- 5 Cyfar (Galapago), 10 Yellow Herb (Yellow Plant), and 10 White Herb (White Plant).
Set 2- 5 Solid Shell (Hunter Fly), 20 Shell (Steel Chonchon), and 5 Zargon (bought from Geffen Trader).
Set 3 - 5 Porcupine Quill (Caramel), 10 Bug Leg (Argiope), and 20 Cobweb (Argos).
Set 4 - 5 Sticky Mucus (Poporing), 10 Earthworm Peeling (Hode), and 20 Green Herb (Green Plant).
Set 5 - 10 Tooth of Bat (Familiar), 5 Bear Footskin (Bigfoot), and 20 Poison Spore (Poison Spore).
Set 6 - 30 Stem (Mandragora), 5 Jellopy (Poring), and 10 Worm Peelings (Hode).
Set 7 - 20 Yoyo Tail (Yoyo or Choco), 5 Iron Ore (Stone Golem), and 3 Blue Herb (Blue Plant).
Once you have gathered all the items, return to Sensei Moohae to proceed to step 3.
 Sensei Moohae will direct you to Elder Touha, located at the top right of the area. Touha will have you remember one of the quotes listed below; she will read the entire passage before allowing you to recite it.


This sounds like an easy test, but it can be long.
 You can also refer to this guide.


Passage One: And shepherds we shall be, for thee my lord for thee. Power path descended forth from the hand so our feet may swiftly carry out thy command and we shall flow a river forth thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be. In nomine Patris, et Filii et Spiritus Sancti.
Passage Two: I seek the path of enlightenment. We monks shall hold true to what we believe and will help protect others through the teachings we learn through our lives. In nomine Patris, et Filii et Spiritus Sancti.
Passage Three: I commit myself to veritas and aequitas. I will follow my path to enlightenment and purity. I will protect my brothers with life. Evil shall never be victorious while I breathe. In nomine Patris, et Filii et Spiritus Sancti.
 There is no penalty for failing.
 For this part, you must talk to Boohae, found at the bottom-left side of the map. You will be given two options: marathon or mushroom collecting.
 If you choose marathon, talk to the door keeper in front of the Abbey. Enter the building and find Bashu. Tell Bashu “Marathon,” and he will then send you to another area.


The map is shaped like a ring, with occasional holes that players can fall into.
 To pass this test, you mustn't fall into the pits for 10 laps.
 This will allow you to see the pits ahead.


Disconnecting will send you back to your save point.
This test takes 30 minutes with increase agility.
After you have completed all ten laps, you will automatically be sent out.
 If you choose collect mushrooms, you will be sent to the gatekeeper who will direct you to a map where you will be hunting two types of mushrooms (Gooey and Orange).


The NPC will tell you that you have enough mushrooms once you get 30 of each type.
 During the test, you will also encounter thief bugs who will loot your mushrooms. If attacked, they will assist the other bugs. However, they're quite weak considering your level.


This is easier if you have a high-agility buffs.
 You can do this bare-handed for maximum attack speed since the damage you inflict to mushrooms is 1, with or without the weapon.
 You can find him within the abbey, inside what appears to be a glowing cross. He sends you to an invisible maze for your test.


Be warned that during this test, monsters such as Zombies and Mummies will spawn . They shouldn't be much of a challenge, but keep in mind that you don't have enough room to move about for battle.
It is possible to check if a certain cell is passable by pointing the cursor at it.
Walkable cells will have the usual green walk marker; if there is none, then that cell is blocked.
 Try sticking to a straight line from the door to the exit.


Disconnecting in this test will send a player back to their save point.
 Talk to him, and he will give you a green potion. Use it.
 Moohae will give you a lengthy speech about your class. Right after his speech, he will turn you into a Monk.


As a reward, you will get a Waghnak. If you're a job level 50, Moohae gives you Knuckle Duster.

