 Drive your car up the stop bar or line, which is a line perpendicular to your car painted just in front of the crosswalk markings at most intersections.


If you see grooves in the road that indicate the presence of inductive loops, make sure your car is positioned directly over those loops so it gets detected.
If you see no signs of inductive loops, or you see a camera control system, just make sure that you are positioned in the middle of the street lane, not further forward than the stop line and not too far back from it.
It’s especially important to position your car not too far forward or backward when in a left turning lane, as these often will have their own detector that signals a protected left turn signal.
 Note that those with bicycles, scooters, and motorcycles sometimes have difficulty triggering traffic light detectors due to the smaller profile of a two-wheel vehicle. Be extra careful to position yourself in line with a given detector.


On a street with markings that indicate a dipole (one loop), position both bike wheels directly over either the right or left side of the loop. For a quadripole (two loops), position the wheels over the middle line where the two loops connect. For a diagonal quadripole, position yourself anywhere over the markings.Some intersections may have markings directly on the roadway that indicate a line on which cyclists should place the wheels of their bikes. Often there will be a nearby sign with the same symbol as on the pavement, indicating “To request green, wait on .”If there is a camera installed for detection, simply make sure your bike or motorcycle is positioned in the center of the lane, or lean it toward the middle of the lane from one side. You may even want to face diagonally toward the camera, so as to make your profile larger and more easily detected.
 Take extra care as a pedestrian to initiate a traffic signal change using the available crosswalk buttons, as you cannot signal the same detectors that vehicles do.


Push the appropriate button to cross the street in the intended direction and wait for the walk signal to appear before proceeding. Some intersections automatically update the pedestrian signals when the regular traffic lights change, but many must be manually engaged.
Never assume that a green traffic light indicates that you can walk if there is not also a white walk symbol illuminated for pedestrians. You should also only cross where white crosswalk symbols are painted on the roadway, whenever possible.

