 Determining whether a party is indispensable depends on the rules of civil procedure that apply to the court you are appearing in. In the United States, there are basically two court systems, each of which has its own rules of civil procedure:


Federal courts use the federal Rules of Civil Procedure to determine whether a party is indispensable.
State courts use their own state Rules of Civil Procedure to determine if a party is indispensable.;
, Once you identify your court, you should find the rules of civil procedure for that court. Most are on the Internet. You can find the federal Rules of Civil Procedure online as well as most state court’s rules.If you can’t find your state’s rules online, then you should try to visit your nearest law library. It may be at your county’s courthouse or at a nearby law school.
 In federal court, Rule 19 determines whether a party is indispensable. There is a two-part test, determining first whether the party is “necessary” and second whether it is “indispensable.”Many state court rules are very similar. For example, Colorado’s Rule 19 tracks the federal rule very closely. Missouri’s rule does as well.However, a state’s rule might be different, so if you are appearing in state court then you should read your state’s rules to find out when joining a party is necessary and indispensable.
 Check to see if the party’s participation is necessary for the following reasons:Without the absent party as part of the case, the court cannot give complete relief among the existing parties. For example, three people might own a yacht in equal shares. If one person wants the court to order the sale of the yacht, then both of the other owners must be joined in the action.
The absent party claims an interest in the subject of the lawsuit, and any disposition of the case would impair or impede that person’s ability to protect their interest.
The absent party claims an interest in the subject matter of the lawsuit, and a determination would expose an existing party to multiple or inconsistent obligations. For example, a defendant may have made a contract with two parties, A and B. B sues him in court. If A isn’t joined as a plaintiff, then A could sue at a later date and expose the defendant to double liability for the same claim.
 If a necessary party can be joined to the lawsuit, then it should be. However, in some cases, you can’t join the party even though it is necessary. For example, you might not be able to join the party if:Joining the absent party would destroy the court’s jurisdiction. For example, a federal court might only have jurisdiction over the case because the plaintiff and defendant are from different states (“diversity jurisdiction”). However, if a “necessary” defendant is from the same state as the plaintiff, then diversity jurisdiction would disappear if the party were joined.
The court doesn’t have personal jurisdiction over the absent “necessary” party. If the absent party has insufficient contacts with the state where the lawsuit was filed, then the court can’t exercise power over the absent party.
The venue would be improper.
 This is a judgment the judge reaches after considering several factors. The judge must decide whether in good conscience the case can go forward without the absent party. If not, then the case should be dismissed. The relevant factors a judge considers include:The extent a judgment would prejudice the absent party or the existing parties to the lawsuit.
Whether the judge could lessen the prejudice by shaping relief in a certain way or using other measures.
Whether judgment in the person’s absence would be adequate.
Whether the plaintiff could get an adequate remedy if the case was dismissed for failure to join an indispensable party. For example, the plaintiff could go to a different court and sue. In that situation, the plaintiff could have an adequate remedy and the lawsuit would be dismissed.
 You might think that the federal or state rule is fairly straightforward. However, there is a lot of ambiguity in these rules. For example, how does a judge know whether resolving the dispute will “prejudice” the absent party? Or how does the judge know whether the plaintiff would have an “adequate” remedy if the case was dismissed?


When judges face these kinds of questions, they look to court opinions issued by higher courts (appellate courts). These opinions help clarify rules and statutes, and the trial court considers them authoritative.In order to understand whether a party is “indispensable,” you need a working knowledge of the court opinions on this issue.
It will be difficult for you to do the legal research necessary to find court opinions on your own. You will have to go to a law library and pore through leather-bound volumes of court opinions. By visiting a lawyer, you can save yourself considerable time and money.
 You can get a referral to a competent lawyer by asking other people if they have used a lawyer recently and whether they would recommend him or her. You could also contact your state or local bar association, which should run a referral program.Once you have the lawyer’s name, check his or her website. Analyze whether the website looks professional and whether the lawyer has sufficient experience.
You can also check the lawyer’s disciplinary history. Each state has a disciplinary commission that investigates ethics complaints against lawyers. You can find your state’s commission online and check to see if the lawyer has ever been sanctioned., Money might be tight. Nevertheless, you would benefit from legal assistance. Accordingly, you could check to see if a non-profit legal services organization can offer assistance.


Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website and click “Find Legal Aid” at the top of the page.Enter your address to find legal aid organizations in your area.
 Once you have the name of a lawyer, call and schedule a consultation. Briefly describe your problem and ask how much the lawyer charges for an initial consultation.At your consultation, you can describe your case in more detail and ask the lawyer if someone might be an indispensable party.
The lawyer can also advise you whether you want to bring a motion to add an indispensable party. Sometimes you can use them strategically to get a lawsuit dismissed—especially where adding the party would destroy diversity jurisdiction in federal court.

