 If you own a casino or manufacture and/or distribute gaming devices, you will need to obtain a non-restricted license. If you are an owner in a publically traded company, you will not need a license unless you own more than 10% of the company. However, if you are a shareholder in a private company, you will need to obtain a license.Some officers and directors of public companies (e.g. president, secretary, chief financial officer, chief executive officer) will need a license.
 It will be very difficult to go through the application process alone. A gaming attorney will serve as the point person for the application process, prepare and review your documents, present your case before the Board and Commission, and guide you through the investigation.A gaming attorney will also make the process quicker. A quicker process will save you money on investigative fees.
 The application is very long and extensive. The first 45 pages will detail your personal information history, employment history, residential information, criminal background, civil litigation, and your licensing background. The next 20 pages details your financial information such as your tax information, bankruptcy disclosures, salary, assets, liabilities, and the source of your investment in your business. Other documents you must file include:Third party request for banks and employers to release information
Fingerprint cards
A form that releases the regulators from any liability from the investigation
A personal history disclosure form
A $500 check

, The Gaming Control Board charges $70 per hour to review your application and investigate your background. A simple investigation costs around $30,000, and a complex investigation can cost over a million dollars. You will receive an estimate of the fees you will be required to pay. The investigation will not begin until you have paid all of your fees.
 Early in the investigation process, the agents assigned to your application will request an opening interview with you. During this meeting, the agents will explain the investigation process to you and ask you any additional information about your application.


This interview is an opportunity to discuss any matters that you failed to disclose in your application. Be honest and do not provide false information. This can come back and hurt you if the investigation uncovers different information.
This interview takes about 2 or 3 hours.
 Your agent will make a written request for some documentation. This typically happens around the time of your opening interview. The documentation may include:


Your birth certificate
Your passport
Your last will and testament
Any federal, state, county, or city licenses that you hold
Your current employment and/or stock option agreements
Copies of any litigation or arbitration that you are involved in and an explanation of the events leading up to this
5 years’ worth of income tax returns
5 year record of bank account
Escrow and appraisal documents
Retirement fund statements
Lines of credit for the last 5 years
License and registration for your vehicles

, Both you and your gaming attorney should attend the hearing. The attorney will give an opening and closing statement and present your case. This is also the time for you to address any concerns that the investigative agents have identified. The Board will then approve with or without conditions, deny, or recommend a continuation.If your application is approved by the board, the Commission hearing will take place in 2 weeks later. You will attend the Commission hearing as well.
The Commission must make a decision about your application within 120 days.

