 The Panda update targets poor quality content. If it's poor quality, then it will get poor results in the search engine returns. The algorithm used discounts the low quality sites and prefers those sites with unique content that creates or gives value to readers. Content that is duplicating in nature is penalized.


Avoid adding duplicate content to your website. It is worth paying extra for original content to avoid being penalized in ranking.;
, The Panda update rewards sites that it considers to be trusted and of high quality. In other words, you can create a partnership with Google from your end by providing reliable, accurate, fulfilling, and original content.


Optimize your website to provide excellent, original, and accurate content. If you don't know whether it is accurate, have people researching it and referencing it where needed, or quality assuring it in some way so that anyone who checks its veracity is reassured.
Google says: “Google depends on the high-quality content created by wonderful websites around the world, and we do have a responsibility to encourage a healthy web ecosystem. Therefore, it is important for high-quality sites to be rewarded, and that’s exactly what this change does.” This means - give your reader or viewer what they want. Don't treat your reader like they don't know; everyone online is savvy, switched on and able to source errors in an instant.
 The old approach, long since outdated, is to provide content that ranks well. The Panda Update requires that your site do the following:


Win 1: Give your visitors content that they actually want to read, that solves their problems or questions, that is accurate without having to check so, and that is entertaining or of good value.
Win 2: Optimize the content for easy indexing by Google.
Win 3: Learn from your visitor's comments and statistical preferences to make much-needed changes that ensure your visitors are getting the experience that they want from your site.
 Your reward will be a good rank in search engine returns, happy readers or viewers, and increasingly solid and reliable reputations. It's really no different from anything else in a business – produce quality and you will keep everyone happy.

