 To draw BMO, start with a small, horizontal rectangle to form the video screen and face.Round the corners of your rectangle.
 BMO’s body is made up of a 3D cube. Start by drawing a slightly slanted rectangle around your first one.Then draw two parallel lines going up at a forty-five degree angle from the top two corners of your rectangle.
Draw a third parallel line from the bottom left corner.
Connect the end of these three lines together to form a cube.
 BMO’s arms are made of “J” shapes, with his right arm pointing up, and his left arm rotated forty-five degrees for this drawing. BMO’s right leg is drawn like a backwards “L” shape, or a boomerang. The left leg is straight.


BMO’s hands are made up of three fingers that are connected.
Draw the legs at the bottom of your rectangle. The legs should look like each one is extending from under the 3D body.
 BMO has buttons, some rectangular and circular slots on the front of his body. On the side he has a speaker that resembles one on a telephone. Down the side of BMO’s body is written “BMO” in block letters.


Right below BMO’s face is a slim rectangular slot. To the right is a circular slot. Both of these are filled in.
Below the rectangular slot is a directional pad. To the right of the directional pad, draw a triangle with a somewhat large circle under and a bit to the right. To the right of, and above that circle is a smaller circle. Each button is also drawn in 3D like BMO’s body.
Under the directional pad and to the left of the big circular button are two small rectangular slots which have curved edges. These slots are also filled in.
Draw the speaker on the side of BMO’s body where his arm is. The speaker is toward the top of the body and it has two circles on the top row. Underneath are three more circles. Under those are two more. There are seven total.
Below the speaker write “BMO” in block letters. The “O” goes around BMO’s arm, serving as his shoulder., To draw BMO’s face, draw two curved lines that look like rounded triangles without the base. Then draw a larger, curved line for a smile underneath.


BMO’s eyes and mouth are positioned in the top ⅓ of his face.
Erase any overlapping lines. Make sure you have BMO’s feet drawn as well. You can draw his feet by adding “U” shapes to the bottom of the legs.
 BMO’s body is a sea green, or teal color. The buttons are light blue, green, red, and yellow.


The rectangle that makes up BMO’s face is a lighter teal than the body. The side of the body that has the arm and lettering is a darker teal.
The lettering and slots are the darkest teal color.
The directional pad is yellow. The triangle is light blue. The small circle is green. The big circle is red.

