 You can't craft the end portal frame, as you must find a stronghold first.


You find this by throwing Eyes of Ender (1 ender pearl + 1 blaze powder ). You will need quite a few. Approximately 9-10 to throw, and 1-10 to actually find the portal. When you throw it, they will fly in the direction of the stronghold. If it keeps landing in one spot, you've found the stronghold. You'll should consider bringing more than 10, because the ender eyes have a 1 in 5 chance of breaking.
If you need help getting eyes of ender, first learn how to make one, and kill endermen with a tool enchanted with loot as this is a rarer mob.;
, Do look around because there are chests that may contain useful things like food, armor, or ingots (to craft swords or armor).
 You'll definitely need it.
 If your bow has the infinity enchantment, then you'll only need one arrow.
 Usually, there are a few Eyes of Ender inside some of the frames, so you won't need all 12.
 Stand there and shoot her with a bow and arrow then attack with your sword when she's there.Before you shoot her, there are special blocks called crystals on obsidian pillars that heal the mob. Destroy them if possible. If you don't know how, try this: ]


,, It drops a lot of XP so you can have a lot of enchanting power approximately 60-100 levels, and in the upcoming 1.9 update, you can "mend" your tools automatically using XP.
 What is that thing on the top? That is the dragon egg. It is kind of hard to obtain if you don't know how. One way takes a while. You can click on it as if you are obtaining it, but it teleports away. You can keep finding it to obtain it. Once you have done it enough, it will eventually drop as a resource. Or a shorter way is to just place a torch under the block the egg is on the break the block. The egg then drops.
 By clicking the egg in the OverWorld, will create particles and endermen, ender chests, and more. You can keep it as a decoration or like a trophy. Many think of it as a ultimate prize, sometimes below the Wither.

