 These non-removable fasteners have a shield around the shank, which expands for a sturdy fit. Select anchors that meet your needs:


Choose anchors rated to four times the expected weight load, or eight if they need to withstand dynamic load (moving or vibrating) or impact load (sudden force). The shear load rating is for forces parallel to the brick surface (a hanging picture), while tensile load is perpendicular (a pipe hanging from the ceiling).Choose a size that can penetrate the recommended minimum distance into the brick, taking the object you're attaching into account. For example, a ½" (1.25cm) diameter anchor needs to extend at least 2¼" (5.75cm) into the wall., Sleeve anchors can be installed in mortar joints, or directly into the faces of solid or hollow bricks. Because the anchors exert force on the surrounding brick, it's important to space the holes to avoid putting too much stress on one spot:Leave ten diameters of space between each pair of anchors. For example, ½" (1.25cm) anchors should be spaced 10 x ½" = 5" (12.5cm) apart.
Leave five diameters of space between anchors and unsupported edges.
 Put on goggles, ear protection, and sturdy work gloves you can dedicate to masonry work.Avoid breathing in dust (which may contain silica and caustic substances), and wear a particulate respirator with a filter rated N95 or better for large jobs., Choose a masonry drill bit exactly the same diameter as the anchors. Drill through the object you'll be attaching (if necessary), and into the holes marked on your brick surface. This is much faster and more precise with a hammer drill.


Check your sleeve anchor product information. Some anchors require a hole with an exact depth. If your anchors have no maximum depth and the brick is sufficiently thick, drill about ½" (1.25 cm) deeper than the anchors will penetrate for good measure., Blow the masonry dust out of the holes with compressed air. Some hammer drills come with a tool for this purpose. You may need to blow out the dust partway through drilling.Do not blow out the dust with your mouth.
 Push the anchors through the object you are attaching, and into the holes you drilled. Tap them into place with a hammer if necessary.


If you have two-part anchors, insert the sleeves first, then insert the bolts through their centers., Use a wrench or screwdriver to tighten the nut or screw head at the end of the anchor. This will push the sleeve outward to press against the sides of the hole. Keep tightening until you have a snug fit and the anchor head is flush with the surface.It may work best to tighten all the anchor heads in stages, a little at a time.