 Clear communication is an important part of any successful relationship, and the relationship between leader and team member is no different. Express your ideas clearly, making sure employees understand what you’re asking of them. Create a conversation-friendly environment, and give employees the freedom to express their thoughts and concerns. Team members are more willing to trust a leader with whom they are able to openly communicate.;
, Express your exceptional and positive vision for the future. A leader with a plan is the easiest leader to follow. Once aware of the team’s goal, each member will strive to do his/her part to aid in the completion of the objective, thus ensuring not only the motivation of each individual, but the unification of your team as well.
 Would you look to someone for guidance and leadership if they did not truly care about the goals of the group? Of course not! Great leaders are not just focused on getting group members to finish tasks; they have a genuine passion and enthusiasm for the projects they work on. Start by thinking of different ways that you can express your passion. Let people know that you care about their progress. When one person shares something with the rest of the group, be sure to tell them how much you appreciate such contributions.
 To be an effective leader, one must listen to what those around you are saying, and then make a decision on what you have heard. To listen is very difficult, but one must, because the lowest of the low person in your business may say something that is effective and very important, something that you would never have thought of. So... learn to listen carefully, and when everyone has had their say, only then make a decision.
 You want to be a leader at work, learn to take responsibility for anything that has your fingerprint on it. That means, as long as you participate in the project, you have a hand at the failure of the project. Learn to take responsibility for not just the good things, but even bad ones.
 Gaining respect from those who regularly encounter your brand is best done through exemplifying ideal behaviors and characteristics. Some of the most influential leaders guide their businesses, teams, and customers by modeling qualities they wish to see in others.
 The best leaders understand the importance of not only recognizing others, but also providing them with a reward. This technique will positively affect your personal brand through the engagement and happiness of others. Your ability to see and thank individuals for their hard work will gain brand loyalty.
 Transformational leaders also provide inspirational motivation to encourage their followers to get into action. Of course, being inspirational isn't always easy. Fortunately, you don't need motivational speeches to rouse your group members. Being genuinely passionate about ideas or goals, helping followers feel included in the process and offering recognition, praise and rewards for people's accomplishments works good for motivation.
 As human beings, we have a natural tendency to want to be loved. But what happens when your desire to be loved interferes with your ability to lead? Effective leaders recognize it is more important to be respected by their people than adored. They make the tough decisions that are needed to secure the future of those around them, including their direct reports., Don't make promises you can't keep. By keeping your promises, you and others will take you seriously.

