 Nothing transforms the look and feel of a room like a new coat of paint. Although paint isn't always cheap, it's an investment that lasts for many years; taken over the course of a decade, the average cost of painting a bedroom is around a dollar and some small change per month. Visit a paint store and borrow some chips (paint samples) to take home so you can better visualize what the finished walls will look like. Use light, subtle colors to give rooms an open, airy, peaceful feeling, or go with bold, solid colors to make rooms feel darker and more dramatic.


Typically, a flat finish paint is used on ceilings. Various finishes can be used for walls, ranging from flat through eggshell and satin (a bit more lustrous) to semi-gloss, which is bright but reflects a lot of sunlight. If you have pillars, molding, or other architectural features, use a contrasting color to make them pop.
In addition to paint and primer, you'll need plenty of time, somewhere to move the furniture while you paint, a roller brush, an angle sash brush, some fine sandpaper, and a paint tray. Plan ahead so that you have all the equipment you need before you start painting.
If you can't quite find the perfect color, most paint stores will be happy to lighten, darken, or blend colors for you to create a custom color. Don't be afraid to ask.
 Although huge blackout curtains and heavy drapes are expensive and generally cloying, lighter and smaller options can make a big impact on a room's aesthetic without making a similar impact on your bank account. Kitchen and dining room windows can be framed with an inexpensive valance; sheer sill-length curtains come in a wide variety of patterns and can really pull a bedroom or study together.


If your windows already have mini-blinds, don't worry: just install a curtain rod a bit above the top of the blinds, and let your curtains and/or valances hang over them. An extra layer of cloth between you and the window is a small price to pay for being able to open, half-open, or close curtains to control their shape, size, and light level.
 With very little work, an old dresser can be used as entry storage for shoes or sideboard storage in the dining room. Use an old coffee table for a patio table, or repaint it to give it a new look. A nightstand can be refreshed with a new coat of paint and moved to the side of the couch to make a convenient end table with space for holding magazines. As for the couch itself, if it's still in decent condition, why not buy (or sew) a new cover for it to make it look like a whole different piece of furniture?


Old tools and kitchen gadgets can make interesting wall hangings. Be sure to hang them securely so that they don't fall and injure anybody.
If you have multiple pieces of furniture, you can make almost any boxy or flat item new again by cannibalizing table or chair legs and fastening them to it. Try metal wire V legs for a mid-century look, or wooden legs for a bit of rustic DIY charm.
Salvage wood, available for cheap at specialty stores, can easily bring unique flair to a room with its aged, weathered look. Turn a flat piece into a coffee table by bolting legs to it, or improvise a headboard or wall decoration from a particularly knotted and complex-looking board. Salvaged shelving is a great way to display knickknacks with a bit of extra character.

Set tempered glass over the top surface of a beaten-up piece of salvage wood to revitalize it without hiding its patina.



