 There are all sorts of group exercise classes that incorporate socialization as well. Of course, both the physical activity and social component of different classes varies widely. Examples include aerobics, dancing, conditioning, yoga, indoor cycling, and kickboxing.Despite the variety between classes, most share many of the same benefits. Aside from a fun, social, and motivating environment, group classes also usually employ safe, proven workout regimens, and offer the guidance of an instructor or other experienced participants.
As one specific example, many local gyms offer general fitness classes at interesting locations, like the park or the beach. These are especially fun, as you’ll meet other people interested both in staying active and being outdoors.
Don’t hesitate to ask about "dropping in" for a class you’re curious about. Often, you will not be required to make to weekly commitment, though there is likely financial incentive to do so if you find yourself enjoying a particular class.
 The social component of group exercise is one of the main reasons you’ll find yourself coming back. Another may be the music. Even if it means less conversation during your workout, there is an undeniable communal component to working hard and rocking out together. In fact, indoor cycling and other aerobics classes are increasingly including high-energy electronic music to keep participants motivated and keep everyone’s mood elevated.Fun, vibrant group exercises classes are great, because they can help keep you more accountable to both staying physically active and keeping a healthy social network.
 A few of the factors you should consider when thinking about joining a group exercise class include your level of experience and your availability. Fortunately, you can almost certainly fits your specific parameters.For instance, you may not have much availability to stay physically active or to socialize. Forty-five minute or one hour classes once a week with people you enjoy are a great way to schedule and keep both of these commitments.
Further, if you don’t have time to research a workout program or don’t have much experience with physical activity, a 'beginner's" or introductory class is a great place to start. You’ll meet other folks at your level, who are also likely beginning a group exercise class in part for the social component.
 You may have heard of exercise and “lifestyle” organizations that have their own philosophies about everything from how to do a pull up to how you should eat. These will certainly meet the criteria of getting you more physically active, as well as connecting you with a social network that take their physical activity very seriously. Though they may seem pretty intense, they can definitely be credited with offering participants plenty of positive motivation.In addition to group workout classes with organizations like Cross Fit, there are other emerging types of group classes as well, often based on bringing people with similar personalities or interests together.
For instance, you can likely find a yoga class that’s held on the beach and features incense and gongs, or something like a ski-conditioning class - even in the desert - for those that are very into one particular physical activity.

