 Adult teeth are meant to last your lifetime if you take care of them. But if you do need to remove a tooth, it could be for a variety of reasons:


Crowded mouth. Your existing teeth haven't left enough room for your tooth that's trying to move into its proper place. A dentist may be forced to remove the tooth if this is the case.
Extracting a tooth may also be necessary to make enough room for teeth to align before applying orthodontic braces.
Tooth decay or infection. If infection of the tooth extends all the way down to the pulp, a dentist may need to administer antibiotics or even try a root canal. If a root canal does not fix the problem nor the apical resection, a dentist may need to extract the tooth.
Compromised immune system. If you are undergoing an organ transplant, chemotherapy, or heart surgery, even the threat of infection might motivate a doctor to extract a tooth.Periodontal disease. This disease is caused an infection of the tissues and bones that surround and support the teeth. If periodontal disease has infiltrated the tooth, a dentist may need to take it out.
 Do not try to extract the tooth on your own. It's far safer to let a professional dentist extract the tooth than try to be macho and do it on your own. In addition to being safer, it will also be much less painful.
 Your dentist will need to give you a shot of Novocain before extracting the tooth. This is to ensure that the area is numb and you will not feel the extraction.
 The dentist may need to remove part of the gum in order to get at the tooth. In severe cases, the dentist may also need to remove the tooth itself in pieces., A blood clot is a sign that your tooth and surrounding gum areas are healing. Hold a piece of gauze over the extraction site and bite down firmly on the gauze, not too hard but not too lightly either. This will help to stop the bleeding. A new blood clot should start forming in the extraction site.


If the socket has lost its clot, an infection could occur. This condition is called dry socket (alveolar osteitis), and is often accompanied by a foul-smelling odor.Contact your dentist if you believe the clot hasn't set appropriately.
If you want to reduce the swelling, place an icepack wrapped in a towel on the outside of the jaw near to where the tooth was removed. This should reduce the swelling and numb the pain.
 In the days following the extraction, take care to let your clot heal. To do this, try to:


Avoid spitting or rinsing forcefully. Try to avoid drinking from a straw with the first 24 hours.
After 24 hours, gargle lightly with a saltwater solution made of 1/2 teaspoon salt and 8 ounces of warm water.
Do not smoke or drink alcohol.
Eat soft foods and liquids for the first few days. Avoid hard, solid foods that take a lot of chewing to break down.
Floss and brush your teeth as usual, taking care not to floss and brush the extraction site.

