 The most popular icons include Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Pinterest.


Choose social networking spots where you and your blog readers are active. For example, if you have a great Facebook page, you will want to include that icon. If you want to encourage your readers to pin your blog onto their Pinterest boards, be sure you have that icon present.;
, You can download standard icons for all of the social networking sites at several websites, including IconArchive, Web Designer Depot and Icon Dock. An Internet search of "social icons" will provide several other options.


Use updated and easily recognizable icons. It is okay to be creative, but make sure your readers can recognize the link provided by your icons. For example, most Twitter icons are a small "t" with a light blue background or an image of the Twitter bird. If you change the color, you might confuse people.
 You might want the icons to match the design of your blog.


Use Photoshop or Adobe InDesign for the best results in creating your own icons. Try to keep your design to 60px by 60px for easy downloading and linking.
 This is as easy as saving it in a file on your machine.



Add the images to your media library in Wordpress if that is the blogging platform you use.



Look for the URL in Wordpress by clicking on the image in your library. You will notice the URL in the "File URL" field. It will start with the letters "Find the URL on photo sharing sites by clicking "share" when you let your mouse hover over the image. You will see a "get link code" tab, and the link will be displayed. The letters "will be the start of the URL.
 Most blogs are created on Wordpress or Blogger.


Place the code in the HTML widget area on Blogger. For Wordpress blogs, place the code in the text widget area.



Put a link to your own social networking page where it says "link goes here" and put the image's URL where it says "imageurlhere."

, Have a friend pull up your blog and click on the social networking icons you have included. Make sure it takes the user to the right place.

