 This will give you a thin sheet cake, perfect for making petit fours. If you do not have a lot of time on your hands, you can use a pre-baked sheet cake instead. Click here to learn how to assemble the cake, here to learn how to prepare the icing, and here to learn how to decorate the petit fours.

A half-sheet cake pan is 12 by 16 by 3 inches (30.48 by 40.64 by 7.62 centimeters).;
, Pour the flour into a mixing bowl, then add the baking powder and salt. Stir together until evenly combined, then set aside., Pour the sugar into a large mixing bowl, then add the butter and shortening. Beat together until smooth, using an electric mixer or hand-held beater., Keep mixing with your electric mixer until everything is smooth and fluffy., Add half of the flour mixture into the sugar mixture, and beat well until combined. Stir in half of the evaporated milk. Repeat with the remaining flour mixture and evaporated milk., Gently fold the sour cream into the batter using a rubber spatula. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl., Check the cake for doneness after 25 minutes be poking a toothpick into the center. If the toothpick comes out clean, the cake is ready. If the toothpick has crumbs on it, bake the cake for 5 to 10 more minutes., Allow the cake to cool in the pan for 10 to 15 minutes first, then carefully flip it over onto another sheet of parchment paper. Peel away the parchment paper from the bottom (if necessary), and discard it.
 You can do this using a cake splitting tool, a long knife, or a piece of thread.

If you are using a pre-baked sheet cake, check the thickness; you may have to split it into thirds instead.
If you are using a pre-baked pound cake, cut it into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) thick slices.
 Keep the top half of the cake on the cardboard, and set it aside for now. If you don't have any thin cardboard on hand, you can also use a thin cutting matt instead., You can also use a different type of jam, such as strawberry or blueberry. You could also use lemon curd. Try to use something tart or sour tasting; this will help balance out the overall sweetness.

If you split your pre-baked sheet cake into thirds, repeat this step for the middle layer.
If you are using a pound cake cut into thin slices, coat only half of the slices; reserve the other half for the top.
 You don't absolutely have to do this, but there is nothing wrong with extra frosty goodness. Make sure that the frosting goes from edge to edge, corner to corner.

Do not use your icing for this step; use buttercream frosting instead. Cream cheese buttercream or vanilla buttercream work especially well. You can use homemade buttercream or you can use store-bought buttercream.
If you split your pre-baked sheet cake into thirds, repeat this step for the middle layer.
 Hold the top layer over the bottom one, and line up one of the edges. Carefully slide the thin sheet of cardboard out from under the top layer, letting the cake fall into place. Use your hands to nudge the top layer into place, if necessary.

If you are using a pound cake, start playing the bare slices on top of the jam-and-frosting covered ones.
 Use an offset cake decorating spatula to spread a thin layer of frosting on the top layer of your cake. This will give you a smoother finish when you go to pour the icing on top. Do not cover the sides of the cake., Use a sharp knife to cut the edges off of your cake so that the corners are nice and sharp. Don't cut the cake into squares yet, however! Instead, use the parchment paper to lift the cake onto a baking sheet. Then, move the cake into your freezer. This will allow the cake to set up while you prepare the icing.
 Fill a saucepan with 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) of water, then place a heat-safe glass bowl on top. Make sure that the bottom of the bowl is not touching the surface of the water. Also, make sure that the bowl is big enough to fit all of your icing ingredients., Make sure that the bowl is fitted, and that the stem can't escape. This will allow you to slowly melt your ingredients without fear of scorching them., Don't add the chocolate chips yet. If you aren't a fan of almond, you can use a different flavor instead, such as lemon or peppermint., At this point, you can turn down the heat on the burner; as long as there is steam, you will be fine. Keep stirring until the chocolate chips melt and everything turns smooth.Using white chocolate chips will allow you to change the color of the icing by adding in food coloring. If you don't care about the color and don't like white chocolate, you can use regular chocolate chips instead., Although not completely necessary, this can give your icing a lovely color! Keep in mind that a little bit goes a long way, so you won't need a lot of gel food coloring. Opt for light, pastel shades rather than bright or dark colors.

The food coloring will only work with white chocolate chips, not regular chocolate chips.
Do not use liquid food coloring, as this may cause the icing to "seize" and become grainy.
 You will be decorating your petit fours on this rack. The parchment paper will catch any excess icing. You can then melt the icing in your double boiler and reuse it.If you don't have any more parchment paper, you can use wax paper for this instead.
 Something between 1 and 1¼ inch (2.54 and 3.18 centimeters) would be ideal.You can also cut the petit fours into other simple shapes as well, such as hearts, circles, or rectangles. Make sure that your shapes are around 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) however!, Make sure that you have some space between each square to allow the icing to drip through., Make sure that your pour the icing evenly, and that it completely covers the squares. You don't want to see any cake or filling at all. The icing should cover the sides of the petit fours in a smooth layer; you don't want any dribbles.

Don't worry if the icing layer looks thin. You can fix that in a moment.
 While you wait for the icing to set, take the excess icing off of the baking sheet below the cooling rack, and melt it in your double boiler. Pour the icing back over the petit fours as before. This will create a thicker layer.You only need to do this if your first layer is thin. If you can see bits of cake or filling, then your icing layer is too thin, and you should apply a second one.
 At this point, your petit fours are essentially done, but you can decorate them even further to match the theme of your party or event. A quick and simple decoration would be to pipe little rosettes on top of each petit four. You can also use sugar candy shaped like flowers instead, or drizzle melted, colored chocolate on top. Other popular designs include polka dots, strips, and bows.