 Some overweight children believe that being teased simply comes with the territory. They may think that what they are experiencing is normal. It is up to you, however, to let them know it is not and that they don’t deserve it. Teach your child that teasing about appearances is never okay. Define body image for your child and explain how negative influences can affect a person’s perception about body image.

Explain to the them that the bully is probably insecure themselves, so they project their issues onto someone else. Or that they may be unpopular and they think that teasing someone may make them fit in with the “cool” kids.If your child wants to lose weight, make sure that it’s for the right reasons, and not just to conform to a flawed societal perception of what is “beautiful”. Your child should not diet, but instead make a lifestyle change to live a healthy and wholesome life.
 Bullies often don't know how to respond when the intended victim doesn't play by the script. Tell the child to ignore the bully or act like what they say doesn’t bother them. For instance, they shouldn't look embarrassed or scared. Just walk away and find an adult they trust.

Standing up to a bully often stops them, but it can help to give other advice, too. This could include looking the bully in the eye or defending themselves physically, if needed.Tell the child to talk to an adult when the bullying occurs. They can talk to a teacher, guidance counselor, bus driver, or a parent if that is who is near when the tormenting begins. The adult can confront the bullies and stop the behavior., Bullying usually occurs when a child is alone. By spending more time with their friends, they lessen the chances of being singled out and picked on. Having close friends can also help them feel more confident about themselves.

Help the child make friends by enrolling them in different activities if they are having problems making them. Joining a youth group, drama or garden club, or even the Boy or Girl Scouts can put them in touch with potential friends. Enrolling them in martial arts can also give them confidence and help them learn how to defend themselves.