 Spontaneous activities with your spouse or your children can be a lot of fun. However, you won't want to rely on luck to balance your marriage or parenting. Scheduling time spent with your spouse or children can be a great way to ensure you're giving both a balanced amount of attention.For example, you might have an hour every night where you play board games with your family.
You might want to set aside separate time each day to spend with your spouse and with your children, as well as all together as a family

, Although you want to give your spouse and children plenty of attention, you'll still need time to pursue your own interests. Spending time alone can give you a moment to breathe and will allow you to feel personally fulfilled. Make sure you are leaving enough time for yourself and your own interests when trying to create a healthy balance between marriage and children.Have your spouse watch your children while you do something you love.
Make sure you allow your spouse the same freedom to pursue something they enjoy.
 Balancing your marriage and parenting responsibilities can be stressful. Combine this stress with the everyday pressures of work and life and it can be easy to adopt a negative attitude. Staying positive and constructively expressing your stress can be a big help in keeping your family relationships healthy. Focus on what your spouse does well.
Think about all the things you love about your children.
Keeping positive will help to improve your relationships between your spouse and your children.
 Whenever you are expressing frustration to your spouse, make sure you are constructively complaining. Criticizing your spouse directly will only hurt them and damage your relationship. Always structure your complaints in a way that will express your concerns without hurting anyone's feelings.If you don't feel you and your spouse go out enough, try saying something like “I would like to go out more often.” Avoid saying something like “You never take me out anymore!”
Disagreeing with your spouse is fine. However, keep things from becoming confrontational or argumentative. Try saying something like, "I respect your opinion, but I disagree with what you are saying."
Avoid criticism, defensiveness, or anger when discussing your feelings. One way to do this is to use "I" statements. Try saying something like, "I feel sad and frustrated because we have not had a date night in a long time."

, Many activities will require you to focus on either your spouse or your children. However, there are many other activities that allow you to spend time together and give each other equal attention. Try doing some of these activities to spend time together as a family and keep a good balance between marriage and children:Taking your family to the zoo might be a good way to spend time together.
You might take your family out for a picnic.
Going for a hike can be a fun and active way to spend time together.

