 Sea salt can have anti-inflammatory effects on your skin and improve your skin barrier function.You will find many skin care products which contain sea salt, but you can make your own mixture from your pantry, too. But remember: a homemade solution will not be as effective as one prepared in proper sterilised conditions.


If you do decide to make up a solution at home, mix 1 teaspoon of salt with 2 cups of water.Gently massage the scrub into your face and rinse off with warm water.
If you have dry, sensitive or moderate to severe acne, consult a medical professional first.
 Alpha hydroxy acid is a natural acid found in citrus fruits. When it is applied to your skin it can be effective in the removal of dead skin cells and the unclogging of pores. It can also lessen the appearance of acne scarring.Add a little water to a some lemon juice and dab it onto your face with a cotton swab.


Side effects of alpha hydroxy acid include increased sensitivity to the sun.
It may also cause redness, stinging and irritation.
 Honey has a long history of use as a topical treatment for skin problems. It has strong antibacterial properties, but is not as reliable as medication. Applying honey to your skin in a mask, and leaving it for between 20 and 30 minutes before washing it off can help you to tackle acne.Organic or Manuka honey are the best choices.
Look for Manuka honey with a minimum rating of 10 UMF., Oil cleansing is becoming an increasingly popular way to tackle acne. The theory goes that using oil will more effectively dissolve and help get rid of the excess sebum on your face that contributes to acne. You can try it out with oil you have in your kitchen. As this is not a completely scientific method the formulas are imprecise, but they are a starting point.


If you have oily skin, mix 30% Castor Oil with 70% Sunflower Seed Oil.
For someone with a more balanced or combination skin type, add more Sunflower Seed Oil. Try 20% Castor Oil to 80% Sunflower Seed Oil.
For those with dry skin, take the Sunflower Seed Oil up to 90%, with 10% Castor Oil.Massage the oil into your face in the evening before washing it off with a warm wet washcloth.
 For many, baking soda masks are a tried and tested way to combat acne. The medical value is not proven, but baking soda's alkaline qualities can work against acidic skin irritants. Baking soda masks can also have a soothing effect on your skin.Mix two tablespoons of baking soda with enough water to make a thin paste.
Apply the mask to your face, avoiding the sensitive areas around your eyes.
Leave it for 15 – 20 minutes, before rinsing it off and patting dry.

