 Take the extra time to focus on yourself and put the effort into your appearance. Put on your makeup slowly and thoroughly; don’t skimp on curling on your eyelashes or making sure that you love your lip color. Focus on ensuring that you like everything about your appearance and that you go the extra mile in terms of feeling beautiful and confident.;
, Wear one of your favorite outfits that you’ve worn before. When you know you look good, you feel and look more confident.Confidence is key to irresistibility because people are naturally attracted to confident people.


Many people feel confident in clothes that are sexy, and many people find women in sexy clothes irresistible. If you are comfortable, wear something that is sexy but still maintains an air of mystery. A good rule of thumb is to have one sexy element in your outfit, but then to keep everything else subtle.
For example, you could wear a loose, low-cut top with a pair of skinny jeans.
You could also wear a dress that is short but not low-cut.
You could also try wearing classically irresistible colors, such as red and black. These colors are bold, and people’s eyes will be drawn to you.
 Try to put everything you own in your pockets, if you have them. If you need to carry a bag, ask the host of the party if you can leave it somewhere safe in their house. Carrying a bag will tempt you to play with the distractions in it, like your cell phone, instead of engaging with people at the party. It also gives people the impression that you’re about to leave.
 Good posture makes you look and feel more confident. Pull back your shoulders and try to imagine yourself standing as tall as you possibly can. Remind yourself to stand up straight throughout the course of the party.You also want to make sure you look comfortable, relaxed, and approachable. Knowing what to do with your hands and being aware of fidgeting (especially if you don't have your phone or purse on you) will help you seem more at ease. Keep your hands occupied with a drink, a small plate of food, or set your hand on your hip. If you're having a conversation, you can use your hands to gesture, to gently touch the person you are talking to on the arm. Try not to play with your hair or jewelry too much, as you may appear nervous.
 Think three great things about yourself. Maybe your hair looks great, you’re easy to talk to, and you just got a promotion at work. Or maybe you did a great job with your winged eyeliner, your friend just chose you as a bridesmaid, and you finally finished a chapter of your novel. Whatever it is, use it to pump yourself up before you go out!

