 Read about LGBTQ issues in your country- legal and social battles. Read blogs written by LGBTQ people. You may have initial biases, but try to drop them while you are reading. Avoid reading only one viewpoint.


If you have a faith-based objection, look into the teachings of supportive members of your religious community (such as supportive priests) and the viewpoints of religious LGBTQ people.
 Most likely it will be a no but in certain situations (such as if you wanted to enter a relationship with the person) it could be a yes.


If the answer was no, understand why you shouldn't treat them differently now. Nothing has changed for you, so think about why anything should change for them.
If the answer was yes, think about why you wanted to reject the person. Did it have to do with personal beliefs? Why should your personal beliefs affect this person? Did it have to do with an end to a potential relationship? Think about whether you want to maintain a friendship with this person, or if you want to cut ties.
 Losing a friend based on what you can't control is a terrible thing. Maintain contact with them and play cool: Remember your relationship with the person hasn't changed because the person is still the same.


Don't forget that a person's sexual orientation does not affect personality. Your friend is still exactly the same!

, Although their personality will not have changed because they came out, you have to understand that there are certain challenges LGBTQ people face that other people don't. Try to help your friend get through these challenges. For example:


If they want you to meet their significant other: take that positively! Be nice! Gender should not affect judgement.
Correct people when they make a bigoted remark. Oftentimes people say homophobic or transphobic things without realizing it, and sometimes LGBTQ people feel unsafe correcting them. If someone says something like "That's so gay" or uses the wrong pronouns, correct them and explain why that's wrong.
Stick up for them. If someone makes a bigoted remark to them (or a physical attack), defend them and try to stop the harassment.
Go with them to doctors' appointments, if they ask. Trans people, especially those who are transitioning, often have appointments related to hormones, surgery, and other things. These can be stressful, and a friend is sometimes greatly welcome. At the same time, understand that these are highly personal and you should not insert yourself to a place where you are not welcome.



Again, acceptance is the key! Love your friend and accept them.
Read articles about the LGBTQ community and get to know them better.
 Most people (even LGBTQ people) have biased and bigoted views. They may correct you, or tell you that you are doing something wrong. Listen to them, and try to modify your behavior and speech. Don't take it personally!