 Select cells B3 to K3 and press the merge cells button on the formatting menu. Now click on the fill bucket and select the color black. Press the right justify button, the bold button, and increase the font size to 12. The title has been formatted.
 Select cells B4 to F9 and press the merge cells button on the formatting toolbar. Press the wrap text button and the left justify button. The organization information field has been formatted.
 Select cells B10 to F10 and press the merge cells button, the left justify button, and use the fill bucket to fill the cell in black.


Select cells B11 through F15 and press the merge cells button, the left justify button, and use the fill bucket and choose the color grey, or light grey. The bill to information field has been formatted.
 Select cells G4 to K9 and press the merge cells button. Select cells G10 to K10 and press the merge cells button, the left justify button, and use the fill bucket to fill the cell in black.


Select cells G11 through K15 and press the merge cells button, the left justify button, and use the fill bucket and choose the color grey, or light grey. The date and ship to information field has been formatted.
 Select cells B16 through K17 and use the fill bucket to fill each cell with the color dark grey. Click the font color button on the formatting toolbar and select the color white. With cells B16 through K17 still selected, click the bold button, and then click the borders button and choose the thick-black borders option.


Select cells B18 and B19 and press the merge button. Now select cells C18 and C19 and press the merge cells button. Select cells D18 and D19 and press the merge cells button. Now select cells E18 through I19 and press the merge cells button.
Select cells J18 and J19 and press the merge cells button. Select cells K18 and K19 and press the merge cells button. Now position the mouse pointer over the bottom-right corner of cell K19 and use the fill handle to drag the formatting down to cell K43.
Select cells B18 through K43, click the borders button and select the all borders option. Finally, select cells K44 and K45, click the borders button and select the all borders option. The Column headers and borders have been formatted and the credit memo is complete.

