 Do not choose a vine with:


Yellowing or decaying of the vine portion
More than a few brown, dried leaves
Black leaves
Decaying/dead growth-tip of the vine;
, Nodes are brown stubs opposite each leaf stem on the vine. Cut close to a node, because this is where the roots will sprout., This will prevent the leaves from rotting when placed in water.
 If you want to, you can add a tiny bit of liquid plant fertilizer. Overdoing fertilizer can be bad for your cutting, so if you don't know exactly how much to put, don't risk it.
 Make sure to check and refill the water level so the node(s) will keep growing roots. Once roots (at least half an inch long) show, you can transplant the cutting quickly if you want your new plant to begin growing in soil.If growing it in water, you can wait to transplant put watch out for stagnating/souring water (pour water out and refill).



If using a pot, there needs to be a drainage hole and a water tray underneath.
Using fertilizer is unnecessary, as pothos grows fast and it is optional.
 Place the cutting in the hole and place dirt gently over it to fill the hole. Do not pack down the soil.
 Watering on top of the leaves won't ensure all the water gets down to the dirt. The potting soil should be moderately moist and an inch of topsoil; not ever overly wet. Puddles and mud are not good for the plant.
 With good conditions, with a warm winter climate or re-starting each spring, pothos outside can create a "carpet" of leaves. You can use a trellis to encourage the vines to climb; just twine some long vines through/around the structure. Indoors, it can create a curtain of foliage if several vines are placed on a high shelf.,, Even a mason jar will work. The container should allow light to reach all of the leaves. .
 Using gravel sold for aquariums is another great substrate. If using material collected from outdoors, soak, brush and rinse it thoroughly first to get rid of any dirt.
 Gently cover the hole with the rest of the substrate. Choose a fairly long vine to be visually attractive. The roots should be completely covered, and an area up to an inch above the roots can also be covered with substrate (remove leaves that would decay in the water).
 Only add enough so that the roots are covered. Some water visible above the substrate level is fine, but avoid putting a lot of the cutting underwater.
 The vines can make a nice, small centerpiece in a casual room. Check on the water level once a week and refill accordingly.

