 To safely and efficiently clean your computer, you'll need a few inexpensive items. Buy a can of compressed air, for blowing particles out of sensitive areas, at any computer store. Purchase cotton swabs (such as Q-Tips) and rubbing alcohol from a supermarket or pharmacy. Buy small or medium-sized Phillips-tip and flat-tip screwdrivers from a hardware store. Have paper towels, lint-free rags, and water on hand.


If you're cleaning a netbook, notebook, or laptop, opt for small screwdrivers. Desktop computers are likely to need medium-small screwdrivers instead. There's no need to buy special “computer screwdrivers or service kit,” in most cases.
 For desktop computers, this means shutting down the computer, turning off the surge protector or power strip, and unplugging the cord from the back of the tower (computer box). If you own a laptop instead, shut it down completely, unplug any power cords from it, turn it upside down, and remove the battery pack.


To prevent scuffing on a glossy finish, you can set your laptop upside-down on paper towels before you remove the battery pack.
 Over time, the fan and air vent and CPU heat-sink area that helps regulate your computer's temperature can get clogged with dust, dust bunnies and fibers, causing the CPU to overheat and hardware to malfunction. Hopefully, you don't wait to long between cleanings. To clean dust out, you'll need to open your computer's case.


To open a desktop computer, look for fasteners along the back or sides of the tower. These may be simple screws, or any of a number of other mechanisms. Some computers even have a sliding side panel for easy access. If you can't figure out what fastener your computer uses, consult the manual or check online.






You can't open a laptop computer completely without extra tools, but you won't need to. To get to the vent, look for a panel with screws in it on the bottom of the laptop. Unscrew the panel and the vent should come with it. Be very careful to note the length and position of each screw, as they tend to vary between one another.
 Start with cotton swabs or a pair of tweezers, and remove all of the larger dust bunnies and other debris you see. Follow through by spraying compressed air to chase the rest of the dust out of the vent system. Spray it everywhere else you can reach, too, taking care to keep the nozzle a few inches away from the components and I/O ports (plug holes for various cords). Don't forget to pop open your optical drives and briefly spray them out.


Obviously, the goal is to remove crumbs and dust, not push them farther into your computer. Be mindful of this as you aim your compressed air.






Compressed air can hurt/ruin sensitive components, if overused. Always spray from a little distance and in short bursts rather than a sustained stream.
It may be acceptable to gently tilt your laptop to encourage difficult particles to roll closer to where you can flush them out, but don't ever shake or slap it. You could loosen delicate parts.
 Do be sure to touch plastic and the metal frameworks repeatedly in and around the cabinet to equalize static electricity between your hands and those safe areas to touch., Put every part you opened or removed back in its proper place and close up your computer again. Once that's done, take a duster, a dry microfiber cloth, or some dry paper towels and brush obvious dust and dirt off of all sides of the computer case. Follow through by dipping one tip of a cotton swab in rubbing alcohol and running it along every seam and edge of your machine. As you finish a line, turn the swab over and dry it with the dry end.


Change swabs as often as you need to until the job is done. Don't skip!

, Start by turning your keyboard upside down over some newspaper or paper towels and shaking out all the crumbs you can. If you're cleaning a laptop, shake very gently to avoid damaging it. Once you've gotten all the crumbs you can, aim compressed air into the cracks and crevices to flush out more, and then shake them out again. Finally, use a small amount of rubbing alcohol on a cotton swab to clean the tops of the keys.

Don't use a vacuum cleaner on your keyboard, especially if you're using a laptop. The vacuum can create a static charge that could damage components underneath. You can also suction keys right off and into the vacuum dust container.






Touchpads and trackballs can be cleaned the same way as keys, with a cotton swab and a bit of rubbing alcohol. As always, discard each swab when it gets dirty and switch to a new one.
 For LCD displays like those found on most laptops, use plain water on a soft, lint-free cloth such as microfiber. Apply the water to the cloth, and then gently wipe the cloth across the screen until it's clean. For bulky CRT monitors (the kind often seen in computer labs), use a household glass cleaner instead. Again, be sure to spray the cloth rather than the monitor itself.


Some popular glass cleaners, such as Windex, contain ammonia. Ammonia may damage coatings on your CRT monitor, so use something ammonia-free instead unless you're sure it's okay.
 Allow every part to dry completely, then reassemble your setup and plug your computer back in. Don't forget to reattach any peripherals, such as a monitor, you might have removed while cleaning. When you're ready, start the computer up as normal. Repeat this cleaning regimen every few months or as needed.

