 An unauthorized charge is any purchase on your credit card that you did not make or authorize.Take out your credit card statement and identify the dates, amount, and merchant of any unauthorized charges. You will need this information to report to your credit card company.


If your credit card statement does not arrive on time, call your credit card company.;
, The federal Fair Credit Billing Act states that consumers must report unauthorized charges to their credit card issuer within 60 days that the statement containing the error was mailed. If you learn of the unauthorized purchase sooner, however, you should report the error as soon as possible.One way to detect fraud early is to enroll in your credit card’s bank website.You can then monitor charges at your own convenience without waiting for a monthly statement.
 You should immediately report any unauthorized charges as soon as you discover it. Additionally, you may also want to cancel your card and ask the credit card company to issue a new one., Although you should certainly call as soon as possible, you should also follow up with your credit card company in writing. Be sure to send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested.Send the letter to the department authorized to handle billing disputes, which should be listed on your most recent credit card statement.


The letter should include:a copy of the billing statement with the questionable charge highlighted
your name
your account number
an explanation of why you believe the charge is incorrect


The Federal Trade Commission has a sample letter available at their website for you to use. Revise it to fit your circumstances.

Keep a copy of all correspondence for your records., Under the Fair Credit Billing Act, consumers are not liable for more than $50.00 in fraudulent charges. Furthermore, major credit card companies like Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express often have zero liability policies, which means that you will not be held liable for any portion of the fraudulent charges., Once you have disputed a charge, the credit card company will credit your account for an amount equal to the disputed charge. This means that any payment you make on the card will not include the disputed amount.


The credit card company must acknowledge receiving your dispute within 30 days.If you do not hear within 30 days, call the credit card company again.
 The credit card company may send you forms to fill out.Complete them quickly and mail them back as soon as possible.


The company has 90 days to perform an investigation and get back to you., The credit card company must inform you in writing of the results of its investigation. If the company agrees the charge was a mistake, then your account will be credited and all finance charges, late fees, and other charges must be removed.If the credit card company finds that some or all of the disputed charge was legitimate, then you can request whatever documents the card company has proving that you really owe the money. You have 10 days to write the credit card company and telling them that you will not pay the disputed amount.Once you refuse to pay, the credit card company has the choice to bring a collections action to recover the amount. Also, the company may report you to a credit reporting company as delinquent, though it must also state that you don’t agree that you owe money.