 There are a wide variety of berry lipsticks on the market, which run the spectrum from light to dark and highly opaque to sheer. Determine how intense you want your berry lip color to be, so you can choose the appropriate lipstick.Dark, opaque berry lipstick can look very harsh if you have fair skin. That doesn’t mean you can’t wear a dark berry lipstick if you have pale skin. Just choose a sheer formula.
If you have medium skin, you can opt for a darker, more opaque berry lipstick because it won’t look as harsh with your complexion.
For dark skin, you want to choose a very dark, rich berry shade so it won’t blend in with your skin.;
, When you’re choosing a berry lipstick, it’s also important to consider your skin’s undertones to find the most flattering option. Some shades will look better with warm skin, while other shades are more complementary for cool skin. Neutral skin will typically look good with any berry shade.To determine your skin’s undertone, look at the veins at the inside of your wrist. If they have a greenish color, you have warm skin. If they have a blue or purplish color, you have cool skin. If your veins seem to be a bluish green color, you have neutral skin.
Another quick way to determine your skin’s undertone is to consider whether you look better in gold or silver jewelry. Gold typically flatters warm skin, while silver is more complementary for cool skin. If they are both flattering with your skin, you probably have neutral skin.
 Once you know what undertones your skin has, you can choose the most flattering berry lipstick for your complexion. Warm skin looks best with berry shades that have the same warm undertones, while cool skin pairs best with lipstick that has similar cool undertones. If your skin is neutral, you can usually choose any berry lipstick that catches your eye.If you have warm skin, opt for shades that have orange undertones, such as maroon, burgundy, or deep red berry shades.
If you have cool skin, opt for berry shades that have blue undertones, such as wine, deep plum, or oxblood berry shades.
Mahogany and plum berry shades tend to look good on every skin tone.
 The finish of your berry lipstick can affect how it looks and wears. A matte berry lipstick will usually provide the most opaque color and wear longer on your lips. A cream berry lipstick will have fairly intense color but provide more moisture and not last as long on the lips. A glossy lipstick will usually provide sheer color, significant moisture, and a fairly short wear time.If you want to ensure that your berry lipstick looks rich all day, choose a matte shade.
If you have dry, chapped lips, opt for a cream or glossy berry lipstick. You’ll likely need to reapply your lipstick throughout the day, but your lips won’t look as dry or cracked.
 Deep, rich lip colors like berry tend to emphasize any dry, rough patches on your lips. To make sure that your lips are smooth and soft, use a lip scrub to get rid of any flakes before you apply the lipstick.To use a lip scrub, massage a small amount onto your lips with a finger, working in circular motions. Wipe the scrub away with a warm washcloth.


Some lip scrubs may have different usage instructions. Be sure to consult the packaging to determine the proper way to apply and remove the scrub.
You can also make your own lip scrub from items in your kitchen. Mix an equal amount of sugar and olive oil to form a paste, and massage it over your lips as you would with a store-bought scrub.
 After you’ve exfoliated your lips, it’s important to lock in the moisture so your berry lipstick applies smoothly and evenly. Use your favorite hydrating lip balm to moisturize your lips and ready them for the lipstick. Allow it to sink in for at least 5 minutes before applying your lipliner and lipstick.If you’re concerned that the lip balm will sheer out the lipstick, be sure to blot your lips with a tissue before applying the lipstick.
 Lip liner helps keep your lipstick from bleeding outside the lip line and provides a base for the lipstick to stick to. Use a nude liner that matches your natural lip color or a berry liner that matches your lipstick shade to trace your natural lip line and then lightly fill in your lips.If you want to ensure that your berry color is as rich and intense as possible, use a liner that matches the lipstick.
For a softer look, opt for a nude lipliner.
 If you have fair skin or are wearing the berry lipstick during the day, you may not want the color to be too intense. To soften the look, apply the lipstick to your finger and then lightly tap your fingertip against your lips to create a stain.Be careful when you’re applying the lipstick near the edge of your lips. It’s difficult to be precise with your fingertip, so you may want to use a matching lipliner and only tap the lipstick on the center of your lips.
 You’ll get the richest, most opaque berry color if you apply the lipstick directly from the tube. Smooth it over your lips, taking care around the edges to prevent the lipstick from bleeding outside your lip line.If you feel like you can’t be precise enough with the lipstick bullet, you can use a lip brush to apply it. The lipstick won’t be as opaque, but you’ll still get rich color and more precision.
 Your berry lipstick will last longer if you apply multiple layers. However, you don’t want to apply too much lipstick and have it bleed outside your lip line. Before applying a second layer, use a tissue to blot your lips and remove any excess lipstick.If you have oil blotting papers, which are typically used to blot oil away from the face without disturbing your makeup, you can use those to blot your lips. They’ll remove the excess emollient left behind by the lipstick without removing any of the pigment.
 After you’ve blotted your lips, apply a second layer of lipstick. Be just as precise as you were with the first layer so your lipstick appears neat and even.If you apply the first layer of lipstick directly from the tube, you can switch to a finger or a brush for the second. That’s because that first layer will provide a rich base so the color will look opaque.
 Wearing a rich berry lipstick with heavy, matte foundation can give you a harsh, almost goth-like look. Instead, pair the lipstick with a sheer, dewy foundation that will keep your skin looking fresh. A tinted moisturizer or BB cream is a good option too. You can cover up any imperfections that show through your foundation with a concealer.Unless your skin is extremely oily, you may want to skip setting powder when you’re wearing berry lipstick. It can sometimes make your makeup look too heavy.
 When it comes to eye makeup, you don’t want to wear bold colors that will compete with your berry lipstick. Opt for neutral shadows in shades such as beige, gray, or brown. Pair the shadow with black or brown liner to keep the look natural.To ensure that your eyes still look finished, apply two to three coats of mascara to really build up their volume and length.
 A deep lip color like berry can often make you look washed out. To keep yourself from looking sickly, dust a blush in a shade that complements the lipstick over your cheeks. A neutral pink or rose shade will work with most berry tones.If you can’t seem to find a blush that works with your lip color, you can use the lipstick itself to double as a blush. Run your fingers over the lipstick bullet, and then blend the lipstick over your cheeks like a cream blush.

