 Your chances of conceiving generally get smaller as you get older. This is because your eggs decrease in number and quality with time. In addition to that, various underlying medical disorders that come with progressing age can further affect your chances of having a baby.Generally, after the age of 30 a woman’s chance of conception reduces by 3-5% every year, with a considerably higher reduction after 40.;
, An abnormal period could potentially be a sign of infertility. Consider the amount of bleeding you experience during every period, the length of the bleeding, the normal cycle you have, and the symptoms that accompany your period. A regular period is something that occurs on the days you expect it to come, and it lasts for only three to seven days. Other signs of an irregular period include menstruating a lot, too little or a bleeding variation during which you bleed sporadically. Experiencing severe menstrual cramps when you don’t normally have very strong cramps should also be considered an abnormality., If you have been experiencing unexplained weight gain, you may have one of several health issues, including polycystic ovarian syndrome, type-2 diabetes mellitus, or hypothyroidism (which is the decreased functioning of the thyroid gland). Women with polycystic ovaries and type-2 diabetes mellitus also have certain skin changes.


Increase in facial hair, acne, oily skin, and skin tags. They might also develop acanthosis nigricans, or dark brown to black raised skin patches on the face, neck, underarms, below the breasts, and back.
Obesity or a BMI above 30 can significantly reduce your chances of getting pregnant.
 Some medical disorders may affect your chances of becoming pregnant. There is also a chance that you body may produce anti-sperm antibodies that can damage sperm and keep you from becoming pregnant. Some of the conditions that have been known to cause infertility include:


Type-2diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, tuberculosis, pituitary tumors, anemia or iron and folic acid deficiencies, cancers, and a history of abdominal or pelvic surgery that may have affected the fallopian tubes, including appendectomy.
 Some infections may cause infertility. These infections may block your fallopian tubes, affect egg production, and cause the sperm to become unable to impregnate your eggs. Recurrent vaginal yeast or bacterial infections may change the cervical mucus consistency, which can also lead to infertility. Other infections that could reduce your chances of becoming pregnant include:


Pelvic inflammatory disease, infections of the ovaries, fallopian tubes and uterus, or mycobacterium tuberculosis.
 Cigarette or tobacco smoking leads to hormonal imbalances in women and can affect fertility. It could also cause miscarriages, fetal birth defects, and premature birth. If you are a smoker, you should consider quitting as smoking could be the cause of your infertility.


Faulty diets low in nutrients and iron can also affect your reproductive capabilities, as well as leading to various underlying diseases such as anemia, type-2 DM, PCOS, and obesity, which may further increase your risk of infertility.
Exposure to excessive stress and unhealthy sleep patterns could also affect your reproductive health.
 Certain anatomical defects of the uterus also result in infertility. Most of these defects are present at birth and are referred to as congenital anomalies; however they are almost always asymptomatic. These abnormalities can include:


A wall dividing the uterus into two chambers, double uterus, adhesions of the uterine wall, adhesions and scarring of the fallopian tubes, twisted fallopian tubes, and an abnormally positioned uterus.
 Your doctor will run several tests to rule out various causes of infertility. These tests could include a thyroid function test, testing postprandial blood sugars, prolactin levels, and checking for anemia. He or she may also do abdominal and pelvic ultrasounds to rule out any anatomical abnormalities.

