 Knocking off refers to sliding and picking off any residual drywall compound, or burrs, that did not dry evenly the day before. Knocking off allows for a more even second coat of compound, and pays dividends in a more professional-looking finish.


Pay special attention to the bottoms of walls, and to outside corners (beads), where burrs and other buildup concentrate.
 Tapered edges are where two drywall edges meet, getting thinner as they meet. This creates a small void on the surface of the drywall. The good thing is that voids are easier to even out with compound than protrusions.


Simply take a 10" or 12" drywall knife and run a thin piece of compound over the tapered joint in a straight line. Expect to finish tapered joints at around 10" to 12".
 Whereas tapered joints are recessed edges, butt joints are protruding edges. Butt joints take more effort than tapered joints to conceal, because you have to thin out a protrusion instead of fill in a gap.


Locate the center of the butt joint. On one side of the joint, start mudding with an 8" (20 cm) drywall knife. Gradually work your way up to a 14" drywall knife, hitting only one side of the butt joint.
Starting with an 8" drywall knife and gradually working your way up, mud the opposite side of the butt joint.
When you're done, you should have 24" to 28" (60 cm to 71 cm) of drywall compound, in one layer, across the length of the butt joint.
 Use your drywall knife to finish one side of the corner only and let dry. Wait one day and then finish the other side of the corner with the same knife. If you try to finish both corners in the same day, you'll pull out compound on the opposite side when you push down with your knife in the corner.


If you wish, you can use an inside corner tool instead of finishing each corner one by one. An inside corner tool is a drywall knife that's curved at a 90° angle in the middle, perfect for hitting inside corners. Using this tool, however, requires a little bit of skill.
 After 24 hours, sand it down gently to smooth it. Use a lightt-grit sandpaper, and do not sand too hard. You just want to smooth off a little bit of the coarse compound; you don't want to take the entire sheetrock cover off.

