 Your doctor will place a small elastic band around the hemorrhoid, which cuts off blood flow and slowly shrinks it. This procedure must usually be repeated 2-4 times, with 6-8 weeks between each application.


Side effects are mild, usually some light pain and discomfort.
There may be some light bleeding, though it is rare.
 There are several possible therapies your doctor may try. All of them have similarly mild side effects and are low-risk.



Sclerotherapy: A chemical is injected directly into the hemorrhoid to shrink it.

Laser/Infrared Coagulation: The hemorrhoid is burned, causing scar tissue that cuts off blood supply and shrinks the hemorrhoid.

Cryosurgery: Just like freezing a wart, this also scars the hemorrhoid so it cannot get blood., This surgically removes the tissue from your body. If you doctor is worried about prolapsing, constant hemorrhoids, or if the simpler procedures do not work, this is the best. It is also usually the most permanent. The doctor will remove the vein connecting blood to the hemorrhoid.


Hemorrhoidectomies boast a 95% effectiveness rate and few risks.
You may require stitches.
While you will likely be under anesthesia, most patients return home the same day.
This surgery is painful. Expect to miss a week or more of work., A prolapsed hemorrhoid is one that has left your anal cavity. To fix it, a staple-like device is used to reposition the hemorrhoids and simultaneously pin shut the veins giving them blood. Because it places them higher up the anus, there are fewer nerve endings and less pain.


Your doctor may refer to this as the Procedure for Prolapse and Hemorrhoids, or PPH.
Bleeding, pain, and itching is generally lower with PPH than full surgery
You should recover more quickly from PPH than a haemorrhoidectomy.
 Your doctor will likely recommend that you take over-the-counter pain relievers like ibuprofin, but pain should not be serious enough to require stronger meds. You will receive stool softeners, however, to prevent constipation. Other advice to expect includes:


Taking small, frequent bowel movements.
Taking warm baths, known as "sitz baths"
Avoiding sitting, especially on hard surfaces.
Eating a high-fiber diet.