 You can join acting or singing clubs in school or your community. These clubs or groups can be a good place to get started.


See what performance clubs your school offers. School is where many performers get their start.
Community theater can be a fun place to begin as well. It's often easier to break into than theaters in bigger cities.
 Not only is any and all practice good, but you never know who will be in the audience. Treat every gig you participate in like it's an audition for your dream role.
 If you want to work as a singer or actor, it’s important to know as much about the field as possible. Learning about the industry makes you prepared for whatever happens in your career.


Visit the websites of local and national performing guilds to find out about the industry's current events and politics. Your city or town may have performing guilds that you may want to join or learn more about.Delve into the history of film, television, or professional singing. You’ll learn more about what’s popular today as well as seeming more intelligent and informed when you’re networking.
 It’s good to watch how people conduct themselves both on stage and off stage. You should appreciate and critique things that you think work and don’t work to hone your performing senses.


When you’re watching others perform, pay attention to the ways they engage the audience. Since performing is about interacting with the audience, you may learn some interesting tips on how to do so in your own endeavors.Additionally, watch how the performers interact with others when they’re not performing. Often, being a good person and kind to others is an attribute of the best performers.
 You can find out how they got to where they are today and what their tips are. If you know your acting or singing models, then learning more about them can be useful to you in your career.


Read plenty of interviews or magazine profiles of your favorite actors or singers. They will talk about their relationship to their craft and how it fulfills them.
Starting out in your singing or acting career can be difficult. You can find encouragement in the struggles of your favorite performers. They also had to go through what you are early in their careers.
 It’s important to start somewhere and performing immediately may not be an option, so you may need to do some grunt work for free. Even if you're just helping a theatre set or clean up, ushering, or selling merchandise for a local band, you're getting experience in the industry you've chosen.If you’re interested in working as a singer, it may be a good idea to contact record labels or music publications. They may have open internships, but may also know of opportunities for internships elsewhere.
For teen actors, finding internships at local theaters may be a great option. You may also be able to find a position in the marketing or artistic department that can get you started at a theatre.