 There are two major types of paint used on canvas, oil and acrylic. They both have their pros and cons. The one you choose depends on what you want to paint and the way in which you want to paint it. You should weigh the pros and cons of each and decide which is best for your project.


Acrylic paints dry fast. This can help if you want to do many layers or apply crisp lines. It can be difficult when you are mixing paint and painting on large surfaces. You can get a defined edge, but color blending is hard. They don't change color over time, but they appear darker when they dry on the canvas. You can use super thin or thick layers because the paint will dry all the way through. They are also non toxic and have no smell. Acrylics also come off brushes with water.
Oil paints allow longer working times because they take longer to dry. The extra drying time makes it harder to make crisp lines. They blend well and make easy transitions between colors. The oil can degrade the linen or cotton fabric of the canvas. The color of the paint remains the same when it dries. It will yellow over time as the oil oxidizes. Oils are toxic and have a smell, due to the use of turpentine to thin the colors.
Although it isn't as popular, you can also use watercolors on canvas. These appear lighter and less crisp, but can give a great atmospheric quality., To do any type of painting, you will need to have brushes. The type of brushes that you need will depend on the medium that you plan to paint with. There are eight different kinds of brushes. They come in many different sizes and are made with natural and synthetic fibers.


If you plan on using acrylics, you should buy synthetic brushes. The materials in natural hair brushes degrade over time because of the components in acrylic paint.
For oil painting, natural fiber brushes are better. The bristles are harder and make more distinct marks on the canvas. If you buy synthetic brushes for oil painting, make sure they are made for oil paints. Otherwise, they can break down and build up residue.
The four most common brushes are the round, flat, bright, and filbert kinds. If you want to do detail work, you can use the pointed round, angular flat, fan, and detailed round brushes., There are a few other things you need to paint. You need a palette or paint tray to mix your colors. You can also get a palette cover to keep your paints from drying out. You need a color chart to help you mix different colors. You might also need palette knives for mixing colors and painting large areas of canvas. You can also use an apron to keep your clothes clean.