 While guide dogs are the most common service dogs, you can also train your dog to assist people with severe allergies, diabetes, limited mobility, neurological issues, etc. Figure out what kind of dog you’d be qualified to train. Consider hiring a trainer of you don’t meet specific qualifications. You should also consider which jobs your dog’s breed and personality qualify them for.For example:


You should have experience training specific kinds of service dogs. Experience with allergy alert dogs does not qualify you to train a hearing dog.
Working as a medical professional or caregiver doesn’t necessarily qualify you to train service dogs. Experience caring for diabetics might not qualify you to train a diabetic assistance dog.
If you want your dog to be a brace/mobility support dog, they must stand at least 23 inches (58 cm) tall and weigh at least 55 pounds (25 kg).A keen sense of smell is key for an allergy alert or diabetic alert dog.;
, As with any new pet, service dogs require attention that you must take care of during their first few months. These include:


Housebreaking. This is requirement for all service dogs.Start housebreaking your dog when they’re six weeks old.
Spaying and neutering. Neutering makes males less aggressive and prevents females from going into heat on the job. Have your dog sterilized between the ages of eight weeks and six months.Determining their age. A dog must be at least six months old to become a service dog. Although there’s no maximum age, avoid training senior dogs for physically demanding jobs.The annual physical. Schedule heart, eye, joint, and other breed-appropriate tests. Have your dog vaccinated and put on heartworm prevention medication.

If you want your dog trained for mobility assistance, physical fitness and strength are especially important.
Don’t consider your dog for service training if they have joint problems, bone density issues, or diabetes. Let them live as pampered companions instead!, Schedule tests given by the American Temperament Testing Society (ATTS) if you live near a testing location.Otherwise, schedule tests at your local animal shelter, or ask your vet for recommendations.Service dogs are tested on their sensitivity to noise, sensitivity to pain, and their ability to fetch an object and bring it back. Dogs who pass these tests then go for a 30-day evaluation period. Trainers take them into busy public places to evaluate their reactions to noise, crowds, and other factors that might agitate them. If they pass, they may proceed to further train for service.Sometimes, specific personalities determine what kind of service a dog will go into. For example:


Good fetchers usually make a good guide dogs.Dogs who react keenly to sound make good hearing dogs.Dogs who can tolerate frequent mood swings make good companions for dementia patients., Develop objectives and steps toward the Public Access Test. Make a list of manners, tasks, and other goals that your dog needs to achieve. Set dates for these objectives. For example, you could aim to have Fido trained at retrieving in four weeks. As you train, take notes, and review them regularly.
 In addition to basic commands, train your dog to obey more advanced commands like “Take it” and “Alert.” Use an assertive, yet calm, tone when giving commands. When your dog gets used to verbal commands, train them to obey hand signals.Be patient with younger dogs in the beginning, as they have shorter attention spans.
 Service dogs require frequent training and brush-ups even after they qualify. Dedicate at least 30 of those hours to public outings to get your dog comfortable around other people.Service dogs need to be trained in the following kinds of tasks:


Tugging: opening doors and drawers, removing shoes, dragging laundry to the washing machine.
Retrieving objects such as the phone, medicine, and beverages.
Carrying: bringing objects to their partners, paying for items at counters, moving objects between locations.
Nudging: shutting doors, flipping light switches, calling emergency services.
Pawing: shutting doors, pushing elevator buttons, turning on lamps.
Bracing: helping their partner turn in bed, preventing falls, helping partner walk from wheelchair to seat.
Harnessing: opening heavy doors, transporting objects like books, preventing their partner from stumbling.
Medical assistance: fetching medicine/medical devices, helping their partner cough when no suction devices are available, letting emergency services into the house., Use a rope that you’ll eventually tie to the refrigerator door as a door pull. Introduce your dog to the rope by allowing them to sniff and become familiar with it. Pick up the rope and tell them to take it. Play a tug-of-war game to practice tugging doors open. Make sure the dog’s head forms a straight line with the rest of their body. Practice this routine until the dog can tug smoothly until the rope is released. When your dog has mastered these steps:


Tie the rope to the refrigerator door. The dog should be able to reach the rope with all four paws on the floor.
Call them to the fridge. Hold the rope out, and tell them to take it.
Help your dog tug the door open on the first few tries.
When the door is open, click your clicker and give your dog a treat.
Practice until your dog can open the door without help., Choose a beverage in a textured and contoured bottle for your dog to retrieve. Empty the bottle and let your dog to get used to it through gentle play. Use the clicker to prevent your dog from turning the bottle into a chew toy. When they’ve mastered this:


Place the bottle on a shelf in the fridge your dog can reach with all paws on the floor.
Call your dog to the fridge. Open and prop the fridge door. Point out the bottle, and tell them to take it.
Tell your dog to give the bottle back to you. Reward them with treats.
Repeat training until your dog can open the fridge and retrieve the bottle without help. Leave the bottle in the same place so that your dog will be able to find it without difficulty each time., Continue with the fridge and bottle task, adding this step after your dog has mastered retrieval. Click the clicker and tell your dog to give you the bottle. Reward them with a treat.


During each session, stand farther away from the fridge.
Continue to increase the distance between the two of you until they can bring the bottle to you in another room., This will train your dog in nudge- and paw-based tasks. Put your dog on a leash if they won’t stay near you without one. Sit or stand and face your dog. Click the clicker and give your dog a treat for making eye contact with you. Repeat this two or three times. Then, show your dog a treat and enclose it in a closed fist. Have them nudge your fist with their nose. Click and treat. After your dog has mastered this step:


Continue to enclose a treat in your fist. Train your dog only to nudge with a closed mouth. Click and treat for reinforcement.
Work up to clicking when your dog nudges your fist. Open your hand and reward them.
As your dog masters nudging, move your fist to the left and right, up and down.
Gradually increase the distance between the two of you until you get about 3 feet (0.91 m) between you.Apply this task to the fridge/bottle activity by teaching your dog to nudge the door closed. Use a sticky note to mark the target.Switch the focus from the nose to the paws to teach paw-based tasks. Target a wooden door to any interior room with a sticky note. Place the sticky note at the edge of the door and at front-paw height for your dog. Use the same steps you used in nudge-training.Use nudge training when teaching your dog to close glass doors. Paw training on glass can lead to broken glass and serious injuries.
 Bracing-based tasks, harness-based tasks, and medical assistance tasks require the work of skilled professionals.Look for skilled, accredited trainers and training programs through Assistance Dogs International’s (ADI) interactive map. Click on your region of the world. Choose your country and state/province from the provided drop-down lists. The site will provide the contact information of a person or group in your area., Service dog owners are bound to several guidelines and laws. Familiarize yourself with your local dog ordinances, such as leash laws. Keep your dog up-to-date on vaccinations and yearly physical examinations. Groom and bathe them regularly. Teach others about the rights of service animals., The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) doesn’t require certification for service animals. Certification is simply a vest, harness, ID card, or other visible marker identifying your dog as a service animal. This lets you access public places that normally don’t allow companion animals while keeping your illness or disability private.The Public Access Test, on the other hand, is required for service animals. Make sure the organization that tests your dog is accredited with ADI.
Laws vary from one country to another. If you live outside the U.S., look up the legal requirements of service dogs, their trainers, and their partners.
 Visit ADI at http://www.assistancedogsinternational.org/standards/public-access-test. Scroll to the bottom left of the page, and click “Members Search.” This will give you a list of the accredited members and candidates that can administer the test. To find a location near you:


Choose your region by clicking it on the map.
Choose your country from the drop-down list.
Depending on where you live, you might see a second drop-down list that asks you to choose your state or province.
Scroll down slowly to find an organization near you.
Click on their website, call the number, or send an email to the listed address. Ask for the next available dates and times they will be conducting the test.You might be required to do a “demo” before taking the actual test. This will usually consist of three tasks that the organization will assess to see if you and your dog are ready for the next step. If your dog has been trained in medical alert tasks, be prepared to submit a video of your dog performing them.Ask the organization if they record the test. If not, have the test recorded and keep it available at all times. You might need proof in the future that you and your dog passed., During the test, you and your dog will be assessed as a team. Use the following checklist to prepare.


Make sure your dog can

Perform the mandatory tasks.
Obey basic and advanced commands.
Avoid begging for food or eating food that falls on the floor.
Avoid being aggressive toward people and other animals.
Avoid barking or becoming agitated among loud noises or in crowded spaces.


You will be tested on

Unloading your dog into your vehicle.
Entering public spaces.
Keeping control of your dog no matter the situation.
Retrieving a dropped leash.
Calmly handling incidents of possible discrimination.
Loading your dog back into your vehicle., After you and your dog pass the Public Access Test, visit the United States Service Dog Registry at http://www.usservicedogregistry.org/. Click the “Register” tab (second from the left). If you don’t have an account, click the “Next” button on the left. Read the fine print. If you agree to the terms, enter the required information. After that, you’ll be assigned a free 10-digit identification code for your dog and a public profile page. Keep this code on you at all times if you choose not to certify your dog.If you live outside the U.S., search the web using the keywords “service dog (or assistance dog) registration” and the name of your country.
 If you live in the U.S. and choose to take this step, shop around first. Ask the assessor of your Public Access Test for recommendations of suppliers. Different suppliers charge different prices for items that mark your dog as a service animal. Be prepared to declare that you qualify for a service animal under national law. You might have to enter information like your dog’s ID number before proceeding to checkout.


Beware of scams! Because the ADA doesn’t require certification, scam artists might try to take advantage of you. If you need guidance, call the ADA information line at 800-514-0301 (voice) or 800-514-0383 (TTY) between 9:30 AM and 5:30 PM (Mon.-Wed., Fri.) or between 12:30 PM and 5:30 PM on Thursday. All times are Eastern Time.