 Using an extension cord with a toaster oven is a fire hazard, so it's important to plug the unit directly into the wall. Look around your kitchen to find available space within a foot or two of an outlet.;
, There are models that mount to the bottom of a cabinet if you want to free up counter space, but these can be difficult to install, and typically don't offer as much capacity or as many features for the price.If you want a countertop model but are short on space, find a spot in a cabinet or closet to store your toaster oven when not in use.
 Use a tape measure or ruler to measure the length, height, and width of the space where you plan to place your toaster oven. Be sure to write down these numbers to refer back to while you’re shopping.


If you plan to store it when not in use, you'll want to measure your storage space as well as your counter space.
 If you mainly plan to make toast or heat up leftovers, you don't need to spend money on a large toaster oven with lots of special features. But if your toaster oven is a stand-in for a full-sized oven, you may need to spend more to get a unit with broil or convection capabilities., A compact toaster oven is also a good choice if you tend to only make single servings of food at a time. If space is not an issue, however, a larger unit will expand your cooking options to casseroles, pizzas, and whole roasted chickens.


Look at both internal and external dimensions. The external dimensions should be able to fit in the space you measured in your kitchen, and the internal dimensions should be able to fit your largest or most used baking dish.
Check the capacity, both in terms of how many slices of toast it can make at once and how many cubic feet of space are inside. A capacity of 0.6 cubic feet (.01 cubic meters) is generally enough to roast a whole chicken.The Breville Compact Toaster Oven is a well-rated model that's considered compact (0.8 cubic feet or .02 cubic meters), has a variety of programming options, and can make 6 slices of toast at once., Some models allow you to defrost or reheat food if you need an alternative to using a microwave oven for these tasks. Others allow you to use convection heating (blowing hot air around the food to cook it faster) or rotisserie cooking (rotating meats on a spit). Some of these features may only be found on more expensive models.Choose a toaster oven with a broil setting if you frequently cook meat.
Select one with convection heating if you want to cook food more quickly using less energy.
The Panasonic FlashXpress is a well-reviewed compact model that has fast cook times and offers shade control to get the perfect amount of color on your toast. It does not, however, offer a broil setting., Any good toaster oven will have a rack that you can move up or down to accommodate different pans and foods. There should also be a crumb tray at the bottom that you can slide in and out for easy cleaning., Auto shut-off is a good feature if you think you'll forget to turn your toaster oven off after using it. And cheaper models may have timers that only go up to 30 or 60 minutes, so look for timers that run longer if you want to cook large foods like whole chickens. Other special features to consider are a light on the inside that will allow you to see when your food is done cooking or a curved back that will accommodate a full 12-inch pizza.Some models offer so many functions that they serve as an oven, toaster oven, and microwave all in one, such as the Panasonic Countertop Induction Oven. But this comes with a steep price tag at about $600.Budget models run from about $25 to $50, but usually offer few features beyond toasting. The Hamilton Beach Toastation (about $37) allows you to toast bread in the slots on top or toast a sandwich inside the shallow oven below, but there's no timer or broil function on this unit., Once you have an idea of what you want, look up toaster ovens through online sources like Consumer Reports and ConsumerSearch. They will list the various features of toaster oven models available on the market and you’ll be able to read reviews about their actual performance.
 Discount stores, department stores, warehouse stores and cooking product stores are all good places to find toaster ovens. Bargains can be found online, but looking at the model in person will allow you to test out some of the features.


Twist knobs, open the door, and slide the rack in and out to see if you like how it all works together.
 Once you think you know which model you want to buy, see what will be included, such as extra baking, broiling, or roasting pans. These can be purchased individually, so the lack of extra pans should not dissuade you from buying the model you want, but it may help you decide if you're wavering between two options., You never know if the appliance you buy will be defective or break soon after you buy it. If this happens within the warranty window, you should be able to get a replacement or a repair free of charge.