 In tax lingo, your capital assets are items of property that you expect to use for more than one year.In addition to the rental property itself, capital assets for a rental property may include furniture and appliances in the unit, as well as office or construction equipment and vehicles.
Trees, shrubs, or other greenery that you plant around the property generally are considered capital assets. However, the land itself is not.
If you're unsure whether something should be depreciated or deducted in full, think in terms of how it will be used and when it will be replaced.
For example, cleaning supplies will be used until they are gone, and then refilled or replaced. In contrast, a sofa would be a capital asset. Sitting on it may cause wear over time, but it doesn't deplete the sofa itself, and you typically don't replace it unless it's broken or dilapidated.;
, Your cost basis generally is the amount you paid for your assets when you purchased them.If you purchased the asset strictly for business use, your basis in that asset typically will be the amount you paid for it.
If you originally purchased the asset for personal use and later converted it to business use, your basis usually will be the fair market value of that item at the time of conversion.
For example, if you bought furniture for your condo when you lived there, you originally bought it for personal use. However, when you move to a house you decide to leave some of the furniture in the condo and rent it as a furnished unit. Your basis in that furniture would be the fair market value of the furniture when you put the condo up for rent.
 The type of property refers to the specific components of your rental property as well as the building itself.Typically, the building or structure you're renting will be all or most of your depreciation deduction. This would be categorized as residential real estate.
Another category of property includes outdoor structures such as fences, as well as plants or shrubbery.
Your last property category includes any personal property that you are renting with the unit, such as furniture or appliances, and other office furniture or equipment associated with your rental activities.
 Which depreciation method you are allowed to use depends on how the asset is categorized.Residential real estate is depreciated using the straight line method over a period of 27.5 years. With the straight-line method, you simply divide your cost basis in the property by the number of years.
Shrubbery, fences, and other outdoor property is depreciated using the 150% declining balance method over a period of 15 years.
Furniture, appliances, and other personal property is depreciated using the 200% declining balance method over a period of five years.
For declining balance depreciation, you multiply the percentage rate by the straight-line depreciation calculation. However, your basis in the property is adjusted each year you have the property in service.
The declining balance method is extremely complicated to calculate by hand. Fortunately, the IRS has tables of percentages you can use to make your calculations simpler.
 Using the IRS's depreciation tables, subtract the allowable percentage from your basis in the property to find the amount you can deduct each year.Depreciation tables are found in IRS Publication 946, available at https://www.irs.gov/publications/p946/ar02.html.
The percentage listed is the amount of your cost basis that you can deduct for that year.
For example, if your cost basis in your rental house is $150,000, you could deduct $5,455 in depreciation each year for 27.5 years.
 Generally you can deduct any expenses you incurred as a result of renting out your property.Your office expenses are deductible just as they are for any other business. You also can deduct the costs of any travel or meals associated with your rental business.
Insurance premiums, as well as any losses from theft or catastrophic events such as floods or fires also are generally tax deductible. However, you typically won't be able to deduct the entire cost of the property damaged. This depends on whether the loss was covered by insurance.
You can deduct amounts you paid for repairs, but make sure your repair doesn't cross the line into the improvement category. Generally, expenses are considered improvements if they result in betterment, restoration, or adaptation of something to a new use.For example, if the roof of your rental property is leaking, you should only have the damaged shingles repaired or replaced rather than getting a whole new roof.
 If the rental property is mortgaged, your mortgage interest can be deducted from the amount of rent you received.If you took out a second mortgage to make improvements on the property, you are able to deduct that interest as well.
You also can deduct interest paid on credit cards for goods or services connected to or used in conjunction with your rental property. For example, if you purchased $3,000 worth of furniture for your rental property and used a credit card, you could deduct the interest charged on that purchase.
 You can deduct any money you paid to anyone to work on your rental property.Make sure you get tax ID numbers for anyone you pay to work on your rental property. You can deduct the amount you paid them.
If you hire independent contractors, you generally must file Form 1099-MISC with the IRS reporting the amount you paid them.
Although you aren't required to file the form if you paid a contractor less than $600 over the course of the year, you can still deduct those payments on your taxes.
 If you used lawyers, accountants, or tax professionals in connection with your rental property, you can deduct their fees.If you have an accountant or tax professional who handles your personal finances and taxes as well as those for your rental property, ask him or her to itemize the bill so you know what portion of the fees to allocate.
You also can deduct any fees you paid to property management companies, real estate agents, or real estate investment advisors.
 If you are an individual taxpayer, you generally need to complete Form 1040 Schedule E to report rental income to the IRS.The IRS makes the form available online at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1040se.pdf.
Before you print and fill out the form, make sure it is updated for the year you're filing. The IRS may make changes to the form from year to year.
You also can download instructions for the form at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1040se.pdf. Read through the instructions carefully before you fill out the form.
 Generally you must list the physical address of the rental property, the number of days during the year the property was rented, and the type of property it is.There is room on the form for up to three rental properties. If you are renting more than three separate properties, you'll have to file additional schedules. Keep in mind you'll also have to itemize your expenses for each property.
The IRS provides a list of numbers that correspond to the type of property you are renting out. For example, you would enter "1" if you are renting out a single family residence such as a house or condo.
If you have multiple rental properties, the type corresponds to the letter next to the address. Enter the number corresponding to the type of property on the line with the same letter as the address.
In other words, if you are renting a house, you would write the address for the house on line A, then enter "1" under "type of property" on line A.
You also must report the number of days the house was up for rent and the number of days you personally used the property. For example, if you have a vacation home that you rent out for most of the year, but your family uses it for three weeks, you would enter 21 personal use days.
 Your total rental income essentially is the total amount you received in rent that year for the property.The form has columns for income that correspond to the letters on the rental property address lines.
For example, if you are renting two houses, each listed on line A and line B, you would put the rent you received for house A in column A, and the rent you received for house B on line B.
 Enter all of the deductions you are claiming to decrease the amount of rental income you received that is subject to tax.Make sure you're entering your expenses in the appropriate column for each property, if you're renting out more than one property.
Pay attention to the IRS categories and avoid placing expenses on the wrong line. If you're unsure what would be included in certain categories, check the descriptions in the Schedule E instructions.
Once you've entered all your expenses for each column, you will add up the amounts listed on lines 5 through 19 of the form, and enter your total on line 20.
When you subtract line 20 from the rent you entered on line 3, you have your profit or loss on your rental.
 The amount by which your rental income exceeds your deductions is considered taxable profit.If you are renting out more than one property, you must add all of your profits and losses together to get your total rental income or loss.
For example, if you calculated a rental income of $5,000 on your condo, and a loss of $2,000 on your beach house, your total rental income would be $3,000.
Once you've found your total rental income or loss, enter that number on line 17 of your Form 1040. It will be added to your other income to assess your tax liability.

