 Cast a wide net and look for a variety of different summer camps before making your final decision. Search for summer camps around where you live and look at their individual websites. Find a couple of camps that fit what your child wants to do, and then write them down so that you can give them options.


You can find camps on the American Camp Association's website, Summercamps.com, and Kidscamps.com.Most camp websites will have photos of previous summers as well as lists of programs that they provide.
Read online reviews using websites like Campratingz and Glassdoor., Ask the camp director or look on the camp's website to see if transportation, meals, insurance, special trips, entrance fees, health services, or use of equipment is included in the tuition.Make sure to allocate money for additional costs. If the camp you are researching can't meet all of your child's health needs then you'll have set up special arrangements with the camp staff or find a camp that has the experience to deal with your child's needs.


If your child has special dietary or health needs, check to see if the camp you have in mind has the capability to care for them properly., When considering summer camps make sure to choose one that is within your budget. Once you find camps that fit your child's needs, take a look at how much they cost weekly. Many camps also have financial aid for low-income families.Day camp can cost anywhere from $100 to $500 a week.
Specialized summer camps that teach children new skills like sports, science, or the performing arts can cost anywhere from $500 to $1,000 per week.
The average cost of sleepaway camp is $690 per week., A good way to get reviews on camps is to talk to other parents that have sent their children to camp in previous summers. Sometimes, they will be able to share experiences and give you insight into how the camp normally operates. They can also tell you if the experience was enriching or educational for their child.


If another parent gives a camp a horrible review or has had a bad experience, it may be a good idea to consider a different camp.
 Make sure that the camp program doesn't interfere with any family vacations or commitments your child has for the summer. It's best to start early when searching for camps. Often, registration deadlines will be earlier in the year. Make sure that you're still able to register, and talk to your child about camp before the registration deadline hits.If you can't find any information on registration deadlines, give the camp a call and inquire there.
If you do have a schedule conflict, ask the camp director if your child can leave camp early or take a hiatus for what they need to do.

