 You don’t need a destination—just each other. Go ahead and go on an adventure, not knowing where you will end up can make it more exciting. If you know you love the scenery in the mountains, along the ocean or through the woods, then pack up some gear and head out.


Always bring along a first aid kit, flashlights, food, water, spare tires, blankets and other safety gear, especially if you will be gone for several days.
 Kids are great but they can make it hard to get the quality one-on-one time you and your guy need to keep your relationship strong. Find a babysitter and plan a place for the kids to stay for the evening or night, so you two can catch up on all the passion you’ve put on hold for screaming babies and arguing kids. It can be a great surprise for your guy to come home to a quiet house and an entire evening alone with you to rekindle old flames.
 If your guy is good-natured and loves pranks, why not surprise him with one? You could hide out in the fridge when he goes to get a beer and startle him, scare him out of bed with a costume, make him a pie and then put it on his face or use a fake head on your side of the bed to freak him out.A good-natured prank can leave you both laughing so hard you can’t breathe., After your shower, write how much you love your boyfriend on the steamy mirror. You can write a message, quote or short poem. It will disappear with the steam but reappear like magic when he gets out of the shower.
 Forget about emailing or texting. Write an old-fashioned love letter with paper and pen, then send it to him in the mail. A love letter can be held in his hands, kept and reread later to remind him how much you love him.
 Put small notes that remind him you love him or make him laugh in places he will likely find them throughout the day. Put one in his wallet, another in his pocket, car, desk at work or all over the house. These small tokens of your affection can cheer him up if he’s having a rough day and make him smile because he knows you are thinking about him.
 Replace his wallpaper with something funny like you making a silly face, or something else he’ll enjoy like you looking sexy. It will surprise him when he first turns his device on and make him think of you. Remember, even little things can do wonders to make your relationship stronger as long as they are not expected.
 Get a special frame for his degree or military retirement certificate. Restore an old photo of his family. Sew up that hole in his favorite shirt he’s had since high school. Use a program to take all the background noise out of the recording of him singing as a child.

