 The barrier between a language such as English and Japanese is huge. For English speakers, students and even some adults have undergone English lessons and signs and pictures are present around Japan to make visiting friendly, but chances are you’ll still find yourself in a situation of miscommunication.


Search for guides online. Boutiquejapan.com has links to several guides to get you started.Useful phrases to use include basic, polite greetings such as please and thank you, asking for objects, and asking for directions.The strongest English speakers are found where tourists gather, such as in large hotels. As you move out further into the countryside, the English proficiency of the natives decreases.
A language application for a phone or other device, such as Imiwa, which lets you look up words by pronunciation, and Yomiwa, which translates language characters captured in your photos, can help you even after you arrive in Japan.;
, Some travel maps have location names printed side-by-side in Japanese and English or another foreign language. This way, you have the translations of places in case you need to speak to a Japanese native or point out the word to ask for directions.


If you prefer to go paperless, phone applications such as MapsWithMe, which works offline, and Planetyze, which serves as maps and guidebooks, will also offer guidance.
 Japanese is made of three writing systems: hiragana and katakana, which are simplified phonetic alphabets for local and foreign words respectively, and kanji, which consists of over 40,000 symbols. This makes up much of Japanese communication, so it helps to have translation on hand.If you’ll have a device with Internet access on your trip, visit a site such as jisho.org where you can input words to obtain translations or search the meaning of kanji symbols.
The number of kanji symbols are limited, so the meaning of words is formed by mixing these symbols and their sounds. Sound-alike words and other mix-ups are common, so be wary.
Ahead of time, you can use this to help you print out a list of ingredients you can't eat if you have dietary restrictions. This way, you can search the labels of packaged food for these ingredients.
 This includes where you’re staying and any other location you plan on visiting regardless of how difficult you believe they will be to find. If you have to ask for directions, it’ll be far easier to point out where you need to go rather than try to communicate verbally.
 This can be done in your own language. Include your native language, blood type, chronic conditions, serious allergies, and generic names of any medications you are taking. In case of emergency, medical care is most easily provided when this information is readily available and understood.
 Some medications that are legal in your home country are restricted under Japanese law. You will get in trouble for possessing these without certification by Japan's government.For example, psychotropic drugs including opiod pain medications and stimulants such as Adderall are legally prescribed in America but will land you in jail in Japan.To apply for a certification for drugs such as narcotics, drugs classified as stimulants such as Ritalin, or over one month of supplies of an approved drug, obtain a doctor's note within six months of your application, details of your flight, and complete a Yakkan Shoumei application.All drugs and cosmetics are considered pharmaceuticals under Japanese law, but limited quantities of cosmetics, weak over-the counter-drugs, non-narcotics for personal use, and non-syringe external and oral medications such as insulin can be cleared in Customs.If you need a medication that won't be cleared by Customs, speak with your doctor. You may need devise an alternative treatment. The law is strict and there's no exception for stimulants such as Adderall and Vyvanse.
 Japan is becoming more and more aware of issues such as celiac disease, vegetarianism, halal, and kosher food, but there remains the need for many changes in order to accommodate all travelers. Allow places weeks or months to prepare to accommodate your needs.Places better accustomed to handling tourists are better equipped to meet these needs. This includes larger hotels and nearby restaurants.
Consumers looking for halal and kosher food in particular must keep in mind that even restaurants that advertise these specialties can still violate religious laws out of a lack of exposure to such cultures.
Print out a card with your dietary restrictions in Japanese for when you need food without having a reservation.
For those with celiac’s disease who need to avoid gluten, get the card from legalnomads.com. Foods of particular note to avoid include soy sauce, miso soup and tea that includes barley, and wheat noodles.Vegetarians can memorize and write down the words shojin ryori. This essentially means Buddhist vegetarian cooking., Yes, Japanese language and customs vary depending on who you’re addressing. This applies to bowing, which has the caveat of many different bows being used for many different expressions. To be safe, master a basic bow in a mirror or around friends.A standard bow is appropriate in many situations for travelers, including when you greet or part from someone. The only exception is when you are greeted by a clerk or attendant upon entering a store, as most people pass with a nod of acknowledgement.
When offering thanks or apologies for disturbing someone, such as when asking for directions, be sure to offer this bow of courtesy.To ensure you avoid offense, return a bow when anyone bows to you. It's better to be safe than sorry.
Keep your spine in a straight line as you bend from your hips.
Don’t move your legs, hips, or your butt.
Keep your arms straight and your hands against your sides.
Incline your body downwards to a 30-45 degree angle. Standing straight means your body is at a 90 degree angle from the ground, so bring your body down a little less than halfway parallel to the ground.
 The documents you need depend on where you live, how long you plan to stay, and why you’re visiting. Consult your local government for details on what you need to obtain and provide to ensure entry into Japan.For America, Canada, Australia, Britain, and European Union nations, a passport and return ticket are required if you stay less than 90 days for sight-seeing purposes.
Other nationals, including those from Asian nations near Japan, need a visa.
 Most likely you won’t need this, but it pays to be ready for the worst. Healthcare in Japan is costly and you don’t want to be stuck in a situation in a foreign country where you’re on your own with a medical bill. Search online for policies that cover your needs., The shinkansen bullet trains are a premier way to visit multiple cities, but multiple tickets are costly and difficult to manage. The initial price of the pass seems high, but for those that will take the trains often, it pays for itself. Visit jrpass.com for information.Order the pass in advance. It’s for foreign tourists, so it is meant to be bought online, outside of Japan. Starting in 2017, limited rail stations and airports sell the pass at an increased price.In order to use the pass, you’ll need temporary visitor status under Japanese immigration law. Tourists from most countries receive this automatically, but make sure you have a sticker or stamp on your passport to represent this.Passes are sold in seven, 14, and 21-day increments.
There are two different types of passes: green and ordinary. Green cars offer luxuries such as more space.Shinkansen seats can also be reserved. This can be done in advance at railway offices and is useful during holiday busy periods in April, August, and December or when wanting to sit together with members of your group., Japan has an ultra-competitive airline scene. If you’re looking to travel to multiple cities, you can find discount airlines, discount tickets and even ticket package deals that may end up being cheaper than taking the train., For those traveling within a major city such as Tokyo, the subway is a better option. This enables you to avoid sluggish vehicular traffic while paying less than a train pass. Maps are available online.Since they are in major cities, subways tend to be crowded and thus may not be desirable to families, even though staff is on hand to make sure everyone gets on board and environment inside the cars is quiet.Fares cost a couple hundred yen and can be purchased at the subway’s vending machines.
 Buses are an easy choice in most countries for fast transportation, but in Japan they fill the niche between convenient trains and crowded streets. Travel takes longer but is several hundred yen cheaper than by train.


Check online at kakuyasubus.jp and other sites. There you can find buses and reserve seats.Highway buses and night buses are similar to tour buses in other countries. They come equipped with bathrooms and will transport you between cities.
Local buses are necessary in locations without subways. These will have timetables and routes at bus stops.
 Taxis are a safe, easy way to get around busy cities. The costs can add up, but if you pay for a taxi you won’t have to worry about subway lines and walking directions.Taxis start at several hundred yen and the cost per distance rises the further you travel.
Taxis can be found either by waiting at a taxi stand or flagging one down.
Vacant taxis have a red light atop the dashboard. Occupied ones have a green light.
The driver may not speak your language, so it is useful to have on hand a map or a Japanese printout of your address.
 Driving in Japan can be difficult. It may mean getting accustomed to driving on the left side of the road, an abundance of traffic, and pricey gasoline. Having your own transportation can also be freeing.You'll need to be at least 18 with a valid driver's license in your home country and an international driving permit, but many rental companies only do business with those over 21.Inquire with your local government on how to apply for an international driving permit. In America, for example, requirements includes two passport pictures, a valid U.S. driver’s license, and a permit fee.Be wary of scams. In America, for instance, only the American Automobile Association and American Automobile Touring Association are licensed to take applications for international driving permits.Visit ToCoo! Car Rental’s website (www2.tocoo.jp). They hold information on hundreds of rental agencies, cars, and traffic signs.
Call rental car agencies. Agencies such as Toyota Rent-A-Car, Nippon Rent-A-Car, and Nissan Rent-A-Car have phone lines in addition to websites you can visit for help.
Road signs on major highways contain both Japanese and English text. For other locations, try a bilingual map.
 The best location for this depends upon your home currency, but knowing where to go when you need yen is essential in a cash-based society such as Japan. Cards are growing in popularity, but smaller shops favor cash transactions.For a currency that is valuable in Japan such as American dollars or when the yen is weak, you may get a better rate exchanging your currency when you arrive.Airport exchange counters, banks, and post offices are good places to exchange your currency.
Bring a conversion calculator, too. This can be a handheld calculator after you’ve learned of the exchange rate, an online website if you'll have Internet access, or a phone application such as XE Currency.
 You don’t want to be caught in Japan needing to withdraw money but finding out the ATM doesn’t accept your card. Ask your bank if your card works in Japan and for alternatives.
 Once you are settled with your bank, it’s a good idea to familiarize yourself with where you can find places to access your money. Many ATMs, particularly those beyond typical tourist locations, will be harder to manage for those that don’t speak Japanese.


Banks, post offices, and large hotels are tourist-friendly and often have ATMs.
Another good location to find ATMs is 7/11. Japan has tens of thousand branches of this convenient store chain and they’re friendly to tourists.
 Pasmo, Suica, and Icoca cards are cards you can preload with yen. This reduces the amount of cash you have to juggle and reduces the need for you to search out ATMs and use your bank card.


Prepaid cards can be found at exchange machines in airports and train stations.A main use for these cards is for managing multiple trips on short-distance subways and trains, saving time and hassle during transfers.
These cards are now accepted by many stores and vending machines.
 Rooms in Japan fill up fast and the polite culture means that your Japanese hosts appreciate ample time to accommodate you. Once you’ve done this, you’ll no longer have to worry about finding a place to stay., Ryokans are Japanese-style inns. Think of the kind of home you may have seen on TV: a serene environment, tatami mats, paper doors, and futons. These are for people who wish to experience traditional Japanese culture.Some ryokans boast specialties, including relaxing hot springs or an emphasis on Japanese food.Most offer two meals per person per day.
These are traditional, so they may be without central heating, advanced technology, or staff fluent in foreign languages.
Costs range from a couple thousand yen to over a hundred thousand yen a night. Bring cash to pay your bill or check to see if the ryokan accepts credit card.
 Various international and Japanese chains exist, especially among the major cities. These are convenient and offer the usual amenities such as carpeted rooms and televisions.


Cost can be an issue. Many hotels surround popular attractions where business owners can get away with charging more for goods and services by appealing to tourists.
Capsule hotels are another option. In the vein of regular hotels, they target mostly single males and offer basics such as a place to sleep, a clean bathroom, and a television at a reduced price., Many people conflate these guest, or gaijin, houses with ryokans. A guest house is an apartment you can rent cheaply for a short contract or a long stay. Often this means having to share a kitchen and bathroom with other guests. This is good for experiencing everyday life in Japan.


Guest houses tend to run under 100,000 yen for a month’s stay., A growing trend worldwide is to house visitors in one’s own house or apartment and Japan is no different. Search online for renting rates, locations, and modern and restored traditional houses that will allow you to experience life in Japan through the eyes of a native., These are for budget and often younger travelers. They operate much as dormitories do and include shared rooms and common areas. This is an ideal place if you wish to interact with a wide variety of travelers.Hostels tend to cost under 5,000 yen.
Many hostels have extra benefits, including a guest kitchen, meals, and free Internet. Check with the hostel for any fees associated with these features.
Some hostels, especially those outside big cities, have strict curfews and lock-out periods where you need to be away from your room.
 Many places, including hostels and hotels, can be booked online or over the telephone. If you’ve yet to figure out where you’re going to stay, a travel agency can guide you. Either describe where you’d like to stay or ask for their opinion. This can be the only way to reach out to traditional ryokans, as some are not technologically advanced.
 Japan still maintains a culture of formality. Casual clothing is fine for walking around and seeing the sights, but to dress like the locals, lean towards the formal. No matter the ages of yourself and anyone you are traveling with, avoid clothes that are tattered, ragged, or revealing.


Inside establishments, choose formal wear such as a suit or jacket for men and a skirt and high heels for women.Avoid jeans. You'll see natives wearing jeans on occasion, but most people wear more formal pants, skirts, and even shorts on the street. Children and young adults also benefit from avoiding the attention jeans bring.
Jeans and shorts should not be worn inside restaurants.
 The Japanese choose muted, traditional colors including black, blue, brown, gray, and white. The goal is to not stand out in a crowd and most Japanese choose to avoid gaudiness.


Men should also avoid black ties and women all-black, since this is associated with funerals.
Children and teenagers have more leeway, but still it is best to avoid clothing that is flashy, over-the-top, or revealing.
 The winter months are December through February, but the cold lasts until May. The weather trends towards 5-10 degrees Celsius and 40-50 degrees Farenheit, accompanied by harsh, cold wind.Bring gloves, a scarf, a knit hat, and warm underwear.
 This is essential in the rainy season, which occurs around the month of June, but a light raincoat is always useful in fending off Japan’s rains. You may also bring an umbrella or shop for these once you arrive.
 The summer months are June through August when the weather becomes hot and humid. You will sweat a lot, so bring quick-drying fabrics such as linen and cotton.


Women of all ages have to take care to stay covered, as Japan has a culture of modesty. Slender legs can be passable, but avoid cleavage and bare midriffs at all costs.Consider bringing a light jacket or sweater in case the air conditioning inside establishments makes you cold.
 This depends on where you’re going. You’ll need a bathing suit for the beach, but most hot springs (onsen) restrict bathing suits as they pollute the water. Rather, you are meant to clean yourself, then wear a towel and set it aside upon entering the water.Women and girls should choose a one-piece bathing suit. Japan’s modest culture leads many to frown upon excessive skin exposure of a bikini.
 This isn’t mandatory, but many places in Japan, including restaurants and ryokans, maintain a custom of not bringing shoes inside. If you don’t want to go through the effort of undoing laces, alternative shoes are important.Remember that tatami mats are a clear indicator to take off your shoes.
 Japan has different customs regarding medications and it’ll benefit you to have whatever you need on-hand since you won’t be able to buy most of what you need without a Japanese prescription. This is also useful in case your departure get delayed.


Again, check local laws with an embassy and discuss alternatives with your doctor if the medication you need isn’t permitted inside Japan.
 There is nothing like traveling to a foreign country and discovering you can’t charge your important devices because the outlets are different. If you live outside North America, invest in one before you leave.Japan uses two-pronged plugs with similar voltage to North America customs, so the only type of conversion needed for North Americans is for devices with more prongs,

, While in Japan, you’ll notice that many natives rinse their hands with a little water after using the bathroom. Many public bathrooms do not offer soap or paper towels., Since you’ll likely want to use your electronic device for Internet contact, searching for information on Japan, and translation, you’ll need Wi-Fi access. You can rent these from places online such as eConnect and japan-rail-pass.com.


A portable hotspot establishes a portal for your devices to connect to the Internet, but a SIM card is a chip you install in your phone to enable it to connect to the Internet.
These devices should be reserved in advance and delivered to a convenient location upon your arrival, such as the airport post office and your hotel.
The SIM card requires a existing Internet connection to register, so do this in a public place such as the airport.
When you’re finished with the device, all you have to do is put it in an included pre-paid package and drop it in a postbox., This is another option for Wi-Fi connectivity. You can also find these at eConnect and japan-rail-pass.com, among other sites. These cards allow you to connect to the Internet even when you’re away a Wi-Fi hotspot.
 Some carriers offer roaming services, but others don’t operate in Japan at all. If you haven’t done this yet, you'll want to check so that you can plan on obtaining a device such as a SIM card or locating hotspots.
 This will help you in a pinch if you don’t have an alternative method such as pocket Wi-Fi. Due to the growth of technology, public Internet access is growing in Japan, but you should still check to see where you can connect.Most big tourist areas, including hotels, train lines, and shopping districts now have free Wi-Fi access.
 You don’t have to go overboard planning your trip to the last detail. In fact, you may not even see all the places you consider here. Still, it’s good to have some idea so you can plan out issues such as Wi-Fi access, printing location names in Japanese, money management, and traveling.


As there are plenty of sights for younger and older adults, there are plenty of attractions that cater to children. You'll find no shortage of zoos, museums, nature, and amusement parks with no fear that the Japanese will be anything less than welcoming., Comparing the prices you are familiar with to yen prices requires an adjustment. Before you go, decide on how much you plan to spend and where you intend to spend it. This will remove a lot of the stress you’d get from navigating a foreign country.
 Most visitors can get around fine in Japan on their own, but don’t be afraid to hire a guide if needed. Search online or contact an agency for representatives willing to show you to where you’d like to go while providing insight on Japan along the way.


This can be particularly useful for travelers searching for restaurants based on dietary restrictions. The travel industry for Muslims has been growing, for instance, so a tour from a specialized company can help you navigate Japan and locate halal-friendly restaurants.
 Japan is a popular tourist spot, so other travelers before you have begun to influence food culture and assemble lists of restaurants that cater to dietary restrictions. Search for vegetarian restaurants in Tokyo, for example, to find these lists online and plan out your diet.A tour guide or specialized visitor representatives and hotel staffs can help guide you to restaurants that fit your needs.
 If you intend on making purchases in Japan, you may need to send them home via shipping. Airlines have strict regulations these days, but parcel companies can ensure packages reach your door.


One such resource is the TA-Q-BIN system (kuronekoyamato.co.jp), which also has information on international moving and UPS services.

