 When you begin your negotiations, you should let the broker or lender know exactly what kind of mortgage you want. By demonstrating your knowledge of the process, they may be more likely to give you a more favorable rate. You should let them know what type of mortgage you want and what you can afford.


For example, you can begin the conversation by saying, "I want a fifteen year fixed rate mortgage for between $200-250,000. What types of interest rates can you offer me?"

, Once you have given your lender your information, they will calculate what type of rates they are willing to offer you. Listen to their deal. If they do not tell you outright, ask about the annual percentage rate (APR). The APR is the total amount you will be paying every year, including all fees and interest., When you’re negotiating, you should make sure that the lender knows you have received estimates from other lenders. If another lender has offered you a better rate, you should tell them what it is and see if they are willing to match it.


You can say, “This other bank has offered me a 6% interest rate, but you’re offering me 8%. Is there any way you would match this rate?”
Do not mention higher rates that you have received., The lender might try to persuade you that you cannot get a better rate than what they are offering you. Be clear about what you want. Politely but firmly tell them the highest rate you are willing to accept.You can say, "If you are unwilling to give me a 5% interest rate, then I do not think we can do business."
If they are willing to negotiate, they may offer a quarter or a half of a percentage point lower on your interest rate. A full point reduction is more difficult to gain, but with good credit and negotiation skills, you may manage it.
 To get the best rates, you should try to put down 20% of the property’s cost as a down payment. While you can make smaller down payments, the lower the down payment, the higher the interest rate might be.Furthermore, some lenders may require you to purchase mortgage insurance if you put down a payment less than 20%, and this can be more expensive in the long run., Ask the lender how long the proposed rate will be good for. If you like the rate, ask the lender for a written statement that promises that the rate will remain for that period of time. This will give you time to find and close on a house.If you still want to shop around, let them know that you will get back to them shortly.

