 If you have arachnophobia, you likely fall into one of two categories: a monitor or a blunter. A monitor will search the environment (car, clothes, house, etc.) for a spider. When they find a spider, they will carefully monitor the movements of the spider to make sure it is not coming near them. A blunter, on the other hand, will do whatever they can to avoid seeing a spider. If they do see a spider, they will try to pretend that it is not there.If you are a blunter, it will probably be more difficult for you to deal with the spider because you don’t even want to acknowledge that it is there.
In some cases, a blunter may also be referred to as, “an avoider.”, What is it about spiders that leads to anxiety? Did you have a traumatic experience at some point in your life? Have you heard stories, or is it simply the way they look? Identifying what it is that scares you about a spider may help you to deal with that fear.If you have a very strong phobia, you probably know that no amount of rationalization will help you overcome your fear.
If you truly don't know where or why your fear originated, that is okay too. While it can provide some understanding, it isn't necessary in order to treat a phobia.
 There are very few spiders in the world that are actually aggressive, and most will only bite if they feel threatened. Although it may hurt a bit, even venomous spiders typically cannot inject enough venom to do any significant damage to a healthy human being. A spider will do its best to stay out of your sight if it can.Many spiders aren’t even able to penetrate human skin.
If you do get bit by a venomous spider clean the wound with mild soap and running water. Apply a cool compress to the affected area. If you feel any discomfort, you can take an over-the-counter pain medication.In the United States, the two venomous spiders to watch out for are the black widow spider and the brown recluse. A black widow spider can be identified by the red hourglass marking on its underside. The brown recluse spider is brown and has a violin-shaped marking on its back. If you believe that you’ve been bitten by one, or are experiencing severe pain, stomach cramps, or an ulcer at the site of the bite, you should seek medical care.
 You may be able to overcome your fear of spiders by simply learning about spiders. Some of your fear may be related to things that you’ve heard that aren’t necessarily true. Taking time to learn about the fascinating lives of spiders may make you realize that they are not out to get you and, in fact, play an important role in ecosystems.


For example, spiders play a very important role in controlling insect populations. Without spiders, we would likely face a shortage of food.Spider venom may also be useful in treating medical conditions. Scientists are also learning about spider silk and how we might be able to use it for our own purposes. This is because spider silk is exceptionally strong.
 If you feel that your arachnophobia is causing real problems in your life, you might want to consider seeking help from a mental health professional. With the right therapy, you may be able to overcome your phobia completely.Therapists commonly use a process known as systematic desensitization to help people overcome their phobias by exposing them gradually to the thing that they are afraid of.
It is also becoming more common to use virtual reality to help people overcome their phobias.

