 Hot water can feel nice, but it is very drying on skin.You also want to avoid taking very long showers, as this will leave your skin feeling chapped.
 You can also use soap-free cleansers as well. Consider mild cleansers that contain jojoba or avocado oil. Both of these ingredients are very moisturizing.
 Once you step out of your bath or shower, pat yourself dry for no more than 20 seconds. Apply a thick moisturizer onto your skin to help seal in the moisture.You can use a store bought moisturizer, or a natural one, such as shea butter or coconut oil.


When using moisturizers on your face, make sure that they are labeled for facial use.
Consider products that contain vitamins A and E.
Consider products that contain ceramides. These will help replenish the outer layer of your skin and lock in moisture.
 When choosing scrubs or peels, look for something that is labeled as gentle, moisturizing, or for dry skin. Avoid products that contain harsh, abrasive particles. When using the scrub or exfoliater, massage your skin gently and don't apply too much pressure.


Most scrubs are oil-based and do not require a moisturizer afterwards.
Don't use scrubs and exfoliators everyday. Limit yourself to twice a week, at the most., This especially applies to toners, peels, and astringents. Alcohol can be very drying on skin. You may also want to consider avoiding products that contain mineral oil, colorings, preservatives, and perfumes. All of these can be irritating to sensitive skin and lead to dryness.
 Use a sunscreen that has at least SPF 30, and wear long sleeves. Hats should have at least a 2 inch (5.08 centimeters) wide brim, so that they cover your neck and face.Sun gives your skin beneficial vitamin D, but too much sun can cause your skin to become dry.


Use a SPF 15 lip balm to prevent chapped lips, especially in the winter., All of these can dehydrate your body, which can lead to dry skin. Dry skin needs to be hydrated. Aim to drink about 8 to 10 glasses of water each day., If you have dry skin, but are taking good care of it, review your diet. Are you getting enough omega-3 acids, vitamin C, and magnesium?


Omega-3 acids help prevent dry skin, and are found in salmon, flax seeds, and walnuts.Vitamin C helps repair tissue and heal dry skin. It can be found not only in oranges, but also in berries and many tropical fruits. It is also abundant in dark, leafy green vegetables.A lack of magnesium often results in dry skin. If nothing seems to help, your body might just need more magnesium. You can find it in dark, leafy green vegetables, nuts, and fish. It is also found in grains and beans.
Other foods reputed to help dry skin include: avocados, cucumbers, olive oil, oysters, and sweet potatoes.