 Following is a list of some of the different uses of the term throughout history:Religious Fundamentalism:

Fundamentalist Christianity recognizes an adherence to a basic set of Biblical, fundamental principles to preserve unity and harmony among believers. These fundamentals include a literal interpretation of the Bible as the divinely inspired and infallible Word of God and the necessity of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ's atonement. Some consider Christian fundamentalism to be identical with evangelicalism. Jesus said -- "...go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age. (Matthew 28:19,20 NIV). While Christian fundamentalists hold unswervingly to their basic tenets, they encourage open-minded study of the Bible, intellectual discussion of "true" (Biblical) versus "false" (non-Biblical) doctrines and whether some traditional practices are/are-not Biblical.
Islamic Fundamentalism:This includes advocating return to the "fundamentals" of Islam: The Quran and The Sunnah. Definitions vary as some insist that Islamic belief requires all Muslims be fundamentalists and is, also, a term used by outsiders to describe perceived trends within Islam; whereas, some figures of Islamic fundamentalism may be termed "Islamists". Some say that "Radical Islam" is the term for movements beginning in the 1920s -- and that, some say, is not a return to the more historic fundamentals.Jewish Fundamentalism.
Mormon Fundamentalism.
Hindu Fundamentalism.
Atheistic Fundamentalists. - Observe atheistic fundamentalism as whether there is a strong disdain toward those who espouse religion, and some would say, a dogmatic opposition to what appears to be religious tradition. Some atheist thinkers, such as Richard Dawkins, argue that no such fundamentalism exists, and that the term is meant to be disparaging of atheists' concepts.


Non-religious Fundamentalism:

Political Conservatism (Fundamentalism) including being "strict constructionist", being a "constitutional originalist" to follow the traditional meaning of the constitution and the basic law, not some modern, re-formed meaning.
Scientism (Fundamentalism). - Consider that beginning in the nineteenth century, some scientists stated scientism as the view that all aspects of the universe are knowable through the methods of the scientist and that advances in all forms of knowledge could be made through scientific progress; whereas, philosophy had historically relied on intuition and other modes of thought as the source of knowledge and as equal or preferred to empirical investigation.Market Fundamentalism. - check to verify whether there is a strong belief in laissez-faire, free-market systems of financial regulation. The recession was not due to regulation, but to schemes including an over-trusted kind of certificate called the "Collateralized debt obligation"; this is a type of structured asset-backed security (ABS) whose value and payments are supposed to be derived from a portfolio of fixed-income underlying assets(but many were like bad mutual-fund shares). CDOs securities are split into different risk classes, but many bad "CDOs" were over-rated conglomerations of some good preferred stocks, bonds and too much of over-valued bad mortgages as some trillions of dollars of poor "investments" sold around the world -- and the related, bad-mortgages were a major cause of the banking crisis, also devastating to the economy. Some left-economists declared that the global financial crisis, so caused, of 2008 destroyed market fundamentalist's ideas of free markets. This expression, "market fundamentalism," was promulgated by George Soros in his 1998 book, The Crisis of Global Capitalism. As is "atheistic fundamentalism", "market fundamentalism" is often used as a pejorative to designate perceived, ideological dogma with which one may disagree.

;
, Do not go looking for "signs" in persons to prove they are indeed fundamentalists after you question their being so. Instead, only use this as a reference. In other words -- if, by chance, unintentionally, you encounter some of the indicators in a person's expressed views, look for the other indications very closely, trying to prove that they are not there! If you fail to eliminate them, you can relatively well identify the person as fundamentalist.
