 No matter how you end up making your weekends more productive, getting up early will give you more hours to dedicate to your chosen activity or chore set. Start by setting your alarm for a manageable morning hour, such as 9:30 or 10 am, then move this alarm up at half-hour increments. After a while, you’ll find that getting up earlier on a consistent basis will make you more proactive, energetic, and quick-witted throughout the rest of your work week.If you’re used to sleeping in on your weekends, start your new morning regimen slowly. Give yourself one weekend day a week to sleep in to your heart’s content rather than trying to rise early on both weekend days.
 Studies have shown that developing a new skill or participating in a new activity can make you a more well-rounded, creative, and decisive person. Once you get into the swing of your new hobby, it can also provide incentive for getting through the rest of the work week and even turn into a new career path or create a new social circle in your life.Knitting, painting, writing, and cooking classes are all great, creative hobbies that can enrich your life, while yoga and dance classes or club sports teams can fun ways to improve your physical fitness.


If you already have a hobby but don’t know where, how, or with whom to practice it, check out social websites designed to acquaint people with similar interests and purposes. For example, meetup.com organizes local groups for anything from Scrabble playing to mountain climbing.
 Broadening your horizons intellectually is one of the most rewarding ways to spend your free time and weekends. If you’re interested in advancing your career, ask your supervisor if your job offers supplementary education courses. If you want to do something different, consider signing up for adult education courses at the local college or community center.


Learning a new language has been shown to improve one’s quality of life in particular. Not only does it provide insight into another linguistic system and culture, but it can also enhance mental function, creativity, and critical thinking in all aspects of life., It may seem counterintuitive, but one of the best ways to improve your own self-esteem is through dedicating time and energy to helping others. Volunteering has even been shown to have physical health benefits as well as lower incidence rates of depression.Whether you choose to help out at the local animal shelter, the soup kitchen, or a community library or farmer’s market, you’ll add dimension and depth to your life while cultivating valuable personal qualities, such as empathy, confidence, and work ethic.


The GiveGab mobile app and websites, like Volunteermatch.org and LinkedIn’s volunteer listing site, can help you find volunteer opportunities in your area., Just because you’re spending your weekend sleeping and lounging, doesn’t necessarily mean you’re wasting your time! Studies have shown that proper rest and relaxation are essential to a healthy lifestyle, so make sure you’re taking the time to recharge your batteries before you take on any extra weekend tasks and commitments.This is especially important if your day-to-day job demands a lot of overtime or physical labour. Instead of running yourself ragged on the weekend, do restful activities that are still thought-provoking and productive, such as reading, writing, or watching documentaries.

