 Many conversations fall apart because one of the speakers only asks questions that will elicit a yes or no response. This makes it difficult to keep the dialogue going, and may create conversational anxiety for both people. Instead of simple yes/no questions, ask open-ended questions that will allow for substantial responses.Instead of asking, "Did you like the movie?" ask an open-ended question, such as "What stands out to you about the movie?", Don't interject information or topics that haven't been brought up. It's a quick way to make the other person feel like you're not listening or overly focused on your own thoughts. Instead, build off of what's been said by the other person.Don't look for opportunities to insert something about yourself. Instead, offer an opinion, and let it lead to a question that follows up what the other person has said.Try to follow up a comment with some observation about what's been said.For example, if the other person says that she is originally from Boston, say something like, "I've never been to Boston, but I hear it's a wonderful city. How does it compare to the city you live in now?"

, Many people get caught up in the excitement of a conversation and say the first thing that comes to mind. That may feel right in the moment, but it can easily lead to inadvertent conversation killers. Take a few seconds to think before you speak, and not only will you avoid accidentally offending someone or creating a roadblock in the conversation, you'll probably also come across as more of an eloquent and thoughtful speaker., Saying something negative about what the other person has said can quickly kill the conversation. It often happens in unintended ways, but a negative comment (intentional or not) can make it difficult for the other person to know what to say next.Instead of saying something like, "I don't like reading fiction," say what you do like, like "I typically read more nonfiction, like memoirs and essays. Who's your favorite author?", If you don't want to end the conversation abruptly, avoid any controversial topics. Two of the quickest conversation killers are politics and religion.If you don't know the other person well enough to be clear on where she stands on controversial topics, or if you know the person and you're aware that she disagrees with you on certain issues, avoid them altogether.