;
, At the screen's bottom, there are five buttons.



Main Menu allows you to


Save game,

Load game,

See Wares Statistics (shows a chart with all available types of wares below. By clicking any wares, you display the amount of them produced over time and their average production rate in the chart. You determine the period of time taken into account for this by clicking the buttons below; you may choose between the last 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours and 8 hours) or

See Buildings Statistics (opens a list of all available buildings and shows, how many units of ware they have produced respectively, how many of them have been built and how many are yet being built. Clicking a building shows the average productivity for that kind of building and allows you to jump either from one finished building of that type to another, from one unfinished building of that type to another or from one unproductive building of that type to another, depending on which arrows you use).



Objectives (If you play a scenario map (campaign) this button opens the list of objectives you need to reach at the moment).

Mini-Map (Shows a mini-map, on which you can toggle on/off: terrain, conquered area, flags, roads, buildings (buttons from left to right, upper row first). Left-clicking the mini-map instantly moves your view to that position).

Building Help toggles on/off the building help, which shows you what can be built on every field: flag=flag, hammer and hoe=mine, red hut=small building, yellow house=mid-sized building, green tower=large building. A flag may be built in any of these cases by choosing the "build road" button.

Tribe's Ware Encyclopedia shows you all the wares of your tribe.
,, By clicking on the window title with the middle button of the mouse again you can expanded it.
, To build a street you need to left-click on the blue flag and then choose build road at the road-build-button. Now colored points will show up around the flag, showing the acclivity of the possible road-track (green=even, yellow=cliffy, red=very cliffy). To complete the road and begin construction left-click again on a section of the road and left-click place flag.
 This special kind of worker can be sent out if you left-click on the blue flag then left-click send geologist to explore site on the geologist-button at a flag. As soon as the geologist reaches his destination, he will start to search for resources on the area around the flag and put labels with colored points (red=iron, black=coal, yellow=gold, white=granite, blue=water) at the places he found a resource. And of course the flag you sent the geologist to must be connected with a street, too.
 Red, yellow and green houses (from small to big) show up the available space for a building. At yellow flags you can place a flag and create street-sections this way.
 Left-click on the small light blue square and then left-click on the building you wish to build.
 In this connection applies: The bigger and/or deeper the mine, the higher the demand for better food.

