 When you break your food consumption up into small portions throughout the day, it becomes easier to control your blood sugar levels.


Eating a large meal can slow down your metabolism. Your metabolism helps to break down what you have eaten; when your metabolism is slow, your body takes longer to digest sugars and fats, which can increase your blood sugar levels. Eating throughout the day will keep your metabolism running smoothly.;
, If you skip a meal, you run the risk of having your blood sugar levels dropping to very low levels (which is referred to as hypoglycemia). In particular, it is very important that you always eat breakfast to keep your blood sugar levels regular and to get your metabolism going in the morning.


This is very important if you taking medications that lower your blood sugar levels, as most people with diabetes do. In order to keep your body functioning properly, you must eat meals throughout the day while also taking your medications.
 To help your body regulate blood sugar and keep your metabolism working swiftly, you should try to stick to a meal plan where you eat your meals and snacks at roughly the same time each day.


Similarly, you should also try to take the medications you are taking to control your diabetes at around the same time each day. Most diabetes medication is supposed to be taken with meals, so when you eat at the same time each day, you can also take your medication.
 In order to check how your body is reacting to specific foods that you eat, doctors generally recommend that you check your blood sugar levels before and after you eat. Normal blood sugar levels fall between 4.6 and 6.1 mmol.


If you notice that a certain food has caused your blood sugar levels to go above the normal range, you may want to consider limiting how much you eat that specific food.
 When you lie down in bed at night, your body’s ability to process the food you have eaten also slows down. When you eat right before you go to bed, fat can accumulate in your body instead of getting burned off by your metabolism. Wait two hours after eating before you lie down for the night.


You can also get heartburn when you lie down right after a meal.
 Just because you have diabetes does not necessarily mean that you need to cut sweets out of your diet entirely. You should, however, only eat sweets with other food. When you eat sweets by themselves, they can cause your blood sugar levels to spike.


When you eat sweets with healthy foods, your blood sugar levels will rise gradually.
 It is important to get all of the nutrients you need and the best way to do this is to eat balanced meals that contain things like:


Good unsaturated fats
Lean protein
Carbohydrates
Fiber
Nonfat products
Less sugar

