 While it's hard, there is no rule that negative trumps positive and that being negative is a sign that one is taking things more seriously. A pessimist may like to give that impression but it's just not true. As with yin and yang, there needs to be a balance of both optimism and pessimism, and pure pessimism should not be allowed to run rampant through the workplace. Be the person who reminds everyone of the good that can come from whatever it is being groaned about and who lists all the good reasons for being positive about something. Sometimes, enlightening others is all it takes, because people have failed to note or see the positives.


Of course, it is equally true that being too optimistic about everything is just as debilitating as the negative person. Find a balance and ensure that your optimism is based on facts and reality.;
, When someone is being pessimistic, put on your happy, can-do face. It might irritate them, but you're already inwardly irritated by their constant roadblocks of doom, so it's time for them to gave their smile medicine. It can be hard to keep on being so unhappy when someone is smiling right at you. It can also help to break an impasse of negativity and show that you're determined to work through things for the better.
 Realize that a pessimist finds the word "no" to be a safe place, a haven of stopping change, new things and intellectual labor. No is a crutch when it's said all too often in the face of good ideas, changes for the better and healthy enhancements. Listen, reflect, then give your feedback about the pessimist's no, in particular informing the person why you don't think the sky will fall in as prophesied and the reasons for why going forth in the manner proposed is going to be just great for everyone involved. Acknowledge fear of change and the unknown but don't get bogged down in it.


Of course, no in relation to a person's not being hassled, harassed or put upon is quite something else; then it's a no that deserves being heeded. That's not the pessimist no though, that's an assertive no, so don't get the two mixed up.
 The pessimist would like to think that seeing the bad in everything is going to somehow justify the thud that happens when you all land in peril, a peril that perhaps only the pessimist perceives. Yet, maybe that peril is never going to come, and in fact, working actively to avoid that peril is actually the optimal outcome. See the potential problem––and then provide an actual solution and gear everyone towards working on solving it! That's a better way of approaching potential worst-case outcomes instead of avoiding action or hiding in a bolt hole.
 Sometimes pessimists are in a bog hole precisely because they've "worked so hard all these years and nobody ever notices", or "no matter what they do, someone else steals the glory", and so on. This mindset can be turned around by pointing out the great work Mr or Ms Pessimist has done and making it public that this person has turned things around for the better. If you're lucky, they'll strive to produce more of the good stuff.
 If you're dealing with mounds of paperwork, bureaucracy, people dying, people getting jailed, people running up huge debts, and the like, then pessimism may be a constant undercurrent. Nevertheless, it's no excuse to let pessimism thrive; indeed, if anything, it's a reason for lightening the load by introducing more optimistic elements to the workplace and cheering everyone up.


Consider regular social occasions with your workmates to "get away from it all".
Find ways to make dull work easier, or to offload it to computers or interns. Let your more experienced staff have the more interesting and more involved work to get on with.
Have fun occasions, such as dress-down Fridays, Thursday comic morning tea, Friday night drinks, and so forth, to help people come out of their shell and not see work as all hardship.
 There are many possibilities, including depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, memory loss, family problems, financial problems or burnout. Be alert to the possibilities and make it easy for people to see counselors, to talk things over or to know simply that they're supported if they need help during their time at your workplace. This might make all the difference in someone's life and help lift their veil of pessimism driven by life's challenges. Remember that just because the workplace didn't cause the problem, doesn't mean that the workplace can ignore it.
 If you truly are an optimist by nature, pessimists can be grating. If you hang around lots of them for long enough, their pessimism may even rub off somewhat, so it's important to be alert to that happening and to swiftly reroute your behavior back to its natural optimistic approach. All the same, it's important to recognize that pessimism has its place––these are the people who spot the worst case scenarios from which you can work backwards to avoid, and they're the people who take the edge off insane positiveness and return it to a more level plane of reality. In all things therefore, it's best to seek a balance between optimism and pessimism and to ask that of those who are pessimistic as much as of yourself.

