 The registration process is pretty simple across the board, but varies in minor ways across the Union. There is no universally-accepted, federal registration form—you’ll have to interface with your state’s own, separate web portal in order to register. This makes specific instruction more difficult, but state-by-state help exists. Luckily, the U.S. Government has built a website to point you in the right direction.


Even heading to the Democratic National Committee’s website doesn’t provide any appropriate links, unfortunately. It will, however, provide you with a wealth of information once you’re good and registered!
Every state doesn’t have an online registration form yet. Currently, only 23 states support online registration. Typical requirements of registration are U.S. citizenship (natural born or naturalized), being 18 years old on election day, and not having been declared mentally incompetent by a court of law.Some states also revoke the voting rights of convicted felons.;
, In the first section, shortly down the page, click on the rectangular, red button that reads “Register to Vote.”

, After choosing, a pop-up should inform you whether your state supports online registration. For those with online registration, clicking the button will take you to the site.


In selecting Georgia, for example, we’re informed that the state supports online registration and has its own website set up for that purpose.
In selecting Florida, we’re instead presented with a graphic detailing a three-step mail-in process. For states requiring mail-in forms, you’ll click the button to download the form, then follow all subsequent instructions for mailing it in. If you don’t have a printer, they’re often available for use at your local public library.
In selecting New Hampshire, we’ll be dealing with a state that does not support online registration or recognize the National Mail Voter Registration Form. Instead, we must register in person at our local election office. Clicking the button in the window will provide a list to help us determine where the most convenient office is.
 That site might require a driver’s license number alongside other identifying information, such as name, address, and social security number. The requirements of each state vary, though options will be provided by the site should you lack the appropriate documentation. Read the instructions and follow all successive steps, and before you know it you’ll be registered!


Make sure you specify “democratic” as your party affiliation. That’s what we’re here for, after all.
 Once registration has been completed, be patient. Voter I.D. cards can as many as 5-7 weeks to arrive.You do not actually need a voter registration card to vote, regardless of what you may have heard elsewhere. You only need to be sure that you're registered, and know the county in which you're registered to vote.If your voter registration card never comes, you'll want to call your voting office and ensure you're registered. You can also request that they re-send your card.
36 states have passed laws requiring photo I.D. to vote, however. You should check with your state's identification requirements before heading to your polling place on election day., If you’ve previously registered to vote, registering as a democrat is essentially the same process. Many registration forms will have the option to specify that you’re already registered, and are simply changing or updating information. Just make sure to check the box, fill in the field, or bubble the bubble for party affiliation so that it says “democratic.”

