 As soon as you get out of the sun, take an over-the-counter (OTC) anti-inflammatory medication, such as Aspirin. Go ahead and ingest the highest recommended dose for at least the first 24 hours to kick-start the healing process. Keep taking the medication until the immediate discomfort from the burn has subsided.


No matter how much pain you feel, it is critical that you follow the dosage instructions for OTC or prescription pain medications. Taking more than the proper dosage can cause serious medical injuries, such as liver damage. Read the label carefully to determine how many pills to take and at what intervals.
Make sure that you are also aware of any possible pain medication side effects or drug interactions. These are often also listed on the bottle’s label or you can contact your doctor with any questions. For example, people with bleeding issues are often advised to avoid consuming Aspirin.
You can also get a small bowl, drop one or two aspirin tablets into it, and crush them into a paste (adding a little water, if needed). Then, apply this paste to the most burned areas. Wipe off after a few minutes. However, for health safety reasons, do not crush and use more pills than the recommended dosage on the bottle or apply this paste while also taking a pain medication orally., Pull out a soft cotton washcloth and dip it into cool, not cold, water. Wring it out slightly and then place it on your skin. Re-soak the cloth and repeat as necessary. You can also dip the cloth in whole cold milk. This will let you get the cooling benefits and the restorative effects of vitamin D., Run a bath for yourself using cool, not cold, water. Soak for a bit. For even more benefit, fill up a clean sock with 2 cups of uncooked oatmeal and tie it off at the end. Place the filled sock in the tub with you and squeeze it to release the juices. The oatmeal’s polysaccharides will coat and calm your skin.You can also, of course, dump the raw oats directly into the tub with you, but expect more of a clean-up this way.
Resist the urge to scrub off with soap or a body cleanser while in the tub. This will only dry your skin out and extend the healing process., Add a bit of cucumber to your water for a relaxing way to hydrate. Place thin slices of cucumber on your burn. Or, blend cucumbers to create a mask that you can then apply to your face or elsewhere. All of these approaches will maximize the antioxidant properties found in cucumbers.Feel free to mix the cucumber paste with aloe vera gel for even more of a healing boost.
 Make yourself a cup of green tea. You can either drink the tea directly or dip some cotton balls into it and apply it to your skin. The antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties of the tea may reduce redness and swelling, allowing your skin to heal., It is very tempting to pluck a few cubes out of the freezer and place them directly onto your skin. Resist this urge as that type of extreme cold can actually damage your skin even more, killing the skin cells in the process. Instead, if you really want to use ice, wrap the cubes in a soft, clean washcloth before touching them to your skin.
 Resist the urge to run your fingers over your skin, removing flakes as you go. Your dead skin will fall off in due time without your direct assistance. Forcibly exfoliating your skin too early can lead to scarring or infection. This is especially the case if you puncture any raised areas or sores.Once your skin has returned to a close-to-normal color and is pain-free then you can spend some time exfoliating it with a soft sponge or scrubber.
 Make an appointment to see a physician if your sunburn develops blisters or seems to be swelling. If you see any pus coming from the burned areas, it can be a sign of possible infection. You can also see a doctor if your burn is simply making you miserable and the home remedies seem to have no effect.Depending on your specific situation, your doctor will most likely give you a corticosteroid cream. They may also prescribe an antibiotic if your burn shows signs of infection.

