 People tend to eat more when they stop thinking about them.


Set aside specific meal times. Eat at a dining room table, when possible, and prohibit yourself from eating in front of the television or at your work desk.;
, Eat frequent, small meals so that the calories are easier for your body to burn off. Doing so will limit the amount of fat that gets stored.


The meals should also be balanced and nutritious. Include plenty of fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains.
 Monounsaturated fats are better for your waistline than trans fats.

Studies suggest that trans fats may increase waist size 30 percent more than monounsaturated fats.






Some examples of monounsaturated fats include avocado, green tea, yogurt, blueberries, and bulgur. Chocolate milk is also a good source, especially when made with low-fat milk.






Eat more home-cooked meals. Fast food meals and processed foods contain many hidden trans fats.
 While many people may realize that they need to cut calories in what they eat, fewer realize just how many calories lie hidden in many drinks.


Avoid sugary fruit juices and sodas. Alcohol is also another major culprit.
These calories are all empty, so they do not provide your body with energy or any other nutrients it needs. Instead, these calories are eventually converted into fat.
 Fiber makes you feel full and slows digestion. As a result, food enters your bloodstream slower, making it easier to burn off.


Fiber derived from vegetables is especially helpful. Look for options like broccoli, avocado, cabbage, collard greens, peas, and Brussels sprouts.



White rice, white bread, pasta made with white flour, and potatoes all build on the fat. The sugar in these can raise your insulin levels, thereby increasing your appetite and prompting your body to store fat more readily.
 Protein increases the body's sensitivity to insulin, preventing your body from digesting food too quickly and causing less fat to get stored in your stomach or any other region.


Protein also stimulates metabolism.
Aim for healthy proteins, such as those found in lean meats, seafood, and fruits and vegetables.
 Sodium causes the body to retain water and gas, causing your abdomen to become bloated. In some individuals, the difference between a bloated belly and a non-bloated belly can actually be seen.

