 Spending long periods of time staring at a computer screen is a common culprit for causing headaches. Staring at a bright screen all day puts strain on your eyes and can too easily lead to headaches. Flashing images can over-activate your retina and the nerves in your eyes, another cause of head pain.


Try to limit your computer use whenever possible. If you need to use a computer for work, take frequent breaks; get up, walk around, go outside for some air.
Take a ten minute for every hour you're online to stave off headaches.
Take a few days every week to keep off electronics and relax. No work/business negotiations should be scheduled. Take these days to relax and reduce stress, as stress is a frequent culprit for headaches.
 When taken daily, magnesium may help reduce the frequency of headaches and migraines. This is because magnesium can help to ease nerves, which can become overstimulated during headaches and migraines. You’ll likely need more than the average multi-vitamin contains or about 400 to 600 milligrams a day.Look for amino acid-chelated magnesium (many brands contain magnesium oxide, which is not absorbed as well).
You can also increase your magnesium by eating dark green vegetables, nuts and seeds.
 Some substances are more likely to cause headaches than others. You can prevent headaches by limiting your intake of these substances:



Nitrates and nitrites. Nitrates and nitrites are found in processed meats and in monosodium glutamate (MSG), which is used to enhance the flavor of some foods. Nitrates can also be found in some heart medicines.Phenylethylamine, which is found in some chocolate and cheeses.Tyramine, which is sometimes found in nuts and fermented meats, cheeses, and soy.Aspartame, an artificial sweetener found in many foods.Caffeine and alcohol can also trigger headaches in some people., Prolonged exposure to sunshine can mess with your brain’s thalamus, which sends pain signals to your body. To protect your eyes from the glare and decrease the risk of headaches, wear polarized sunglasses with UVA/UVB protection.
 Many women get tension headaches from an unforgiving hairdo that pulls at their scalp. Loosen your bun or ponytail, or wear your hair down to minimize the risk of headaches.

