 Getting back together with your boyfriend because you are emotionally distraught may not be the best reason. Breakups are hard but people recover from them all of the time. Getting back together with him for financial security is also sure to end badly.Before you try to resume the relationship, take an objective look at your reasons for separating and for wanting to get back together.

Discuss your reasons with trusted friends and family to get their perspective on the situation. While the decision is ultimately yours, getting an outside look at your relationship can help you figure out the reasons you want him back.
Make a list of pros and cons for getting back together. Also consider the positives and negatives of resuming the relationship versus staying single, as well as what would need to change if you got back together. For example, if you broke up because you didn't like one of his friends, you may need to get over those feelings in order to make the relationship work.
Don't let fear of the unknown or of never finding love again hold you back from moving on. Sometimes staying broken up is what's best, but it's hard to see that until you've gotten over the initial pain. It's normal to hurt after a breakup, even if it's the best decision.;
, It may be difficult to understand that you had any fault in it at all. If he gave you his side of the story, think about it with an open-mind. Relationships can be complicated and sometimes you can withhold the needs of the other person without even realizing it. Ask yourself:What worked in your relationship?
What didn’t work in your relationship?
What could you have done differently to positively affect your relationship?
Use these questions to build healthy relationships moving forward.
 Also consider what changes you would like to ask your former partner to implement. Ask yourself if it is worth getting back together if your ex is not interested in making any changes.Be careful not to compromise who you are as a person just to get a guy to like you.
 Find someone that you trust to talk to about getting back together with your ex-boyfriend. A third party may be able to see things that you are not able to see. If you need serious help to deal with your emotions after a breakup consider seeing a therapist., Remember why you fell in love with that person. Long-term relationships are hard. Over time, it can be difficult to see positive qualities in your significant other. You may dwell on only the negative qualities. Make a list of all the positive qualities and memories you have of your ex-boyfriend.