


Once all the dressing ingredients are in your jar or bowl, make sure to stir/shake well.
Allowing the dressing to sit for a while helps the strong flavor of the shallots to dissipate and the flavors to combine.
You may also want to crush ("macerate" is the technical term) the shallots a bit once they are in the olive oil as this will help the process along.;
, The bowl should be large enough for mixing and tossing the ingredients of the salad. Note that any kind of kale will do - some people prefer lacinato ("dino kale") or flat leaf kale due to the tendency of curly green kale to be sold a bit more mature and therefore tougher. It also has a grittier texture and relative lack of flavor.Take the kale leaves and either shred them by hand or chop them up into small strips. For tougher, more mature kale, you may want to shred or chop into smaller pieces as this will help the dressing to soften the texture.Put the chopped or shredded kale into the bowl.



You might start by adding a few tablespoons so as not to "over-dress" the salad. Remember, it's easy to add more dressing, but it's impossible to remove it!
Massage the dressing into the kale. The best way to do this is with your hands (or a friend's hands). Note that you should gently squeeze or squish the kale as you mix in the dressing, as this helps break down the cell walls of the leaves and allows the acid in the dressing to soften things up by breaking down cell walls and fibers.Once you have mixed in all the dressing and massaged all the kale in the bowl, taste a bite to see if it has enough dressing for your liking (remember, we'll be adding a few more ingredients too!).
If necessary, add more dressing and repeat the massaging and tasting process until you feel the flavors are balanced and delicious.
 Because kale leaves are so sturdy, they need a little time for the acid in your dressing (lemon juice or vinegar) to break down the leaves and make them softer.Note that if you plan to let your salad sit for more than an hour, you may want to refrigerate it during this time.



This recipe calls for sliced avocado, cucumber, and feta cheese.
You can also add any other ingredients that appeal to you.



Lightly toss the salad to incorporate all the ingredients. No need to massage anything at this point as doing so will probably turn everything but the kale into mush.
You might garnish the salad with additional black pepper, herbs, and/or any other accompaniments you like.
 The acid is necessary to break down the fibers in kale so that it is tender and easy to chew. Creamy dressings like ranch or blue cheese might seem like a good idea because kale is so substantial, but they will leave your salad too chewy., This is one of the most common dressings for kale salads. It pairs particularly well with strong cheeses like pecorino or parmesan. Here are the standard ingredients:1/2 cup shallots, finely chopped (about 1 large shallot)
2 tablespoons fresh squeezed lemon juice (about 1 lemon)
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil
Fresh ground black pepper and salt to taste

, Let sit at room temperature for 20 minutes, then add the olive oil and wisk to combine.


Use different types of vinegar (apple, rice, balsamic) to make a slightly sweeter dressing.
Replace the oil with 2 teaspoons of honey for a sweeter, less tart dressing.Replace the oil with 1.5 tablespoons of Dijon mustard for a dressing with a little more kick., Miso is an inexpensive ingredient made from fermented soybeans. Look for it in the refrigerated section in grocery stores. It will produce a thicker, creamier dressing, like this tahini maple dressing:1/4 cup tahini
2 tablespoons white wine vinegar
2 teaspoons white miso
2 teaspoons maple syrup
pinch of red pepper flakes
1/4 cup water

, Add water last and whisk until the mixture is smooth and creamy.


If your dressing is too thick, add more water or vinegar, to taste.
 Replacing lemon with lime and lime zest will make for a milder dressing with more of a southwestern flavor. Adding brown sugar or white sugar can make for a sweeter dressing., Because it is such a robust leaf, kale does well with lots of toppings., Pecorino Romano and shaved Parmesan are popular on kale salads.Aged cheddar also works, or for a salad with more of a Greek feel, try feta., Toasted almonds are delicious along with Parmesan and dates or raisins.Cashew pieces or walnuts can add rich flavor. Sunflower seeds are delicious in summer salads., Dried cranberries, raisins, cherries, or dates add welcome sweetness. Particularly in summer, also try fresh fruits like blueberries, strawberries, or mango., Carrots, bell peppers or cucumber are delicious, as are thinly sliced Brussels sprouts.Red onions or sweet white onions will also add a little kick to your salad.
 You can top your salad with a poached or boiled egg, grilled meat, tofu, or tempeh.
 Kale is a great platform for experimenting with in-season ingredients. For example, try roasted or boiled beets in the winter, or sliced apples in the fall.
 Start with the ingredients:


1 bunch kale
1/2 (16 oz) package frozen shelled edamame, thawed
1/4 of a medium red onion, sliced thin
1 cup shredded carrot
2/3 cup fresh blueberries
1/2 cup sweetened dried cranberries
1/2 cup cashew pieces
1/2 cup shelled, roasted sunflower seeds
3/4 cup white sugar
1/2 cup vinegar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil

, This will make them easier to eat.
 Whisk sugar, vinegar, salt, pepper, and olive oil together in a bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Set aside.
 Take a bunch of leaves in your hands, squeeze them with moderate pressure, and then pick up another bunch and squeeze again. Continue until the leaves become darker and more fragrant. Massaging helps to brake down cell walls and fibers, making the leaves softer.
 Toss with the kale.
 This will allow the leaves to soften even more.
