 Some frozen pies need thawing, while others don't. If you need to thaw your pie, leave it out at room temperature for a few hours. You want the pie to still be partially frozen when you put it in the oven. Follow the directions on the box to make sure you don't thaw if you're not supposed to, or vice versa.


Some pies, like a Dutch apple pie, may need to thaw for hours before cooking, while a pumpkin pie might need only 20 minutes. Other pies, like berry, strawberry, or peach, might not need to thaw.Reheating fully cooked homemade pies that you have frozen might taste stale or not keep as well as a raw pie. If you want to freeze a homemade pie, consider freezing it raw instead., Preheat the oven to 400ºF (200ºC), or whatever temperature is indicated on the box. Place your pie on a foil-lined baking sheet, which will catch any filling that bubbles over. Place the pie in the oven, following any instructions the box gives you. If the box doesn't provide instructions, cook the pie on the lowest rack to make sure the bottom crust cooks.


If you have trouble with the bottom of your pie crust cooking, cook it lower in the oven, and/or preheat the baking sheet. Or, try to make a tent with foil to cover the top so it doesn't burn.You can add strips of foil to the edges if you want to protect your pie's edges from getting too brown or burnt.
 Bake the pie by following the instructions on the box. Many frozen pies need to be baked for 15 to 20 minutes or until golden brown in color. If that doesn't yield a pie that’s done all the way through, try baking it for 30 minutes, then reducing the temperature to 325ºF (160ºC) and baking for an additional 25-30 minutes.
 When the pie has cooked all the way through, remove it. To test it, stick a knife inside and see if there are any hard, frozen chunks. If so, pop it back in the oven. Allow the pie to cool slightly before serving.
 If you regularly bake a particular brand of frozen pie, take note of the baking time, temperature, and techniques (tenting, preheating the baking sheet, etc.) that seem to produce the best results. Each oven is unique, so you may find that a bit of tweaking to the given instructions is necessary.

