 There are many species of orchids, but moth orchids (Phalaenopsis) are the most common and easiest species to grow.This is the kind that is sold in most florist shops and nurseries. Placing them on a sunny windowsill will usually make them happy. They like bright light, but not direct sun.Some of the less common orchid varieties have different needs for light exposure. For instance, lady’s-slippers (Paphiopedilums) and Miltonias dislike direct light. A north facing window is a great spot for these orchid types.
Cattleyas, Dendrobiums, Oncidiums and cymbidiums, on the other hand, need a lot of sun exposure to thrive. A south or west-facing window is better for these species.;
, The Phalaenopsis orchid likes to be watered once per week during its resting period (when it experiences no growth or blooms) and twice per week during active growth. It prefers to be kept dry between waterings. This means you should only water it when the potting material (which is usually a free-draining blend of fir bark) appears dry, or else the orchid could die.If the bark looks damp, it’s too soon.


Make sure that there are drainage holes in your orchid’s pot. Orchids do not grow well when they sit in water.
Water your orchid early in the morning.Most indoor orchids should be watered every 5 to 12 days, depending on the species and season:Vanda and Ascocenda have the same watering needs as the Phalaenopsis orchid.
Paphiopedilum, Miltonia, Cymbidium and Odontoglossum varieties like to be kept evenly moist at all times.
Cattleya, Oncidium, Brassia and Dendrobium varieties like to be kept evenly moist during periods of active growth. At all other times, they prefer to be kept dry between waterings.
 Most orchids are tropical plants, so they prefer a humidity level that they probably aren’t getting in the average living room.During the winter, a 30 percent humidity level is average for a home. The Phalaenopsis orchid likes 40 to 70 percent humidity.Most other orchids prefer 60 to 80 percent humidity. By adjusting the humidity for them, all orchid species will grow a little better. If you group your plants together in one growing area and mist them frequently, this will create humidity.


Consider getting a humidifier for the winter months. You can also buy special trays at most nurseries that can help you create humidity around the orchid.
You can also try keeping your orchid in your bathroom. It will love the humidity. Make sure it's on a windowsill that gets plenty of light, but not direct sunlight.