 A good cleanser will help deep clean and remove debris in the pores that can lead to blemishes. Don't just use a bar of body soap, which can dry out your face and cause it to flake or create irritation. Look for a cleanser made with natural cleansing substances that is geared toward your skin type, whether it's dry, oily, or in between.


The oil cleansing method is a great natural way to cleanse your skin. It sounds counterintuitive, but using a combination of natural oils clean your skin will get rid of the dirt without irritating your face.This is an excellent choice for people with any skin type, especially if you have acne.
If you'd prefer to buy a cleanser with ingredients specifically geared toward treating acne, look for a cleanser that contains salicylic acid, glycolic acid, or benzyl peroxide. These have antibacterial qualities and are said to be effective in treating acne.;
, Washing it more often than once a day can dry out your skin. Decide to cleanse your skin every morning or every night, but not both. If you want to freshen up in between cleanses, splash cool or lukewarm water on your face without using cleanser.


Don't use hot water. Hot water dries out your skin, so use cool or lukewarm water instead.
Pat your face dry instead of scrubbing it with a towel. Handling your facial skin roughly will cause it to loosen over time.
 If you slathered on sunscreen during the day, it's best to wash your face before bed. The sunscreen you use may have ingredients that can cause breakouts if left on the skin overnight.On the other hand, if you didn't sweat or use sunscreen during the day, it's fine to give your skin a rest and skip a day of cleansing.
 Using a facial scrub or facial exfoliating brush every few days will get rid of dead skin and dirt that doesn't come off with your daily wash. Exfoliating leaves skin brighter and healthier. It also helps prepare your face for shaving by softening the hairs and skin, making for a smoother, closer shave with fewer nicks and less irritation.


When you exfoliate with a scrub, rub the scrub into your face using a gentle circular motion, then rinse.
A dry facial brush is another very effective way to exfoliate. Purchase a brush made specifically for use on the face. Before you cleanse, use the brush to remove dead skin. Make sure your skin is dry when you use the brush, as it won't work as well on wet skin.
 Whether you use a cream, a light oil, or another product, it's a good idea to moisturize your skin every day after washing. Doing so will help your skin retain its elasticity and keep it from feeling uncomfortably itchy or getting too flaky. Choose a good moisturizer that's right for your skin type.


If your skin is on the dry side, choose a moisturizer with ingredients like olive oil, argan oil, shea butter, and lanolin.
If your skin is oily, choose a moisturizer with lighter ingredients that won't sit on your skin all day.
 If you don't moisturize any other part of your face, at least rub some cream around your eyes. The skin there is more apt to start sagging over time, and using cream will keep it looking fresh.Moisturizing in this area is especially important for older men, but it's never too early to start incorporating this into your routine.


You don't have to go out and buy an expensive cream. Use some of your regular moisturizer or dab some coconut oil around your eyes.
 The skin on our lips doesn't have as many oil glands as the rest of the face, so lips are prone to getting dry and cracked very easily. Use lip balm or a swipe of coconut oil to keep your lips in good shape. You may need to use balm more often in the winter.
 Facial skin can get easily damaged by sun exposure, so it's important to use sunscreen every time you go out. You can kill two birds with one stone by using a moisturizer with an spf over 15 in the winter and 30 in the summer. Don't forget to protect your lips from the sun, too.


Wearing sunglasses in the summer also helps to protect the tender skin around your eyes.
 Whether you like to be completely clean-shaven or you wear a mustache or a beard, you'll need to shave parts of your face every few days. Get a sharp, high-quality razor to do the job, rather than getting the cheapest kind you can find. Your skin will feel and look better if you use a razor designed for a close, even shave.


If you use disposable razors, be sure to choose a brand that makes razors with double blades. These are more efficient and create a cleaner shave than a single blade.
You can get an electric razor if you don't need a very close cut. These razors should be used on dry skin.
A straight razor will create a close, precise shave. If you decide to purchase a straight razor, it will take some practice to develop the skill to shave without nicking yourself.
 The warmth of the water will soften your skin and hairs, making it easier to shave. It's also important to cleanse your skin to get rid of dirt and bacteria on its surface in case you accidentally nick yourself shaving.
 This will lubricate your face so that the razor glides smoothly over its surface. Don't shave your face dry or without cream unless you're using an electric razor.


Try to find a shaving cream or gel without a lot of chemicals, which can dry out or irritate your face.
Let the shaving cream sit on your face for a few minutes to further soften your skin and hair before shaving.
 It's not necessary to apply pressure to the razor when you draw it across your face. If the blade is sharp enough, the razor will do the job for you. Make sure you're shaving with the grain of your hairs, rather than against it, for a safe and effective shave.


If you're shaving off stubble that has had several weeks to grow out, trim it using beard clippers first. Get it as short as possible before shaving.
Dip your razor in warm water to unclog it every few minutes while you shave.
Pull your skin taught as you shave to get the closest possible cut.
 Use cold water to soothe your face and reduce bleeding from any nicks you might have gotten. Pat it dry with a towel - don't scrub.
 Use a moisturizing product that will soothe irritation from the shave. Be sure to use a product that doesn't contain ingredients that could sting your face after shaving.
 Use a sharp beard trimmer or scissors to trim your remaining facial hair into shape to keep it looking neat.

