 You can download this app from Google Play store.
 Open the app once downloading has finished.
 Movie Studio has two features: you can create a video slideshow or a photo slideshow. Click “Create New Project” on the bottom of the screen or the film icon at the top right of the screen.
 Enter any name on the project to start.
 It’s now time to add your images or videos.


Import images by hitting the + button on the top right.
To add a video, click the + button on the center of the screen.
You can also add videos by recording it or add images using your camera.
If you already have images or videos saved on your gallery, choose Import Photos/Videos.
Select the folder of the gallery where the images or video is located.
Choose the photo or video.
Add images and videos again by importing it to your gallery.
 To make your slideshow look livelier, add effects or transition to every photo or video.


Select the images or videos on your timeline. New options will appear on the top of the screen.
Click FX.
You may change the tone effect by choosing from Gradient, Sepia, or Negative.
Choose from the transition effects available for in clip and out clip.
 This is the text that you can include in the images/videos of your slideshow.


Edit the template of your text.
Add a subtitle.
 Slideshows are much better to watch when it has music.


Click the Add Audio icon at the bottom center of the screen.
Choose whether to record sound or choose music track from your file.
Mark the music you want to add and click OK. The audio will automatically cut into the end of your slideshow or video.
Change the volume of your audio by selecting the track.
 Playback the video before saving.


Make sure that your video is no more than 15 seconds long, or else Instagram will cut it.
Trim the video to lessen its length if it’s more than 15 seconds long.
 The slideshow will be saved in MP4 file format.
 To upload the slideshow, click the camera icon, then select the video button.


Select the gallery icon on the bottom left side of the screen.
Choose your saved slideshow from your folder.
Choose the start and end point of your video.
Add filter, if you want.
Choose your cover.
Add a description, location, or share it outside Instagram.

