 If your boomerang is failing to return to you, the reason is one of two things: your boomerang is of poor quality, or your throw is incorrect. If you think your throw is incorrect, focus on correcting the following common mistakes:Decrease the layover of your throw. If your throw is too horizontal, it will almost certainly fail to come back. Throw your boomerang almost vertically for best results.
Don't throw the boomerang across your body. Instead, throw it straight ahead. If your throwing hand ends up across from the opposite shoulder, you know you're doing it incorrectly.
Work on your spin. Focus on flicking your wrist, as this is where most of the spin comes from. You can also experiment with different grips and hand positioning to find out which is most comfortable and effective for you.
 If the boomerang comes back but lands too far in front of you or too far behind you to catch, you are probably facing the wrong direction in relation to the wind.If the boomerang lands in front of you, try turning a few degrees to the left, so you are throwing more directly into the wind.
If the boomerang lands behind you, try turning a few degrees to the right, so you are throwing further away from the wind.
These directions will be reversed if you are left-handed.
 The flight of a boomerang is almost impossible to predict, so if you look away for even a second, you may not be able to find it again. If you've thrown it well, the boomerang may fly back suddenly and hit you in the face. But if you've thrown it badly, you may never be able to find it again.Wear sunglasses while practicing in case your boomerang flies into the path of the sun. They will also protect your eyes should your boomerang come back and hit you in the face.
If the boomerang falls out of the sky as the result of a bad throw, make a mental note of a landmark you can use to locate it. Search for it right away, as you may not be able to find it later.
 Boomerangs can easily become warped or dented due to repeated crash landings or fumbled catches. However, with a little love and care most of these problems can be patched up and your boomerang will still be in perfect working order.To fix a warped boomerang: Place the boomerang in the microwave or hold it over the heat on an electric stove for 8-10 seconds. Bend the boomerang in the opposite direction to the warp and hold it in place until the wood cools again.To fix nicks and scratches: Fill any holes with a little wood putty. Once the putty dries, sand the boomerang until smooth, then cover with a coat of polyurethane seal to keep moisture out.