 A shower is already a part of many morning routines, and for good reason. It ensures you're relatively clean and refreshed before getting on with your day. Although your hair is arguably the top priority, you shouldn't forget the rest of your body while you're at it. It should take you a few minutes at least to get all the areas of your body. Scrub your body thoroughly with a bar of soap.
 Many women aim to look fresher by removing body hair. Some men choose to limit body hair as well, particularly on the back, the armpits and the pubic area. Shaving body hair should be done at the end of your shower, when the hair follicles will open up more easily.Waxing is a more effective way of getting rid of hair, but some consider it too painful to do on a regular basis.


Alternatively, you can purchase an epilator. An epilator is a machine that removes individual hairs one by one. They are less painful than a waxing strip, but unfortunately take much longer to get rid of all the hair.
Laser hair removal surgeries are available. They are far more expensive than the moderate solutions, but you won't have to deal with having to shave excess hair again.
Treat razor burn as quickly as you can. Close shaving can cause ingrown hairs and scarring if it's not taken care of. To fix this, scrub the area with a body exfoliator and apply a warm compress to the affected patch of skin., Deodorant is relatively inexpensive and easy to apply once you're out of a shower and your morning routine is all but complete. If you're prone to bad sweating, buying an antiperspirant will keep blotches of sweat from appearing in the armpits of your shirt.


A mild perfume or cologne can be a nice touch if you think the situation you're preparing for warrants it.
 Water has a rejuvenating effect on virtually every part of your body. Keep a refillable bottle of water around you wherever you go, and drink from it when you're thirsty. Sufficient water will keep your muscles limber and your skin looking vibrant.It's a good idea to drink before you get thirsty; that way, your body will never feel the need for it.


The amount of water you drink a day should depend entirely on your environment and activities. Physically strenuous work will demand a greater water intake than being sedentary.
 Many issues (including skin conditions like acne) are partially the result of a poor diet depending on processed foods.Although you can technically get by on a processed diet and still look clean, your skin may get unnecessarily blotchy and you'll lack the vibrance you might otherwise have in many areas. Cleanliness shouldn't be the deciding factor in watching what you eat but it is something to consider as part of the bigger picture.
 Keeping your hands clean is an important way to avoid getting sick, especially in public areas. Wash your hands thoroughly, and with an antibacterial soap. Being clean is an important part of looking clean., Nail trimming is a normal part of regular hygiene. Although they don't need to be taken care of every day, giving your hand and fingernails a trim at least once a week is a good way to keep your body looking well-maintained.Avoid biting your nails off. It's a bad habit and makes your hands look unkempt.

