 Once you have got some space to yourself, you can use this time to consider how you play a role in the other person’s silence. This is not placing the fault on you, but giving you the power to recognize and change any communication patterns that may lead you to this point.


As you reflect on your interactions with the person, try to find common patterns in your own behavior.For instance, your boyfriend was talking and you interrupted him because you assumed you knew what he was about to say. The silent treatment ensued shortly afterward. Your tendency to “predict” his thoughts could be causing frustration that prompts him to pull away.
You can minimize your part in causing the silent treatment in this scenario by practicing active listening.Don’t cut in on your partner when they are talking. Give them time to fully express their message before you respond.
 Feeling manipulated can generate anger within you, which can push an already unhelpful interaction into dangerous territory. Recognize that it won’t do any good for your relationship to display anger. Use the space you get during the silent treatment to minimize the negative emotions you feel.


Try some relaxation techniques such as guided imagery, deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, or gentle stretching to reduce anger and promote calm.If you need time to cool down, try taking a one hour break or even agree to table the conversation until the following day. Just don’t put it off for too long.
 When you effectively set boundaries in your relationships, you increase the chances of living according to your values. Whether the person giving the silent treatment is a parent, best friend, or lover, you can limit your own feelings getting hurt by this toxic relational pattern by developing personal boundaries.Set boundaries by first thinking about how you want to be treated in your relationships, and what you will and will not accept from those around you. Once you have established these limits, share these expectations with your loved ones. Keep in mind that if you have been abused in the past, then you might feel confused about how you ought to be treated in relationships. Try talking your situation over with a trusted friend first.
For instance, you might say, “I care about you and enjoy spending time with you. But, when you suddenly stop talking to me, it makes me feel confused and helpless. If you continue to do this, I will have to get some distance from you to protect my own emotional health and well-being.”

, Regardless if the person means to hurt you, being on the receiving end of the silent treatment doesn’t feel good. Spend some time doing things that relax you and make you smile to counteract the negative effects of the silent treatment.Get some exercise. Call a trusted friend. Visit a local park or museum. Light a candle and take a bubble bath. These are all excellent ideas to perform self-care to boost your mental health during the silent treatment.

