 Before talking to your employee, you should gather some information so you can identify the problem. Identifying the problem will provide you with the information you need in order to engage in a discussion about the problem.


Pull employee evaluations.
Gather performance or sales statistics.
Talk to other management or employees who may have first-hand information about the workplace problem.;
, Before moving on and talking to the employee, you should talk to your supervisor or manager. Your supervisor and manager will give you a good idea about the types of solutions they want you to look for. In addition, they’ll give you an idea of the type of authority you have to remedy the workplace problem.


Call a meeting with your direct supervisor.
Let them know about the problem you’ve identified. Say something like: "We have a productivity problem at our Spring Falls location. I'm actively working to resolve it with the employees in question."
Ask them what they’d like you to do to address it. For instance, ask: "Is there anything specific you'd like me to do when working to resolve this problem?"
Find out if your supervisor has any more relevant information about the workplace problem., After you’ve spoken with your direct manager, you should observe the employee or employees who are associated with the workplace problem. Observing your employees will give you solid information about the specific problematic process or employee interaction that is causing you an issue.


Take some time to observe your organization’s day-to-day activities. This will help you to form a better understanding of any workplace problems.
Hold meetings with employees from time-to-time in order to see what is going on with them.
Embed yourself in different jobs throughout the course of the year. This way, you’ll get a much better idea of how processes work and how employees engage with each other on a daily basis., Your first step is to schedule a meeting to talk about the problem. Scheduling a meeting will provide you with an opportunity to discuss and explore the problem.


When emailing or calling the employee, make sure to be relatively brief in your conversation.
While you should give them an idea of the problem you’ll talk about, try not to get too deep into the problem.
Avoid accusing your employee when inviting them to a meeting.
Say something like: "John, I'd like to meet regarding your department. I want to talk about ways we can improve efficiency there."
If you write an email to the employee in question, avoid writing something like “you’re not doing your job” or “your division is under performing.” This will set a negative tone and might undermine the effectiveness of your meeting. , After setting up a meeting, you’ll have the opportunity to explain the problem to the employee. Use this opportunity to fully inform your employee.


State the problem in simple and clear terms.
Identify how the problem hurts your organization.
Try being objective, rather than accusatory. Let them know what the problem is — don’t assign blame. For instance, rather than saying “You’re doing a horrible job as a customer service representative,” say “We’ve received negative feedback concerning your job as a customer service agent.”, After you’ve spent time explaining the problem to the employee, you need to listen to the employee’s response. Listening to the employee’s response will let them know you value their perspective and will provide you with valuable information.


Take their feedback. This information may help you improve your organization.
Show that you care about what your employee is saying. Consider repeating their points in different words to show you were paying attention.
Thank them for their input and response., While your employee has already offered you feedback, make sure your channels of communication remain open until the problem is solved. If you and your employee communicate often and effectively, it’ll help you find and then resolve the problem in question.


Tell your employee to contact you if they have and further concerns or problems.
Hold meetings with the employee until the problem is fully resolved., The employee will have first hand-knowledge of what's going on with them or the department. Ask where the problem is and where there is opportunity for improvement. This puts responsibility on the employee and can help them feel empowered, and also is a way for you to assess the employee's engagement and judgment.


Ask your employee something like: "What do you think we can do to fix this problem?"
Document the solutions your employee proposes.
If you approve of a solution your employee recommends, let them know and give them the authority to implement it.
Remember, it doesn't matter who's at fault. You should focus on the solution., After listening to your employee's ideas, make your own suggestions if there are solutions they may not have considered.


Let your employee know that your suggestions are simply that — suggestions.
If you feel strongly about how your employee (or you) can implement your solution, let them know.Provide several solutions, if you can. For example, if your company has a location or franchise that has poor sales, suggest options of how that location can boost sales. You might suggest that the manager of that location puts out some print ads, runs promotions, or starts a social media campaign.
 In addition to creating solutions yourself and taking suggestions from your employee, contact other department heads and/or employees that are familiar with the workplace problem.


Call a meeting of management to discuss the problem and see if anyone can recommend a resolution. You and the employee in question might put together a presentation about the issue and then actively brainstorm with relevant management.
Hold a meeting of all employees associated with or familiar with the problem to see if anyone has any ideas of how to resolve it.
Discuss the problem with human resources, if it’s a human resource problem.