 Buy your household cleaning products in large quantities from warehouse stores. In most cases, you can save money per product unit when you buy mass quantities of a specific product from stores such as Costco or Sam's Club.Some warehouse stores charge an annual membership fee to be able to purchase from them. Be aware that this might be the policy of some stores before you purchase.
Also consider looking for bulk retailers online. Often, you can buy in bulk or wholesale with relative ease in an online marketplace.;
, In most cases, grocery stores, drug stores, and big box stores will sell their own line of cleaning products that contain similar or identical ingredients to those found in brand name products. These generic products are generally cheaper than name brand with no real difference in quality or contents.Compare the ingredients and directions for use between store-brand products and name brands to verify that the products are similar to one another before purchasing.Look for cleaning supplies at dollar stores and discount retailers. These stores often carry generic lines that work as well as name brand for a fraction of the cost.
 When you shop for cleaning supplies, pick products that you can reuse whenever possible. This can include gloves, towels, mop heads, dusters, and other supplies. Reusable products may cost a bit more in the beginning, but you’ll get more use out of them than a box of similar disposable products.Do remember that while it is cost-saving to buy reusable supplies, the supplies should be replaced in the manufacturer recommended timeframe. Waiting to replace supplies could lead to bacterial growth and unsanitary conditions.
 Collect grocery coupons for household cleaning supplies. Coupons can be found on the Internet and in local newspapers or magazines.Visit coupon websites such as Cool Savings or Coupon Mom to find coupons for a variety of household cleaning products.
Subscribe to manufacturers’ newsletters via email. In most cases, companies will provide you with coupons or discounts via email that you can print out and use at retail stores.
You may also be able to get discounts by signing up for your market’s loyalty program. Where available, these programs offer members reduced prices on a rotating selection of items.

