 Before you even consider shopping, see what you already have. Consider reusing and recycling where possible:


Go through last year's supplies and salvage what is still good to use. Clean, mend, and redecorate as necessary.What do you have on hand already? Does your child really need a new backpack if he is fine with the one he has already?

Cover all books in recycled paper. Brown paper bags are free in many stores, and still the "old school" choice.
Wash, clean, and stitch up any tears or holes in backpacks, lunch bags, etc. to give them another year's use. Fun patches may be a way to make a backpack look customized, rather than just mended.

Note however, that trying to reuse old reusable lunch bags from last school year may not be a good idea. Fabric, plastic, and cooler-type lunch containers can harbor mold and bacteria, so reuse them only as long as they can be cleaned thoroughly.
Make sure your child's backpack is still suitable. A backpack used since fourth grade may no longer be appropriate for a child going into the 6th or 7th grade. Starting in middle school, students typically have a lot more stuff to carry with them, and the backpack will need to be big and sturdy enough.
 Many of these items will be as sturdy as the commercial equivalents, and sometimes better.
 Make boring binders, folders, and notebooks more exciting by adding embellishments using markers, stickers, scrap fabric and paper, etc. This can be a big part of the fun of getting the supplies ready to go. Middle school and high school students should label binders and notebooks clearly with class names (History, German, Algebra, etc.) as well as one's personal name--if the notebook is lost on the bus it is more likely to get to your student if there is a name on it.
 Most schools with uniforms will have a uniform reuse system in place, and the clothing will be in good condition.
 If you have to purchase a textbook, or a copy of a certain book, costs can rise rapidly. New textbooks and books are typically the most expensive, but used books cost a lot less.


Check Amazon.com for used books. This is a worldwide market for textbooks, books, and more of all kids, and you can save a lot of money.
Pay attention to the edition. If your professor asks for the 6th edition, often the 5th edition is almost identical, and a fraction of the price. Sometimes editions really are different, but more often or not changes are minor.
Sometimes books are available through your local library. Even if it is not available in your town, inter-library loan may be able to get the work to you for free. The one problem is if someone mid-semester puts a hold on your book.
See if your school's library has a copy of the textbook required. Many schools actually have the textbooks available. However, they may sometimes not be allowed out of the library or have other restrictions.

