 You can do this in a couple of different ways:


Click the white notification flag in the bottom right corner of your screen.
Type "Action Center" into the Start menu search bar.;
, If you used a Start menu search to find the Action Center, this option will simply say Action Center., It's on the left side of your screen.
 This is under the "Security Messages" section. Clicking this box should un-check it, thereby removing activation messages.


Although this method will work for some users, the Windows Activation box is usually greyed-out and, thus, unclickable. If this is the case, you'll need to use an Object Enabler program like Winabler to unlock the button.
 Winabler is a tool that allows you to force greyed-out (unclickable) buttons to allow you to click them.
 This will be either the 1625 KB or the 1723 KB version of Winabler.


The other versions of Winabler on this page require additional setup, so stick to the standard installation versions.
 This should be on your desktop (or wherever your default save location is).


You may need to verify that you wish to proceed with this program by clicking Yes.
 While setting up Winabler, you'll need to do the following:


Agree to the terms of use.
Select an install location.
 While you're waiting for Winabler to finish installing, you'll want to navigate to the greyed-out Windows Activation box if you don't still have the menu open.
 Do so by double-clicking the Winabler icon--it should be in the location you chose during setup.


Winabler installs to your desktop by default.
 Doing so should unlock the button.


The button may appear grey, but you should be able to click it after dropping the crosshairs onto it.
If the box remains unclickable, try checking the Repeatedly enable objects that continually disable themselves box in the Winabler window and trying again.
, Doing so will save your settings and prevent the Windows 8 activation messages from popping up.
 The only long-term fix for those pesky Windows activation messages is to verify your version of Windows 8.

