 Avian specialists are trained vets whose primary focus is birds. The Association of Avian Veterinarians (AAV), and their website, provides information about finding a certified vet in your area.You can also do a basic internet search for “avian vet in my area.”
If you have other pets, talk to their vet. He or she might be able to refer you to a specialist or be able to conduct blood or DNA tests in house.
Make sure your vet is certified with the AAV or American Board of Veterinary Practitioners (ABVP). They should be able to provide documentation to prove this., Vets can usually determine gender for you. A vet can use laboratory testing to determine the gender of your bird. It can be costly to take a bird in just for gender identification. However, you may need to know your bird's gender. If you're trying to breed, you will need a male and a female. If you're introducing a new Grey to your home and want to prevent breeding, you need to make sure the birds are of the same sex or look into neutering your grey.Vets often use endoscopies to determine gender.This is involves using a telescope to examine a bird's internal organs.Your vet may have other laboratory means to test the gender of your bird. Gender testing methods depend on your bird's overall health and medical history, so talk over options with your vet.
 You may want a less invasive procedure to determine gender. With surgical and laboratory tests, there is always some risk of harm to your bird. You can acquire do-it-yourself DNA kit or blood card that you can mail in to get a DNA test for your parrot. These kits are easily assembled and easy to use.


You can gather DNA from plucked feathers, eggshells, or toenail clippings. DNA collections from these samples are equally accurate as a DNA test from a blood sample.You can talk to your vet to see if they can offer you this kit. However, be sure to get a certified DNA document from this testing.
It is important to note that blood feathers nor molted feathers contain enough DNA data for accurate testing. You'll have to pluck feathers directly from your bird.
You should get your test results pretty quickly. It takes about 2-3 business days. A testing kit will cost you around $15.00.