 A good way to encourage open and honest discussions about diversity is by addressing it directly. Near the beginning of your time with a new class, tell them about yourself, your history, and your teaching style. Mention where you came from, any experience you have teaching people from different walks of life, and the way that your teaching methods are guided by an interest in recognizing and respecting diversity.Be explicit. Say something like, “As your teacher, I am committed to better understanding the cultural differences between everyone in this classroom. Most importantly, I want you all to know that I respect and value your culture, and diversity is something that everyone should feel free to discuss throughout our time together.";
, Introductions can generally be a great opportunity to emphasize and celebrate diversity. For instance, when your students first take turns stating their name to the class, have them share a bit about the origin of their name. Direct your students with something like, “After sharing your name with us, also tell us a bit about how your parents chose the name and what it means.”Other good introductory activities include having students mark their birthplace on a map, share a photo of their family, or write one of the most common words they use on the board. For instance, you could start by writing “hello” on the board - and be sure to include translations into other languages that your students may speak.
With older students, ask everyone to include something about their family that they're proud of during introductions.
 Ask your students what name they prefer to go by. This conversation is best had one-on-one, as students will likely feel more comfortable correcting any potential mispronunciation. Then, use their chosen name to address them, both one-on-one and in front of the class.Remembering, using, and pronouncing names is an important way to demonstrate cultural awareness.
Take care not to use language about names that implies a certain ethnocentric approach is best. For example, don’t ask people about their “Christian name,” simply ask your students how they prefer to be addressed.
 The Southern Poverty Law Center hosts a project called Teaching Tolerance that provides free classroom resources online. Resources include both activities and lesson plans for students of all ages. Similarly, other websites also provide lesson plans that incorporate discussions on multiculturalism and diversity., Their are free online resources that are designed to help educators equitably include students who may have a first language other than English. More specifically, these include teaching materials and contemporary publications on the topic.One particular example is the Teaching Diverse Learners (TDL) website.
In particular, familiarize yourself with the challenges that those still learning English at the elementary level may face in the classroom, as well as the ways you can help facilitate oral, reading and writing development.

