 Unless you're already a pricing pro (in which case you likely don't need this article), you shouldn't make a purchase without comparing 4-5 similar pieces of furniture. Note the price differences, and ask the seller about any discrepancies. If you're buying a bedroom set, for example, educate yourself on the average costs for a bedroom set. Check out these average price ranges for common furniture to get started:



Bed: $50-300

Dresser: $20-100

Desk: $25-200

Dining Room Set: $150-1,000

Table: $50-150

Sofa: $35-200

Arm Chair: $25-150., Has it needed repairs? How old is it? Any issues to comment on? Most sellers won't tell you their furniture is terrible, but you can get a sense for their pricing with good questions.


If someone tells you "it is expensive because it is antique," make sure you know when it was made. If they can't tell you, or if it was made after 1970, it is not an antique. Take any price with a grain of salt.
 You want snug, tight joints and no wiggle. The piece should feel solid under your weight, especially chairs, sofas, and tables. Trust your own instincts on this -- if it doesn't look solid and well built, then don't spend a ton of money on it. If it's got a few dings or scratches, you might want to ask for $25-30 less than the asking price.


Don't buy the furniture if it is cheaply built-- chances are good you'll just need to buy another one in a few years.
 If you're looking for a great desk, you don't need to spend $500 on the perfect piece. If the construction is good and you like the shape, but the surface is scratched, faded, or ugly, you might be able to get a great price for a good desk. A can of paint, or wood stain, is cheap. If you're willing to spend an afternoon refinishing a piece of furniture you can often save several hundred dollars., Ultimately, a piece of furniture is worth the price it is sold for. So, if you really like a piece, and have shopped around to find a good potential price, make an offer. If you can back up your offer with evidence of similar furniture prices, even better. When making an offer, remember:



Know how high you're willing to go. Set this now so that you can walk away if the price gets too high. You don't want to make this decision on the spot.

Make your preferred price clear. This is not about tactics or strategy. Be honest and upfront when making your case to get the price you want -- "I'd be willing to pay $200 for this desk."

Be flexible. If you're not going to budge on your price, don't bother negotiating. You should never pay more than you decided beforehand, but you should be able to work with the seller.
 Make sure you know how you're going to get the furniture from the seller, and how this affects your price. Lock down who is responsible for moving the furniture before finalizing the sale.Remember that you may have to reupholster or restain the piece if it is faded or in need of repair. Consider this part of the buying price, and let the seller know.

