 If going to the gym or going for a walk or jog isn't enjoyable, try using online videos or exercise DVDs to help you get in some physical activity.


Both of these options are fairly low-cost or even free and are available in a variety of skill levels to meet your needs.
Research some exercise DVDs or online videos to see what ones might be fun, geared to your fitness level and whether or not they require extra equipment.
 Strength training, toning and building muscle can also be done at home. You don't need special machines or weights to perform many of these exercises.


Incorporate bodyweight exercises for simple strength training at home. You can try: pushups, sit-ups, tricep dips, lunges or planks.
You can also use household items for weights. Try using a water battle, canned beans or a gallon jug filled with water. Use these items when you're doing exercises like bicep curls or lateral raises.
You may also want to consider purchasing a set of inexpensive free weights or resistance bands so you can do a larger variety of activities at home.
Aim to do about 20 minutes of strength training two to three times weekly.
 There are a variety of cardiovascular exercises that you can do at home or in your local community. Many are low cost or are free and do not require you to go to a gym to perform.


Go for a walk or jog outside in your neighborhood, outdoor track or park. Enjoy the outdoors while you workout. If the weather is bad or you don't have a safe area to walk, try walking loops in the mall.
You can also go for a bike ride in your neighborhood or take your bike to a scenic trail.
It is recommended you do a total of 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise each week.
 If you don't have time or don't enjoy planned physical activity, try increasing the amount of steps you take each day. The more you move throughout the day, the more calories you'll burn.


Think about different ways you could add more steps to your day. You could park farther away, walk the long way to your destination, or take the stairs instead of the elevator.
Also consider moving more. For example, you could do leg raises during TV commercial breaks or do sitting leg lifts while you're sitting at your desk.

