 House flipping involves buying a house at a low price, renovating it, and then immediately selling it and making a profit off of the renovations. The key to this process is speed; most investors try to renovate and put the house back on the market within six months.Look to buy run-down houses in up-and-coming neighborhoods. This will allow you to buy as low as possible and sell as high as possible.
Monitor the housing market to ensure that you’re buying and selling houses at times that are especially financially beneficial. For instance, when the supply of housing properties is higher than the demand, look to buy homes, and look to sell properties when demand is higher than the supply. This will help you spend less on initial investments and make more profit on higher sales., Leverage maximizes both the potential gains and the potential losses of an investment by essentially multiplying the value of your investment.As such, it is a very high-risk method of making money, so it's important to make informed choices about where and how to invest.


Most traders are limited by the amount of cash they have on hand. Leveraged trading, by contrast, allows investors to borrow money for an investment so that they can operate with more money than they have personally.
 No matter how much money you make, you will never feel like you have enough unless you learn how to properly manage it. The key is to learn to differentiate between what you need, what will actually improve your life, and what is unnecessary or frivolous.


Check your bank statements often to keep track of where and how you spend your money. It is especially important to keep track of small expenditures that you make on a daily basis, as these can add up quickly.
Cutting $10 out of your daily expenses can add up to roughly $10,000 in savings in just three years!

, While not quite a “get rich quick” approach, the more you save means the more you make on interest – especially if you save long-term. A wise savings strategy can wind up adding significantly to your savings account and has a higher chance of making you rich than anything else in this article.


The miracle of compounding interest provides the most reliable way to steadily increase your savings. Contributing even small amounts to long-term savings accounts such as IRAs (individual retirement accounts) each year will lead to exponential returns later in life.
While interest accrued in IRAs can add up to substantial amounts, there are higher return opportunities on extremely safe stock options that consistently provide income to investors.You can even keep stock holdings in your IRA plan to increase the principal you have in the account and accrue even greater interest.
Take care when deciding on any type of investment-based savings strategy beyond a simple savings account. There is risk in all types of investment, including stocks. That said, diversifying the holdings in your savings strategy is wise. Some of the largest corporations in the world steadily return double what the best IRAs offer.

