 Check or estimate the power consumption required for any of the electrical appliances in your home that you would like to power. Most people use the energy generated from them to heat their water, since a water heater or air conditioning/heating units all, typically, consume a good amount of electricity. Make a list of the wattage ratings for any electrical appliances you might want to power with the solar panels. Add up all those wattage amounts. That will give you an idea of the amount of electricity you are consuming monthly – when using those particular devices and appliances.When selecting your panels, choose those with a slightly higher wattage rating than the amount you calculated from your list. This ensures that the ones you will be buying will have enough power output for your appliances.;
, This will affect how much you spend on the purchase – such as what kind you will need or how many may be necessary for the desired location. This will affect the money you spend to buy them. You want them to have maximum light exposure throughout the day. Usually, between the hours of 9am to 3pm is the best time. Installing them so that they are directly facing the sun (wherever the direction of the sun might be for your location) is the best location - when the sun is at its brightest. The more intense the light coming from the sun is, the more energy they can produce.
 How long will they last? Most last for about 10 to 15 years. Many people are under the assumption that they last forever. That is simply not true! Check your expenses to see if buying your panels will give you savings over such a period of time (10-15 years). You determine this when you:


Look at the estimated power consumption for the devices and appliances for each month. Then, multiply that number by 12 to get the estimated cost per year.
Now, multiply that number (the estimated cost per year) by the guaranteed service life of the panels to see what that potential savings would be and… whether or not the investment makes sense to you.
 These can help ensure maximum light collection. A solar tracker is an example of this, but it is an additional expense. Also, because the solar tracker is powered by electricity generated from the solar panels, the output of your panels will be lessened by the solar tracker’s power consumption. So, keep this in mind!

, Thin film PV panels are the most cost effective but are also the lowest efficiency. Polycrystalline PV panels are greater efficiency but also higher cost. The most efficient PV panel per unit size is Monocrystalline silicon panels which are made from a single ingot of crystal but have a very expensive manufacturing process making then the most expensive PV panels.
 This estimate may vary, as you need to consider the cost of panels, wiring, and other equipment, as well as installation costs.

