 If you do not have a gmail account associated with your business, create one. This account will be linked to the Google My Business dashboard you are creating.


If you do not have a Gmail account, click on Create Account at www.gmail.com. Follow the instructions to create an account. ;
, Click on the blue box in the top right corner that says “Get On Google”. Getting your business on Google will allow you to give your customers correct information about your business location, phone number, hours and services provided. It will also enable your customers to give your business ratings and reviews, and read news that you post. , Enter it into the search bar to find your business on Google Maps. Press enter to see the search results for your business. Select your business or create a new listing.


Double check that the location and phone number match your business.
 This step applies if your business did not appear under the search results for “Find your Business”. If Google does not have your business listed, you will need to add the details of your business.


Click the category your business falls under. For example, “Local business or place”.
Accurately fill in the details of your location. This will include the business address, phone number and the category you business falls under, for example, “bakery”.
If applicable, make sure to check the box that says “I deliver goods and services to my customers at their location”. Then fill out the areas you serve by entering the city names or zip codes of the regions you serve.
 This step confirms you are authorized to add this information to Google for your business. Clicking continue also means you accept the terms and conditions. Legally, it is necessary for Google to confirm that you are the legitimate owner or authorized employee of the business.


If you are unsure whether you’re authorized to edit your business information on Google, check with the owner or manager of your company before proceeding.
 Google will send you a code to verify that you are a legitimate part of the business. Google can call or mail the six digit code to you.


Choosing the phone call is a much faster to confirm your business on Google Maps. When Google calls, write down the verification number that is given to you.
If you choose to verify by mail, you may have to wait a week or two to publish your business information on Google Maps. Additionally, the code they send is only good for thirty days. As soon as you receive your business code, enter the code on your My Business Google+ dashboard.
 In order to access your dashboard again in the future, sign back into your business Gmail account. Go to your bookmark or go to google.com/mybusiness and you will be automatically taken to your dashboard. , The “Enter code” box is located in the blue highlighted box at the top of your page. It is directly to the right of a message that says “Google has sent your verification code to you”. Type the six digit verification code you received from Google into the box and click “Submit”.
 The tour will help to quickly familiarize you with the Google+ platform for your business. Understanding the features of this platform will allow you to maximize the presence of your business on Google.


Stay signed into your business Gmail account while you work on your Google+ for your business. Signing into other accounts will cause you to log out of your Google+ My Business.
If you accidentally navigate away from your dashboard, go back to your bookmarks or type in google.com/mybusiness.
 At the top of your dashboard and to the right of the title of your business, click on the red “Edit” box. Edit your business information so that your customers can learn more information about your business and view pictures of your business.


Add a profile picture. Then upload other quality pictures of your business, add your hours and write an introduction for your business. Choose your pictures wisely, make sure they highlight all the best parts of your business. Make sure the pictures are cleaned up and professional.
Take your time writing a well written introduction for your business. Keep your writing professional, and write to make a favorable impression with your customers and potential customers.
If you are unsure about your writing skills, consult a friend or colleague who can help you review your writing before you post on Google+.
 If in the future your contact information changes, go to your My Business dashboard and update your information.


Remember, you can access your Google My Business again by logging into your business Gmail and typing in google.com/mybusiness. Click on your business, and you will be taken to your dashboard.
 If you want to publicize events, share news, or give your customers information about your business, use your MyBusiness Google+ platform.


On your dashboard, scroll down to the red “g+ Share” icon and click an option to share an update: text, photo, video, link, event or poll. After selecting or entering your update, click the blue “Share update” box to post what is happening with your business.
 The features Insights, Reviews and AdWords Express can help your business advertise, engage with customers and build a presence in you business community.

