 If it is because you want to scare people, fit in, stand out or rebel then stop right there. If it is because you have a real interest in the culture and feel like you belong in it then feel free to continue.;
, Find out more about the subculture. Once you are thoroughly educated on the Gothic subculture then you should continue to the next step.
 Take a few days to learn what you like and if you see that you have nothing to do with the Gothic subculture, you might as well give up because the first role in everything is stay loyal to yourself.
 The main and traditional Gothic rock and deathrock style is distinctive to the trained ear. Some classics are Bauhaus, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Sisters of Mercy, The Cure, The Damned, Christian Death and some consider Alien Sex Friend to be another. Then after you hear some of those artists then branch off. If you like more dark electro or industrial then maybe you should listen to some VNV Nation. If you are looking for a lighter music then maybe some Strawberry Switchblade. The point is to find you music type. Find it and love it. Remember not to limit yourself to a few genres. It's great if you're listening to Gothic rock then rap the next.
 Some people feel there is a certain type for them and some people don't. Some Goth types are traditional, CyberGoth / industrial Goth, Victorian / Romantic (or sometimes referred to just Romantigoth), Geek or Nerd Goth, Vampire Goth and Fetish Goth.
 You can wear eyeliner applied underneath and on top of the eye for school and on the weekend eyeshadow with eyeliner applied underneath. You can search tutorials on the internet.
 Gothic literature, along with campy horror movies, spawned the Gothic subculture. You can find Gothic novels on eBay or on Amazon. Some great ones are Dracula by Bram Stoker, Frankenstein by Mary Shelley and Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte.
 It has been proven that younger Goths are more intelligent than 'normal' people since they are very open minded and are always ready to learn. Make sure you have this type of attitude because if you're in school it's not only good for you, it's good for your future and your grades.
 Goths love to read, write (stories and poetry), draw, paint and make their own clothes. Goth is art, it's about being unique and individuality.
 This is yourself and your lifestyle, if you're not happy then don't be like this. If you feel limited to certain things you shouldn't be in the subculture. It's not about doing certain things because it makes you 'more Goth' it's about doing it because you want to.

