 A breastfeeding pillow is a somewhat long-term investment. If you enjoy using it, and it works well for you and your baby, you will be using the pillow until you're finished breastfeeding. Keep this in mind when selecting your pillow.


Some mothers only breastfeed for 3 or 4 months. In this case, you may not need to worry about the length and size of the pillow. A baby in that age range should fit on most breastfeeding pillows without much trouble.Some women choose to breastfeed longer. If you intend to breastfeed your child for a couple of years rather than a couple of months, go with a larger sized pillow that can support a bigger child. However, as a baby gets older he'll be able to hold his head up and control motor functions more easily. A pillow might not be necessary for support as you get past a year old.;
, Your baby is not the only factor when selecting a breastfeeding pillow. You also need to keep in mind your own size and shape to make sure the breastfeeding pillow fits your body.


Many breastfeeding pillows are designed to strap around your torso so the pillow can support the baby's head and neck when you breastfeed. Try to select a pillow that will fit your midsection shortly after birth. It's helpful to imagine yourself 5 to 6 months pregnant, as this is a good gauge of the size you'll need.Breastfeeding pillows come in different shapes: "c" shape, "o" shape, and the crescent shape. The "c" shape tends to be the most universal shape and generally fits the most body types while providing adequate arm support.O-shaped pillows wrap around the entire body, which can be good if your need extra support after pregnancy due to complications or a c-section.Crescent shapes are designed to wrap around the side of your body. They might not work as well for smaller women as the sides might fall on the back of the chair, sofa, or wherever you're sitting. Some crescent shaped pillows, however, are adjustable and can be maneuvered to fit multiple sizes., Fastening straps are a popular addition to breastfeeding pillows. They are buckled straps that allow the pillow to fit closest around your body.


The main pro of fastening straps is that they keep the pillow more secure. This makes breastfeeding less disruptive. You can also use the straps to pull the baby closer to your body.The biggest drawback of fastening straps is the difficulty of getting them on and off. Breastfeeding is unpredictable. Your baby could have issues, such as spitting up. Other children or pets could need attention, resulting in you needing to walk away from breastfeeding for a moment. The presence of straps could delay your response time to any issues that occur., Breastfeeding pillows get dirty easily. Babies spit up or have other accidents that causes debris to gather. Find a pillow that's easy to clean.


The easiest breastfeeding pillows to clean have covers that can be removed and then machine washed and dried.Some breastfeeding pillows come with foam inserts that can be hand washed and then laid out to dry.Materials used also play a factor in the ease of cleaning your pillow. Sometimes, organic materials can be harder to clean. However, if you feel more comfortable with pesticide free padding and fabrics know you might have to take time to hand wash your pillow.