 Many cuts of beef are simplified and called “roasts,” which means you should have little trouble finding an appropriate cut at the grocery store. You want a cut with a decent amount of fat, which will melt in the oven and give the meat flavor. It also makes a nice base for gravy when the meat is roasted. Look for fresh, pink-colored meat without any grayness, and a good amount of fat marbling to roast. Common roasts include:


Prime rib
Tenderloin
Round roast
Chuck roast
Fillet

, You can get fancy with rubs and marinades, but the truth of the matter is beef is best served with the simplest seasonings. Roasted beef tastes better uncluttered. Season your roast immediately before putting it in the oven, when it's up to room temperature.


Coat the beef liberally with a fat source, like gram oil, or whatever your favorite cooking oil is. Butter or herbed butter is also a perfectly effective way of coating your meat for a delicious nutty-finish on the crust.
Salt and black pepper should be sprinkled liberally on each side of beef. Use your hands and pat it in gently, so the seasoning sticks.
 The best way to cook a beef roast is in a pan on seasonally-appropriate vegetables. As the juices run out of the meat, they'll help to cook and flavor the vegetables, which will end up tasting delicious, and forming the base for a great gravy, if you want to strain it out. You can also just serve up the vegetables as a side. Couldn't be easier.


Try roughly chopping carrots, onions, and red-skin potatoes and lining them in the bottom of the pan. You don't have to season them now. When you've seasoned your beef, rest it directly on top of the vegetables and you're ready to go.
 Some oblong roasts or stuffed roasts are commonly trussed with cooking twine, to make the meat into a more uniform shape and allow it to cook more evenly, holding its shape as it cooks. This does not need to be done on all roasts, but if you've butterflied a cut and stuffed it with something, you'll likely need to truss it up before you roast it.


To truss a cut of beef, you don't have to get fancy. Just use three links of kitchen twine and tie up the meat into an even log-shaped bundle. Tie tightly, so the meat remains secure in the intended shape.
 Rather than roasting at a higher temperature and then finishing lower, beef is commonly seared in a skillet first, then finished in the oven, much as you might cook a steak. This is done when making beef wellington, and other dishes.


To sear a roast, heat some cooking oil over high heat in a cast iron pan. Place the meat into the skillet just as the oil starts to smoke. It should sizzle immediately. If it doesn't, remove the meat and wait longer. Brown the meat on each side, then place it in the roasting pan and put it in the oven.
Don't remove or trim fat from meat that you're going to roast. It'll melt and make everything else taste delicious.
 Different sized roasts will need to cook for different periods of time, but a good rule of thumb is 30 minutes per pound. If you're using a meat thermometer, meat should be removed when it’s about 10 degrees cooler than the eventual internal temperature you’re looking for. Here's a breakdown of the different grades of doneness in a beef roast. Typically, beef is a lot tastier cooked on the rare side, but cook it like you enjoy.


Rare beef has an internal temperature of between 120 and 130 degrees, and it should be a bright and purple color on the inside. It should be very tender and juicy.
Medium-rare beef is between 130 and 135 degrees, and it should be slightly brighter and redder, and warmer through than rare beef.
Medium beef should be between 135 and 145 degrees, bright pink but slightly less juicy than medium-rare beef.
Medium-well beef is between 145 and 155 and is quite firm and tan-colored on the inside.
Well done beef is cooked above 155 and should be tan-colored all the way through and tough. In general, you shouldn't cook roasts well done.
 When the beef roast is nearly to the temperature you like, remove it from the oven and from the pan. Place it on a cutting board or platter, and cover the meat with aluminum foil. It will continue cooking as it rests, then the temperature will ease off slightly and the meat will be perfect to cook.


Slice beef thickly to avoid losing the heat. Slices should be generous, especially if the meat is cooked rarer, at least 3/4 of an inch thick.

