 The method of doing in-text citations varies significantly between Chicago style and MLA citations. In Chicago style, the in-text citations take the form of footnotes at the bottom of the page (or at the end of the paper). In MLA, the citation is given in the body of the text, in parenthesis.


In Chicago style, the footnote is basically a full reference like you’d normally use at the end of your paper, with slightly different punctuation. A Chicago style citation would look something like this: “Peaches are best in August.1” The corresponding footnote (which is referenced by the number in superscript) will have more information: “1Gretchen Jones, Peaches for Everyone (Seattle: Pine Books, 1992), 393.”
In this example, “Gretchen” is the author’s first name; “Jones” is the author’s last name. “Peaches for Everyone” is the title, while “Seattle” is the place of publication and “1992” is the date. Finally, “393” is the page number where you found the information.
Follow the steps below to find out how you would convert Chicago style to MLA, using this specific example.;
, After the sentence you wish to reference (in this case "Peaches are best in August") open a parenthesis, leaving the period and superscript number in place for now. If you delete the number in superscript, the footnote at the bottom of the page will be deleted. It's more convenient to leave the footnote in place for now, so you can refer to the information it contains when writing your citation. At this point, you citation should look like this:


"Peaches are best in August (.1"

, After the open parenthesis, type in the author's last name. You can get this information from the footnote at the bottom of the page. In this example, the author's name is Gretchen Jones, so the citation would be as follows:


"Peaches are best in August (Jones.1"

, The next thing you need to do is include the page number of the quote you are referencing, then close the parenthesis. There's no need to include any periods, commas or semi-colons. For example:


"Peaches are best in August (Jones 393).1"

, At this point you have finished the MLA citation, but you still need to delete the Chicago citation. Typically, if your paper was formatted correctly using the built-in footnote function in your word processor, all you need to do is delete the number in superscript at the end of the sentence. Usually, that will also make the footnote disappear. If it doesn’t, go down to the bottom of the page and delete the footnote. The finished MLA footnote should look like this:


"Peaches are best in August (Jones 393)."

, Another, alternative way to do in-text citations using MLA is to include the author's name in the text. When you've already referenced the author in the text, there's no need to repeat this information in the citation, so all you need to do is include the page number. For example:


“Jones wrote the following about the subject: ‘Peaches are best in August’ (393).”
Keep in mind that the quotation mark will come before the parenthesis, while the period will come after.
 With reference page citations, the citation method is almost exactly the same. The only difference is that MLA includes the medium of publication (print, web, etc) at the end of the citation, after the year of publication. For step by step instructions on how to do reference page citations for MLA, see below.
 To begin the citation, write the last name of the author, a comma, then the last name, followed by a period. For example:


Jones, Gretchen.
 Just like Chicago style, the next step is to place the name of the book in italics, followed by a period. For example.


Jones, Gretchen. Peaches for Everyone.
 After the title of the book, you should include the city of publication, followed by a colon. Then put the publisher, a comma, the year of publication, followed by a period. For example:


Jones, Gretchen. Peaches for Everyone. Seattle: Pine Books, 1992.
 At this point, the Chicago reference is finished. To do an MLA reference you need to include one final piece of information — the medium of publication. If you are referencing a book, all you need to do is write the word "Print" followed by a period. For example:


Jones, Gretchen. Peaches for Everyone. Seattle: Pine Books, 1992. Print.
 Whether your reference page uses MLA or Chicago style, you will need to put your references in alphabetical order from A to Z. If two authors have the same last name, use their first names to decide the order.

