 Shake the cans of coconut milk up vigorously before opening them. Measure out ½ cup of it and set this aside for now. Pour the remaining coconut milk into a saucepan.


Coconut milk separates inside the can, so giving it a good shake before using it will reincorporate the liquid with the solid elements.
 Measure out agave, maple syrup, honey or sugar for your ice cream, depending on which you like the best. Add this to the saucepan. Measure out the salt and add that too.
 Turn your stove’s burner to medium-low heat. Stir the coconut milk mixture as it warms up. Keep stirring until the mixture is warmed through and the sweetener is completely dissolved. This should take 1-2 minutes.
 Put the cornstarch in a small bowl with the ½ cup coconut milk you reserved. Whisk it briskly. Keep whisking until the cornstarch is completely dissolved.
 Add the cornstarch mixture to the saucepan with the warm, sweetened coconut milk. Whisk gently to incorporate the two.
 Increase the heat and stir the mixture as it begins to cook and thicken. Keep stirring until the mixture is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. This should take anywhere from 6-8 minutes. Keep your eye on it and don’t let it come to a boil.
 Once your base has thickened, turn off the burner and move the saucepan off the heating element. Add the vanilla to the base and stir to incorporate them. Allow the base to cool for a few minutes.
 Transfer the base to a shallow container. Cover the container with plastic wrap. Refrigerate it for at least 4 hours or up to 3 days.
 Remove the container from the fridge and take off the plastic covering. The base should have a texture similar to pudding at this point. Pour it into your ice cream maker and start churning. You want the base to thicken quite a bit, until it reaches a similar consistence to soft serve ice cream.


Every machine is different, but this should take between 10 and 20 minutes.
Add any extras you want at the very end of the churning session, then churn a few more seconds.
 Scrape the ice cream from the maker’s bowl into a freezer container with a resealable lid. Cover it with a piece of wax or parchment paper, which will protect it from ice crystal formations. Freeze it for 4 hours, until the mixture hardens, and then serve.


You may want to remove it from the freezer and place it on the counter for a few minutes to defrost slightly before scooping it.

