 There's no such thing as a 100% black rose, although breeders and genetic engineers are trying to make one.However, the right growing techniques can make an extremely dark flower, with just a hint of red or burgundy. Start with a rose variety that produces dark flowers with a velvety texture.Ask a florist for more advice, or track down one of these varieties:


Black Jade is one of the most popular dark roses, but can be vulnerable to pests and disease.It turns dark in hot weather.
Black Baccara is likely the darkest commonly available rose, but the flowers are small and unscented. It appears darker in cooler weather.

Midnight Blue is one of the darkest purple roses available. It has an unusual clove scent.
Other options include Nigrette, Black Magic, Black Pearl, Black Ice, Black Beauty, Blackout, and Taboo. Before buying any rose, check climate requirements and size.;
, The exact color your rose ends up can depend on chance factors such as temperature and light. For best results, plant it in a greenhouse where you can control these factors precisely.









Always look up your variety or ask a garden nursery for information on space requirements, soil type, and sun levels.
For general information on planting and growing roses, read this article.
 Some online sources recommend adding black food coloring to the water used to care for the roses. This is unlikely to work, since the roots will not absorb most dyes. If you want to try this, your best bet is to ask a florist for a professional florist dye. These are usually intended for cut flowers, not living plants, but they are less likely to harm your rose.
 When the closed buds first appear, the plant is still focusing its energy on growing the flower stems. When the stem has stopped growing and the bud begins to swell, the plant has reached a critical stage of development. 90% of the pigments that determine flower color are created after the bud is ¾ size, but before it opens.








If you have a rose variety that blooms multiple times a season, note the bud development on a calendar and use it to track the development of the next round of flowers. This final stage of bud growth will usually take place about two weeks before the flower opens., During this stage, temperature can drastically affect color. Most rose varieties have not been researched in this way, so you'll have to be a pioneer. If possible, try different techniques on different buds or bud clusters. Here are some guidelines to get you started:









Cool temperatures tend to increase the amount of pigment produced, which usually means darker flowers. One study of Crimson Glory roses produced purplish roses at 73ºF (23ºC), and darker, redder roses at 50ºF (13ºC).This is more likely to work in summer.Heat stress usually leads to faded or more orange flowers, but there are exceptions. For example, Baccara roses may end up deepening to a bluer shade.This is a risky technique that can cause flower or plant death; if possible, ask a florist to help you choose temperatures that will stress the plant without killing it. One study of (orange-colored) Jaguar roses exposed buds to three days of 102ºF (39ºC) daytime / 64ºF (18ºC) nighttime temperatures., During bud development, keep Baccara roses shaded for a darker, bluer color.Other varieties may require sunlight in order to develop any color at all.When in doubt, try shading a few branches but keep the rest of the plant in sunlight.
 The darker the flowers, the more heat they will absorb from the sun. After the living flowers are open, keep them in partial shade. Alternatively, cut them and try one of the methods below to make them even darker.









Some roses will bloom dark red in spring and fade to black during summer.If you're unsatisfied with the appearance of your roses, you may want to risk exposing them to sunlight.

