 Are you a machine gun-toting heavy? Or a silent but deadly assassin? Play some less competitive games and find out which one you do best at.;
, Once you've played for a time, decide which positions you're likely to feel most effective playing in. Pick one of these roles:


Scout: Uses Nightfinder, runs around.
Sniper: Stays near base borders, uses Recon or Longstrike.
Rescuer: Runs in to enemy's bases to free hostages, uses a firefly.
 When you're experienced enough, upgrade to one of these roles:


Missionary: An upgraded scout, uses mavericks or recon (pistol only).
Gunner: Stays at in or around base, uses Vulcan or magstrike to wipe out enemies.
Raider: Runs in to enemies base, steals ammo. Uses raider.
 Once you've picked one, when you're even better, choose from one of these:


Agent: Highest level of scout, uses hyperfire, recon (pistol only) or longshot (front gun only).
Assassin: Highest level of sniper, uses longshot or modded rifle.
Ransom Payer: Highest level of rescuer. Uses anything that doesn't fire darts (titan is best).
 Make sure that you are comfort able using it and can shoot accurately with it. For example, a heavy might use the Stampede or Magstrike, while a commando might use the Alpha-Trooper or Deploy.
 It's less essential that this follows your role, as the secondary you shoot best with is probably better if you're caught reloading.


If you want to add a little bit of extra oomph, choose a special weapon for your position. A heavy might want a rocket launcher, while an assassin might want a small N-Force dagger for quick melee kills.
Have a secret strike with you at all times, no matter what position you play. This is useful for when you are out of ammo in all weapons, but you should only use for a last resort, as its one dart capacity and 7 pump firing action make it better for you to use something else if you can.
 If you're a sniper, then don't charge out like a madman, or vice versa if you're an assault trooper.
 Get to play now you know your position!

