 Before you begin, grab your loaf pan and line the bottoms and sides with butter. Then, sprinkle with a light coating of flour. This will guarantee that it comes out easily when done.


The other option is parchment paper, which you can cut to size and insert in the bottom of the pan.
 Hopefully your butter is at about room temperature, or else it will be a bit difficult to combine. It's very important to do this until the mixture is creamy, thick, and fluffy -- and not beyond this point. You'll know when you hit it.


Using an electric mixer on high will keep your forearms from cursing the day you volunteered for dessert duty.
 Mix well after each egg gets dropped in (about 15 seconds) before you add another. Then move onto the vanilla and salt.


At this point, you can add your lemon/orange zest or other additions. Dried fruits, nuts, and chocolate chips all have their place with this dessert. But it's delicious plain, too!

, If you dump 'er all in, either your muscles or your mixer will put up a fight. If you are using the mixer, keep it on the low setting.


Some schools of thought swear by sifting. If you've the time to spare, consider sifting your flour before adding it in.
Don't overbeat it! Once the batter looks finished, stop. You don't want it to lose any of its buoyancy.
 Or, of course, until it's finished. Insert a toothpick to the middle to see if it is -- if it comes out clean, you're clear for take off. Take it out of the oven and let it cool in the pan for 15 minutes or so.


If you find that it's browning too quickly in the oven, you can put a tent of aluminum foil over it to slow the process down.
 It'll drop out when ready. When preparing to serve it, consider topping with additional goodies. Though great with a simple cup of coffee, it's also great with fruit, whipped cream, and whatever your little heart desires. The pound cake can accommodate most all sweet flavors.


A light dusting of powdered sugar is fairly standard, too. Sometimes something simple is more classic!

,