 Get a partner. One of you should have a ball, they other will be on their knees 5-6 meters away. Have the ball carrier approach at half speed, then choose a direction to run around the "defender." The player on their knees must then commit to the tackle from the ground, focusing on placing their head on the opponent's butt cheek and wrapping them up. When done correctly, the wrap alone should bring the attacker down safely.


This is a great drill for beginners and to warm up for tackling before practices and games.
As you get better, try the same drill on your feet. Line up across from the attacker and make a slow, technically perfect tackle, bringing them to the ground gently.
You can turn the drill an endurance test as well. Place 3-4 defenders, all on their knees, in a row and make the attacker run through each of them, taking contact and bouncing up after each hit., Group 5 players in square, with one in the middle holding a ball. Have them toss it to a player on the corner, who will run in at them, choosing a side to run to. The center player must get low and make the tackle, then get to their feet and grab the ball. As the tackled player gets up and returns to the corner, have the center player throw the ball to a new person and then make another tackle. Switch out the player in the center after 1 minute or so, depending on skill and fitness level.


Start with very small squares so that attackers can't gain much momentum. Once you're confident in everyone's tackling ability, increase the distance so that players must make more challenging tackles in the middle.Similar drills can be done in straight lines, where the tackler must move through everyone, or in small 2v2 scrimmages.
 The best way to get used to game pace is to slowly ramp up the contact. For jogging tackles, simply have an offensive player jog straight forward with the ball. Approach them diagonally and tackle them from the side, without them dodging at all. While you should still practice this at only 75% pace, it gets you used to hitting a moving target and placing your head correctly on the butt.
 Oftentimes the best way to practice tackling is to just go and do it. Mark off a thin rectangle, no more than 10 yards wide, and give your teammate the ball on the end. Have them run at you at attempt to get by with whatever move, trick, or speed they can muster. Your only job is to prevent it from happening. Keeping the field thin allows you to approximate a game setting, when an attacker would just hit another defender by going out wide, and forces you to make solid, firm contact in order to win.


To minimize head-on contact, start both players on the same side of the field. On the count of three, both players run around opposite corners of the box and then meet in the middle of the rectangle at an angle.In practice it is generally best to practice tackling at 75-80% speed. No one wants to get injured, especially in practice.
 A tackling bag is a good, safe way to learn contact. However, many coaches use them far too often, which teaches kids to make odd tackles that they would never make in a game. Use the bags to warm-up, practice some contact on days where you don't want anyone hurt, and to illustrate where to hit with your shoulder. Otherwise, stick with natural contact, even if it is only at 50% speed, to teach your players more effectively.Tackle bags are soft and safe, meaning players can take tackling risks they never would in a game.
Bags have a place in training still, of course, just not every day.
 No matter what drill you are doing, you need be focused not only on the tackle but immediately after. A good tackler is back on their feet immediately, using the tackle to gain an advantage over the opponent that could lead to a stolen ball. As your tackling improves, work on.


Ending the tackle on top. Make sure you get up before they can.
Popping immediately to your feet. Once you're on your feet you can play the ball. That means, if none of their teammates have made it to the ruck yet, you can simply steal the ball and run forward.
Step over the ball as soon as you're up. This ensures the ball is in your possession, even if you can't pick it up. The other team must ruck through you to get the ball back.

