 First, wax or shave 24 hours before your spray tan. On the day of your spray tan, use a non-oil-based exfoliator to remove dead skin and to get a more even tan, paying close attention to dry areas and to your neck, chest and face where you’re more likely to streak. Don't use any oils or moisturizers when you're done bathing. Before you get your spray tan, wash your face well to remove any make-up., While you’ll have time for the spray tan to dry before you get dressed, it's still advisable to wear dark clothes. Also, while in the tanning booth you can go nude, in a swimsuit or in a thong/pair of underwear. If you opt for the latter, wear one you don't care about becoming perhaps permanently discolored.


Remember to bring another pair of underwear with you to wear afterward.
 As with self-tanner, you don't want to overdo it. If you have a fair complexion go for a light or medium tan. If you have an olive complexion, opt for medium or dark.


Note: Different spraying machines will have different settings and color options. The key point is to avoid overkill. Subtle changes are more flattering than drastic ones – the charbroiled look simply isn't attractive on anyone.
 After you've stripped down, you'll want to put on either a barrier cream or lotion to areas of your body that you don't want the spray tan to touch, such as your palms, between your toes and fingers and on the soles of your feet. The salon will typically provide these creams., If you go to a salon where a professional does the spraying, they'll have you move into different positions, so tuck away your shyness for a few minutes. Some booths are more like an automatic car wash, in which you go in and are instructed when to turn and so forth. And then there are the self-spray booths, which are much less expensive, but the rate of streaking and splotching also often goes up, too.


During the process, you'll receive the tanning spray itself, and then often a moisturizing mist and an air dry.If you don’t get an air dry and excess solution lingers on your skin, forming clear or brown droplets, you'll need to lightly towel dry them quickly so they don’t run down your body and form streaks. Instead of drying from head to toe, start at your feet and wipe up your legs. Then start at your wrists and wipe up your arms to your shoulders. Finally, finish with your face, drying from your chin to your forehead., Your tan will continue to develop for several hours, and your skin will feel sticky. If you do touch your skin during this time, though, wash only the underside of your hands to get off the tanning solution. Also avoid skin contact with water or don’t exercise (again, sweat) during the developing phase.
 Doing this will allow for your tan to fully develop. When you take your first shower, don’t be surprised if you notice color washing off. This is just bronzer that is part of the tanner. Your tan will still be intact.
 A spray tan typically lasts between 4-10 days. Similar to using self-tanners, do not exfoliate between sessions and limit your shaving as much as possible to extend your tan’s lifespan. Moisturize at least once per day, especially before bedtime, but use one that has a water base to avoid streaking. Here are some other things to avoid, which also apply to self-tanners.


Acne medications that exfoliate your skin
Body hair bleach products
Facial masks
Facial toners containing alcohol
Makeup removers containing oil
Taking really long, hot baths