 As a student, your most important responsibility is learning the material your classes cover. Not only will taking your classes seriously help make the school year go by quicker, it’s important to remember why you’re in school in the first place.Reminding yourself of your responsibility to yourself as a student will help motivate you to show up to your classes ready and willing to learn.
If your mind starts to wander during class, think to yourself “right now my best course of action is to pay attention.”

, Listening fully will help you better comprehend the material and will likely increase your interest in class too. As you’re listening, take notes about the things you find interesting or don’t fully understand, and think about any questions you may have.If anything is unclear, raise your hand and ask about it. Know that other students will probably benefit from your question too.
 You don’t have to be the teacher’s pet in order to get along well with your teachers. If you’re bored in a particular class and can’t help thinking about stuff outside of class, talk to your teacher about it. Remember that your teacher was a student once too!Ask to speak with your teacher after class. Let them know how you’re feeling.
Say things like “I’m having a hard time getting into the course material and I’m wondering if you have any advice.”
Ask your teacher about what interests them about the subject they teach!

, Think about ways you can act differently during especially challenging or boring classes. The fact of the matter is that you’re not always going to enjoy every class or every teacher. But you can find something about every class and every teacher you can learn from. Take a moment to ask yourself, "What can I learn from this class?"Find out if a teacher who may be a bit dry during lecture is more interesting to talk to one on one. They may even know a lot about something that interests you.
 If you’re struggling or simply not enjoying a certain class, talk to other students that seem to be doing well or are engaged with the material. You can even ask them for tips. For instance, ask how they approach ideas they don’t understand at first, or what they use to help them with homework for that particular class.Listen to your classmates’ questions too.
Even if you think you understand the lesson, your classmates’ comments may make you see it in a more interesting way.
 Set specific goals or deadlines for yourself, and decide on the specific steps you'll take to work towards each one. For instance, if you know you have a project due on Friday, start working on it the weekend before and think about ways you can improve it early in the week.Planning ahead helps you complete specific assignments and achieve more general goals too.
Avoid putting off homework or studying. This will add stress to your life and wind up leading to lower grades.
Try using a calendar or day planner to help you stay organized, and to keep your thoughts organized about what you have to do and when. Better organizing your time will help it go by quicker!

, The school day can drag on sometimes, in part because it’s a full day! Believe it or not, even adult brains can only focus for surprisingly short amounts of time. Whether between classes or between homework assignments, take a few minutes to do something fun – or even just to rest quietly.If you get up to walk around – which can be a great way to stretch your body and prepare for another focused school session – don’t allow yourself to get distracted by your phone or a TV, as these will make it harder to refocus on what you’re trying to learn.

