


One of the best things you can do to ensure that your air conditioner remains functional is to have the unit serviced on a regular basis. Regular service is important, because it will keep the unit performing optimally. Also, service and repair should always be performed by a licensed technician. Performing maintenance on your own could lead to more severe problems, and could void any existing warranties on the unit. 
Having a professional service your air conditioning unit regularly is also one of the best ways to prevent issues from arising. A technician will be able to diagnose any existing issues with the unit before they become serious. Furthermore, a technician will be able to assist in maximizing the efficiency of your air conditioning unit, and greater efficiency will lead to lower energy expenses.;
,


Most people know that they need to change the air filter on their air conditioner regularly. However, people are less aware of other regular maintenance that can help prevent needing a technician. Here are a few basic maintenance tasks that can help prevent the need for more professional help:

, Frequently check your attic. You want to make sure that wildlife is not setting up shop in your vents. Also, you will want to be sure that no personal items are interfering with air flow.
 You want to be sure that the elements are not interfering with performance. Make sure that your unit is clear of any unwanted plant growth. Also, make sure the unit is clear of ant hills. Ants can cause issues with the unit, and should be taken care of immediately.
 A top of the line air filter will produce greater air quality, and will also help to increase the efficiency of your unit.
 Dirty vents and ducts can cause poor air flow, and could lead to potential health risks. You will want to be sure that there is no moss and/or fungi growing in your vents and ducts.



Sometimes regular maintenance is not enough. As with anything mechanical, parts wear out over time. Once professional assistance is needed, the best thing you can do is to call a Mobile, Alabama air conditioning repair company. Once again, performing serious repair and maintenance on your own is not advisable. Attempting to perform serious repair without the assistance of a professional could cause serious damage to the unit, or even yourself.
While it may be tempting to call the first company you can find for air conditioning maintenance and repair, there are a few things you will want to consider. Here are some tips for finding the right air conditioning service company for your needs:

, This will help to ensure that you are receiving professional assistance and quality work. Also, professional air conditioning service companies often provide warranties for their work. A warranty from a professional can help prevent costly expenditures on future repairs.
 Customer reviews are often the most overlooked, but most beneficial resource when selecting a company or product. Reviews are not advertising, and when trying to make the best selection, it is often times wiser to trust an existing customer as opposed to a salesman. However, be sure to investigate multiple reviews before making your decision.
 Find out if a company charges hourly for service and repair, or if they charge a flat rate. Also, ask if the company performs estimates. A company may not be able to give you an exact price, but an estimate will help you to prepare for the cost of moving forward with your repair. 

