 Many people feel uncomfortable in a gym because they are new to it and feel like they don’t belong. That just means you have to get used to the gym space. After you get your membership, spend some time just walking around. The more familiar you are with a place and the more time you spend in it, the more comfortable you will be there.Start by walking around the cardio machines. Look at the treadmills, stationary bikes, and ellipticals.
Walk around the weight machines. Look at what each one does and which ones you are interested in using.
Go into the free weights room or section. This room can be the scariest for people. Maybe you’re not ready for barbells, but look at the hand weights. Most gyms have them in weights ranging from five or 10 pounds to 50.
Check out the pool, spin room, group exercise room, sauna, and locker room. Continue walking around the gym during your next few visits as you get used to this new and potentially nerve-wracking exercise space.
 Getting to know the people at your gym can help to make you feel more comfortable when you visit. You may also get some encouragement from people who go regularly.


Try starting out by saying “hi” to people you see at the gym often.
After a few times, you might try introducing yourself to break the ice. For example, you can say, “Hi. My name is ____. I am just getting started here. How long have you been a member?”
Over time, you may develop friendships with the people at your gym and gain some extra support as you continue your fitness journey.
 The people who work in the gym are there to help. If you aren’t sure how to do something, ask them to help you. You will gain confidence once you learn how to properly do moves like squats, deadlifts, or presses. You can also ask for help with machines if you don’t know how they work. They are there to help you, so let them!Many gym trainers will take you through machines or the free weight room if you are new to working out. They will help teach you how to properly use the machines or do moves so you can avoid injury.
Many gym memberships come with one free personal training session. These sessions can be a good time for you to ask questions or get a trainer to help you get started on a workout plan tailored to you.
 A good way to be confident in the gym is to listen to your favorite music. Nothing is more motivating than some feel good, pumped-yourself-up tunes. Make a playlist full of songs that make you feel good about yourself and want to move.Headphones are a good way to block out other people if you feel uncomfortable.
 If you are only interested in certain types of exercise, you may consider joining a specialized gym. These gyms only offer classes in a certain area instead of offering a variety of everything. You may feel better and more confident surrounded by people who are interested in the same activity as you.For example, you can join gyms for yoga, barre, spin, kickboxing, or CrossFit.
 If you are not confident at the gym yet, you can go during slower times when the gym isn’t as busy. During these times, there won’t be as many people around you to make you feel less confident. You may be able to work out in nearly empty rooms, meaning you can try things without feeling like people are watching you.Most gyms are busiest in the evenings right after work. During the day and later in the evenings are generally not as busy.

