 The body's metabolism is most efficient between 7 and 9 AM, so be sure to pack in as much nutrition as possible during this time.


Avoid caffeine. Though coffee is hard for many of us to quit, caffeine highs-and-lows can be detrimental to your running.
Be sure to get in some fiber. High-fiber breakfast options include oatmeal (cook the oats with walnuts or almonds for extra protein), whole wheat toast with an all-natural nut butter and sliced banana, or low-fat granola.
Try to include some fruit at breakfast. This can be easily done via sliced fruit over oatmeal/granola, or through a smoothie. If you chose to make a smoothie, try to include some greens in it (e.g. kale or spinach). If you throw a small handful of nuts into the smoothie, it can be a great healthy breakfast on-the-go.
Stay away from foods that may give you stomach gas while you're running. Eggs and heavy meats (e.g. bacon, sausage) tend to have this effect.;
, These will help keep your metabolism moving, and your body will thank you for the extra fuel during your workout. Good snacks for runners can include but are not limited to:


A small handful of raw or roasted nuts, preferably low-salt.
A granola bar (though do be careful for sugary bars disguised as health foods).
Whole-wheat crackers with hummus or another light dip.
Fruit or sliced veggies.
 Running is a high-intensity sport, and you need to be prepared to fuel your body.


Stay away from store-bought lunches. Deli sandwiches, and other typical lunch fare tend to be high in saturated fats, sodium, and preservatives which most of us should be avoiding anyway, even if we are not competitive athletes.
Do get in some protein. Nuts, seeds, legumes, and whole grains are excellent sources of protein, as well as limited quantities of lean meats like chicken and fish.
Include a full serving of vegetables during lunch. This can take the form of a salad, a vegetable juice, or it can be incorporated into the main course of your lunch.



Avoid alcohol. Though it is not harmful when consumed in very limited quantities, cutting back on alcohol can positively affect your running.
Again, fuel up with protein. Legumes like lentils and beans, as well as whole grains like farro, quinoa, and brown rice are great sources of heart-healthy protein which will keep your muscles functioning at top speed during your workouts.
Do not fear carbs. Good carbohydrates like whole grain pasta are not only filling and delicious, but they will provide you with the energy you'll need to push you body to new limits.
 You will be amazed at how a few more glasses of water a day will improve your running.


Limit so-called "sport drinks." These are very high in sugar, and are usually unnecessary for your average recreational runner. Save these for after races or particularly strenuous workouts.
However, do be sure to get in enough electrolytes/minerals to allow your body to make use of the water it's consuming. Drinks like coconut water are low in sugar, but contain a good dose of electrolytes.
 If you are running in a couple of hours, have a light snack. If you are running quite soon, try not to eat, and limit water consumption to avoid getting side-cramps during your run. Always try to have something to eat after your run. Feed your body!

