 Never lose focus of the big picture. Being a true player is not about concentrating all of your energy on one girl or one group of girls as soon as you get somewhere necessarily. Leaving girls prematurely is also a big mistake too but you want to make sure you establish a connection with a girl(s) when you get to a spot, enough so that when you decide to circulate, they will know who you are later on, and be glad you came back. Hanging around for too long on a first meeting can look desperate and you may go stale.


Be funny, spontaneous and memorable. NEVER insult them and if you are insulted by them, do not show that it worries you because you are a player.
They should be glad you gave them your time in the first place. Laugh it off and move on without being nasty, like water off a player's back.;
, Don't rush or force anything. A player always has another option and others should be aware of this too. If it's not going down the way you want it to with a lady, don't force it. You might run into her next week and be able to pick up from where you left off. If you keep texting the girl to see where she's at, she'll lose interest quickly. If you chill out and play hard to get, then she'll be coming back for more.
 The most important thing once you have honed your skills is that you realize you are a true player and never doubt yourself. If you are confident, positive, original, and outgoing, then you should not have any need to doubt your player status. Remember, you don't become a player overnight. It takes practice and study. The reason the word 'Player' exists is because it's all in the game.


All players have faced rejection at some point. Think of it as the necessary steps needing to be taken on your way to becoming a true boss player.
 A true player is a man of the people. It should not necessarily be just about talking to girls. A player knows what they are and acts accordingly. Self-assured and arrogant are two very different things. Remember that no one wants to talk to someone who thinks they are better than him. The best players can let people know they are confident in their own abilities without putting anyone else down. These are the kind of people others will want to hang around.


This kind of confident attitude will ultimately attract women and like-minded wing men.
 A true player is always looking, smelling and feeling fresh when he is out and about. How many times do you go out somewhere and see a whole bunch of guys with very similar clothes, hair cuts, and drinks? The best way to start acting like a player is to be yourself. Don't be afraid to wear clothes that you think are different and cool - not necessarily what is fashionable this week. Throw something in that nobody else will be wearing - a crazy coloured scarf or a shirt that makes you stand out without looking like a clown, dressing up like you are wearing a costume is not the way to go here.


Shoes are important - girls notice shoes. Wear something eye-catching but not too insane.






Take care of your physical appearance too. Some sort of exercise or work out each week will never do you any harm. It will pay off in all areas.
 Perhaps one of the most important things for a player to be aware of is that he should respect other players at all times. Insecurity is not a trait of a player, it's a trait of a hater. This also goes for how you treat women. If you are disrespectful to women in front of them, not only will they dislike you but you will be unable to creep on them later and make a romantic move - which in essence is against what being a player is all about.


Remember people's names when they tell you. Repeat it if you have to once they tell you.
If a girl says something positive about another guy who is there too, never say anything negative about him. Being cool will show you are still comfortable with who you are. If that does happen, she may be testing the water with how you will react, so chill and throw something in like "the girl next to him is nice too..." You're a player, and it's a little bit cheeky. She will probably also know that you recognize what she was trying to do.
 Sometimes, as a man, they are necessary or unavoidable, it's true. A player should not let himself be disrespected but, avoid them at all costs if you are out to meet girls. It's a major turn off for any girl with class. It also affects your game dramatically if you are not in a good place mentally when talking to women. The vibe of the player is almost always cool and un-phased. Girls will flock to a player if he looks like he can offer them a good time, so don't get caught up with fights.


Smile a lot and enjoy the night. The best result is to end up in bed with a girl, not in hospital or the police station. Very un-player.
 You may be a player but it's important to be safe. Players don't want babies running around and they don't want to catch anything. If you have a reputation for sleeping with every girl in town, the girls will stop wanting you after a while.
 This is similar to clothing and owning your own style. Decide on a drink for yourself and always order it... Doesn't mean you can't mix it up but have a signature drink. Players usually don't stick to just beer or spirits - throw something like a martini in every now and again or try your favourite spirit with something a bit out of the ordinary like Vodka with soda water and a splash of guava. Players recognize that variety is the spice of life with all things.


Girls remember this sort of stuff and it's one more way to say to people that you are a player who does what he has to when it comes to getting down. If your signature drink is something that is interesting, you can ask a girl "Do you want to try this?".
Almost always a good way to tell if a girl likes you is if she says yes. It shows she trusts you and isn't afraid of putting her mouth somewhere yours has been. Something else important to remember here is that you also need a little bit of knowledge about drinks that girls will order.
Learn about a couple of wines/sparkling wines and champagnes at different price points and taste a couple of girly drinks. This gives you something to talk about with them and lets you understand them better.






Remember, when you go to buy a girl or girls drinks, remember clearly what they ordered. Going back with the wrong drinks will show you didn't care about them enough to remember.
 A player can not really be a player if he can't afford to have a good time. Make sure you have more than enough money to go out if you are trying to creep on girls. Buy drinks but get drinks bought for you too. Don't try to stick to any rules about this with girls you don't know. Every situation is different. Perhaps every two drinks you buy them, they should buy you one. There are no hard and fast rules about this but don't just be buying girls drinks all night that you don't know.


It doesn't guarantee any action and if anything they won't respect you - no one takes a player for a ride. Also, it's not how a player should be doing things.
You shouldn't need to buy your way into anything, but you should have enough cash to stay there. When you take a girl home, pay for the taxi. She will have to get herself home eventually anyway.
 Your player sanctum should represent who you are. A boring house is not going to work. That doesn't mean you have to fill it with crap either, just make it a place that you feel comfortable and that girls will feel comfortable too. Have drinks at your house for when you get home with a girl. It's a great way to ease the tension for her being in a stranger's home, even though she should feel great about being allowed into a player's house.


Keep your house clean and pay attention to areas like your bathroom and bedroom most importantly. She will be visiting both of these areas so its very important they look clean and welcoming.
Have appropriate music ready when you get home. She doesn't want to keep listening to loud dance music or rap.
Don't make it too chilled though either, you don't want to lose the vibe.

