 Making a mini-electromagnet is a fun, easy project. You can use it to learn more about how magnets work, or just as a way to pick up some paperclips that you spilled on your desk. To make a mini-electromagnet, you will need:nail or screw (at least three inches long and made from iron, zinc, or steel)some thin, coated copper wire
scissors
one AA battery
electrical tape
something to pick up, such as metal paperclips or tacks;
, Take your nail or screw and begin wrapping the copper wire around it, but make sure that you leave a tail of about three inches. You will need this to connect the wire to the battery.








Coil the wire tightly around the nail or screw until you reach the end. Then, leave another three-inch tail. Cut the wire about three inches past the end of the nail or screw.
When you are done, you should have two three-inch pieces of copper wire hanging off of the ends of your screw or nail.
 Take the wire pieces that are hanging off of the ends of your screw or nail. Then, curl up the ends of these pieces of wire a little bit, as if you are making a tiny loop on each end.








Looping the ends of the wire will help to create a better connection between the battery and the wire.
 Next, take the loops that you created and attach one loop to each pole of your battery. Attach one to the positive pole and the other to the negative pole.








Secure each of the wire loops to the opposite poles of your battery with a small piece of electrical tape.
 After you have attached the wires and secured them with tape, your mini-electromagnet is complete. Now you can use the wire-wrapped part of the nail or screw to pick up things like paperclips, tacks, nails, screws, and other small metal objects.








If your mini-electromagnet does not work, then check to ensure that the wires are making close contact with both ends of the battery. If they are loose or not connected, then the electromagnet will not work.
Detach the copper wires from the battery when you are done using the magnet. The magnet will become hot if the wires are connected for too long.
 Try swapping an iron nail for a steel one to see if this increases or decreases the amount of paperclips you can pick up.


Don’t forget to count the number of paperclips that your current design can lift before you make adjustments.
 Try upgrading your current screw or nail with a larger one to see if this makes the magnet more powerful.
 Try swapping your AA battery for a D battery to see if this results in a more powerful magnet.


Attach the wires to the D battery the same way that you would attach them to the AA battery.
 To add a knife switch, you will need two D batteries, more wire, and a knife switch, which you can find in most hobby stores.


Coil the wire around your nail or screw, then connect the wire from one end of the screw to your knife switch.
Then, connect the wire from the other end of the nail or screw to the negative pole of one of the D batteries.
Next, connect a piece of copper wire between the positive pole of your battery that is connected to the screw and the negative pole of the battery that is not yet connected to anything.
Finish the circuit by connecting a wire between the remaining positive pole and the knife switch.
Close the knife switch and you should be able to pick up some paperclips or tacks.

