 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the bars, set the temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius degrees) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line an 8-inch (20-cm) baking dish with parchment paper and set it aside.You can substitute foil for parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add ¼ cup (57 g) of melted, unsalted butter and ¼ cup (50 g) of sugar to a medium bowl. Whisk the two together until they’re fully combined.Make sure that the butter has cooled before you mix it with the sugar.
 Once the melted butter and sugar are combined, add ¾ cup (96 g) of all-purpose flour, ¼ teaspoon (2 g) of baking soda, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of baking powder, and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Mix well until a thick dough forms.If you prefer, you can substitute whole wheat flour or a gluten-free flour blend for the all-purpose flour.
 After you’ve mixed the dough, use clean fingers to press it into the bottom of the lined baking dish. Make sure that the dough is in as even a layer as possible., To make the filling, add an 8-ounce (226 g) package of cream cheese and ½ cup (100 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Whisk the two together until they are fully combined.If you prefer, you can use a stand mixer or handheld mixer to blend the cheesecake filling.
 Once the cream cheese and sugar are blended together, add 2 tablespoons (16 g) of all-purpose flour, a large egg, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Mix well so the ingredients are fully incorporated.For a stronger coconut flavor, you can substitute coconut extract for the vanilla.
 When the filling base is fully mixed, add 1 ½ cups (90 g) of sweetened, shredded coconut to the bowl. Use a rubber spatula to gently fold the coconut in until it’s fully incorporated., After you’ve mixed in the coconut, pour the cheesecake batter over the prepared crust. Spread it evenly, and then bake it in the preheated oven for 33 to 36 minutes, or until the top is golden and the center is set.If you like, you can sprinkle more shredded coconut over the top of the cheesecake bars before you place them in the oven.
 When the cheesecake bars are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Allow the bars to cool for at least 30 minutes before cutting them into slices with a sharp knife.Store any leftover cheesecake bars in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should keep for 5 to 6 days.

