 Before you address the issue with your partner, you should sit down and consider why you get so upset and emotional when your partner ignores you on social media. Are you worried they are speaking to individuals that they shouldn't be, such as a former partner or ex? Are you feeling a disconnect between your partner's online presence and your partner's real life? Do you worry you are being left out of online conversations or discussions your partner is having that you want to be included in?


Thinking about why you are upset by your partner's decision to ignore you on social media can help you address the issue with them in a clear, decisive way. You can also speak about your feelings more honestly and clearly if you know what they are and why you are upset.;
, When you decide to address the issue, start by finding a time where you can be alone with your partner. If you live with your partner, choose a quiet, private area in your shared space, such as the living room, the bedroom, or the kitchen. If you do not live with your partner, you may invite them over to your place to talk to them so you have privacy and can talk freely.


You may set up the conversation by telling your partner, “I need to talk to you about something” or “Can we meet up and talk? I have an issue that I want to discuss.”

, Once you and your partner are alone, express your concerns using “I” statements. Be specific about how your partner ignores you on social media and why this bothers you so much. Using “I” statements will ensure you are speaking from your perspective and being clear about how you feel.For example, you may say, “I am upset that you ignore me on social media because it is important to me that we talk online as well as in real life” or “I am bothered by how you ignore me on social media because I want us to stay connected in real life and online.”

, You and your partner should work on communicating with mindfulness and honesty. Encourage each other to be active listeners, where you pay attention to what you both have to say and respond with thoughtful questions. Being active listeners will help you both share your thoughts and avoid getting into an argument or disagreement.For example, you may allow your partner to respond to your concerns and listen closely to what they have to say. Ask thoughtful questions, such as “Why do you feel uncomfortable with being connected on social media?” or “Why do you prefer to ignore me on social media?”
Try to listen to each other and respond by acknowledging what the other person said before you respond. For example, you may say to your partner, “What I am hearing you say is that you do not think it is a big deal that you ignore me online.” Then, once they have confirmed you have heard them correctly, you can respond in kind.
 Work with your partner to come to an agreement or resolution on the issue. You may need to have several conversations with your partner or suggest a compromise so you can both come away with what you want.For example, you may ask your partner to acknowledge your posts on social media as a first step. Or you and your partner may agree to both chat more on social media moving forward. You may say, "Let's start by commenting on each other's posts on social media and go from there."
You may also suggest that your partner communicate with you over email so you still have some contact online. If you want to share animal videos with your partner, you may send one to them over email so you are both still connected.
Keep in mind you and your partner may not come to an agreement on this issue. They may not feel it is important that they pay attention to you on social media, though you may think otherwise. You both may need to agree to disagree if a resolution does not seem possible.

