 There are five basic drum strokes for a snare drum. As you learn how to play your snare drum, try simply practicing the basic strokes. This will help you become more proficient as you learn more about the snare drum.


The full stroke means you hold the drums, using your preferred grip, in a slightly upright position. That is, your drumsticks will be pointing upward towards the ceiling. When you're using a full stroke, your drumsticks will begin in the upright position at the start of a beat and return to the upright position at the end of a beat.A down stroke is a slight variation of a full stroke. Your drum sticks start in the upright position. However, at the end of a beat they should be pointed downward slightly towards your snare drum.In a tap stroke, at the beginning of the beat your drumsticks are in the downward position. At the end of the beat, they return to the downward position.In an up stroke, your drumsticks are in the downward position at the beginning of a beat. By the end of the beat, they're in the upright position.When reading music, drum parts will usually indicate which strokes you are using. F stands for full stroke, D stands for down stroke, T stands for tap stroke, and U stands for upstroke., The single strike roll is an important drum rudiment. If you want to learn how to play the snare drum, you'll need to know a basic single strike roll. Practicing a single stroke roll can be a great introduction to basic drumming. It will help you get a feel of your drumsticks and teach you how to control them.


A drum roll is a simple move in which you quickly alternate between playing with your left and right hand. You start with your dominant hand. For example, if you're right-handed you would play right, then left, then right, then left, and so on. If you're left-handed, play left, then right, then left, then right, and so on.Start off slow. Just aim to have good control of your drumsticks. Make sure they rise and fall in a straight line and land on the same point on the drum each time. Do not pay attention to timing as you begin practicing. Just focus on going from left to right or from right to left while maintaining control of your drumsticks.Once you feel in control, begin to incorporate timing. Make sure the beats are even. That is, make sure you spend equal time on each beat. Try to challenge yourself. Increase you speed with each practice session, trying to remain in control of your drumsticks while keeping an even tempo as speed increases., A double stroke roll is a slight variation on the single stroke roll. Like the single stroke roll, it can be used to get a feel for your drumsticks. It's another basic snare drum rudiment to master as you're starting off.


In the double stroke roll, you use two strikes per hand instead of one. This creates a faster-paced, more intense tempo. Once again, lead with your dominant hand. If you're right-handed, play right, right, left, left, right, right, left, left, and so on. If you're left-handed, play left, left, right, right, left, left, right, right, and so on.Your drum sticks should bounce naturally when you keep your wrist relaxed. Hit the drum and allow the stick to bounce twice. Then, stop movement in your wrist and fingers and pull the drum stick upward. Repeat on the other side.Start off slow. When mastering any new technique on the snare drum, you'll need time to gain control. Make sure you're moving your drum sticks in a straight line. Make sure the beads of the sticks hit the same spot on the drum for each beat. Practice as long as it takes to feel in control.As you feel more comfortable controlling the drum sticks, move up to a faster pace. Eventually, you should be able to do a quick-paced double and single roll., A buzz roll is a slightly more advanced drum roll. Similar to the double stroke roll, a buzz roll uses a more relaxed grip to allow more fluid movements.


Learn the buzz roll one hand at a time. Start with whichever hand you prefer. Use your index finger and thumb primarily to guide the drum stick. This hold can take a bit of practice before it feels secure.Say you're starting with your left hand. Use your left hand to strike the snare drum. Allow the drumstick to bounce freely, allowing it to continue bouncing until movement stop naturally. Do not, as you did with the double roll, use your wrist to stop the drumstick. Repeat this with your left hand.Keep going back and forth with your hands. As you go, increase the tempo slightly. Minimize time between striking your left drumstick and striking your right drumstick. The buzz roll is meant to build intensity and excitement over time., As you practice basic drum moves, remember to follow the proper technique. You'll need to keep technique in mind to practice efficiently.


Keep your posture in mind. Remember to relax your body, keep your legs apart, and make sure the drum is at waist level.
Use the proper grip. The grip, as outlined, depends heavily on the type of music and your level of proficiency. Matched grips are best when you're starting off drumming as they allow for the most control. However, if you're going into jazz drumming specifically use the traditional grip.
It's very important to keep your hands relaxed. Gripping too hard on a drumstick does not provide more control. It can also cause tension in your hands, leading to fatigue and cramping. Even if you feel a loss of control, try to remember not to hold too hard on your drumsticks., Solid finger technique is what allows you to maneuver your drumsticks efficiently. As you move through the basics of drumming, take a moment to familiarize yourself with basic finger techniques.


To gain greater control over your drumsticks, practice moving the sticks with only your fingers. Keep your wrists and arms completely still as you move your drumsticks up and down. Do some of the basic moves we have outlined, like a single roll, double roll, and buzz roll. As you practice these moves, only use your fingers to move your drumsticks.Keep your hands loose as you play. Do not stress out about playing fast. You can increase tempo later on, when you feel more in control of your drumsticks.With finger technique, you should actually train your weaker hand first. This way, you're more likely to spend adequate time training your less dominant hand. If you're right-handed, start with your left hand. If you're left-handed, start with your right hand.