 Take your first strip, and unfold the prongs on the last link. Keep the first link folded. Bring the folded link towards the unfolded one, and place it between the two unfolded prongs. Fold the prongs back inward, sliding them through the slots. Make sure that you slide the front prong through the front slot, and the back prong through the back slot., When you are done, you will have a total of 5 rings. They should look a little like crowns., Take a long needle, preferably one with a blunt tip, such as a plastic yarn needle. Thread some fishing line or thread through it, then tie the end to one of the wrappers/links on your first ring. Make sure that the knot is inside the ring., Try to find an open path, without piercing through the paper., Push the needle through the matching link and out through the top. Keep stacking rings and pushing the needle through the links until you have pushed the needle out through the top of the fifth ring., Find the next opening on the top link, and push the needle down through it. Keep threading the needle back through the links until you reach the bottom.You'll be sewing up through the outside, then down through the inside.
 Flatten the bag first, then fold the edges together, so that the pointed links fit into the notched links. There will be a link at each corner of your bag that does not match up. Tuck these links into the bag., Tie the end of your thread to the first link on the right. Push your needle up through the link and out the other end. Next, bring it down through the link on the left, and tug it gently. Do this step twice.Keep the corner piece tucked inside the bag.
 Bring the needle back up through the link on the right. Push it up through the second link above it. Pull the thread taut, then push the needle back down through the second link on the left. Keep sewing across the bottom of the bag in a similar fashion until you reach the opposite end.Keep the corner piece tucked inside the bag.
 Make sure that you are tying the thread off inside the bag so that it is less visible.