 Remember, though, to consider the flow of energy and the flow of physical spaces throughout the house. Consider incorporating feng shui principles elements in your design overview.;
, Basically each room should be designed by the primary users of the room and the focus should be on filling the space with the look, feel, and objects that provide pleasure and a quiet feeling of "rightness" for those individuals. Some possible designations which might make sense in your home:



For one family member - The room will be used, primarily, by one member of the family. Other family members and friends might visit the room daily or weekly to visit, convey messages, clean, remove clothing for washing, and similar activities.

Essentially, the room will be an individual space and should be arranged and decorated in according to the tastes and desires of that individual.
Provide a place where visitors can sit down and feel at home if this function is in the vision for the room.
Give primary voice to the individual who will claim the space as their own.
Examples of such rooms might be the bedrooms, kitchen for the chef of the family, laundry room for the designated clothes care person, the study for dad or mom or kids, the garage, the shed, the sewing room, the greenhouse, and other similar rooms which are mostly used by one individual family member.



Shared by family members - This could include a bedroom shared by siblings or mom and dad, a family room or den, the dining room or breakfast nook, and similar rooms around the house.

The design should strive to make all individuals who use the room feel comfortable.
Each individual should be a participant in picking the elements which provide comfort and should have the right to veto arrangements or items which make them feel uncomfortable. Some family members might not be too keen on having a stuffed elk head across the room or might have a personal objection to a proposed design element.



For guests - Keep things open, interesting, and inviting.

Special use rooms - Included here might be an exercise room, computer room, game room, home theater with surround sound, video or sound mixing room. These should meet the special needs of your family or individuals as well as remaining open, warm, and inviting.
 The feeling that is evoked when you enter a room will be a combination of the visual and audio. Primary elements are the overall lighting, be it natural sunlight or mood lighting, spot and task lighting, room color, furniture placement, sound dampening or masking, and the audio experience.
 Provide plenty of well-organized storage so that everything is at hand and the room stays naturally decluttered.
, Angle chairs and couches so they are about three feet apart.
 Color is paramount in making your room comfortable. It will, in large part, set your mood.



Red is a bright, warm color that evokes strong emotions. It is associated with love, warmth, comfort and feelings of excitement and intensity.

Blue is described as a favorite color by many people and is the color most preferred by men. It calls to mind feelings of calmness or serenity. It is often described as peaceful, tranquil, secure, and orderly.Blue can often evoke feelings of sadness and aloofness. It has been claimed that people are more productive in blue rooms.

Green symbolizes nature. It represents good luck, health, and jealousy. Green rooms improve reading ability.

Yellow is a bright that often described as cheery and warm. It is also the color that is identified most easily and detected quickly. It is the most visible color, and can create feelings of frustration and anger. That said, a yellow room can be very cheerful with the right shade.

Purple is a symbol of royalty and strength and is associated with wisdom and spirituality. It often appears exotic or artificial.

Brown creates a feeling of strength and stability. It is often described as natural and down to earth.

Pink' is the color that's most preferred by women. It symbolizes femininity, and fertility. It is a calming color.

White represents purity and peace. It can make a room seem more spacious, however, it also makes it feel cold and bland.
 Use an odor-neutralizing spray like Febreze. Open a window to encourage air circulation. Burn incense or scented candles for a mild effect--keep in mind that a strong scent can make some people uncomfortable. Strewing herbs used as a dry potpourri or simmering on the stove are warm, inviting, and subtle.
 Avoid putting your things on those sitting spaces (don't throw your jacket or keys onto an open chair, for example). Add an ottoman so someone can prop their feet if they'd like. Keep a blanket nearby, or put a throw on the chair so a person can use it if they get cold.
 Use lint rollers often. Remember that some people are allergic to pets. Ideally, you'll want to keep pets off the furniture.
, Many people put photo albums on side tables for people to browse through. They're great conversation starters, and a chance for guests to get to know you better. There are also coffee table books which are usually beautifully photographed, which makes them easy to flip through without requiring too much concentration. Adding a simple game like checkers or dominoes for people to play is also a good idea. A puzzle or brainteaser is a nice touch, too!

,