 If you want the bread to have the traditional, crunchy crust, buy 1 or 2 unglazed quarry tiles to bake it on. The ceramic absorbs the moisture, creating a crunchy crust. You can buy unglazed quarry tiles at a carpet or tile store. Before using, rinse with cold water to remove the dust and place on a flat surface to dry. Of course, you can make a rustic bread without using quarry tiles if you prefer a softer crust.;
, Make sure the water isn't too warm, otherwise it will kill the yeast and the dough won't rise.
 Mix it well. This prepares the yeast to combine with the flour and ferment, so the dough rises.
 Do not substitute the unbleached white flour for another type of flour such as whole grain or rye, as they are heavier and will not produce the same texture.
 Knead them for about 5 minutes until they become one mass and combine into a sponge dough. Sponge dough attains its specific flavor by means of a fermentation process, that allows all of the ingredients to blend properly, and multiple rises that enhance the flavor.


You can also mix the ingredients in with a wooden spoon and knead the dough by hand. To do this, once the ingredients form a mass together, sprinkle some flour on a large wooden board, take the dough out of the bowl and knead it on the counter for about five minutes before returning it to the bowl.
 The warmth aids the fermentation process and causes the dough to rise more and faster.
 Some bakers prefer to let the dough rise for 12 hours to create a stronger flavor.
, Store the rest of the dough in the fridge for later use. When stored, the dough will remain good for about 2 weeks.
 Kneading the dough for the second time blends the ingredients even more, and allows the second rising process to be more effective.
 Popular shapes are a boule, a large round bread, or a baguette, a French bread.
, Put the baking sheet or pizza tray into the oven and let the dough bake for about 30 minutes until it is brown.
 If it sounds hollow, the bread is done. Turn off the oven.
,