 Grab a guitar and sing a sweet song that ends with you asking your special lady to go to the prom with you. If you don't know how to play guitar, you can impress the girl by learning a song just for her, or you can ask a friend to play the guitar as you sing. You can serenade the girl after school near your car or in the back parking lot, or even in school if you're not afraid of getting in trouble.
 Write the girl a poem that tells her how amazing she is, ending with some words that say she'd be the perfect prom date. You can hand her the poem and wait for her reaction, or tuck the poem into her textbook or locker, or ask one of her friends to sneak it into her backpack. Write something from the heart and the girl will be completely wooed.
 Arrange to have a radio station ask her to prom. Make sure you know what station she likes and ask her friends to make sure she's listening to it at the right time. You can also even ask the radio station to make the request when you know you'll be in the car with her, so you can turn the radio to the right station and get her attention.
 Get some window chalk paint and draw hearts and flowers over the girl's car. Ask her to go to prom with you on her back windshield -- just make sure to leave enough white space so that she can drive her car. You can even be prepared with a sponge and some water so you can wash it all off right after she says yes.
 Ask her friend for her locker combo and place a small bouquet of roses in her locker, while taping small pieces of chocolate candy to the inside door. If she has a mirror, write "Will you go to prom with me?" in erasable marker on the mirror. If not, then you can write a fancy note and tape it to the inside of her locker.
 Find some heart-shaped candy and spell out "Prom?" either on the floor, or stick them to her locker or a sturdy surface. Make sure you place the candy or chocolates in a place where she can easily see them, and that she actually likes candy.
 Have your friends deliver five flowers to her, one at a time, saying that they're from her secret admirer. The first will have the letter "P" taped to it, and each flower will spell out the rest of the question: "P-R-O-M?" The last flower can also reveal your identity.
 Take the girl out to a nice meal, and call the restaurant in advance to make sure that the chef can write "Will you go to prom with me?" or "Prom?" in icing on the dessert that you'll insist on ordering. You can even ask for the dessert to have a candle in it for a more romantic presentation.

