 Each member of the family should feel important and valued. This includes you. In order for your family members to hear your needs, you have to express them. Be polite, but honest with your family during discussions.For example, if your family usually plans on watching a movie together on Wednesday nights and you can’t do it that night, then you might say, "I know we said Wednesday night would be movie night, but I'm so stressed out about this test tomorrow. Can we move it to another night this week?";
, Just as you want your family members to hear you, it is important that you hear their concerns. Your family members will feel loved and unified with the family if their point of view is heard and respected. Avoid talking over your family members, and instead, listen to what they are saying.Give your full attention to your family members when they are talking, such as by putting away all distractions (cellphone, computer, etc.) and looking them in the eye.
Ask questions to show that you are interested, such as “What happened next?” “How do you feel about that?” and “What do you plan to do about it?”
Show you are paying attention by nodding and making neutral statements, such as “yes,” “uh-huh” and “I see.”

, Taking family for granted is easily done. Most of them have been around most (or even all) of your life. Make it a point to tell each family member that you are thankful for them, and that you enjoy being a family.Traditions such as going around the table at Thanksgiving and saying what each person is thankful for are a good way to show this appreciation.
 All members of your family are not going to agree on every issue. As a family, you have to be flexible and accepting of each person’s point of view. Avoid arguing or bickering over trivial things such as who should take the trash out. Instead, make a conscious effort to divide responsibilities and privileges fairly (fairly does not necessarily mean equally).


When a conflict arises, use good communication skills and empathy to solve the problem. For example, instead of shouting at each other, allow everyone a chance to talk without being interrupted. While each person is talking, have the rest of the family listen closely and try to understand what the person is saying.
 When arguments do arise (and they will), you should work towards a resolution to the problem. Once the argument is over, apologies may be in order. If you have crossed any lines, you should extend an apology to family members to help smooth things over. The other important part of apologies is accepting them. Whenever a family member offers you an apology, accept the apology and move on in order reunify the family.


Remember to compromise to avoid arguments and resolve them. Also remember that perfect unity will not exist all the time in any family.

