

First impressions are everything, so make sure yours is a good one. The way you begin the conversation can set the tone for the whole exchange. Approach the beautiful girl with confidence, assured that you have the qualities to attract her.Don’t take it too far and act cocky or arrogant. Just be yourself and believe that being yourself is enough to the girl's attention.
For example, make eye contact, walk over to her and say, “Hi, I’m Tony. How are you?” She will most likely respond back positively.
If you are already a bit nervous, you may want to wait until she is alone to approach her. This way you won’t be worrying about what her friends are thinking.
Don’t wait too long to introduce yourself because you might lose your confidence. Also, girls think it’s creepy if you keep staring at them without saying anything.;
, Beautiful girls aren’t just beautiful; they have interests, hobbies, and opinions. Finding something that you both have in common gives you something to talk to her about. You don’t have to stalk her, just look around to see what you have in common that you can use to initiate a conversation.


Make a statement about the commonality and then ask her a question so that conversation continues.
Comment on your setting.For example, if you are at the park, you might say, “The pond looks really peaceful today. Have you ever fed the ducks?”
Talk about something she said or did. For example, if she made a comment during a discussion, try saying, “Your comment was really thought-provoking. How did you learn so much about the topic?”
If she’s reading a book or has the latest phone, then comment on it.For example, “That book looks intriguing. What's it about?”

,

Don’t ask her out the first time you meet a beautiful girl. Doing this can make her feel pressured and nervous; she’ll be more likely to turn you down.It can also make you feel super nervous to just be meeting her for the first time and ask her out all out once. Instead, take it slow. Just focus on introducing yourself and talking with her briefly to give her a sense of you and get comfortable with you., Don’t ask for her phone number; girls are more likely to say yes if you just ask, “Is it alright if I contact you sometime?” She can decide whether she wants to give you her phone number, email address, or other contact information. Remember your goal isn’t to get her phone number, but to get to know her. However she wants you to contact her is fine.
 When you first meet a beautiful girl, this helps you in a lot of ways. The first meeting is often a little awkward and you might be nervous and say something that makes her reject you. Leaving first cuts down on the chances of this and can help the girl feel less pressured.It also keeps you from appearing desperate and makes you seem a little mysterious.


After you have her contact information, you might say, “Well, it’s been a pleasure talking to you, but I’ve got to go get back to work. I’ll contact you soon.”
Or try saying, “Well, I’ve taken up enough of your time right now. I’ll let you get back to what you were doing. I’ll call/email/text you soon.”

