 Potential buyers will be turned off of your home if it is smelly or dirty. The idea when staging your home is to make it look as though it were a model home set up only for their viewing. This means that it must be squeaky clean!


This will require a deep scrub of the bathroom! You don’t want to have any mold or soap scum in the tub, no rings in the toilet, and no toothpaste stuck in the sink.
Don’t forget to do the same in the kitchen. All the counters should be wiped down so there are no crumbs or stains, all the dishes should be clean and put away.

Make the beds up neatly. It’s even better if fresh sheets are put on for days when viewings are scheduled. Try to choose sheets and bed covers that are neutral in color, and that match well with the decor of the room.
Wash the windows! It may seem like a minor detail, but having bright shiny windows inside and out will really improve the appearance of your home.;
, Although you might still be living in the home while you are trying to sell it, you want to make the house look as impersonal as possible. Therefore, you should pack away any personal photos, books, movies, etc.You can pack these in bubble wrap, and put them in boxes so that they are ready to go when you move out. However, make sure that you store these boxes somewhere out of site, such as in the attic.
If you don't have adequate storage space, consider renting a storage unit. Whatever you do, don't have boxes lying around your home where potential buyers might see them.
 It’s quite normal that, after years of living in a home, there will be clutter. However, you want prospective buyers to imagine themselves living in the home, so it’s best if you can make everything open, and clutter free. This way, they can imagine their own things in the home instead of yours.This may require some serious cleaning or packing! If you are a bit messy, it may just mean putting your clothes neatly away in a closet, or it may mean that you will have to pack away a large majority of your belongings, leaving only the minimum things you need to live in the home.
In the kitchen and bathroom, have all of your personal items stored off the counter. For example, take your toothbrush and toothpaste and put them in the cabinet, or at least hide them while people are viewing the home.
Be aware that viewers are very likely to open drawers, cabinets, and cupboards. Thus, you can’t simply shove everything in a closet, and hope they don’t notice. Properly staging your home will require you to do some serious cleaning., Give your walls a fresh coat of paint in a neutral color. You don’t know who will be looking at your home or what their tastes will be.Having neutral walls will allow visitors to imagine the home in their own way. This will be more difficult to do if the walls are very bold.
If you don’t want to do this yourself, and ff you can afford it, it may be worth hiring professional painters to do the job.
 If you have nice china and silverware, use these to set your dining room table. You want the table to be arranged nicely, so adding something like candles, fresh flowers, and cloth napkins in coordinating colors will really impress potential buyers.If you have several days or weeks of viewings set up, make sure that you do a quick dusting of the table each day that you have a viewing. This way, it will always look freshly set.
 You want your home to appear bright, warm, and welcoming. If it is very dark, it is unlikely that viewers will feel this way. Therefore, when there are viewings scheduled, you should turn on at least one light in each room.If you have a room that is quite dark even with the light on, consider adding a lamp or two to brighten things up.
This will help the home feel more cozy.
 While you should not have personal photos or overly specific pictures on the wall, a few paintings of landscapes or abstract pictures will brighten up the room.Be sure to fix any holes in the wall once you move out!
If you have a small room, you could also hang a decorative mirror instead of art. This has the added advantage of making the room appear larger.Avoid choosing art that may offend someone, while it is hard to say what this might be, it is generally safest to stick to landscape art and/or abstract art. It may seem silly, but it also might make a potential buyer choose to search elsewhere.
 These colors should coordinate with any themes in the art you have added.For example, you can add one or two colorful throw pillows, or a nice blanket on the back of the couch. You could also add a fresh vase of colorful flowers to the coffee table.


Choose just one or two bright objects to add. Generally, the room should be as neutral as possible, with just one or two splashes of color. Limiting the color splashes will make the room a bit more interesting, but still neutral enough for potential buyers to utilize their own imagination.
 If you have crammed your living room full of mismatched recliners and an old love seat, it’s time to remove a few. Choose one or two pieces of furniture that fit well with the other changes you have made, and that make the room look comfortable, but not cramped.


For example, in a normal sized living room, you might place a medium-sized couch with a coffee table, a TV, and possibly a nice sitting chair.Human beings naturally prefer symmetry.Thus, it might be good to try to arrange your living room in the same way. For example, you could arrange two sofas so that they face each other, and place a coffee table in between. You can do the same thing if you have matching chairs.If you have a very large living room, you may need to break up the space a bit. You can still follow the idea of keeping the room symmetrical by making one part of the room a sitting area with some matching chairs and/or sofas, and making another part of the room a writing area by placing a desk with a chair and some fresh flowers. You can also use a large sectional couch to take up some of the space., Make sure the lawn is neat and mowed, trim any unruly hedges, make sure toys are cleaned up, and consider giving your home a fresh coat of paint, if it is needed.


Plant some bright, colorful flowers (if the season is appropriate), hang some house numbers that are elegant and easy to read. If you have a sidewalk, you should scrub it or use a pressure washer to make sure there are no stains.You should also make sure your porch, stoop, or front entryway looks inviting. Place a clean doormat, and a couple of chairs or a rocking chair, if you have the space. Turn your porch light on in the evenings, as potential buyers may decide to make a spontaneous drive-by.You can also place solar lights, which are powered by the sun during the day and turn on during the night, along your walk way, which will look nice, and also illuminate the path., If you have hired a real estate agent, ask them to give you feedback on what you've done. They are professionals, so they will likely have good experience with what works, and what doesn't.

