 Some people use hydrogen peroxide to naturally whiten their teeth. In fact, hydrogen peroxide is often used in whitening products.Swish it around in your mouth. Make sure to use food grade hydrogen peroxide.
Only leave it in for a few seconds, then rinse it out.
Be sure not to swallow it.
Do not use hydrogen peroxide more than three times a week or for more than four weeks in a row to avoid tooth sensitivity, which is likely to appear with prolonged use.
If you have a soft bristled toothbrush, then you can even brush your teeth while holding the peroxide in your mouth.
 Some people have had luck whitening their teeth with activated charcoal. Activated charcoal is charcoal that has been processed with oxygen. It's also been mixed with zinc chloride or calcium chloride.Activated charcoal is highly absorbent, which is why some people have had luck using it with stains.Start with an activated charcoal capsule. Break it open to pour out half in a small dish. Wet your brush, and dip it into the charcoal.
Use it to gently brush your teeth, then leave it on for a few minutes.
After you're done, rinse it off. Use your regular toothpaste to brush your teeth.
 Some people use this method to whiten their teeth naturally. They simply mix equal parts of lemon juice and baking soda to form a paste.Try to wipe the saliva off your teeth before applying.
The mixture will fizz up at first. Once it's done fizzing, brush it on your teeth with a toothbrush and leave it for a minute.
Use your toothbrush to take it off, then rinse. Only apply this mixture once a week, as any more may damage your enamel over time.
You should have whiter teeth after four to five weeks of using this process, but do not use baking soda and lemon juice for more than two months in a row.
 Eating crunchy fruits and veggies can naturally wear away stains over time. Also, most vegetables and fruits are acidic, helping to reduce stains.Any crunchy vegetable or fruit will do, as long as you eat them raw. Think about carrots, celery, jicama, and bell pepper, for instance.
Apples are also good. They have malic acid in them, which is found in some whitening products.
 One easy way to help keep your teeth white is to cut out things that stain your teeth. If you can avoid the things that stain your teeth, you can help keep them whiter for longer.For instance, cutting out drinks like tea, coffee, and wine can help. Pretty much any dark food, especially drinks, can stain your teeth. Consider using a straw to help cut down on the contact with your teeth.Also, avoid things that may stain your teeth for about three days after you have had oral hygiene done in a dental office. Tooth scaling creates retentive areas in your enamel, which need to remineralize.
Cigarettes and other types of tobacco are notorious for staining teeth.
However, you can avoid all things that stain teeth. For instance, trauma, age, and certain medications or treatments can stain your teeth, such as chemotherapy.

