 Visit your local library or book store and select a few books and videos for review and study. Your selection should include:


Something on the origin, history and greats of the game.
If you see a book on methods for selecting the proper golf clubs, grab it.;
, Again, visit your local library, used book stores, flea markets and yard sales.


Be on the lookout for books and videos on swing fundamentals and shot making techniques by the likes of Ben Hogan, Ken Venturi, and Jim Flick. These are highly recommended for developing an effective and repeatable swing and will enable you to execute the proper shot when needed. Good choices include:


Five Lessons: The Modern Fundamentals of Golf by Ben Hogan with drawings by Warren Winds

A Swing for a Lifetime: How You Can Build One and Make It Repeat With This Proven Method from the Game's Greatest Teachers, by Bob Toski, Jim Flick, Larry Dennis, Elmer Wesler, and others


Focus on obtaining insight on the fundamentals, particularly on:

Grip
Stance
Posture
Ball position before the swing



, Visit your a local seller of used sports equipment such as Play it Again Sports or peruse your local flea market and purchase a few golf clubs to get you started.


Try to find a #5, #7 & #9 iron, perhaps a #3 wood and a putter.
Choose clubs with steel shafts or stiff graphite shafts because these facilitate accuracy.
Make sure the grips are not excessively worn, hard or slick. Otherwise, plan on having them re-gripped immediately.
Any bag will do, but a bag with a built-in stand would be preferable.
 Using the information gained from your books and videos, assume the proper grip, posture/stance and set-up/ball position. Follow the steps you have read about as recapped below:


With club in-hand, place its sole on the floor with its toe very slightly up and its face perpendicular to the imaginary target line.
Remember to stay in balance, arms draped straight down naturally.
Formal instruction is OK, but only if you have a recommendation from a beginner you trust. Otherwise, rely on self instruction until you develop the ability to get the ball airborne. Once you consistently get the ball off the ground and going reasonably straight you can go on to the next level. Do not proceed to the next step, though, until you have achieved a high degree of consistency and moderate accuracy.
 Head to the driving range (practice range) with your clubs, 50 to 100 practice balls, and a handful of tees. Take a towel, some drinking water, sunscreen and a visor or cap if it is sunny and warm. In the beginning, tee the ball about 1/4" (1/2cm) off the ground for iron shots and 1" (2-3cm) for the wood. This makes getting the ball airborne easier and helps you build confidence while learning.


Start with the most lofted irons (the highest number irons - wedges, then #9, then #7). Hit a dozen or two dozen shots with each club or until you achieve some consistency with that club before progressing to the next lower number iron.
The #3 wood is generally the most difficult to hit squarely and is the least important at this point.
Focus on the fundamentals and on making solid, square, center-face contact with the ball.
Relax and don't worry about distance.
Don't put too much pressure on yourself. (It's not easy.)
Don't get yourself overly tired. Shorter, more frequent sessions are better. For better results, focus on and master a few fundamentals at a time.
Stick with one club until you master it.
 If you can, find a practice green where it's allowed and do some practice putting. Refine your putting swing (putting stroke). Putting is all about hand-to-eye coordination and feel. Work on:


Balance
Visualizing the ball tracking into the hole
Smooth, short back-strokes and a firm, slightly accelerating follow-through

, Head to the executive course or a short (par 3) course alone or with a close friend who you can trust not to laugh or ridicule and not to give swing instructions. This last is particularly important unless they are a qualified instructor.


Concentrate before and during the shot but relax, enjoy and have fun otherwise.
