 Art historical scholarship can contribute. For example, if the exhibition features a Baroque artist, you should reference historical Baroque styles and content, and use appropriate terminology. , "Criticism" does not mean finding fault with your subject. Critical writing involves examining the evidence (visual or other) to make informed evaluations and conclusions. Your opinion is valid, but do not offer simple opinions before you have established evidence from your observations ad your analysis. Evaluate how effectively the artwork and the curatorial decisions (placement, viewing conditions, accompanying literature, etc.) communicate the thesis, or theme, of the exhibition. Consider subject matter and the artist's rendering of the subject matter. Engage the context of the works, and evaluate the exhibition in a nuanced way that highlights important themes.


It is not enough to simply say you like or dislike a work; you should be able to say why. It is fine to mention that a particular piece evokes a certain feeling as long as you are specific (what aspect of the work triggers that particular emotion?) At this point you can also consider how the display, lighting, and the arrangement, as well as the choice of work, contributes to the effectiveness of the exhibition.
Consider this as a persuasive argument and use evidence and research to back up your interpretation(s).
 This can help you look at the work and better understand its contexts, and this can also give you insight into the curatorial process and the ideas the were intended to be communicated by the exhibition. Museum/Gallery personnel may be able to offer insights into the exhibition or individual works that are not readily available, as well as the rationale behind the arrangement of the space and pieces. It is not necessary to speak with a Museum/Gallery staff member, or with a docent (docents are generally volunteers). Curators generally do not have time in their schedules to talk to visitors about their shows (although you may get lucky!). Besides, you need to remember that your review is not just a summary of the thesis and the creation of the exhibition -- it is the reviewer's job to look critically at the exhibition, from the point of view of a spectator. By all means search the internet or other current publications (newspapers, art magazines, etc.) to get an idea of what others have written about the exhibition. Most Museums and Galleries will issue press releases for upcoming exhibitions (and they will usually be happy to give you a copy). Press releases are good ways to learn what the curator(s) and sometimes the artist(s) want to communicate to people that visit the exhibition. An internet search can also yield public comments on a new exhibition, especially if it has been reviewed in online magazines, and all of that can help you formulate your own analysis and evaluation.
 This is a good way to see how your experience and insights compare to another viewer. Start with general questions and move on to more directed questions that address specific pieces within the exhibition.


For example, "How often do you visit art exhibitions?" A more directed question would be, "What do you think is the most appealing aspect of this exhibition?" "Why is that?"

, After you're done writing your piece, you may want to stand back and see how your thoughts compare to others reviewing the exhibition. You will have to be careful that the ideas of the other reviewer do not overly influence your experience of the work, but many times they can include information that add to your own understanding. Make sure to cite any other reviews that you use (and any other published sources of information, beyond the exhibition itself).

