 Some surfaces and equipment are more commonly exposed to microorganisms than others. These items include:


Cloths and sponges. These materials are home to different microorganisms because they often come in contact with dirty surfaces such as the floor and dirty counters. As much as possible, use disposable cloths or paper towels. Reusable cloth or sponges should be disinfected in a bleaching solution after use and sundry.
Mops and buckets. These are considered one of the dirtiest tools at home as they always come in contact with the floor. Use two buckets when mopping. One for the detergent and one for rinsing. Also, after each use, disinfect the mop and bucket in a bleaching solution and leave to sun dry.
Lavatories. Always flush after each use and use antibacterial or antimicrobial disinfectants to clean the toilet at least every other day.
Sinks. Disinfect it with antibacterial or antimicrobial disinfectants at least every other day.
Curtains. They absorb most of the dust and other particles suspended in the air. Wash them at least once a week and use detergents that have antimicrobial properties.
Floors. Use a mop soaked in an antimicrobial solution to clean the floor. Clean up spills as they happen, as microorganisms generally thrive in wet environments.
Pets. Separate pet food from human food.
 Spoiled foods must be properly disposed of and trash cans should be kept sealed at all times to avoid attracting pests like rodents and cockroaches. Garbage also can be a place for microorganisms to thrive in.
 Stagnant water can be a place for mosquitoes and other intermediate carriers of communicable diseases, such as flies, to thrive in and lay eggs.
 If you are concerned that your water has been contaminated, there are ways that you can sterilize the water so that you can drink it. However, it is often best to call in professionals so that they can test the water first..Boiling. Water should be brought to a boiling point for at least 15 minutes before removing it from the fire. This ensures that microorganisms in the water are killed.
Chemical Disinfectants. Substances like chlorine and iodine are dissolved in water to remove parasites. However, this is not 100% effective, thus filtering or boiling water should also be used.
Portable Filtration Devices. Contains a pore size of less than 0.5 microns to filter viruses. It should be used in combination with either a boiling method or chemical disinfectant.
Bottled Water. Rather than risk your health, you could simply opt to buy bottled water instead of drinking possibly contaminated water.
 It is hard to know how street foods have been prepared, so try to avoid them as much as possible. If food is undercooked, or prepared in dirty environments, there is a good chance that it could cause you to get sick.
 There are communicable diseases that can be transmitted through unprotected sexual intercourse. If you are sexually active, use a condom because it can serve as a physical barrier between your genitals and bodily fluids.
 This includes eating utensils, toothbrush, razor, handkerchiefs and nail clippers. These items are potential sources of harmful microorganisms.
 Watch the news and keep track of any outbreaks of communicable diseases in your area. Maintain a good understanding of how those diseases are transmitted (are they airborne? are they passed through bodily fluids only?).

