 When you pick up your new dog, he should be introduced to your current pet on neutral grounds. This way, neither animal will feel the need to be territorial.


Have a friend assist you if necessary. You should take the dogs on a walk together through the neighborhood or have them meet at a park up the street. Do not just bring your new dog into your home and do not put them in the car together right away.Keep the dogs on leashes during initial introduction. Sniffing is normal, but if you notice any barking or aggression pull the dogs apart until they've calmed down. Encourage positive interaction by praising the dogs for non-aggressive behavior. Provide treats and toys so the dogs feel positive and happy in one another's presence.Once the dogs have finished greeting one another and appear to have calmed down, you can take your new dog home., For the first few weeks, you should not leave the dogs unsupervised alone together. Even the smoothest introductions have some hiccups as dogs establish ground rules and power structures for their home.


Keep toys, treats, and food separate. Make sure each dog has their own food bowl and water bowl. Never give one dog a treat without also giving the other a treat. These steps can minimize fighting over territory, resources, or attention.If the dogs growl, fight, or otherwise behave aggressively separate them for a few minutes and allow them to calm down. Once they've relaxed, allow them to interact again. Overreacting and separating them for long periods, or responding to fights with extreme scolding, makes dogs feel there is something to be feared. You want to minimize stress in your home as much as possible for a smooth transition.Always separate your dogs when you're not home until they're used to one another. If a fight breaks out and you're not there to stop it, one or both dogs could end up seriously hurt., Sometimes, even if you follow proper protocol, two dogs still do not interact well.


While shelter dogs can be a wonderful addition to your home, they often come from abusive homes where they were not given enough food, water, and attention. Dogs from these kinds of backgrounds can be more territorial and may have a hard time adjusting to another dog.
A professional pet trainer might be able to curb aggressive behaviors and help you learn better techniques to discipline your dogs. Look for trainers in your area if you've having trouble establishing a harmonious home.