 If you decide to get circumcised, a physician will perform a short, relatively simple surgical procedure that will remove part of the foreskin of your penis permanently. After a period of recovery, your penis will heal normally, but without the retractable foreskin.


Generally, circumcision is performed on infant babies, but it's also performed on consenting adults, generally for cosmetic or religious purposes.
You should only get circumcised by a licensed physician or a mohel with a good record and experience. Under no circumstances should you ever attempt to circumcise yourself, as one small mistake can be dangerous.;
, If you decide to go forward with circumcision, you should talk to your doctor about the procedure and set up a consultation. The procedure consists of the following steps, essentially:


Your genitals will be cleaned and prepped for surgery, and you will be anesthetized using a dorsal nerve blocker.A cut will be made in the foreskin on the upper side of the penis using scissors, while a second slit will be made on the underside of the penis, cutting away the foreskin around the rim of the ridge under the glans.
The edges of the foreskin will be pulled back and the blood vessels will be tied off using stitches or diathermy, which involves using electrical currents to essentially cauterize the ends of the vessels.
Finally, the edges of the foreskin will be stitched and your penis will be bandaged tightly to begin your recovery period., While there are many unconfirmed medical benefits to being circumcised, the truth is that most circumcisions are performed for religious or cosmetic reasons. Supposedly, circumcision reduces the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases, urinary tract infections, and penile cancer. Some adults who get circumcised do so for reasons of hygiene, complaining that an uncircumcised penis is more difficult to keep clean and less sexually attractive than a circumcised one.


The reduction of risk in these matters is quite low: urinary tract infections and penile cancer are already fairly uncommon in males, while STDs are still highly communicable if safe sex practices are not used. Most adults tend to get circumcised for reasons of aesthetics and hygiene, or for religious reasons.In less common cases, circumcision is also performed to correct phimosis, or constricted foreskin, acute inflammation of the glans as a result of balanitis, or paraphimosis, which involves a restricted foreskin., Essentially, a circumcision involves the willful cutting of your genitals, removing the most sensitive front tip of the foreskin of the penis. As with any elective surgery, there are possible complications. Typically done on infants, circumcision for adults carries with it a significant and uncomfortable period of recovery. Many people also claim that circumcision severs nerve endings in the penis and can irreversibly affect sexual stimulation.


As an adult, circumcision is a matter of personal choice and is controversial. Many circumcised adults celebrate the practice, and some decry it.Whatever you choose, try to weigh the benefits and risks and decide what is right for you.
 If you prefer a private consultation, seek advice from your local physician. Contact a hospital and ask to speak with a urologist to get a second opinion on the potential benefits and risks, and to get a description of the procedure and the recovery.


For a teenager or an adult, circumcision is typically performed under anaesthetic and takes about two weeks for recovery.
Some hospitals will not perform circumcisions on adults unless there is a medical reason. If you're committed to getting circumcised, be prepared to shop around for a place to get the procedure done.
 Make sure you've got some time set aside for recovery, which can take up to two weeks. If you're getting circumcised for religious reasons, use the time leading up to the procedure to complete any rituals associated with it. Consult members of your religious community for advice and guidance.
 Cover the genital area with waterproof covering during the first few days, when taking a shower or bathing, and keep the area very clean when using the restroom. The wound needs to be kept dry to facilitate quick healing.


Your doctor will offer more specific instructions and topical medication, but in general you'll want to keep the area as clean and dry as possible.
 Change your underwear throughout the day to keep the area very clean. Also wear loose fitting clothing around the area to keep air circulating regularly. Avoid tight fitting jeans, and consider some cotton short pants or other loose clothing.
 The doctor will probably prescribe analgesic cream or other topical ointments, and apply them regularly as directed. You may also want to add some petroleum jelly to the area to avoid chafing during your recovery.
 It's common practice in American hospitals for babies to be circumcised within the first few days of birth, completing the procedure when recovery will be quick and relatively painless. Consider whether or not you'd like to leave the decision up to the child, or have it done in the hospital.


Often, parents will make this decision so the child will look like the father or brothers, to avoid confusion as the child grows up.
Talk to your obstetrician and pediatrician. In general, the procedure will be done quickly and will recover relatively simple cleaning for the baby to recover.
 Avoid using wipes or other cleaning solutions and sponge bathe the baby with warm soapy water for the first several days.


Some pediatricians recommend keeping the penis covered, while some recommend leaving it uncovered to heal. If you want to wrap a little gauze around the penis, dab some petroleum jelly on it first to avoid painful snags., The Bris is typically done not at the hospital but at a separate location. To arrange a Bris, talk to your rabbi or other religious advisor.

