 Long-haired hamster may get dirt or mats in their fur that can only be removed by brushing them. The best instrument to use is a clean, unused, soft-bristled toothbrush. Some hamsters may enjoy being brushed, and will sit still for you. Others may find it very annoying and try to get away.Long-haired females may not need to be groomed as often as the males, as their normally have shorter fur.Some long-haired male hamsters have a ‘skirt’ at the end of their bodies, made of fur. This fur may need to be cleaned more often than other parts of them.
You may want to get in the habit of brushing your long-haired hamster once a week.;
, If you want to try something different, and if you think your hamster would appreciate it, you can buy a small rubber brush that slip onto your finger. Some are designed for pets, some are designed for humans (as tiny massage fingers). If you find one and want to use it, it would work the same as a toothbrush. Just remember to be gentle., Some long-haired male hamsters have skirts that can be a couple of inches long. These skirts may end up dragging through your hamster’s water dish or poop and getting dirty. While your hamster should be able to clean his own skirt, it may be easier to simply cut back the fur instead.This is also helpful in the warmer months if your hamster is overheating. You can cut back the length of his skirt to keep him cool.
Be careful that you don’t accidentally cut your hamster’s tail, which will be shorter than the skirt.
 If your hamster should get himself into trouble and get some sort of toxic substances on him, you do not want him to lick it off. Hamsters clean themselves with their tongues and mouths, which means anything they clean off their fur will be ingested. Do the following instead:If possible, use scissors to cut away any fur that contains the toxic substance.
If you cannot cut off the fur (maybe, as an example, the substance is also on his skin), use a clean, unused, soft-bristled toothbrush with a very small amount of warm water. Use the toothbrush and water to clean the area until all the substance is gone.
If you use water to clean you hamster, use the smallest amount possible.
 One alternative to using a wet toothbrush to clean your hamster’s fur is to use a damp cloth. As with the toothbrush, use only the smallest amount of warm water you can. And if possible, try to only get the top layer of your hamster’s fur wet., It may seem tempting, but never use shampoo or soap on your hamster. If you need to clean him, use only warm water. And use as little water as possible so as not to remove any of the important oils on his fur.The only exception here is if your vet recommends something specific.
 Before you hamster goes back in his cage, make sure he is completely dry. Any dampness left in your hamster’s fur can cause him to get cold, which in turn can make him sick. If you’ve used water on your hamster to help clean him up, you may want to hold him until he’s try, in order to allow you body heat to warm him up.