 Don't try to greet a dog that's not on a leash and with its owner. You know nothing about the dog, so you can't be sure whether it's aggressive or not. When a dog is with its owner, you have a chance to ask if it's okay to approach.The owner may have a good reason for not wanting you to approach. For instance, the dog may not be comfortable around strangers.;
, Looking a dog in the eye is a sign of aggression. Therefore, if you're trying to keep an interaction friendly, skip looking it in the eye. Focus on the dog's owner. You can also look further down, like at the dog's paws.Also, don't smile, as that looks like you're showing your teeth, a sign of aggression., If you move towards it, the dog may take that as a sign of aggression. Instead, stop and let the dog move towards you. It lets the dog feel more in control, which makes the dog more comfortable., Hold out your hand so your dog can test you out in a dog's way, by sniffing you. Either hold your hand out with your fingers together, palm down downwardor hold it out in a tight fist., The dog will let you know if it's okay to take the interaction farther. If it approves, it may move a little towards you. It may also bend its head down so you can pet it or wag its tail.On the other hand, if its ears go back or he growls, let the dog be. Backing up or cowering is also a bad sign from the dog.
 Dogs are sensitive about certain areas, like their stomachs and paws. Pet the dog on the back of the neck or shoulders, not the head. The chest is also fine for petting, as long as you approach gently with an open hand.If the dog shifts out of your reach a little or steps back, the petting session is over.
 If your dog is with you and the dog appears friendly, you can encourage an encounter by letting them arch around each other sideways while you keep the leash somewhat slack. They will likely sniff each other. You do want to be able to pull the leash back if you need to. Once they greet each other, both will probably be ready to move on.Watch for the dogs getting angry or aggressive. If either dog gets stiff or stands up taller, you should pull your dog away. Also look for flat ears, growling, or bared teeth.

