 Weight is a sensitive issue, and doctors often hesitate to discuss it with their patients.You may have insecurities of your own regarding your weight. If you feel you need to gain weight, do not hesitate to raise the topic. You need to put your health over your insecurities.


While you may be nervous, keep your mind on your health. Unwanted weight loss can be a symptom of a variety of medical ailments, including serious conditions like cancer.If you're unable to gain weight, you want to discuss this with your doctor as soon as possible.
Make an appointment with your doctor to specifically discuss your weight. At the appointment, you can say something like, "I've noticed I've lost about 10 pounds this month, and I think I'm a little underweight at this point. I'm struggling to put weight back on, and I wanted to talk to you about potential reasons for that."

, There are a lot of roadblocks that may be preventing you from putting on weight. Before the appointment, try keeping a daily journal detailing your eating habits, your moods, your sleeping habits, any medications or supplements you are taking, exercise, and any new or unusual symptoms you may be having alongside your weight loss. This information can help your doctor determine why you are unable to gain weight or point them toward certain tests to run.


You might notice, for example, that your appetite has decreased since you started a new medication. Your doctor, in this scenario, may be able to switch to a different medication or adjust your dosage.
Let your doctor any extenuating circumstances affecting your weight. For example, "I've just been so stressed lately I feel physically sick. It gets to the point where I stress vomit after I eat." With an issue like this, your doctor may refer you to a therapist to help you better manage your stress.
If you are having difficulty gaining weight, tell your doctor what you've been eating and about any other issues you may be having, including night sweats, rapid heartbeat, fatigue, and change in menstrual cycle if you are a woman.
 Go into the appointment with a list of questions prepared. You want to make sure you understand how to gain weight in a healthy fashion, and know any potential reasons you're struggling to gain.


Ask your doctor if they think you need to gain weight. While you may be unhappy with how you look, your doctor may think your current weight is healthy. If your doctor thinks you need to gain, ask them for suggestions on healthy ways to do so.
You should ask your doctor if your issues with weight could be caused by an underlying health condition. Your doctor may want to take a brief medical history and conduct some blood work to rule out an underlying health problem.
Ask about your current health. Make sure things like your blood pressure and cholesterol levels are healthy.
 Your doctor may use medical terminology you do not understand. They may also go over lifestyle changes too quickly for you to follow. If you're unsure of something your doctor is saying, ask. It's vital you leave the conversation knowing exactly what the game plan is from here.You may not completely understand something your doctor is saying if they use jargon. It's okay to stop and ask for clarification. For example, "I understand your testing my thyroid levels, but I'm not sure I understand why. Can you explain what a thyroid disorder is again?"
You also want to make sure you fully understand any recommendations your doctor offers. If you're confused about something, stop your doctor and say something like, "Sorry, but can you please explain to me how to best count calories. I've never really completely understood and I just want to make sure I follow your recommendations properly."
If your doctor is not willing to go over this information with you, then think about switching to a doctor who is.

