 Feeling good about your body can go a long way in helping you be happy with who you are. Paying more attention to what you eat and what you do for exercise can dramatically change how you feel about your body, not to mention how it looks. Here are some things to try:


Exercise. You don't have to develop an exercise addiction to look and feel healthier. Just working out for thirty minutes a few times a week can help increase your energy, improve your cardio, and can make you feel better about yourself. Try yoga, running, biking, or join a soccer or volleyball team. Find what type of workout works for you and stick with it.
Eating healthy. Improving your diet can help your mind and body. Having a good balance between fruits and veggies, proteins, and carbs can help you feel healthier and more in tune with your body. It's okay to indulge in the occasional trip to a fast food restaurant or to have an ice cream sundae, but having too many processed or fatty foods will make you feel tired or sluggish.
 Unless you're living in a cave, it's pretty hard to go a few hours without looking at your own face, so you'll be a much happier person if you like what you see. Push any insecurities aside and learn to love what your face looks like. Here are some tips:


Focus on your favorite features. You may not love everything about your face, but you should be able to pick one or two things, like your eyes or your lips, that stand out. When you look at yourself, remind yourself how great this part of you looks.
Take care of your skin. Washing your face daily and using face-friendly lotion or moisturizer can give your skin a healthy glow and will make you much happier to look at your own reflection. If wearing makeup makes you feel good, go for it!
Smile, smile, smile! The more you smile--even if you're only smiling at your own reflection--the more approachable and friendly your face will look.
 Being happy with what you're wearing can make or break how you feel about your appearance. If your clothes are dirty, don't fit well, or just don't look right, it can affect your mood and overall happiness. Here are some ways to love your wardrobe:


Have a few key items that you adore. Just like loving your eyes can make you love your entire face, having a favorite pair of jeans, a beautiful knitted sweater, or a trendy scarf can really help you feel good about how you look. You don't need a wardrobe overhaul--just a few items that really stand out can make the difference.
Accessorize. If you're a girl, a few key pieces of jewelry, or the right purse, can tie your whole outfit together. If you're a guy, the right belt or watch can really tie your look together.
Try new things. You may have a certain look, but mixing things up and going out of your comfort zone by wearing something like a loud pair of pants or neon green shoelaces can make you feel more versatile and spontaneous.

