 Add ¾ cup (177 ml) of milk, an egg, 1 cup (128 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of baking powder, 2 tablespoons (24 g) of sugar, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of cinnamon, and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until there are no clumps, and set the bowl aside.For the best batter, use whole or 2% milk.
You can substitute whole wheat flour for the all-purpose if you prefer.
 Add ⅓ cup (67 g) of sugar and 3 teaspoons (8 g) of ground cinnamon to a separate small bowl. Mix the two ingredients together well to create a topping for the finished fries. Set aside for the moment.If you prefer, you can use approximately ⅓ of cup (70 g) of store-bought cinnamon sugar to dust over the finished apple fries.
 Add vegetable oil to a large skillet until it reaches a depth of 1-inch (2.5-cm). Heat the oil over medium-high heat for 5 to 7 minutes.You can substitute peanut oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
 For the fries, you’ll need 3 large Granny Smith apples that have been cored and peeled. Use a sharp knife to cut the apples into ½-inch (13-mm) thick wedges to form the fries.Fuji and Pink Lady apples also work well for the fries.
 After you’ve cut the apples into wedges, use a pair of tongs to carefully dip them into the batter. Allow the excess to drip back into the bowl, but make sure that the apples are completely coated.For the best results, dip the apple fries in the batter right before you add them to the oil.
 Once the apple wedges are coated with the batter, use the tongs to drop them into the heated oil. Fry the apple fries in batches until the edges are lightly golden. Flip them over with the tongs, and cook them for another minute on the other side until the fries are golden brown.Be careful when frying the apple wedges because the oil will be extremely hot. If it starts to splatter, turn down the heat on the stove.
 When the apple fries are finished cooking, lift them out of the oil with the tongs. Place them on a paper towel-lined plate, and allow them to drain for a minute or two., Once the apple fries are finished draining, place them on a platter. Sprinkle the cinnamon sugar mixture you made earlier over the fries and toss lightly so they’re coated on both sides before serving.The apple fries pair well with caramel sauce. Warm up homemade or store-bought sauce to serve alongside the fries for dipping.

