 Your first piece needs to be 3½ inches (8.89 centimeters) long, and your second piece needs to be 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) long. You can use a solid colored ribbon for this, but a pattern (such as polka dot) would look nicer. This will make the wings.Grosgrain ribbon is different from satin ribbon. It is not shiny and it has a bumpy/ribbed texture.;
, Fold both wing ribbons in half, widthwise. Match up the ends, then cut them at an angle. Unfold the ribbons when you are done.
 The ribbon only needs to be between 1½ and 2 inches (2.54 and 5.08 centimeters) long. Use a solid color for this. This will make the body.








Choose a color that goes well with your wider ribbon. For example, if you are using a pink ribbon with white polka dots for the wings, choose a white ribbon for the body.
 This will make the antenna. Use the same color as your body ribbon.
 This is not completely necessary, but it is highly recommended. Not only will this make your butterfly look neater, but it will keep the ribbons from fraying. Light a candle or turn on a lighter. Hold each cut end of the ribbons over the flame for a few seconds until the ends melt slightly.








Do not let the ribbons burn, however.
Keep a bowl or cup of water nearby, just in case.
 Fold a wing ribbon in half widthwise. Pinch the fold to make a crease, then unfold the ribbon. Thread your needle and tie a knot at the end. Sew a simple running stitch along the crease









Work on one wing ribbon at a time.
 This will help create the wing shapes for your butterfly. Do not cut the thread yet.
 Keep the wing ribbon gathered with one hand, and use your other hand to wrap the thread around it a few times. Pull the needle under the wrapped thread, then push it back through the loop. Make a second similar knot, then snip off the excess thread.
 Find the center of your second wing ribbon. Make a running stitch down the center, widthwise. Pull the thread to gather it. Wrap the thread around the wing a few times. Knot the thread to itself, then snip off the excess., Place the wings side by side, with the long edges touching. Place the longer wing on top and the shorter wing on the bottom. Make sure that the cut angles are sloping inward towards the joint to create > and < shapes.Make sure that the patterned side is facing you.
 Thread your needle and tie a knot at the end. Push the needle up through the center of the bottom ribbon and out through the top ribbon. Wrap the thread around the center of both ribbons a few times. Tie the thread off, then sniff the excess.









For a neater finish, flip the butterfly over, then make two small stitches to either side of the center thread, joining the wings together., Set the body ribbon down on your work surface. Orient it vertically. Flip your butterfly over so that the back is facing you. Set it down on top of the body ribbon. Make it centered.
 Pull the bottom of the body ribbon up and press it into the glue. Cut off the excess ribbon. Place another drop of glue on the back of the butterfly. Pull the top part of the body ribbon down and press it into the glue. Snip off the excess ribbon.
 Fold the antenna in half to make a V-shape. Place it on the back of the butterfly, with the ends sticking out over the top of the longer ribbon. Secure the antenna with a few stitches or with a drop of hot glue.
 Draw a horizontal line across the back of the butterfly, using the joint between the wings as a guide. Press the butterfly against the hairclip. If you wish to attach the butterfly to a hair tie, do the following:









Cut a small circle out of felt, about the same size as the butterfly's center.
Cover the circle with hot glue.
Place the circle against the inside of a hair tie. Make sure that the hair tie is centered across it.
Press the butterfly into the glue. Orient it horizontally.

