 You may want to obtain special fine dumpling flour from the Asian market, but it is not necessary. You could also try cake flour, which tends to be a bit finer than standard flour.


Some recipes call for nearly boiling water, some call for warm water, and some do not specify a water temperature. Try different methods and see which one works best for you., Dumpling batter is traditionally mixed by hand, and often not measured in exact measurements. If you do want to measure, the ratio of flour to water is typically 2 to 1, but you can always add more flour if your dough seems sticky or more water if it seems too dry.









Add the flour to the water in a medium bowl. Mix together with a wooden spoon or a spatula until it begins to be sticky.Remove the dough from the bowl and knead it by hand on a clean surface. (Use caution if you used boiling water to form the dough.)
Continue kneading until the dough is smooth.
 After you have kneaded the dough into a smooth ball, let the dough rest for about 10 minutes. This will help the texture and consistency of your dumpling batter.
 Begin with one section and cover the others with plastic wrap to keep them moist. This gives you ample time to form each dumpling without having the remainder of your dough dry out.


You may be able to skip this step once you are able to make dumplings quickly or if you have help filling them.
 Using one of your divided sections, roll the dough into a rope by placing both hands on it and rolling them towards and away from you while slowly extending them out from the center. The dough rope should be no more than 1 inch (25 mm) in diameter.
 The segments should be less than 1 inch (25 mm) long. Consistency in the size of your dough segments will lead to consistency in the size of your dumplings.
 Use your hands to flatten each ball of dough into a flat piece. Then use a rolling pin dusted with flour to roll each dumpling skin very thin.









The ideal method of rolling the skins leaves the center of the dumpling a bit thicker and the edges very thin. You can do this by applying more pressure with the rolling pin as you reach the edge of the dumpling wrapper., Repeat this process until all of the dough has been made into wrappers. If you have a helper, have someone begin filling and sealing the dumplings while you are still making the dough skins.

