 Online predators are everywhere and you don't want to get caught up in a cell phone number instead, or your work number), never give out your address, and by all means, Never give out any personal information that can reveal your identity. Don't feel that because you are male, you are not vulnerable; these precautions are for anyone contemplating such a relationship.
 Of course the picture needs to be of you and not some actor that you think the opposite sex will find attractive, but you do need to take the time to make sure the picture shows you in the best possible light. As far as physical first impressions go your picture in your online profile is that first impression so be honest with it but make it your best impression possible.
 Make sure that you ask simple questions like "Oh, you have a band? What do you play?" like a normal conversation. Learn as much as you can about him. Online relationships are the same as normal relationships, so conversations shouldn't be much different.
 Lying in any relationship is bad. You don't want to get caught in it later or forget what you said because you will feel foolish and your relationship won't be strong because you won't trust each other.
 Just because it is an online relationship, and it is easier to get away with cheating, does not mean you should cheat. It is not right by any means and it is not fair to the other person.
 If they seem pressuring to meet and you do not want to, stand your ground. It's better to be safe than sorry.
 This would include busy restaurants, busy shopping malls, and any other busy place you can go. Do not invite them to your home until your relationship is healthy, steady, and you have been with them for quite a while to ensure as much safety as possible.


Take friends with you on any meeting with someone you have only met online, even in a busy place.
, Some of these online dating websites are getting pretty sophisticated in the way they match up people but that does not mean that they cannot make mistakes. Another important dating tip is to always check someone out for yourself before you accept a date from them. Just because an emotionless computer thinks you may be a good match for someone does not mean that you are. Look their profile over and email them a few times before making the decision to meet.
 Send small gifts such as chocolate, flowers, a card, etc. Send them to their place of work so they have something to cheer them up in the middle of the day. If they don't work, send them to their home. Don't make it too frequent, though, or they'll make it a habit of receiving those gifts.;
, When you're not talking online, go out on dates if they live nearby. Take them out to the movies, or a fair going on nearby. Small dates do wonders for these types of relationships.
 Take a break every once in a while from talking to them. You don't need to be conversing 24/7 and make sure it does not interfere with work/school/etc.

