 These records are available to the public, but you cannot just go in and search anytime you want. Most public offices are open during regular business hours, and closed for government holidays. If they have a smaller staff, parts of the office may not be open all day.
 Most are very knowledgeable and eager to help. Be sure to supply them with as much information as possible. The more information you have, the more they will be able to assist you.
 Different offices will have different ways of storing their records. Some may even have a variety of different databases, depending on the time period you are searching in. The clerks should be able to direct you to the right database.


For older deeds, you will be directed to the grantor-grantee index books. These are typically large volumes. They may have gathered a great deal of dust through the passing decades. There are likely separate indexes for grantors (sellers) and grantees (buyers), so be prepared to search each separately.In some cases, the jurisdiction you are in will have put the older deeds on microfiche or microfilm. If they do, there will also be machines to read the film. If you don't know how to use the machine, ask the clerk for assistance.
If you are lucky, the jurisdiction will have scanned everything into computer files. Don’t count on it, though. Many locales only went back to a set year, say 1970, when computerizing their records.
 The purpose of a deed is to determine who has legal ownership of the property. Because the deed records the transfer of property from one owner to another, finding these names will allow you to trace the ownership of a property back through time.In searching through deeds, you may come across names of companies or large landowners that have many properties to their name. This is where other information you have, such as the address or APN, can be helpful in narrowing down a long list of potential dead ends.If a name isn’t recorded in the chain, it doesn’t exist, at least in terms of legal notice of a claim of interest. You may come across a "wild" deed, which records a transaction outside of the legal chain of title. Different states have different rules for the legal standing of wild deeds, so if you have a financial interest at stake in the property, you should discuss the issue with a property lawyer., Once you have found the deed, it should have a particular recording number, registering its entrance into the records. This is the number that the clerk will use to find the actual the deed itself.
 Once you have the recording number, the clerk should be able to pull the deed and either make copies, or let you make copies of the deed. Each office is different, so be sure to ask the clerk what to do.
 Most offices will charge for copies. The cost depends greatly on the size of the file you are looking at, how many copies you want, and the jurisdiction where you are researching. You don't want to be surprised when they ask you to pay!

