 It can take a while to calm down for the night and get your body ready for bed. By starting a bedtime routine about 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime, your body will have a chance to wind down and relax., Taking a bath before bed can help to relax and soothe your muscles and clear your mind. Try taking a warm bath as the first part of your bedtime routine.Use your favorite bubble bath to get clean and soak in the tub for about 15 to 20 minutes. Then dry off with a clean, fluffy towel.
 Cozy pajamas can help you to feel comfortable and sleep better. Choose some pajamas that work with the season. For example, if it is winter and you are a little cold at night, then put on some flannel pajamas. If it is summer and you tend to get hot during the night, then put on something light, like a t-shirt and shorts.


You can also do other things to make yourself comfortable. For example, if your feet feel cold, then put on some socks. If your room feels hot, then turn on a fan., After you have your pajamas on, you will need to take care of any other personal needs to make sure that you have a good night’s sleep. Brush your teeth, wash your face, have a drink of water, and go to the bathroom before you get into bed., Music can help you to relax, so it is a great addition to a nightly bedtime routine.Choose something soothing, such as classical or jazz. Or you can listen to a few slow songs by one of your favorite musicians. Just make sure that whatever you choose is nice and relaxing.
 Turning down the lights will help your body to release melatonin, which is a necessary sleep hormone that our bodies make. Keeping the lights on bright may interfere with your body’s ability to release melatonin.You do not need to turn off all of the lights, but make sure that any lights that are left on are dim.For example, a small table lamp or a night light could offer some dim light to help you fall asleep.
 After you have seen to all of your needs and made your bedroom nice and cozy, you can climb into your bed and start to relax. You do not need to go to sleep right away, but getting into bed may help your body and mind start winding down for sleep.
 Sometimes you will feel ready to sleep right away, but other times you may need a little more time to get sleepy. If you don’t feel sleepy yet, then talking quietly with a parent can help you to wind down. You can also try reading a bedtime story on your own or with a parent to help yourself feel sleepy.

