 Your doctor should be the first person you consult about your condition. Your doctor may be able to direct you to certain resources that will help you manage your specific condition. Any questions you have about your condition, you may ask your doctor. For example, you should ask:


What medications will I have to take? Do they have any side effects?
How often should I visit a doctor about my condition?
How long does this condition last? Is there a chance that I will heal, or is it a lifelong condition?
Will I require surgery or hospitalization at any point?;
, While your general care physician might be able to help you manage your symptoms, you may need to find a specialist doctor who can help you target the specific cause of your chronic illness. Your primary care physician can refer you to the right doctor. Different diseases require different types of doctors.


If you have diabetes, you might consult with an endocrinologist. If your diabetes causes issues in your eyes, you might see an optometrist. Similarly, if you are having problems in your limbs, you might see a podiatrist.If you have arthritis, you might consult a rheumatologist.If you have Multiple Sclerosis, you may have to work with a neurologist. You might also be referred to a radiologist, ophthalmologist, or a psychologist., You can search the internet or a local library for information about your condition. You may learn what causes your condition, how it may be managed, and what the latest research on it is. The more you know, the better able you are to cope with the symptoms, complications and treatments for your disease. You might want to research:


Do you need to change your diet?
Will exercise help relieve the symptoms?
What types of activities should you avoid?
Are there any clinical trials you can join?
Do you need to quit smoking or drinking alcohol?

, If you have just been diagnosed, you may find that you suddenly have several new medications, treatments, and procedures that you need to follow on a daily basis. Sit down with a planner. Write down when and how you need to treat yourself each day of the week.


Set reminders in your phone so that you are reminded beforehand.
Keep a list near your purse, wallet, or front door that reminds you what you need to bring with you for the day. This list could include your medicine, Epipens, mints, or blood sugar test strips.
Let your doctor know if you experience side effects from your medications, if your condition worsens, or if you do not improve.
Advise your doctor if you are trying alternative treatments and supplements in addition to your regular course of treatment. Do not stop taking your medications or make changes to your treatment without first consulting your physician.
 Stress can have a negative impact on your health no matter what your chronic condition is. Find ways to relieve your stress in a healthy manner. Incorporate these new practices into your daily life. You may find that they help relieve both your symptoms and your anxieties about your illness.You can try:


Taking a daily walk
MeditatingListening to calm music
Writing in a journal
Painting

