 To make a lipstick, you’ll need one full crayon. You can use a mix of two or more shades, but the total pieces used should add up to only one crayon. Choose the shade(s) that you plan to use and completely remove the wrapper(s).Make sure that you’re using non-toxic crayons that are made for children, such as Crayola.
It’s usually easier to remove the wrapper from a crayon if you wet the paper first.
 Take a large metal ladle and mix together ½ teaspoon (2.25 g) of shea butter and ½ teaspoon (7.5 ml) of an oil of your choice. Next, add in the crayon(s) that you’re using to color the lipstick.Olive, almond, jojoba, coconut, and argan oils all work well for the lipstick.
If you’re using a single crayon color for the lipstick, it helps to break it into pieces before adding it to the ladle.
 Once all of the ingredients are in the ladle, light a small candle. Place the ladle over the candle, holding it approximately 3-inches (8-cm) from the flame. It should take approximately 30 seconds for the crayon to begin to melt, but continue to hold the ladle over the candle until it is completely liquefied.While the crayon is melting, use a spoon to stir it into the other ingredients so they are completely mixed together.
 When the crayon has melted completely and the ingredients are fully combined, remove the ladle from the heat. Use a spoon to pour the mixture into a container, such as a metal makeup pan or plastic jar. Next, place the container in the refrigerator and allow it to cool for at least 15 minutes.You can mix cosmetic grade glitter into the mixture after you remove the ladle from the heat if you want your lipstick to have a glittery finish.
Be extremely careful when you’re pouring the mixture into the container because it will be very hot.
If there is more of the melted crayon mixture than you need to make your lipstick, don’t pour it down the sink. It will harden in the pipes and may cause a clog. Instead, allow the mixture to cool in the ladle,and then pry it out and throw it away once it’s cooled.

