 A combination of medication and therapy can greatly benefit your loved one. With treatment, many people with bipolar disorder experience significant improvement in their function and mood. However, there is no “cure” for bipolar disorder, and symptoms can recur throughout one’s life. Stay patient with your loved one., Particularly during depressive episodes, the world may feel overwhelming to a person with bipolar disorder. Ask the other person what would be helpful to them. You can even offer specific suggestions if you have a sense of what is most affecting your loved one.For example, you could say something like, “It seems like you’ve been feeling very stressed lately. Would it be helpful if I babysat your kids and gave you an evening of ‘me time’?”
If the person has been experiencing major depression, offer a pleasant distraction. Don’t treat the person as fragile and unapproachable just because s/he has an illness. If you notice that your loved one has been struggling with depressive symptoms (mentioned elsewhere in this article), don’t make a big deal of it. Just say something like, “I noticed you seem to be feeling down this week. Would you like to go to the movies with me?”

, Keeping track of your loved one’s symptoms can help in several ways. First, it can help you and your loved one learn warning signs of a mood episode. It can provide helpful information for a physician or mental health professional. It can also help you learn potential triggers for manic or depressive episodes.Warning signs of mania include: sleeping less, feeling “high” or excitable, increased irritability, restlessness, and an increase in the person’s activity level.
Warning signs of depression include: fatigue, disturbed sleeping patterns (sleeping more or less), difficulty focusing or concentration, lack of interest in things the person usually enjoys, social withdrawal, and changes in appetite.
The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance has a personal calendar for tracking symptoms. It may be helpful to you and your loved one.Common triggers for mood episodes include stress, substance abuse, and sleep deprivation., Some people may benefit from a gentle reminder, particularly if they are experiencing a manic episode in which they may become fitful or forgetful. The person may also believe they are feeling better and so stop taking the medication. Help your loved one stay on track, but don’t sound accusative.For example, a gentle statement such as “Have you taken your medication today?” is fine.
If your loved one says s/he’s feeling better, you may find it helpful to remind him/her about the benefits of medication: “I’m glad to hear you’re feeling better. I think part of that is that your medication is working. It’s not a good idea to stop taking it if it’s working for you, right?”
It can take several weeks for medications to begin working, so have patience if your loved one’s symptoms don’t seem to be improving., In addition to regularly taking prescribed medication and seeing a therapist, staying physically healthy can help reduce symptoms of bipolar disorder.People with bipolar disorder are at a higher risk of obesity.Encourage your loved one to eat well, get regular, moderate exercise, and keep a good sleep schedule.


People with bipolar disorder often report unhealthy eating habits, including not eating regular meals or eating unhealthy food, possibly because of being on low income after the onset of the illness.Encourage your loved one to eat a balanced diet of fresh fruits and vegetables, complex carbohydrates such as beans and whole grains, and lean meats and fish.Consuming omega-3 fatty acids may help protect against bipolar symptoms. Some studies suggest that omega-3s, especially those found in coldwater fish, help decrease depression. Fish such as salmon and tuna, and vegetarian foods such as walnuts and flaxseed, are good sources of omega-3s.Encourage your loved one to avoid too much caffeine. Caffeine may trigger unwanted symptoms in people with bipolar disorder.Encourage your loved one to avoid alcohol. People with bipolar disorder are five times more likely to abuse alcohol and other substances than those without a disorder. Alcohol is a depressant and can trigger a major depressive episode. It can also interfere with the effects of some prescription medications.Regular moderate exercise, especially aerobic exercise, may help improve mood and overall functioning in people with bipolar disorder.It’s important to encourage your loved one to exercise regularly; people with bipolar disorder often report poor exercise habits., Friends and families of people with bipolar disorder need to make sure that they take care of themselves, too. You can’t support your loved one if you’re exhausted or stressed out.


Studies have even shown that if a loved one is stressed out, the person with bipolar disorder may have more difficulty sticking to the treatment plan. Caring for yourself directly helps your loved one, too.A support group may help you learn to cope with your loved one’s illness. The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance offers an online support groupand local peer support groups.The National Alliance on Mental Illness also has a variety of programs.Make sure that you get enough sleep, eat well, and get regular exercise. Keeping these healthy habits may also encourage your loved ones to stay healthy too.Take actions to reduce your stress. Know your limits, and ask others for help when you need it. You may find that activities such as meditation or yoga are helpful in reducing feelings of anxiety.
 Suicide is a very real risk for people with bipolar disorder. People with bipolar disorder are more likely to consider or attempt suicide than people with major depression. If your loved one makes references to suicide, even casually, seek immediate help. Don’t promise to keep these thoughts or actions secret.If the person is in immediate danger of harm, call 911 or emergency services.Suggest that your loved one call a suicide hotline such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-8255).Reassure your loved one that you love him/her and that you believe her/his life has meaning, even if it may not seem that way to the person right now.
Don’t tell your loved one not to feel a certain way. The feelings are real, and s/he can’t change them. Instead, focus on actions that the person can control. For example: “I can tell this is hard for you, and I’m glad you’re talking to me about it. Keep talking. I’m here for you.”

