 Lay out a flat piece of cardboard to use as the base floor. Choose a piece as long as the maze you want to make. A good size to start with is two feet by two feet. As you perfect your maze-making skills, you can get more adventurous with bigger sized mazes.


You can also start building directly on the floor if you prefer. However, this means that you might have more to clean up at the end since your rabbit might go to the bathroom on the floor or make some other kind of mess. A cardboard base will help contain the mess to the toy maze and not let it escape into your home as much.;
, You can create walls for your maze by cutting ten-inch high strips from flat cardboard, the same length and width as the maze floor. Glue the strips around the perimeter to create the structure's walls. Each lane should be wide enough for your rabbit to move around easily – probably at least six inches wide, depending on the size of your rabbit.You can also use some heavy duty tape (like duct tape or packaging tape) as an alternative to glue to keep the walls of the maze in place.
 Draw a blueprint on the maze floor. You can even include divergent paths and dead ends to challenge your rabbit. However, try not to make it too difficult.You might want to start out with a fairly simple design that only has one dead end, for example, and build up to a more complicated pattern over time.
 Cut additional ten-inch high cardboard strips and glue them into your maze according to the design you created. Make sure all of the pieces are attached sturdily so your rabbit can run through the maze without knocking them over.


To attach the inner walls of the maze to the base, you can use glue or tape. Just make sure the walls stay firmly in place.
 Do this by cutting ten-inch high cardboard strips to use as barriers that fit tightly in the path at the beginning and the end of the maze. Secure them sturdily to the base to create separate start and finish pens.


Make sure your holding pens are secured tightly and that there are no spaces around the edges for your rabbit to escape.
You can secure the walls of the holding pens by creating slits in the cardboard sides that allow the pen door to slide into place. Then you can simply remove the wall by pulling the cardboard door out to let your rabbit out of the pen., Place your rabbit in the start pen and put a few pieces of your rabbit’s favorite foods in the finish pen to entice your bunny to finish the maze. Lift up both pens and watch your rabbit find its way through the maze.