 When it comes to any relationship, honesty is the best policy.


You'd like your man to be honest with you, so be sure to afford him the same courtesy.
You should never withhold or hide things from your man -- you may think that you are preventing him from getting hurt or angry, but this could really backfire in the long run, when he eventually finds out.;
, Kindness is an important trait in any relationship, but one that is often overlooked.


The whole "treat 'em mean, keep 'em keen" is fine for the dating scene, but doesn't really work once you're in a relationship.
Being kind encompasses a lot of things -- it means being patient and understanding if your guy makes a mistake, it means doing nice things for him just because you care, and it means treating him with dignity and respect, just as you would like to be treated.
 Men may not like to admit it, but most of them desperately want a little TLC every now and them.


So don't forget to express your affection by giving him a big hug and kiss when he's looking a bit down.
If you're at the "I love you" stage in your relationship, don't be afraid to remind him of how you feel or feel like he's the one who has to say it first.
 Very often, people in committed relationships find themselves settling into a comfortable, predictable routine.


And while this has its benefits, its nice to inject some fun into your relationship and do something spontaneous every once in a while, just to keep things interesting.
Plan a romantic weekend trip for the two of you, or organize a day out to visit a museum, zoo or art exhibition. Book a sky-diving or scuba-diving experience. Get out of your comfort zone and you'll see a whole new side to your other half!

, Treating a guy well is all about loyalty -- there's no point being nice to his face, then complaining about him behind his back to family and friends.


He needs to know that you're there for him and that you have his back 100% of the time -- just like he has yours.
Next time someone disagrees with your man or criticizes him for something, speak up on his behalf -- this will let him know that you're on his side.
 If you want your guy to trust you 100%, then you need to afford him the same luxury. Trust is a two-way street.


Don't panic if he doesn't immediately return your call or reply to a text -- guys are forgetful about these kinds of things -- it doesn't mean he's up to something shady.
If your man is open and honest with you and has never done anything to hurt you in the past, then you have no reason not to trust him. So if he wants a wild night out with the guys, you can be totally zen about it!

, Making a guy feel good about himself is an important part of treating him well. You don't want to be around someone who puts you down all the time, and neither does he.


Be considerate of his feelings -- thank him when he does something nice for you to let him know that you appreciate him, and apologize when you say something harsh or uncalled for.
If he's having a hard time at work, let him know that you believe in him and have confidence in his abilities. He'll feel much better about himself afterwards.
 Sometimes we all just need to vent and share our feelings with another person.


You want to be that person for your man when he needs it, so show him that he can tell you anything by being a good listener.
Try not to interrupt or make any judgmental comments -- just listen to what he has to say, try to be sympathetic and offer some constructive advice.
 Men are egotistical creatures, so boosting his ego with a well-timed compliment can put him on top of the world.


Tell him he looks great today, that his gym workouts are really paying off, or that his new haircut really suits him.
Let him know that he's the only man for you, and that you feel lucky to have him.
 Your guy should know that he can count on you no matter what and that you'll always be there for him when he needs you.


Be his safety net when he needs it -- back him up if he wants to take a risk with a new business idea, support him if he's having family issues and be his shoulder to cry on when something bad happens.
Being in a loving relationship is about sticking it out through the bad times as well as the good -- so don't be a fair-weathered girlfriend!

, Treating a guy well involves doing nice things for him from time to time, so why not let yourself in on the action and plan a fun date together!


Do the classic dinner and a movie if you haven't done that in a while, or try something a bit more adventurous like going paintballing, taking a dance class or attending a concert.
Even a quiet night in can be jazzed up with a few candles, some romantic music and a nice bottle of wine!

, The old saying that "the way to a man's heart is through his stomach" is pretty spot on -- so do something nice for your man by cooking him a delicious meal, whether it's an old favorite or something new and exciting.


Don't worry if you're a terrible cook -- pick a very simple but tasty recipe, like some kind of pasta dish or coconut-based curry, and give yourself lots of time to prepare.
Alternatively, you could just order take-out from his favorite restaurant and serve it nicely -- from actual plates rather than plastic containers!

, You really can't go wrong with giving your man a massage, especially after a long, stressful day.


Get some nicely scented massage oil, dim the light s(or light some candles) and put on some relaxing music.
Invite him to take off his shirt and lie down. Work your way up his back and across his shoulders, focusing on any knots or areas of tension. He'll feel so good afterwards he might just fall straight asleep!

, Every so often, it doesn't hurt to get all dressed up for your man and make him feel lucky to have you. You'll feel like a million dollars when you see the appreciative look on his face!


Do all the things you used to do when you first started dating -- spend three hours getting ready if that's what it takes -- shaving and moisturizing and applying makeup and curling hair.
Put on your best dress and a pair of killer heels -- now you're all set for whatever the evening may bring , whether it's a night on the dance floor or a romantic evening at home.
 Nearly all men appreciate when a woman has an adventurous side in the bedroom, so unleash yours and watch your guy become putty in your hands!.


Try taking the lead if you're normally the one who just goes with the flow -- experiment with tying your man down or handcuffing him to the bed if that's what he's into.
Remember that sexual intimacy is an important part of any healthy relationship, so don't withhold sex if you're feeling angry -- work things out in the bedroom!

