 Kite grip is the most common way to grip poi. If it feels comfortable to you once you learn the grip, you can stick with this grip or experiment with other grips.


Hold the strap of one poi between the thumb and forefinger of your right hand. Hold it by the right end of the strap so that the strap is pointing to the left.
With your left hand, twist the strap towards you by ninety degrees to form a loop.
Put your left middle and ring fingers through the opening in the loop. Let the loop come all the way over the two fingers to right below the first knuckle.
Run the leash between your left middle and ring ringers so that when your hand is facing upwards the leash falls down towards the floor.
Repeat these steps with to get the other poi on your right hand. , This is a popular alternative grip. If it feels more comfortable than kite grip, use it.


Turn your left hand palm up.
With your right hand, hold the loop of one poi open.
Put your left hand index and ring fingers through the loop. Let the loop come all the way over the two fingers to right below the first knuckle. Your middle finger should not be in the loop; it should be out and resting on top of the loop. Looking down at your left hand, the loop should come over your index finger, under your middle finger, and over your ring finger.
With your left palm facing up, the leash should fall straight down to the floor. , This is the first and easiest of the four basic poi modes. The goal is to get each poi spinning in simultaneous circles on either side of your body.


Grip your poi in either kite grip or three-finger over-and-under grip, whichever is more comfortable.
Face forward with your hands at your sides. The poi should be hanging straight down on either side of your body.
Spin both poi forward simultaneously using your arms, wrists, and hands to create momentum. To help visualize the motion, imagine that you are spinning two levers in a circle on either side of your body.
The movement of the circles should be simultaneous, so that the movement of each poi perfectly mirrors the other.
Once you’ve mastered same time mode with the poi traveling forwards (clockwise), use the same technique but reverse the motion so the circles are traveling backwards (counterclockwise). , This is the second of the four basic poi modes. The goal is get each poi spinning in successive circles on either side of your body.


Grip your poi in either kite grip or three-finger over-and-under grip, whichever is more comfortable.
Face forward with your hands at your sides. The poi should be hanging straight down on either side of your body.
Spin the right hand poi forward, making a circular motion.
When the end of the right hand poi reaches the top arc of the circle, begin spinning the left hand poi in another circle.
This will look and feel much different than same time mode. With split time mode, you are creating successive circles, so that when the end of one poi is at 180 degrees, the end of the other poi should be at 0.
Once you’ve mastered split time mode with the poi traveling forwards (clockwise), use the same technique but reverse the motion so the circles are traveling backwards (counterclockwise). , This is the third of the four basic poi modes. The goal is have one one poi traveling in a forwards (clockwise) circular motion while the other travels in a backwards (counterclockwise) circular motion, with the ends of both poi passing each other at 0 degrees and 180 degrees.


Grip your poi in either kite grip or three-finger over-and-under grip, whichever is more comfortable.
Face forward with your hands at your sides. The poi should be hanging straight down on either side of your body.
Spin the right poi forwards like you did with same time mode.
At the same time, spin the left poi backwards.
You should be making two large circles, with the ends of each poi traveling in opposite directions and passing each other at the top and bottom of the circles.
Once you’ve mastered the motion, reverse the motion, using the same technique so that the right poi is spinning backwards while the left poi is spinning forwards., This is the fourth of the four basic poi modes. The goal is have one one poi traveling in a forwards (clockwise) circular motion while the other travels in a backwards (counterclockwise) circular motion, with the ends of both poi passing each other at 90 degrees and 270 degrees.


Grip your poi in either kite grip or three-finger over-and-under grip, whichever is more comfortable.
Face forward with your hands at your sides. The poi should be hanging straight down on either side of your body.
Spin the right poi forwards, making a circular motion.
When the end of the right hand poi reaches 90 degrees, being spinning the left poi backwards in a circular motion.
This will look and feel differently than split time mode. With split time opposites mode, the ends of the poi will be traveling in opposite directions and passing each other at 90 and 270 degrees.
Once you’ve mastered the motion, reverse the motion, using the same technique so that the right poi is spinning backwards while the left poi is spinning forwards., Nearly all intermediate and advanced poi moves derive from the four basic modes. As you practice the modes and mix them together you’ll naturally start finding interesting ways to dance with your poi.
 More advanced poi moves will be difficult to learn from words alone. Seek out online videos or a local fire dancer to help you learn more difficult moves.
 You’ll need kevlar poi for this step. You’ll also need kerosene.


Pour the kerosene into a bowl or other container. One measuring cup of kerosene should be more than enough.
Slowly dip the kevlar wicks of your poi into the kerosene, one by one. Let the excess kerosene drip back into the bowl.
Once the kevlar is soaked but not dripping, carefully light the ends on fire with a match or lighter.
Spinning with your fire poi will feel strange at first since the flame creates additional resistance. 