 Stress is one of the most common triggers for asthma attacks. Reducing how much stress you have in your life can prevent attacks or limit symptoms.Avoid situations you know are stressful as much as you possibly can. If you cannot, excuse yourself from any stressful situation. For example, “I’m very sorry, I need to step out to use the restroom.” Use this opportunity to help relieve tension and get a grasp on any early signs of an attack.;
, Relaxation exercises are an incredible way to reduce stress. In turn, they can also help you avoid an asthma attack. One type of relaxation exercise is to release muscle tension through your body. Do the following muscle tension exercise any time you feel stress:Tighten and contract each muscle group in your body for five seconds. Then allow each group to slowly ease into deep relaxation. After 10 seconds, tighten the next group of muscles, working up towards your head.Repeat the progression until you finish with your head and neck muscles.
 Your outlook can also affect your asthma. Having negative thoughts can make stress worse. This may lead to an asthma attack.Reframing negative thoughts or feelings may limit your stress and may help you avoid an asthma attack.Recognize that reframing is a relaxation technique that turns negative feelings into positive ones.For example, you may have missed a deadline because of an emergency. Instead of feeling doom and gloom, reframe the situation and say to yourself, “Ok, I missed the deadline but I’m almost done anyway. I’ll call Dan and let him know what happened and that I’ll finish it by 10am.”
Visualize peaceful scenes as another way to reframe your thoughts. For example, picture yourself in a favorite destination instead of where you currently are.
 Repeating mantras is a powerful way to relax. It offers a form of meditation that can also help you refocus your energy away from stress. If you’re feeling stressed, take a few minutes to repeat a positive mantra to yourself. This may help prevent a stress-related asthma attack.Recognize that even five to 10 minutes of mantra repetition can reduce your stress.Practice in a quiet and comfortable place where no one can interrupt you.Sit upright, still, and close your eyes. Breathe easily without controlling your breath. Then repeat your mantra. For example, “let go” or “I love and am loved” may help quickly calm you., Deep breathing exercises are another way to limit your stress.Practicing deep breathing when you feel stressed can relax you and relieve psychological stress. It can also help you avoid a stress-related asthma attack.Recognize that deep breathing can helps distribute oxygen to your body, reduce your heart rate, normalize your pulse, and relax you. All of these can control asthma and prevent attacks.Inhale and exhale naturally through your nose. Breathe to a specific count. For example, inhale for a count of 6 and then exhale for the same number.Sit upright with your shoulders back as you breathe slowly and evenly by pulling in your belly to expand your lungs and rib cage. This optimizes your deep breathing exercises.
 Many people are stressed from having too many responsibilities. Delegating responsibility to others can decrease stress. This can also help you avoid stress-related asthma attacks. Some ways to delegate responsibility in your professional and personal life include: Writing detailed lists to manage jobs more effectively
Training individuals to do a job or specific parts of it
Assigning responsibility for tasks to a specific individuals
Rotating unpopular or unpleasant tasks and duties

, The support of family and friends is very important and one of the most important ways to reduce stress. Reach out to loved for help any time you feel stressed. Not only can this relax you, but it may also prevent an asthma attack.Remember that your loved ones want to help you. Saying, “Maxine, could you please help me with the dinner? I’m so stressed and having problems with my asthma. I’m worried I’ll have another attack with everything there is to do.”

, Regular exercise is healthy for any person. But if you’re stressed, it can help you not only reduce your stress, but also may help you avoid an asthma attack. In addition, exercise can help you control your weight, too much of which can make asthma worse.Talk to your doctor before you start exercising. They will let you know if you are healthy enough for exercise. The doctor will let you know what types of exercise may be best for your asthma.
Get about 30 minutes of physical activity five or six days a week.Do activities such as walking, running, biking, or swimming. Recognize that other activities, including yoga or Pilates, also calm you and can strengthen your heart and lungs., Just as exercise can help manage your asthma, so can eating healthy foods. Follow nutritional guidelines for a balanced diet of three meals and two snacks per day. This can not only control your weight and manage your asthma symptoms, but may also reduce stress.Eat different of foods from the five food groups. Get extra fruits and vegetables, which may reduce lung swelling and irritation that can lead to asthma attacks.Avoid foods that can trigger asthma symptoms. Items containing sulfites, such as wine and shrimp may make your symptoms worse. Limiting sugar, caffeine, and alcohol can also reduce stress., Good sleep habits are very important. They can not only reduce stress, but also promote your overall wellbeing. In turn, this may help prevent stress-related asthma attacks.Aim to get seven to nine hours of sleep every night to help relax you and ward off stress.Develop a sleep routine by going to bed and getting up at the same time every day, including on the weekends.Set your room temperature between 60 – 75°F (15.6 – 23.9°C). Keep a window open or turn on a fan. This can cool and ventilate your room for optimal sleeping conditions.Remove any electronic devices and work from your bedroom. These can stimulate your brain and stress you., After a long day of activities, your body requires some time to come down. Winding down at least an hour before your fixed bedtime can help you relax and fall asleep.Follow a bedtime routine. This can help you relax and reduce anxiety that can cause insomnia or an asthma attack. Some things to do as a part of your routine include reading a book, snuggling with a loved one or pet, taking a warm bath, drinking warm milk or herbal tea.