 If you ask him about available contracts, Azzan will tell you about Elante of Alinor, a wandering scholar who is studying Daedric shrines in Oblivion. Elante wants to study a Daedric Shrine in Brittlerock Cave and has asked the Fighters Guild for protection.;
, It is located on the Gold Coast, northwest of Kvatch, north-northwest of Fort Wariel and is surrounded by a few minor encampments. If you have already found the site, then it will be possible to fast-travel there once you exit the Anvil Fighters Guild.
 There are two entrances - the main entrance which is marked on your map, and a second one located outside, behind the main door about 20–30 meters (65.6–98.4 ft) away. Use your area map, as the second entrance will appear when you near it.
 She will be located directly inside the main entrance to the cave and will likely be marked with a green marker point on your map. After you have finished talking with her, she will begin to move towards the Daedric Shrine at the end of the first level of the cave.
 There are two ways of doing this, and each way has its' own merits and drawbacks:


Traditionally, you could stay close to Elante and kill any daedra which attack her. This may be viable for lower-level characters, as you likely only encounter lower-level daedra, which Elante will be able to help you kill off. However, this is still highly risky, and when you are a higher-level character, near impossible, as you will be versing the likes of Daedroth, Spider Daedra, Storm Atronach and Xivilai. The next method may be better suited if this is the case.
Alternatively, you could clear the cave of daedra and then lead Elante to the Daedra Shrine afterwards. The drawback is that you will be fighting the daedra alone and that you need to make sure that Elante is not following you. Elante only follows you if you are within a certain distance; if you simply run ahead of her, she will stay at the entrance out of harm's way. Or alternatively, simply do not talk to her at all when you enter the cave, clear it and then talk to her.
 There is a whole other level to the cave complex, but she will not enter it, so you only need to clean out the first level to make sure she's safe. A quest pop-up will appear telling you that "Elante of Alinor has reached the Daedric shrine, and is ready to leave Brittlerock Cave". See the Tips section if she gets stuck in the cave.
 She will tell you that she wishes to stay at the shrine for research and that you are free to go. Elante will also hand you 2920, Morning Star (v1), a Blade Skill book, as a reward. See the Tips section if she doesn't talk to you.
 If you have also completed The Fugitives quest from Burz gro-Khash in Cheydinhal, then you can also ask Azzan for an Advancement in rank; you will now be a Guardian and receive 10 gamerscore if you are playing on the Xbox 360. After you have finished talking to Azzan, the quest will have been completed.

