 You can find information about the conference and register to attend by visiting the conference's main website at nvsbe.com. The conference creates a dedicated site each year for that year's conference, but you can reach it from the main website.The annual conference website provides dates and schedules, as well as a list of federal agencies and large corporations that will be attending or presenting at the conference.
You also can learn information about the conference itself and the opportunity it presents to veterans who own small businesses.
The conference has resources for veterans whose businesses are at all levels of development. Whether you are just starting out or have been in business for several years, you may be able to find resources at the conference that would benefit your business.
As the date of the conference draws near, the website offers more detail about the presentations and sessions offered as well as the presenters and other attendees.;
, On the conference's website, you'll find a detailed chart that lists the registration fees. These fees vary depending on the size of your business, whether your business is veteran-owned, and the date you register for the conference.Even if you aren't a veteran, and no owners of your business are, you still are welcome to attend the conference – although you'll have to pay higher registration fees.
The registration fee increases the longer you wait to register. You'll pay the least for your registration fees if you register as early as possible. The flip side of this is that you may not have as much information about the presentations and speakers offered.
Each person attending must pay a separate registration fee. You'll want to decide how many people from your business you want to attend so you can budget the costs of attending the conference.
 If you want to participate in the expo portion of the conference by setting up a booth for your business, you must pay additional registration fees and meet the conference's deadlines.For example, the exhibit booth fees for a veteran-owned small business at the 2016 convention were $1500, and you had to provide a logo and description of your business to the conference organizers by August 31.
If you plan to have a booth, you typically will want to bring people along to staff your booth so you have the freedom to network and attend sessions. Booth staff pay a significantly lower registration fee than regular attendees.
You also will have to plan your materials for the booth. The NVSBE provides an exhibitor guide that describes the complimentary resources that are provided by the conference to all exhibitors.
Any materials you need for your exhibit that aren't provided by the conference must be brought to the conference, as well as dismantled and removed promptly.
 After reading all the information about the conference on the website, you may decide you want to attend. You can quickly and easily complete your registration from the conference's website.When you click the "register" button, you'll get a basic form that asks how many people you want to register, and what type of registration you're requesting.
The registration fees are automatically calculated based on the date you begin the registration process.
Once you indicate your registration preferences, you'll be taken to another screen where you'll provide basic information about your business and the people who will be attending.
 After you begin registration, you'll reach a page where you can provide information about yourself and your business. If more than one person from your business will be attending, they must each log on individually to complete their own profiles.The first page requires you to enter basic contact information, as well as answer questions about whether you're a veteran and whether you require any disability accommodations.
You also have the option of providing a link to your LinkedIn profile or a brief personal biography.
Pay attention to the required fields. You typically must provide information in those fields before you can continue.
If you cannot complete the entire profile in one sitting, you have the option of saving the draft so you can come back to it later.
Once you've completed your profile, be prepared to pay your registration fees using a major credit or debit card.
 Each year, the conference will make arrangements with several hotels in addition to the one where the conference is taking place. By staying in one of these hotels, you can take advantage of discounted group rates.In addition to the official convention hotel, you typically will see another three or four hotels within a half-mile of the convention site listed.
These hotels typically are large city hotels with business-class amenities such as concierge service, in-room Wi-Fi, business facilities, and other recreational amenities.
Many of these hotels also have a number of shops and restaurants on site, and may offer free hotel shuttles to various local attractions.
The conference also may arrange for discounts on reservations at smaller hotels further away from the convention site. Contact the conference organizers if you're interested in these options.
 The earlier you register for the conference, the lower your registration fees will be. Another benefit to registering early is that you get your pick of rooms at the convention hotels before they sell out.This is especially true if you require accommodations for a disability. All hotels have handicap-accessible rooms, but they are limited in number.
As a general rule, you can expect that the convention hotels will be booked solid a few months before the conference begins.
You also should keep in mind that if you intend to stay additional nights, either before or after the convention, you may not be able to get the discounted rate for your entire stay.
 Particularly if you're flying to the conference, you'll want to sort out how you're going to get around ahead of time. The conference website has information on the public and private transportation options available in the city hosting the conference.If you're staying at one of the convention hotels and don't plan on doing much sight-seeing during the conference, transportation may be less of a priority. In this case, hotel shuttles and the occasional taxi may suffice.
However, if you're staying a bit further away from the convention, or bringing family along with you, review the public transportation options to determine if you'll need to rent a car.
If the conference is close enough that you plan to drive, you also want to evaluate the parking options available at the conference, and whether you need to purchase a parking pass in advance.
 The conference is held at a different location each year, typically a relatively large metropolitan area. If the conference is being held in a city you've never visited, you probably want to do a little research about the area.The location also may impact your transportation decisions. For example, if the conference is being held in New York City, there's probably no need for you to rent a car as public transportation is plentiful.
The average weather in the location also is an important consideration. The conference typically takes place in November, when weather patterns can differ dramatically across the United States.
You want to bring appropriate clothes for the weather, and the attire you choose for a conference in Florida will differ significantly from what you would wear at a conference in Minnesota.
If you anticipate doing a little sight-seeing or perhaps going out to dinner, you may want to look into popular restaurants, historical landmarks, or other tourist attractions in the area.
 The NVSBE offers a lot of different resources and opportunities to network with investors and other small business owners. You'll get more out of the conference if you analyze your business and determine which areas should be your main focus.For example, suppose you run a small business that machines parts used in many types of military equipment. You would want to focus on military procurement officers in attendance at the NVSBE.
Many diverse businesses attend the NVSBE, and there are numerous government agencies and large businesses that are looking to work with them. Go through the lists of corporate and government attendees to find the ones that most attract your interest.
Your business's development also should be a concern. For example, if you're just getting your business off the ground and are looking for start-up investors, you wouldn't want to waste your time at the conference speaking with someone who's looking for a business that has been established for at least five years.
 In addition to your basic business cards, you should create brochures about your business and what you have to offer. You also should create a brief pitch to use to sell your business to potential clients and procurement officers.You may already have business cards, but you should consider having new ones made for the conference that include your photo. This way people who've met hundreds of people at the conference and collected hundreds of business cards will be able to put a face with a name.
If your business has a particular icon or logo, make sure it's prominent on any printed materials you take with you to the conference.
Having a scripted and practiced pitch will allow you to make connections with other business owners more quickly.
Being able to briefly communicate your business's goals and what you have to offer also keeps you from wasting too much time.
If you're speaking with someone who is in a different industry or has no need for your services, you'll find this out immediately – rather than chit-chatting for 20 minutes only to discover that the two of you have nothing to offer each other.
 Each year, a number of government officers in charge of procuring contractors for government projects attend the NVSBE. You can find details about these procurement decision makers (PDMs) on the NVSBE website.Think of these opportunities as being similar to a job interview. If you look at the list of PDMs before the conference, you have the opportunity to learn more about them and the types of businesses they're looking for in advance.
You can then use your research to establish a deeper connection with the PDMs that could potentially benefit your business.
Your research also can give you an indication of your best angle of approach and how to target your pitch to that particular PDM.
 You can find a detailed agenda for the days of the conference on the NVSBE website. Mapping out your own schedule based on this agenda enables you to get the most out of the conference.You don't want to spend time during the conference trying to figure out what you want to do next. Typically conference agendas are tight, and you could wind up missing something that would have been of great benefit if you don't plan ahead of time.
Scheduling your meals also gives you a leg up because you can invite those with whom you've connected to join you. For example, if you've chosen a nearby restaurant for dinner one night and made reservations, you can invite someone along with minimal fuss.
Maintaining a schedule and knowing where you're going to go also creates a strong, positive impression at the convention. You want to look like someone who knows where you're going and what you're doing (even if you don't), not like the stereotypical bewildered and disorganized conference attendee.

