 If you don't know how to draw, gather some leaves from outside, and trace their shapes instead.You can also find some leaf outlines online, print them out, and glue them to the cardboard. You only need one of each leaf shape.


What shape you use depends on what sort of leaf you are making. For example, holly leaves are perfect for winter, while maple and oak leaves are great for fall.
 Make sure that you cut on top of a cutting mat so that you don't ruin your table. Also, try to be as neat as possible. This is what the rest of your leaves will look like.
 You can use just about any type of paper for this, including old book pages, scrapbooking paper, wrapping paper, and even construction paper.


Consider using some glittered or metallic scrapbooking paper for a few leaves. This will give your wreath a touch of sparkle!
Consider using some accent or contrasting colors. For example, if your wreath has lots of blues, greens, and purples, consider adding some gold or bronze accent colors as well.
 If you using thin paper, you can stack 2 to 3 sheets of paper, and cut through them at the same time. This will save you lots of time.You can use a pair of scissors for this, but a craft blade will give you the most precision.


Keep organized by separating your leaves into piles based on shape.
How many leaves you cut will depend on your design, the size of your leaves, and the size of your wreath base.
 This will give your leaves some dimension and make them look more organic and realistic.Don't fold glittered paper. It is too thick to fold, and the glitter may fall off., Your leaves are ready to go at this point, but you can decorate some of them further to make your wreath look more interesting. Avoid decorating all of your leaves, or all those lovely little details you added will be lost. Choose a few leaves, then consider decorating them further with glitter or paint. Listed below are some ideas to get you started:


Draw veins on some of the leaves with glitter glue. This will make your leaves more interesting to look at. Don't overdo it, however!
Outline some of the edges with glitter glue or a metallic pen for a gilded look.Use a sponge and some distressing ink, watercolor, or watered down paint to lightly shade the edges of your leaves. This will give them a distressed look as well as some texture. Be careful not to overdo it, however!