 Some people feel tense or nervous or avoidant of social situations, which can lead to less interaction and more feelings of loneliness.Isolation may be a result of feeling incompetent in your social skills. By building your social skills, you can gain confidence and feel more prepared to interact with other people.Remember that they are not called social talents but social skills, meaning that you can learn and build on them. Start small and continue to build your skills.


Smile at people around you.
Start a small conversation with the receptionist or the grocery store clerk.
Practice your conversational skills with your family.
Come up with topics to discuss with people that are enjoyable to talk about. This can include movies, video clips, or something funny that happened to you.
 When speaking or listening to people, show good manners. Above all, having good manners means treating people with kindness.Avoid finishing other’s sentences, cutting them off, or changing the subject abruptly. Take turns speaking, and contribute about 50/50 to conversations. It’s difficult to converse with someone who does not engage in the conversation, but it can also be frustrating to listen to someone who won’t stop talking.


If you feel like you are talking too much, start asking questions.
Don’t be afraid to apologize if you are rude. If you cut someone off, say “I’m sorry I cut you off. There’s something I want to say but I want to listen to what you have to say first.”

, Even if you feel like you don’t have strong friendships in your life, you can learn to be a good friend and enact these skills when people do come in your life. Treat people the way you want to be treated: be reliable, friendly, caring, thoughtful, and trustworthy.


Think about people that have been good friends to you, or think about friendships you appreciate in tv shows or movies. What about them do you admire? How can you be a better friend by doing similar things?

, Friendship is based on intimacy, and we often consider close friends as people we can confide in and share all parts of ourselves. To deepen friendship, begin by disclosing something about yourself. It doesn’t have to be your darkest secret, but something you wouldn’t typically tell someone when you first meet. Gauge this person’s interest. Does she seem interested and engaged? Does she also share about herself and her experiences back with you?Be careful not to overshare. It’s important to gauge the person’s interest and not overwhelm her with personal information.
 Your body language can communicate to other people that you are open and available for conversation or that you are closed and unapproachable. If you want people to talk to you, make sure that you look approachable and communicate openness through your facial expressions, body language, and of course, words.


Don’t cross your body. Crossing your arms or legs gives a message of being closed off. Instead, keep your arms and legs uncrossed. You can keep your arms at your sides, in your pocket, or you can hold something, like a drink.
Nod your head or use your hands to portray understanding or communication.
Angle your body towards the other person. If someone is talking to you and you are facing the other way, it can be strange.
Make eye contact. Eye contact shows that you are engaged in conversation. Not making eye contact can feel distant or even distrustful.

