 Ashley has a well-stocked wardrobe and body features any Vogue models would envy. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables and only have the occasional chocolate behind your friend's backs. Give people the impression that your diet is organic, even if it's not. Keeping in form is a must. Do a sophisticated sport like tennis or pilates to hush those thunder thighs.;
, Golden blonde hair is not a must, but it is preferred. Try a temporary dye at home to see if it looks good on you. Always use a good-quality shampoo and conditioner. Suggestions include Bumble & Bumble, Redken, or, if you can't afford any expensive hair products, Clairol.
 You've probably heard this many times, but hygiene IS important. Brush your teeth with a whitening paste twice a day, and use an electric toothbrush for better results. Use mouth wash and floss, and get braces if you need them. If you do get braces, make sure you get them in a chic colour, like silver or lavender. Never have yellow/stained teeth. Carry a pocket mirror around with you and check your teeth after eating meals. Always wash your face every night with a good scrub, toner and moisturiser. Some people use Clinique or Clarins. Use an acne scrub if needed. Use deodorant and a perfume of your choice. Nice perfumes include Daisy by Marc Jacobs, Dior Miss Cherie and any Britney Spears perfumes. Always have beautiful makeup. Glossed lips, rosy cheeks and long eye lashes are the look you should aim for. Use makeup brands like MAC, Clinique and Estee Lauder. Buy blushes and glosses that suit your skin tone. Avoid wearing bright lipstick with bright eye shadow. You can have a dramatic eye OR a bold lip, but NEVER both! It just looks clownish, and queen bees can never be clowns. Fact.
 Keep it fresh, clean and organized. You should own at least 5 pairs of jeans in different colours and styles, at least 10 different shirts, and at least 5 skirts in different lengths and styles. Never be caught dead in tacky clothes! Juicy Couture sweat suits come in handy, too. When you get home from school/shopping, change into some Juicy sweats. These are comfortable yet stylish. Have at least two pairs. Have a few designer items in your closet too, like GUESS, Hollister, Coach, basically any of the popular brands. Remember: As long as what you're wearing looks expensive & chic, that's all that matters. It doesn't matter if your high heels are Dior or Target - it only matters how you wear them and whether or not they are in. DO NOT be caught in anything featured in last season's Vogue. If your school has a uniform, customize it with cute socks, hair accessories and bags.
 Convince your parents to renovate it if it isn't quite luxurious at the moment. A nice house is important for when guests stay. Make sure your bedroom is alpha-worthy. Is it nicely decorated? Does it have modern technology 'extras'? Does it have a nice atmosphere? Leave a few scented candles in your bedroom and it'll smell great in no time. Display your shoes and purses for a boutique vibe, and add a mannequin for serious glamour. Have all the latest electronics such as a huge TV, a DVD player, a CD player and not to mention your own iPod and phone. DO NOT have a crummy phone. Get something like the iPhone or HTC Desire. Get your electronics covered in Swarovski crystals for an added touch of glamour.
 Save up for one over Christmas or your birthday. Recommendations include Guess, Juicy Couture, Coach, and if you're willing to go the extra mile, D&G or Chanel. Fill it with cute things - You never know who will go through your bag! Carry around the following: Your phone, your Kindle (If you have one), your iPod, at least two tubes of lipgloss, some mascara, an emergency sachet of foundation, a mini bottle of perfume for touch-ups, an agenda (Fill it with parties so anyone snooping thinks you're Uber popular), some pens, bobby pins, and, of course, your wallet!

, These aren't required, but they will gain you extra alpha-credit. Have gorgeous photos of yourself on facebook. Show those losers at school that you know how to work the camera! Do beauty tutorials on Youtube like Juicystar07. Get famous for it! Try to get yourself in a magazine or something, that way people will envy you HEAPS.
 Take yourself to the beauty salon every now and then, or get a subscription to a hot magazine, like DOLLY or Vogue or Seventeen. Never let your confidence levels drop! If you need a confidence recharge, type up exactly 100 reasons why you rule. Vain sounding, I know, but it works!

, Stand up for yourself when people are being total bitches. Have loads of good insults, such as: "I would slap you, but that would be animal cruelty" or "Learn from your parents mistakes. Use birth control" or "Yeah, I've seen people like you before, but I had to pay an admission fee". Crush anyone that gets in your way. If someone says something rude to you, make them miserable. Get everyone on your side and make THEM be the one to apologise. Never openly attack someone, though. Only the commoners do that.
 Your clique should consist of 2-4 other girls. They must be loyal, stylish and popular. Forming a group of losers is un-acceptable. Take your clique to the mall, give them makeovers and be the alpha. Have slumber parties with them every Friday night or so. Paint each other's nails and gossip all night. Provide amazing snacks and make it a time to remember. Have a set of clothing rules that are easy to follow, and create a few stickers saying, 'S.O.A.', which stands for 'Seal Of Approval'. Give them to all of the cool girls in your school, but don't tell them what it stands for. Keep them guessing! Give your clique a cool name, too, like 'The Coutures'. And NEVER let anyone else join.
 Make sure your birthday parties are always fantastic, and have them really exclusive. Only give 15 invites out to all of the S.O.A.'s in your grade. Hand the invitations out in an in-your-face sort of attitude.
 Keep mommy proud. Always put on an innocent act when you're around with your parents. That way, they think you're just a kind, popular girl. Which you are, right?

, Something cute like a kitten, pug or mini pig. Dress it up in cute collars and give it a sweet name like Chanel, Lulu or Teddy. Spoil them rotten!

, Make boys fall head-over-heels for you. Have a boyfriend, if possible. This will boost your ranking.

