 When pores become clogged with dirt and oil, they can appear larger and more noticeable. Therefore, it is important to keep your face clean in order to minimize the amount of dirt and oil on the surface of the skin.


Wash your face once in the morning and once in the evening. Washing more than this can dry out your skin and cause it to become irritated, making your pores appear larger.
Wash your face with a gentle cleanser (without sulfates) and use warm, rather than hot water. Gently dab (don't rub) your face dry with a clean, soft towel.
 Exfoliating helps to remove dead skin cells, which would otherwise mix with dirt and oil on the surface of your skin, causing blocked pores.


You should exfoliate a couple of times a week, using a gentle exfoliating scrub with fine particles. Scrubs with larger exfoliating particles can be abrasive, causing micro tears and scratches on the skin.
Alternatively, you can use a clean washcloth to gently rub your face using small circular motions, or make a natural, homemade facial scrub from ingredients in your pantry.
If you can afford it, consider splurging on a motorized cleansing brush, such as Clarisonic, which exfoliates the skin as it cleans and is said to be twice as effective as washing your face by hand., Moisturizer is important for healthy skin. It also prevents the skin from drying out, which can make pores appear larger.


When buying a moisturizer, look for one labelled "noncomedogenic" as this means that it will not clog your pores.
If you tend to have sensitive skin, you should stay away from moisturizers containing colors or fragrances, as this can be irritating.
 Steam treatments are excellent for minimizing the appearance of pores. This is because the hot steam opens pores and allows any dirt or oil clogging them to drain away.


To make a steam treatment, boil some water and pour it into a heat-proof bowl. Add a couple of drops of tea tree oil if you have acne-prone skin.
Lower your face over the bowl and place a towel over your head. Allow the steam towards your face for about ten minutes.
When you're done, splash your face with cold water. This rinses away any oil and dirt and helps to close up your pores.
 Clay masks can help to minimize the appearance of pores by drawing out any clogged dirt, oil and dead skin cells.


Buy a clay mask at your local drug or beauty supply store, or make your own by mixing one tablespoon of bentonite clay, one tablespoon of oatmeal and one tablespoon of water.
Thoroughly cleanse your face, then apply the mask and leave it to sit for about 10 to 15 minutes until the clay has dried. Your face should feel tight beneath the mask.
Rinse off the clay using warm water, then pat your face dry. Repeat this once a week.
 Many people don't realize this, but UV light from the sun damages the collagen which supports the skin. Without this collagen pores can stretch, making them appear larger.


You can prevent this from happening by wearing sunscreen everyday. You can buy many daily facial moisturizers that contain SPF, so it shouldn't be difficult.
When you're spending a lot of time outdoors, you should also wear a hat and sunglasses ti provide extra protection from the harmful rays of sunlight.
 Trying to remove blackheads by picking or squeezing is a bad idea. If you do it incorrectly, you can damage the pores and cause them to appear larger.


Picking at a blackhead can also transfer bacteria from your fingers and nails, causing your blackhead to transform into a nasty pimple.
If you must remove blackheads, you should do so with a sterilized comedone extractor, which you can buy online or at the drug store.
Be sure to invest in a quality toner, such as witch hazel. You can find toners at your local drug store. Toners really makes sure your pores are clean before sealing them closed. Daily use of toner, also benefits the size of your pores.

