 Building a positive home for your child depends on consistency and predictability. Children require set times to wake, sleep, eat, and do other activities to feel safe and secure. Having erratic schedules can lead to cranky, confused children that act out. Research shows that even though kids may hate bedtime, it’s good for helping them regulate emotion, fight impulses, and manage time.Help your child learn self-discipline by creating a predictable schedule for activities like waking up, eating breakfast, eating snack after school, attending extracurricular practice, doing homework, completing chores, and preparing for bed.
 Limit-setting is another necessary aspect of establishing structure in your home environment. Creating a set of rules to follow in your household lets your children understand the parameters of behavior—what’s off-limits and what’s acceptable.This builds a foundation for other environments your child may enter, such as daycare, relative’s homes, or school.


Sit down with your partner, if you have one, and devise a set of rules that are clear and easy to understand. Post the rules somewhere they can be seen regularly like on a memo board or clipped to a magnet on the fridge.
Your rules might include, for instance, "No running through the house," "No jumping on furniture," "No telling lies," and "No hitting or teasing your siblings."

, Once you have established ground rules and shared them with your children, be sure to follow through with any consequences for rule-breaking. Consequences should also be clear to your children on the outset.For example, if you have a rule that everyone needs to remove all their belongings from the living room by bedtime, a consequence may be to take anything that’s left behind for a period of time or require that they complete a chore in order to retrieve the items.
Make sure you follow through on consequences every time as failing to do so presents an opportunity for a power struggle between you and your child., It’s beneficial that children are allowed to contribute to the household in whatever way they can. This helps them develop a strong work ethic, recognize how they can positively contribute to their environment, and appreciate cleanliness and organization. It can be helpful to create a chore chart to place in your kitchen or other common area that clearly states each child’s responsibilities.