 Before you touch scissors to fabric, you'll first have to choose the kind of fabric you'll be using. The printed fabric will make up the most visible part of your lunch box, and the accent fabric will be used for a pocket. Sturdy fabrics, like linen or some kind of cotton blend, should be prioritized, as these will hold up better to wear and tear.In all, for the printed fabric and vinyl, you'll need about 15" by 50" (38.1 by 127 cm) of material. For the accent fabric, you'll only need about 5" by 5" (12.7 by 12.7 cm) of material.
Your imagination is the limit when you're choosing fabrics. For kids, you might want to choose themed fabrics, such as dinosaur or princess prints.
You should be able to purchase themed or patterned fabrics at your local craft or hobby store.
Avoid vinyl with cloth backing. The vinyl will line the inside of your lunch box to protect the fabric if something spills.;
, Your lunch box will be made of a single piece of fabric that has been lined with vinyl on the inside. Two smaller pieces will close off the sides of your lunch box. To make these pieces, you'll need to:


Measure 25½" by 7" (64.87 cm by 17.8 cm) on the vinyl and fabric with a ruler, then cut these free with scissors.
Use a ruler to measure and use the scissors to cut two pieces that are 8¼" by 4" (21 cm by 10.2 cm) from both the fabric and vinyl.
You can ensure straighter cuts by using chalk to mark out the dimensions of the fabric pieces., Many lunch boxes have a small pocked in the front for the sake of convenience. You can make your lunch box a pocket by using scissors to cut a 4" by 4" (10.2 cm by 10.2 cm) square from both your accent fabric and vinyl.
 The top of the lunch box will need a strip of Velcro to serve as a fastener, but it'll also need a handle to make it easier to carry. To make these parts:


Cut two pieces of Velcro that are 3½" (8.9 cm) long.
Cut two pieces of ribbon that are both 7½" (19 cm) long., For each fabric piece you have, you should also have a vinyl piece. Attach the cloth and vinyl pieces together by laying the vinyl on a clean drop cloth, spraying it with adhesive, then pressing the fabric into place atop the vinyl.









Spray adhesive can create a big mess if you're not careful. A clean drop cloth will protect your work surface and prevent glue from spreading around your work area.
The fumes that come off some spray adhesives can be harmful to your health. Make sure the area you do your gluing is well ventilated to prevent the build up of dangerous fumes.
Smooth the fabric with your fingers so it lies flat against the vinyl. To prevent bunching, you may want to smooth it starting from one side to the opposite.
Longer pieces can be difficult to glue while keeping the fabric and vinyl in alignment. Try rolling up longer fabric pieces and unrolling them onto the vinyl. In this way, you can glue long pieces a little bit at a time., Sewing together the component parts of your lunch box before the glue is completely dry could cause the seal between the two to weaken. Different brands of glue will have different recommended dry times. Follow the glue manufacturer's instructions for best results.









If you're unsure about how long you should allow the glue to dry, you may want to allow it to dry overnight, as many glues set within 8 to 10 hours., Lay out the 25½" by 7" (64.87 cm by 17.8 cm) piece of fabric, which at this point should be glued to an equal sized piece of vinyl, pattern side up on your work space. Use a ruler to measure 7" (17.8 cm) inward from one of the short edges of the fabric. Then:


Use a chalk to mark this 7"-mark close to the middle of the fabric. This mark will be where the top of the pocket is.
Use a ruler to center the pocket so that it has an equal amount of free space on either end of the short side of the fabric.
You might have an easier time sewing these parts together if you hold accent pieces, like the pocket, handle, and velcro in place with pins., Above the mark you've made with the chalk for the top of the pocket, you're going to mark the placement of the first piece of Velcro. Do so ¾" (1.9 cm) before the short edge of the piece on its vinyl side. Mark the position of the second piece of Velcro 3½" (8.9 cm) inward from the side opposite the first Velcro piece.


Both pieces of Velcro should be centered so that the margins around the Velcro are equal.
The long side of the Velcro pieces should be parallel with the short ends of the piece of fabric/vinyl, the short side of the Velcro will be in line with the long side of your fabric/vinyl.
You may want to use pins to hold the Velcro in its proper place while sewing., This is a nice little touch that will really make your lunch box look professional, though this isn't absolutely necessary. Take the pocket and sew a border 1/8" (.32 cm) from its outside edge with a sewing machine.


If you don't have a sewing machine, you can always hand sew your lunch box, though using a sewing machine generally yields a sturdier end product., You'll be sewing the pocket onto the large piece of fabric/vinyl on all sides except the top. You'll want to leave the top open so you can easily slip items into it. Use the sewing machine to attach the pocket to the fabric/vinyl.









The top left and right sides of the pocket will experience more wear and tear, so you may want to add some reverse stitches to reinforce the sides., The Velcro fasteners should already be in place, one on the pattern side of the fabric and the other on the vinyl side. While sewing the Velcro onto the large fabric/vinyl piece, stitch as closely to the edges of the Velcro as possible, around its entire perimeter.









Before sewing on the Velcro, it's a good idea to fold the fabric/vinyl piece to make sure that the fasteners can connect and are centered., Using three lines of stitches, you'll be connecting the two pieces of ribbon to make a handle. Since ribbon can be glossy or slide around when you're sewing, you may want to hold the pieces together with pins while sewing. Holding the doubled ribbon so the long side is directly in front of you:









Sew one line of stitches 1/8" (.32 cm) from the top, the second directly down the center of the ribbon, and the third 1/8" (.32 cm) from the bottom., The left and right sides of the ribbon handle will be ¾" (1.9 cm) margin between it and the edge of the fabric/vinyl and 4½" (11.4 cm) from its top. When sewing the ribbon to the fabric/vinyl:









Attach both ends of the handle by sewing a 1" (2.5 cm) box to connect handle and fabric/vinyl. By sewing in this shape, you'll make the handle sturdier.
In some cases, the sewing machine may cause some loose threads to form in the ribbon. Use scissors to trim these and make a more professional looking handle.
The ribbon will be longer than the width of the fabric/vinyl piece. Due to this, you'll need to bunch the ribbon at the middle so that the sides of the handle can be sewn in the correct place., Lay all three fabric/vinyl pieces pattern side up on your work space. You'll be attaching the two small pieces to the long sides of the big one, starting from the side opposite the handle. Do this by:









Turning the large piece so the vinyl side is facing up. Lay either one of the small pieces so its outside edges are even with the outside edges of the large piece.
Sew the outside edges together. You may want to add some reverse stitching to strengthen the seam.
Leave ¼" (.64 cm) free at the corner of the small piece that is closest to the handle side of the large piece., You're going to need to continue sewing the outer edge of your smaller fabric/vinyl piece so that the large piece wraps around it, meeting it edge to edge all the way around. The ¼" (.64 cm) free space you left should allow you to:


Fold the long edge of the large fabric/vinyl piece in an L-shape so it matches the edges of the smaller piece to form a corner of your lunch box.
Continue folding the large piece to meet the remaining edges of the smaller piece.
Whenever a corner is formed, leave ¼" (.64 cm) free, giving you enough slack to bend the large piece around the smaller one.
After you have matched the edges of the large and small piece, begin your next round of stitching by closing off the free space left in the corner.
By using pins to hold large and small pieces together, you'll be able to sew much neater, cleaner lines for the sides of the bag., Your lunch box should be taking shape at this point. All you have to do is repeat the process of stitching the outer edges together of the large piece and the sole remaining small piece.









Once you have finished the second side, your lunch box is ready to be used and shown off.