 Breathe deeply through your nose as you curl your toes down and tense the soles of your feet. Hold for five seconds and then release. Feel the tension flow out of your feet. Pay particular attention to how different your feet feel when relaxed as opposed to tensed. Relax for 10 seconds before moving on to your legs., Tense and relax your legs, first one muscle group at a time, then all together. Don't forget to breathe in through your nose as you tense, and out though your mouth as you relax. Move in the following sequence:Calf muscles – Point your toes up towards your knees.
Thighs (middle and inner) – If seated or standing, push your heels down onto the floor. If lying down, try to straighten your legs.
Thighs (outer) – Press your knees together as if you were holding a sheet of paper between them.Buttocks – Tighten the muscles by squeezing your buttocks together.
Entire legs – Tighten all the muscles in your legs together.
 Keep your breathing even as you progress to your stomach and back. Remember to pause for 10 seconds between each cycle of tensing and relaxing.Stomach – Imagine you are trying to touch your belly button to your spine.
Lower back – Arch your back as you tighten the muscles just above your buttocks.
 By now, you should be feeling very relaxed. You breathing should be slow and steady. Remember to hold the tension for 5 seconds before you relax.Chest – Take a deep breath and hold it to tense your chest.
Upper back – Pull your shoulder blades back as if you were trying to touch them together.
 Lift your shoulders up as if you were trying to touch your ears.As you do so, tilt you head back slightly to increase the tension in your neck. Tension in your neck and shoulders is a frequent cause of both headaches and neck pain.You may want to do two or even three cycles to make sure you completely relax your neck and shoulders.
 It should be getting easier and easier to relax as your body calms down. As you relax each part of your arms in succession, remember to breathe in through your nose when tensing and out through your mouth as you relax.


Triceps – Extend your arms and lock your elbows.Biceps – Curl your arms to flex your biceps.Forearms – Curl your hands downwards as if you were trying to reach back to touch your elbows with your fingers.Hands – Clench your fists., People carry a lot of tension in their face, particularly in their jaw muscles. As you relax these muscles, you will complete your session. You should now be completely relaxed.


Eyes and lips – Make a sour face: squeeze your eyes shut while pressing your lips together.Jaw – Open your mouth as wide as you can.Cheeks – Smile widely.Forehead – Raise your eyebrows as high as you can., Now that you have completed the progressive muscle relaxation process, take a few minutes to simply relax. You may choose to engage in guided imagery in order to further enjoy the sense of relaxing calm. Or, if you have time, you may wish to go to sleep.

