 If you cannot afford a hypnotherapist or one is not available in your area, you may consider hypnotizing yourself. This can be done by you in your own home. First, find a room or space in your home that is free of other people and relatively quiet. Make sure that it is a comfortable temperature and will not distract you.If you are close to a busy street, try using a fan or a white noise machine to create some ambient sound. This will help you concentrate.
 Find a chair that will allow you to recline comfortably, but not so comfortably that you fall asleep. Ideally, the chair should have some padding and recline to about 130 degrees.Avoid crossing your legs or feet. Keep them straight in front of you or touching the floor.
 Without straining your neck or tilting your head, find a point on the ceiling and concentrate on it. Try to focus your attention on that point and avoid moving your eyes.If you are having difficulties concentrating, try hanging a ball from or placing a paper circle on the ceiling.
 Inhale and exhale slowly from your diaphragm. Concentrate on each breathe. Notice the rising and falling of your chest., Slowly close your eyes and allow your body to relax. Begin counting down from five, telling yourself that you are getting more relaxed with each count. Concentrate on how relaxed you feel. Once you get to zero, stay in this state for a few minutes and continue to focus on your breathing., Once you feel fully relaxed, state your goals to yourself. In your head, say your goals positively and assertively. Imagine yourself defiantly declaring your resolve to change. Repeat your goal multiple times to yourself.Make sure that you have chosen realistic and reasonable goals. For example, hypnotic suggestion will not help you lose 30 pounds in a week or quit smoking overnight. Instead, use hypnosis to encourage yourself to exercise more or gradually cut back on smoking.
Make a positive statement that is in the present tense. For example, if you are overcoming a fear of public speaking, say “I am comfortable speaking in public” instead of “I am not afraid of speaking in public.”
There is also some evidence that self-hypnosis can also help treat physical ailments and promote pain management., Once you have finished stating your goal, tell yourself that you are becoming aware of your surroundings and that you will open your eyes at the count of five. Begin energetically counting and, on the count of five, open your eyes and stretch. Take a few deep breathes and notice how your body feels.
 Complete the process three or four more times, each time noticing how much more relaxed you get. This repetition will also help you better implant the goal that you are trying to achieve.Do not force it if you are not feeling as relaxed as you would like. Hypnotizing yourself takes time and practice.

