 If you're not much of a music person, the enormous variety of genres and styles is overwhelming, to say the least. Instead of diving in randomly, ask a friend who's music choices you admire for a little help getting started. Everyone has different tastes, and the people that know you the best can help you find a few bands to start with.Ask questions when you hear songs that you like -- get the names of songs and singers to start building your preferences.
Ask yourself what types of music you like. If you can give your friends a few songs and bands, it will be easier for them to suggest similar bands.;
, Pandora creates unique radio stations based on your preferences. Google Music finds songs based on mood and activity. Spotify has a series of recommendations based on past listening history. The amount of code written to help people find new music is staggering -- making it easier than ever. You just have to provide a few of your personal favorites to get things started.


Many playback programs, like iTunes, offer recommendation services as well. On iTunes, this is through the "Genius" setting., Live music is often an unknown band's best chance to earn new fans. Going out to real shows is an incredible way to expand your musical library, and you can often meet the bands or pick up merchandise as well. Going to live music lets you feel out songs in real time, as well as get in touch with great, up and coming bands that would be almost impossible to find online.
 There is free music everywhere these days, as long as you know where to dig. Spotify, Pandora, YouTube, SoundCloud, and more sites have free options, allowing you to listen in with a few commercials. Tech-savy audiophiles can use torrenting sites to get music, as long as they know the legal risks.Don't have technology? Head to your local library and check out a few CDs.
Swapping music with friends, either through Dropbox, mixed CDs, or external hard drives, is easier and easier in the digital age. Simple copy the songs into the folder "My Music" → "Automatically Add to iTunes," or a similar folder for your program., Try a light opera, or perhaps a show tune, played by an orchestra or just on piano. Do not think of anything else. This is a time to listen, enjoy and relax. You are going to try to develop a mental map of the music -- and that extends across all genres.


All genres of music borrow from others. From the "rock opera" and oldies-sampling hip-hop beats to the reggae/punk lovechild known as "ska," you'd be surprised how often influences from dissimilar genres bleed over.
 Music is subjective. If you like a song, then that is more than enough. Too often people feel like they feel "guilty" about a band or song, or try to follow bands they don't enjoy. Stick to your guns -- if you like the band, listen to them.