 The problem should include at least two numerical values. One value will be a real integer and the other value will be a negative number beneath a radical (square root symbol).


Keep in mind that two negative numbers will produce a positive value when multiplied, just as two positive numbers will produce a positive value when multiplied. Due to this fact, any number squared by itself will produce a positive value, regardless of whether it is positive or negative. As such, there is no way in “real” terms for the number beneath a square root radical to be negative since that number should, supposedly, be produced by the square of a smaller value. When an impossible negative value like this occurs, you must deal with it in terms of imaginary numbers.

Example: Write the standard form of the following number: √(-64) + 27

, The real number should be placed at the front of your final answer.



Example: The real number portion of this value is 27 since this is the only portion that does not lie beneath the radical in your original problem.
 Look at the number beneath the radical. Even though you cannot take the actual square root of a negative value, you should at least be able to find what the square root of the numerical value would be if it were positive instead of negative. Find that value now and write it down.



Example: The number beneath the radical is -64. If the integer were positive instead of negative, the square root of 64 would be 8.

Written another way, you could say:
√(-64) = √= √(64) * √(-1) = 8 * √(-1)



, Combine the value you just calculated with the imaginary number indicator, i. When written as a whole, these two pieces make up the imaginary number part of the standard form.



Example: √(-64) = 8i

The i is another way to write: √(-1)
When you consider that √(-64) = 8 * √(-1), you can see that it becomes 8 * i or 8i.
 You should have all the information you need at this point. Write the real number part first and the imaginary number part second. Separate the two with a plus sign.



Example: The standard form of the original number is: 27 + 8i


