 Most ‘getting up’ problems happen to school age kids who have a specific schedule. Because that schedule is going to change quite drastically between August and September, consider preparing your kids for the new school year before it actually begins.One week before school starts, have your kids practice getting up at whatever time they need to for school.
Have your kids go to bed at the same time they would on a school night.
Begin other school-time rituals the week before school to get them in the groove (e.g. picking out the next day’s clothes, making and packing a lunch, etc.).
 Kids who are simply told to do something because you (the parent) say they should do it are more likely to fight back. Instead of just implementing a set of bedtime rules, explain to your kids why it’s important that they go to bed at a certain time and why it’s important they get a certain amount of sleep every night.Lack of sleep can cause both physical and mental problems.
Being sleep deprived can increase your kids’ chances of developing anxiety and depression.
School and sports performance will decrease if your kids don’t get enough sleep.
 If you and your kids develop a sleep routine, but you schedule family events (e.g. dinner, sports, etc.) at times that don’t align with that sleep routine, you’re setting your kids up for failure.Once a sleep routine is developed, re-align your family schedule as best you can to allow your kids to successfully follow their sleep routine.
 Kids often participate in more than one activity during the same time of year. On the one hand, this is a great opportunity for them to learn new skills and talents. On the other hand, it doesn’t give them a chance to simply sit back and relax. If their lives are always on the go, the lack of relaxation may make sleeping really difficult.If need be, ask your kids to prioritize which extra-curricular activities they want to participate in, and limit them to a certain number. They can always switch activities in the future.
 This is especially helpful at the end of the summer when you’re trying to get your kids back into a school routine. You probably already have to buy them new school supplies and clothes, so add an extra item as incentive to do a good job with their routine.An incentive can also be built into your kids’ routine. For example, if they get all their morning tasks completed on time, allow them to play a video game or go on the internet before they leave for school.
 Sometimes it can be easier to be critical of bad behaviour that it is to praise good behaviour. Good behaviour, however, needs to be praised and reinforced in order for it to continue. If you don’t tell your kids they’re doing a good job, how will they know?Praise doesn’t have to come with prizes or presents, it can simply be a verbal comment.

