 Every child is different, but most babies can be weaned from night feedings when they are at least four to six months old.


Also note that your baby should at least be 14 lbs (6.45 kg) before you drop a night feeding.Night feedings generally won't harm your baby, so if you don't see a need to drop them, you can wait until your child naturally initiates the process by sleeping through the night. Your child should eventually grow out of the night feeding phase even if you don't assist him or her, but the process will take longer.
If you don't know whether or not your baby is ready to stop night feeding, talk to your child's physician.;
, Even though babies will eventually grow out of the need by themselves, it might be necessary to drop night feedings if your own well-being depends on it.


For instance, if you've returned to work and your baby's night feedings are making it impossible for you to get enough sleep, you might need to rearrange feedings so that they only occur during waking hours.
No matter what, though, you need to make sure that your baby is physically ready to stop night feedings. Do not drop this part of your baby's eating routine if he or she still needs it for the sake of development.
 Even babies who don't need to eat in the middle of the night may still wake up during that time. Moreover, they may still expect to be fed, even if they don't actually need it.


For this reason, dropping a night feed is mainly a matter of breaking the routine your baby has already grown accustomed to.
Keep in mind that breastfed babies typically feed more often than bottle-fed babies. With the former, the weaning process may take longer since the baby will naturally wake up more often.
 Your baby might be waking up in the middle of the night to eat, but there's also a chance that he or she could be waking up for a different reason. In that case, dropping night feeds can become both difficult and impractical.


Periods of external and internal transition can cause your baby to wake up in the middle of the night.
For instance, if you've just recently returned to work, moved to a new home, or arrived home after an extended family vacation, the shift in attention and activity could make your baby too anxious to sleep.
Major milestones can make it difficult for babies to sleep, too. Babies who have recently learned how to sit up may find it more difficult to settle back down. Babies who are teething may experience pain that keeps them awake.
 If your baby eats more than once during the middle of the night, you will need to drop night feedings one by one. Do not attempt to drop all night feeds at the same time.


There's no definitively right way to choose which feeding to start with, but generally, it works well if you start with the middle feeding and gradually work your way outward. If your baby eats three times during the middle of the night, stop the second feed first, then the first feed, and then the last feed.
 Regardless of how you've been feeding baby at night until now, you should minimize possible sources of distraction and stimulation as much as possible. Keep your baby calm and tired to help him or her ease back into sleep more smoothly.


Dim the lights as much as possible. Use the lowest light setting you feel comfortable moving around in.
Do not hold conversations, turn on the television, or turn on the radio while feeding your baby. The noise can make your baby too excited to fall back asleep.
Only change your baby if absolutely necessary. Feel the outside of the diaper or peak into it instead of removing it completely. If it's cold and wet, or if there is something solid in the diaper, a change will be necessary. Any diaper changes should be done in the middle of a feeding instead of the end.
 If your baby is bottle fed, you'll need to decrease the amount of formula/milk you put in the bottle during the feeding. If your baby is breastfed, you'll need to decrease the amount of time you allow your baby to feed.For breastfed babies, time the length of your average night feed before you begin weaning your baby. Once you know the average length of time, reduce that amount by two to five minutes every other night.

If your baby usually eats for 20 minutes, reduce that amount to 17 minutes or so for two nights, then 14 minutes for two nights, and 11 minutes for another two nights. Continue along this pattern.


For bottle-fed babies, simply cut down the volume of milk by about 1 oz (30 ml) every other night.

If your baby usually drinks 6 oz (180 ml), cut that down to 5 oz (150 ml) for two nights, 4 oz (120 ml) for another two nights, 3 oz (90 ml) for another two nights, and 2 oz (60 ml) for yet another two nights.
 After your baby eats, make sure that he or she has been well burped before you put your child back in bed.You might think that burping your baby will wake him or her up, but if you don't do it, your child will likely begin crying within 10 to 20 minutes as the built-up, trapped gas starts to cause stomach pain.
 As long as your baby no longer needs a night feeding, you can usually drop one within five to seven days.


If you have a breastfed baby, you should be able to drop the night feed once you've cut it down to five minutes or less.
If you have a bottle fed baby, you should be able to drop the nigh feed once you've reduced it to 2 oz (60 ml) or less.
 After completely dropping a night feed, avoid feeding your baby again during that time if he or she continues to wake. Find other ways to comfort your baby to sleep.


Speak soothing phrases like, "Everything's okay. Time to go to sleep." Talk to your baby quickly in a calm, quiet whisper, and try to avoid eye contact. If necessary, you may rub your baby's back, but only do so for two to four minutes and only if he or she has not fallen back asleep within 10 minutes.
Avoid angry, excited, or otherwise intense interactions. Greater amounts of stimulation will make it harder for your baby to fall back asleep.
Try not to hold your baby in your arms after he or she wakes. Rocking your baby to sleep could inadvertently increase the anxiety he or she feels upon waking a second time since you seemingly disappeared without warning.
 If you find that you are unable to soothe your baby back to sleep, have your partner take over that responsibility.


This can be especially important for mothers who breastfeed. Your baby may smell your breastmilk, and that scent may trigger or enhance the desire to feed.
Even if you feed your baby formula, this can still be a beneficial tactic to try if you have been primarily responsible for feeding the baby at night. Your son or daughter may associate you with night feeds, so when he or she sees you, the desire to eat will be harder to erase.
 It's normal for a baby to cry for one to three nights after you drop a feeding, but if the waking and crying continues past that time, you may need to resume the feeding again.There are many things that may have prevented the process from working the first time. It is quite possible that your baby wasn't ready, or something may have disrupted the process with or without your knowledge.
If you need to pick the night feeding back up, resume your normal routine and try to drop the feeding again after another two weeks or so have passed.
 Dropping a night feed does not mean cutting back on the amount of food you give your child. In fact, you may need to feed your baby more during the day to make up for the milk he or she is not getting at night.


Some babies resist daytime feedings as they grow older because of how active and stimulated they are during the day. Stopping to eat may seem unpleasant if your baby believes he or she is missing out on something.
Work around this potential problem by taking scheduled breaks for daytime feedings. Move to a quiet room with no distractions. Distractions can include televisions, radios, computers, and noisy family members.
 Make sure your baby's stomach is filled before he or she goes to sleep. Consider adding an extra feeding to your evening schedule so that your child will stay full for a longer period of time into the night.


Feed your baby just before he or she goes to bed, then consider feeding your baby again just before you go to bed.
If you feed your baby before you go to bed, this may mean you'll have to wake your child up. Even if he or she only eats a small amount during this time, that extra food might be enough to keep your baby full until morning.
 Don't allow your baby to fall asleep in the middle of a meal, regardless of whether that meal happens at night or in the middle of the day.Babies can learn to associate feeding with sleeping if they regularly fall asleep before finishing a meal.
A baby who associates the two actions can start depending on his or her feeding to fall asleep. You need to help your baby learn how to fall asleep without feeding.
If you notice your baby falling asleep in the middle of a feeding, stop the feeding immediately and cuddle for a few minutes. Put your child to bed while he or she is still awake.
 For many babies, suckling is a way to comfort themselves. Your baby may feel the need to suckle even if he or she isn't hungry, which may prompt your child to cry for food even if it isn't needed.


This is why pacifiers can work well when you're trying to drop night feeds. When you suspect that your baby is full in spite of his or her cries, encourage your child to take a pacifier. This can be done during both the day and night.
Note that babies who have never used a pacifier may need some encouragement before they accept it, and some babies may never take to it.

