 This information is specific to the UK. If you are looking after children under eight years old for longer than two hours per day, you are required to register with Ofsted or another childminder agency. There are two registers: the Early Years Register (to look after children age five and under) and the Childcare Register (to look after children ages five through seven).


If you are looking after children in both age groups, you’ll need to register with both.If you don’t comply with the registration laws, you can be fined and/or sent to prison.
You will have to pay a registration fee and an annual fee.
 This information is specific to the UK. When you register, Ofsted will do an initial inspection. The inspection is to ensure a basic level of quality is in place. They will check to make sure you’re meeting the requirements for child safety, learning and development. You could be inspected at any time. During the inspection, Ofsted will observe the children at play and observe how you interact with the children. They will speak with the children directly to check their levels of learning and understanding.
Ofsted will be speaking to you directly about the children’s knowledge, skills and abilities. They will evaluate your knowledge of the early years curriculum.
The inspector will provide feedback about their findings. If significant improvements are necessary, they will explain what needs to be done and then you will be inspected again in 6 months.
 Even if you aren’t getting licensed, it’s still a good idea to have the local fire marshall come out to inspect your home. You’ll need to provide floor plans and escape plans – the standard is having at least 2 exits out of each room in the case of an emergency. Fire extinguishers and smoke detectors are required. Most fire marshals will test them on-site to make sure they are in working order.


Look into the details for fire inspection in your area – there are usually rules about windows, electrical outlets and even general housekeeping, all of which the fire marshall will be inspecting.You’ll be given a certificate upon passing inspection, which you should hang on the wall in a place where parents can review it.
 Many homeowners’ insurance providers have a home day care coverage policy that you can get. It will cover personal liability and medical expenses for accidents and injuries sustained by children in your home.Accidents happen, especially when small children are involved, so obtaining this insurance is very important.


In the event of an accident, this insurance will protect you and the child.
It will also enable the injured child to get the medical care they need.
Speak to a licensed insurance agent for more information and policy options.

