 Then, pick your strategy.


If you don't know her, start off by asking her name. Pay her a compliment. "That shirt is a great color on you" or "I couldn't help noticing the way that necklace really brings out your eyes."
Set up a conversation starter without talking to her. For instance, if she's wearing a shirt with the logo of a great band on it, and you have some of that band's music on your audio device, then put your earbuds on and slightly turn the iPod screen toward her so that she can see what's playing. Who knows--she might actually start a conversation with you.;
, Truthfully, most girls want guys to make the first move, so think of a great question to ask her. Even if you don't feel confident at first, you'll definitely get more comfortable when she responds to you.


Again, if you know her, then ask her something that encourages her to talk. "What did you do this weekend?" or "How did you do on that project?" are both easy openers.
If you're feeling really confident, be more direct. You can say something like, "I was looking for the stars last night, but I couldn't find them, because they are in your eyes." Or you could say, "I must be a snowflake because I've fallen for you."
Openers are all about delivery. If you're going with a casual opening question, then deliver it with confidence and look like you're really interested in what she has to say. If you're going with the direct approach, then deliver it boldly. Give her a big smile and make good eye contact, and laugh a little bit if she does.
 If she seems interested in you, she'll turn her body toward you, make good eye contact and smile back at you. If she's not interested, she'll turn away or look over her shoulder at you, and she might roll her eyes or look down her nose at you.


Girls can be complicated! If she likes you back and doesn't want to admit it, or is too shy she may look down, giggle, not answer your questions (or say things like, "it's up to you"), or blushes (a dead giveaway). Also, she could be playing hard-to-get, and in that case, try to say things that might open her up.
Keep flirting with her if all signs point to "yes." Show her that you're interested, too. Lean slightly toward her, turn toward her and maybe tilt your head slightly to one side. Give her a disarming smile.
 Ask questions, wait until she answers them and then make comments to show that you were listening.
 Learn what she likes and encourage her to discuss the subjects that she feels passionate about.


Avoid interrupting her while she's talking. Constant interruption is a major turnoff because it makes you look like you only care about yourself.
Start a flirtatious argument with her. For instance, if she loves the Yankees and you love the Red Sox, then you can tease her about the rivalry. You'll both love to banter back and forth. However, never start a serious argument with her with anything serious such as politics or religion, that's a big "no."

, If you can't think of anything else to say, look at her and hold her hand and smile while looking at her eyes, as long as you know she'll not feel uncomfortable with you making physical contact.
, Most girls agree that a good sense of humor is attractive. Humor can also relieve awkwardness. If you say something that doesn't go over well, follow it up with something funny and turn it into a joke.


If you open with a line like "I must be a snowflake because I've fallen for you," and she looks at you like you just popped out of a UFO, try saying, "I'm sorry. You're so beautiful that I forgot my good line and had to go to my backup." She might find that funny and start flirting back with you.

Teasing a girl can be a good way to put her at ease and keep things interesting. Just don't joke about something that may be a sensitive issue. If she strongly cares about the environment, for example, and you say something about not believing in climate change, then she's going to reject you. And never, ever joke about her weight.
Find something that you both think is hilarious. Turn it into an inside joke, so when you want to talk to her, you have something to say no matter what, and she thinks that something is funny.
 If the conversation is going really well, then you can do a couple of things:


Ask for her phone number. The next morning, shoot her a quick text saying, "Just wanted to say good morning. I've been thinking about how much I loved our conversation." If she responds positively, then call her within a couple of days.
Invite her out on a date. If she mentions something that she would like to do, like checking out a movie or a new club, then say, "I've been wanting to do that too. Want to go together?"
Make it a little more physical. Ask her to dance and see how close she gets to you. If you're feeling it, and it looks like she expects it, brush your lips against hers.
 Even if your act does impress her momentarily, you'll lose her trust and interest when she figures out you've been trying to fool her. Girls can smell a liar, so you're better off being who you are from the beginning. Do not attempt extreme images such as:


Macho man
Super-smooth and fly
Cool dude
Comedian
Pick-up artist

