 Be sure the gourd is already cured (i.e. dried and solid) before you begin. The type of cavity-nesting bird(s) you hope to attract will determine how large the gourd should be. Since gourds are irregularly shaped, use the measurements below, which are ideal, merely as guidelines for selecting a gourd.



Tree swallows prefer an interior space that measures 5x5 in (13x13 cm) wide and 7 in (18 cm) high.

Wrens prefer an interior space that measures 4x4 in (10x10 cm) wide and 7 in (18cm) high.

Chickadees and downy woodpeckers prefer an interior space that measures 4x4 in (10x10 cm) wide and 9 in (23 cm) high.

House finches prefer an interior space that measures 5x5 in (13x13 cm) wide and 8 in (20 cm) high.
 Choose the size of the drill bit based on how large a bird you’d like to accommodate. This is perhaps the most important part of the birdhouse; providing a too-large hole for the bird you’d like to attract will invite predators to attack and bully it. The height at which you drill the hole is also important, as different birds prefer different nest-cavity depths. Use the guidelines below to determine how large the hole should be and how high up from the bottom of the gourd to drill it.



Tree swallows prefer a hole that is 1 1/2 in (4 cm) wide and 5 in (13 cm) high.

House wrens prefer a hole that is 1 in (2.5 cm) wide and 5 in (13 cm) high.

Carolina wrens prefer a hole that is 1 3/8 in (3.5 cm) wide and 5 in (13 cm) high.

Chickadees prefer a hole that is 1 1/8 in (2.85 cm) wide and 7 in (18 cm) high.

Downy woodpeckers prefer a hole that is 1 3/8 in (3.5 cm) wide and 7 in (18 cm) high.

House finches prefer a hole that is 1 1/2 in (4 cm) wide and 6 in (15 cm) high.
 Use a spoon to scrape out any loose seeds, fibers, and debris from the inside of the gourd. Don’t worry about making it perfect; cavity-nesting birds are used to excavating their own homes and won’t mind picking out whatever you miss.
 Using a small drill bit, drill completely through the neck near the top of the house so that you can string the gourd onto a string, leather strap, wire, etc. Don’t worry about the wind and rain that will enter the gourd through these holes; in fact, the ventilation will actually make the gourd healthier for its inhabitants.
 Use a 1/8-inch to 3/8-inch (3-mm to 10-mm) drill bit to make the holes.
 Simply find a dowel, twig, or piece of scrap wood that is long enough to accommodate one bird, drill hole underneath the entrance hole with an appropriately sized drill bit, and place the perch inside the hole. You may need to glue the perch into the hole for additional stability; if so, allow plenty of time to pass so that the harsh stink of the glue can dissipate before you hang the nest.


Don’t try to make the nest more accessible than it needs to be. While providing an extra-long perch might seem like a kindness, it actually makes the house more vulnerable to predators, including larger birds.
Clinging birds like chickadees and woodpeckers don’t need perches. This gives them the advantage of having extra-safe entrances. Check to see whether or not your bird can cling to the front of the house before deciding to add a perch.
 Use a fine-grit sandpaper to smooth out rough spots or blemishes. However, don’t expect the surface to look totally even; the naturally uneven texture is part of what gives the gourd house its rustic charm.
 Use an outdoor paint that can take a weatherproofing finish. You can paint the gourd colorfully if you wish; however, note that birds prefer natural, neutral tones.
 Applying a coat of polyurethane, varnish, or Eco-friendly wax to the outer skin to protect the gourd from the elements. If applying a harsh-smelling finish, allow the gourd to air out for a very long time before you hang it; just because you can’t smell it anymore doesn’t mean the birds won’t.
 The exact height and position of the gourd will depend on what bird you’d like to live there. Read the ideal conditions below for ideas.



Tree swallows prefer to be 5 to 15 feet (1.5 to 4.5 m) off the ground in an open area near water.

House wrens prefer to be 4 to 10 feet (1.25 to 3 m) off the ground in a field or thicket.

Carolina wrens prefer to be 5 to 10 feet (1.5 to 3 m) off the ground in a field or thicket.

Chickadees prefer to be 5 to 15 feet (1.5 to 4.5 m) off the ground in open woods.

Downy woodpeckers prefer to be 5 to 20 feet (1.5 to 6 m) off the ground in forest openings.

House finches prefer to be 5 to 10 feet (1.5 to 3 m) off the ground in backyards.
Enjoy!

