 If you've noticed gum recession, you most likely have periodontitis. In this condition, plaque and bacteria gather between your teeth and your gums, wearing away at the gum and bone.Loose teeth, teeth that are sensitive to cold or heat, permanent bad breath, teeth that look bigger creating an unaesthetic smile and dark triangles between teeth, or pain while chewing are all signs that this infection has been around for a while.A dentist visit is recommended for any receding gums, and as soon as you can if you have these advanced symptoms.


Sometimes the gums recede rapidly, even if no other signs are present. This happens more often in puberty and young adulthood.Visit a dentist right away and ask whether "aggressive periodontitis" is a possibility. Antibiotic treatment 24 hours before the regular cleaning may be effective to reduce the amount of bacteria., Most dentists recommend a visit at least once a year. It's a good idea to visit twice a year or more if you have receding gums. Schedule an additional visit if you notice a new symptom, such as white sores in your mouth, or teeth becoming sensitive to cold.


People with diabetes, eating disorders, HIV, or cardiovascular diseases may need more regular checkups.Ask your dentist and doctor for advice.
 Gum recession and gum disease are very common problems. Your dentist most likely has a great deal of experience and training in the subject. She will most likely start by cleaning your teeth with special tools:


At a regular cleaning session, the dentist will brush away plaque and polish your teeth to a smooth surface. This is called "scaling and root planing."If you have receding gums caused by disease, the dentist will probably do the same thing lower down on your teeth: a deep cleaning. Depending on how much the gums have receded, this might take two to four appointments. This can make your mouth sore, sensitive to hot and cold, and bloody. If it causes worse pain, stop your dentist and ask for a numbing medication., More serious recession may require more serious treatment. Your dentist will let you know if these are a good idea, but here's a description to make them less mysterious:


A pocket depth reduction cleans teeth down below the level of the gums, in "pockets" of air left by thinning gums. The gum is then secured back onto your teeth to hopefully slow or stop recession and in some cases bone grafts may be required to stabilize the tooth. Depending on your mouth, this may feel the same as deep cleaning, or require very minor local surgery to get access to the gums.If the recession is severe, the dentist can perform a gum graft, cutting skin from the roof of your mouth or elsewhere on your gum, and attaching it over the exposed teeth. Most patients remain awake but numbed, but if you have extreme dental fear you can be put unconscious. Most pain and swelling ends within a day, but for a week or two you should avoid alcohol and tobacco, rinse with mouthwash, and be careful while chewing.