 Some of your best options would be a wardrobe box or a refrigerator box. You want something large enough that your child can crawl inside and play.


You can purchase wardrobe boxes from a moving company.
Try getting free boxes from a local store which sells appliances.
For multiple sections and levels to your castle, choose boxes of different shapes and sizes. Washer and dryer boxes would work well for this.
 Set up the box with the top flaps reaching upward. Tape the corners of the flaps together on the inside of the box using packaging tape. This creates more height with an opening on top of the box.


If you would like to add some fun color to your box, you can use a colored tape, like painters tape on the outside of the corners instead. Consider also using this tape to create the stone effect all around the outside.
 Measure the top of one side of the box from corner to corner. Divide that length by an even number such as 12 or 8. Using a ruler, and starting in the corner of one side of the top of the box, measure out and draw a square with sides the length of one section according to your calculations. Using a box-cutter, cut out this square. You will use this as a template.If your box is 24x24x24, and you divide by 12, your template would be a 2 inch square.
Place the template next to the cut square hole in the top of the box. Line the edge of the square to one side of the cut.
Trace the other side of the template onto the top of the box, then move the template, lining an edge on this line. Finish tracing the rest of the square and cut it out of the top of the box.
Repeat this process all the way around the top of the box, creating an alternating square and cut section to make the rampart effect.
 Draw a window on the top, left corner of your castle. This should be a thin rectangle with a rounded top. You want it to be just large enough for your child to be able to peek through. Cut the window out using a box cutting knife.
 On the bottom, left of the box, draw a rectangle with a rounded top. This should be larger than your window and wide enough for your child to crawl through. Cut this door out with your box cutting knife. Only cut the two sides and the top, leaving the bottom section attached to the box.


Be careful when cutting out the doorway that you do not damage the piece which is being cut to make the space. This will become your drawbridge.
 Using a drill or screwdriver, puncture two holes in the box, one on each side of the top of the doorway. Thread a piece of nylon rope through these holes from front to back, then tie a knot on the inside of the box. Puncture two more holes one each side of the top of the drawbridge section you have cut out. Push the other end of each rope through these holes and tie knots on the section that is touching the ground to secure the rope in place.It is helpful to reinforce these holes by taping around the cut edges with packaging tape. This will make the area more durable.
Your child can raise and lower the drawbridge by pulling on the knots in the rope from the inside the box.
 Using a large marker or paint, draw a keystone at the top of the arch of the doorway.This is a quadrilateral slightly larger than a square, with the two sides expanding at a slight angle. The top side will, consequently, be slightly larger than the bottom. You can make this top side slightly rounded.


Using the keystone as your starting point, draw similar quadrilaterals from the top of the arch, all the way to the bottom of the doorway. Repeat this on the other side.
Use this same technique to create detail around the window. Also draw squares along the bottom of the window. These should be roughly the same size as your quadrilaterals.
 Using paint or a thick, permanent marker, draw a stone design onto your box. Start by drawing a horizontal rectangle along the bottom of your box and connecting equally-sized rectangles all the way around the bottom.To draw the second layer, Start at the center point of one of the rectangles and draw a line upward from there to create the side of the rectangle to begin your second layer of stones. The other side should rise up from the center of the next stone on the bottom layer. Connect these sides with a line on the top.
Repeat this system until you have covered the walls of your castle in stones.
This step is great for getting your child involved. You can also draw the lines in pencil and have your child trace them with a marker or paint.
 If you would like to make a larger castle, attach another box to this main one. Using a smaller box than the original, line it up to the side of the main box and trace the square where it will fit. Cut this square out of the main box. Slide one set of flaps from the new box through the square and tape them to the inside of the main box to hold it in place.


Proceed with adding windows, details, and drawing stones on each new section which is added to the castle.

