 Navigate to the Tumblr website, and if you don't have an account, click on the Sign up button. If you do, enter your email and password to log in.;
, Once you have logged in, click on the gear icon at the top of the page to access your account.
 On the left side of the page, find your blog title. It may be Untitled, or you may have named it. It will be the one with your avatar, as shown:

, This will let you pick from a variety of pre-set themes, or create your own.
 On the left side of the screen are the setup functions for your blog. In the middle of the left sidebar is an area where you can give your blog a name, and a brief description. Do that now.
 Near the bottom, you will see the Pages section. Click to expand it—it will show you an additional item, "+ Add a page." Click that now.
 A new window will appear that will let you set up your new page. At the very top is the layout for your new page. You have three basic choices: Standard Layout, Custom Layout, and Redirect.



Standard Layout will create a page with the same layout as your current Tumblr theme. This is the easiest to work with, and will generally look the best.

Custom Layout will let you create a custom page on your Tumblr, but without your Tumblr theme, so you have to input all the HTML yourself. You can generally copy and paste HTML from a full-featured HTML editor like Dreamworks.

Redirect will create a redirect to a specified Web site, instead of being an actual page on your Tumblr. For example, you could show some of your favorite Web sites on your Tumblr homepage using some of these.
 Each layout type will have slightly different input fields.



Page URL (all layouts). The page URL will be tagged at the end of your standard URL, and is the address that people will have to type into the address bar to access your page. Do not use spaces when creating this URL.

Page Title. (Standard layout only). This title will appear at the top of the window. The current page title in the setup window is Add page. To set a page title when creating a Custom Page, use the HTML tag "<title>" or use your HTML editor's Title function. The redirect layout does not need a page title.

Redirect to. (Redirect layout only). Enter the URL that visitors will be directed to when they enter the Page URL. For example, if I wanted visitors to land on the wikiHow home page when they visited, say, the "Writings" page on my Tumblr page, my Page URL would end with /writings/, and my redirect field would contain https://www.wikihow.com


Show a link to this page. This lets you add a link to your new page from your website.

