 The key to being popular is just to be yourself and who you are. If you still don't know what your own personality is, then find out! Don't copy others. Being popular means being yourself and nobody else. It doesn't matter if you are weird or plain, you can be popular.;
, People tend to stay away from people who gossip because they think that you would talk about them. If one of your friends gossips about others, there's a big chance they gossip about you to others.
 There's nothing better than making other people laugh. It makes other people feel nice and better. Even if your a very shy person, if you do/say something funny, people will realize what a great person hides inside that cocoon. Crack a joke every now and then, but don't overdo it. Don't be a big class clown. Be normal and funny.
 Being popular means letting the world see you, so join some new clubs. Go to school dances. Sure, join the chess club and be the most popular chess member. The quickest way to get popular is to be good at things you like. This way you gain popularity through groups. Another good way is to attend the local events such as open mic night or something along those lines, you'll be able to make to friends and talk to your friends, which plays a big role in becoming the popular girl. Recommended activities for popularity are doing two sports, 2 clubs, and being in Advanced or IB classes. Good clubs to join are clubs of you interest.
 You can't be popular if you're shy and blank all the time. Be talkative, be funny, be hyper, and be enthusiastic. You have to learn how to be totally fun and cool so that people will like you more and pay more attention to you. Take the time to talk to the new girl and become her friend. Talk to the person in front of you in the lunch line. Really, you can talk to anybody you like, as long as they don't have a bad reputation. Don't be afraid to say hi to random people.
 Because of the stereotypes, people think that popular girls are mean, snobby, and self absorbed. You can show them that you're not like that. Be kind to everyone you meet, even the people that may dislike you. It is true that some popular girls fit the stereotypes, but the Queen Bees are truly nice, flirty, happy, and fun people.
 A popular kid's reputation could be ruined by doing something nasty. As mentioned before, you have to be fun and enthusiastic, but never go too far. Don't take many risks. You don't want to be kicked out of school for nonsense reasons. Try not to ever get a detention, referral, suspension, or even worse, an expulsion.
 Don't be a blatantly obvious teacher's pet that gets people to call you names and make fun of you. Ask the teacher to help you out. Always raise your hand and study a lot. Make sure that you know the answers. Make the teacher be proud of you. Get a high level in schoolwork. It's another key to being popular. You have to be good at studies so that people don't go around accusing you of failing and being a loser at school all the time. Getting in the Top 5% isn't required, but it is a nice additive. Remember to not completely consume your life with studying.
 Make your rule number one: don't copy others. Make others copy you. You're your own person, and it's important to make others feel inspired. Being popular means being original. So, you can wear all the popular brands and one day wear an Izod polo with a cardigan and cute shorts. People will soon follow your unusual new style.
 It means having QUALITY friends. Don't mix up the difference. So, you can make a bunch of "friends" but you also need to have a select few FRIENDS.
 If all of your friends like you, and people who you just met like you, popular people may start to like you. If this is the case, you might make some popular friends and become popular!

, In seventh grade, some girls choose cut down on Aeropostale and move on to Hollister and A & F. This doesn't mean that you can't still wear Aeropostale; dress however makes you comfortable. Jeans and leggings are a must, dresses are also nice if that's what you like. For shoes,pick out something comfortable that you like but, boots with little heels and comfortable flats are best. Belts too- be sure to wear one with are the best pants that are a bit large, as you don't want them to fall down! If you are supposed to wear a uniform, remember that everyone does. Even if you can't dress cool for school, dress cool for parties and gatherings where it is permitted.
 Brush your teeth twice a day, shower once a day, use perfume if you like ("Bayla" from Aeropostale is popular), use deodorant, brush your hair, and keep your body clean. If you like, grow your nails long and have a french manicure- or paint them a nice color.
 Wear a light coat of powder, blush, bronzer, eyeliner and mascara every day! Brown for brown eyes, navy for blue eyes, black for green and hazel. However, feel free to go without makeup if that's what you like and are happy with. Wash your face twice a day, use concealer on any imperfections if you feel the need to.
 Stand up for people being bullied. If you cuss or complain, only do so on occasion. Try not to, though.
 You can't please everyone and the need to please everyone can make other people dislike you. Being a good person and being smart about what you do is far better than running around after other people, ignoring them or being rude.

