 Find someone local to your area. If you have a computer, you can Google keywords such as "chimney repair" and insert your zip code to find a local contractor.;
, Sometimes these reviews can be found on YellowBook online (YB) or Yelp, Yahoo, or Google. Read the reviews, and choose one or two that have the best reviews. Look for quick worker, good prices, quality workmanship.
 Speak to the contractor or his secretary, and ask questions, such as, is the estimate free? Can he do the work on the spot? Will he allow me to have some time to think about it? Will he provide me an estimate with a price that is firm? Describe your problem in detail. Problems with chimneys range from needing a simple cleaning to requiring extensive masonry work. You may need a cap, crown repair, re-pointing (sealing the mortar) or even a liner. be specific.
 Be sure that you will be home during the appointment. It helps if anyone who would make decisions about these repairs be home to discuss estimates with the contractor.
 Is the contractor's truck clean and well organised? Did the contractor go up on the roof, and did he examine the whole chimney? Did he provide you with a free estimate quickly, and explain what he wrote on it? Did he pressure you to do the job immediately?

, Confirm payment methods, and either say goodbye, or sign the paperwork. Be sure that the estimate has the correct information on it, such as the work to be done, any guarantees of materials and labor costs, and a clause offering you 3 days to think about it even if you do sign the contract. If it doesn't request clarification on the paperwork before signing.
 Don't interfere, but make sure that you're seeing him prep and actually do the work - for a cement repair, that he's mixing cement, for a cap repair, that he's using a brand new cap, for a chimney cleaning - that it takes 20 minutes or over. Once the work is down, request pictures of it (if you can't see it yourself) and have the contractor show you what was done before paying him. If you haven't decided, it's time to call the second contractor on your list.
 Googling your problem will help you to gain valuable information on your specific needs.

