 Find a moment when your sister is concentrating completely, whether she's playing a video game, drawing, painting, talking on the phone, or doing her homework. Then, carefully creep up behind her. When you're as close as you can get without her detecting your presence, scream "Boo!" and watch her shriek with terror. If you do this correctly, then this may be the simplest and the greatest prank of all. You get bonus points if you do this when your sister doesn't even know you're home.;
, This works best if your sister thinks you're sleeping or out at a friend's house. Then, wait for a time when she thinks she's alone in the house or just in her room, and sneak your hand into the room and turn off all the lights in the room she's in. If you do this correctly, then she'll shriek in terror, wondering what the heck just happened. If your sister knows you're home, then you can grab a book and pretend to be absorbed in it in the other room if she runs in screaming.


Alternately, you can put on a scary costume and then shine a flashlight onto your face from across a dark room, so your sister really freaks out!

, If you're on a long car ride together, or just sitting in front of the TV, pretend to doze off for a few minutes. Wait until you can feel your sister coming up close to you, or even moving in toward your face. When you think she absolutely thinks you're asleep and doesn't suspect anything, let your eyes bulge open and scream at the top of your lungs. If done correctly, you can give your sister a real scare in this unexpected way.
 Invite a friend over to tell ghost stories; when your sister wants to join in, tell her she really shouldn't because the stories are way too scary for her. She'll beg and plead and you'll eventually pretend to give in. Then, before you tell your story, say that you're not sure about telling it because it really happened, and you don't want to freak her out even more. Finally, "reluctantly" tell a scary story that has to do with something you can use around the house, such as a killer teddy bear or a mysterious old photograph. When you're done telling the story, you and your friend should pretend to go to bed; then, later, place something, such as the old teddy bear, from the story into your sister's room and wait for her to shriek in response.
 This will only work if your sister is the type of kid who is scared of clowns. This is more common than you think, actually, so if your sister is afraid of clowns, then you should get a clown mask and scare her with it. Pick a time when she's completely not expecting it, like when she comes home from school and knows that you're sitting in a reclining chair with your back to her. When she comes toward you, then boom, turn around with the clown mask on and give her a real scare!

, Go to a novelty store and get a handful of fake bugs you can scare your sister with. Almost all kids are scared of bugs at one point or another, and leaving the bug in an unexpected place can make your sister shriek. You can place one in her backpack -- this will definitely scare her, though you may not be able there to hear her scream. You can also place the fake bugs on her pillow, in the sink, on her plate, or on other places where you know she'll least expect them to be.
 If you tend to sleep in late and your sister is in charge of waking you up sometimes, then this is the perfect prank for you. Put on a scary mask, whether it's part of a Slenderman costume, a Jason mask, a clown mask, or whatever you know will scare your sister. Then, turn toward the wall and get all bundled up in your covers. When your sister calls your name a few times to wake you up, wait for her to get close, when she's sure you're really dozing, to spring out at her in your mask. She'll definitely scream because she won't be expecting it at all.
 If you really want to go all out, then you can tap on your sister's window in the night. Though climbing on your roof isn't usually a great idea, if you're sure you can do it super safely, then you can tap on your sister's window in the middle of the night to really freak her out. You can also throw pebbles at the window or tap it with a branch. Then, quickly return to your room and pretend like you're sleeping or doing homework so she doesn't suspect that you're behind it.
 Fake blood can always be perfect for scaring your sister, no matter how you use it. You can have her find you in bed with fake blood all over your face. You can cover yourself in fake blood and have her find you face-down at the kitchen table. You can pretend to get your hand caught in the garage disposal and pull it out of there covered in fake blood, screaming at the top of your lungs. Just be careful with this prank, because it can really scare your poor sister!

, This scary prank is totally worth it. First, you need a box that is big enough for you to hide in comfortably. Then, you need to place the box outside your front door at a time when only your sister is home. After that, you should ring the doorbell and quickly jump inside the box. When your sister opens the door and stares at the box for a second, you should jump out and scream, making her shriek.
 This one is a bit tricky, but worth it if you can pull it off. The first thing you do is to hide in your closet. Then, you should call your sister, pretending that you're not home. Tell her that you really need her help and that you want her to go into the closet to get something for you. When she opens the closet door, you can jump out at her. She'll be both terrified and completely confused! Of course, this will only work if your sister is willing to do favors for you.
 Just a drop of red food coloring on your sister's toothbrush or on the bottom of the soap she uses will make her think her mouth or hands are bleeding! Though food coloring is completely harmless, it should freak your sister out for a while before she realizes what's really happening. Just make sure your mom or dad doesn't use that bar of soap first by mistake.
 If your sister is old enough to have a computer, then wait until she gets up or goes to the bathroom. Then, change the background photo on her computer to something scary, so she has a little surprise waiting for her when she comes back. You can also try this trick on the background of her phone, if you can get it away from her.
 A fake spider on a long, clear string or a piece of fishing line is a great investment. Just stand far back and hoist the fake spider up the branch of a tree. When your sister walks by, lower the string and make the fake spider fall down right next to her, or even on her. She'll be screaming like crazy because she won't be expecting this at all.
 Who says all pranks have to be fancy? There's something to be said for keeping things simple. Just hide out behind a bush outside when you know your sister will be walking by and jump out and scream at her. She'll undoubtedly start shrieking because this is just not something that usually happens when you're walking by. You can even take a quick photo as you jump out to capture her expression. If you want to go all out with this, you can even put on a scary mask or costume.
 This is another prank that is simple, yet effective. Just get a light feather and sneak up behind your sister. When you're sure she's really concentrating on something else, just brush her neck with the feather. Do it firmly enough that she feels something there, but not so firmly that she can tell it's you. This will have her shrieking and turning around in no time. If you can swing it, try ducking or hiding when she turns around so she can't account for the mysterious sensation.
 Fake snakes can scare sisters of just about any age. Make sure her bed is made or that the covers are pulled up, at least. Then, place a big, fake snake either on her pillow or under her covers. Make sure she can't see it just by looking at her bed. Then, when she gets ready for sleep and pulls back her covers, she'll be screaming loudly enough for the whole house to hear.
 If your sister is still afraid of monsters under the bed, you can make this fear a reality. Just sneak up under her bed when she's resting and when you know she'll wake up soon. Then, when she plants her feet on the ground and yawns, getting ready to start her day, reach out a hand to grab her by the ankle and hear her scream like a lunatic. Bonus points if you can get your hand to be cold and clammy when you do this.
 If your sister loves to spend hours grooming herself in front of the mirror, this is a great opportunity to give her a scare. All you have to do is put on a scary mask, cover your face in fake blood, or do something else a little scary to yourself and then sneak up behind her so she doesn't see you. It won't take long for her to notice your scary reflection in the mirror and to scream her heart out!

, Once your sister has peacefully fallen into slumber, find a large, scary object to put in her bed. It can be a fake bloody head, a giant snake or lizard, a large spider, or really anything that you know will freak your sister out. Then, place it on the bed so that it's the first thing she sees when she wakes up. This will definitely give her an unexpected scare!

