 With this look, you want your sequin eyelids to steal the show. To ensure the attention goes to your eyes, you want to cover up any blemishes or discolorations on your face. Using your fingertip or a concealer brush, dab concealer on any blemishes or spots. Then, apply your foundation.Because your sequin eyelids will be so bold, you want the rest of your makeup to look soft and natural.
If you don’t typically wear concealer or foundation and don’t feel like your skin needs any attention, you can disregard this step.;
, You can purchase a highlight powder or cream at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. In simple terms, highlighting consists of adding a light shimmer to specific places on your face to add dimension. You should place the highlight on the highest areas of your face, where light naturally hits. This will make your skin look healthy and glowing, and complement the beautiful shine of the sequins.Add a bit to the very tops of your cheekbones, following the natural curve of your eye.
Use your finger to add a dot of highlight to the inner corner of your eyes. This will make them look big and bright.
Finish by sweeping a bit of highlight down the bridge of your nose and above the center of your top lip.
 You don’t need to be particularly careful when applying the powder to your lids. The important thing is that your lids are completely dry before adding the sequins. Use a fluffy blending brush to dust the transparent powder over your entire lid, and anywhere else you plan on applying sequins., There are several different ways to wear this look. You can cut your sequins into small pieces, which will allow you to create different designs and play with multiple colors. Another cool idea is to cut your sequin in half, applying one half to your top lid and the other half to your bottom lash line, so they come together when you blink.Finally, you can leave the sequins whole and apply a few in a line across your lid., Pick up your sequin, or partial sequin, with your tweezers. Carefully squeeze your tube of eyelash glue so that only a small amount of glue comes out onto the back of the sequin.Let the glue sit on the sequin for a couple of seconds to allow it to get tacky. It will thicken up a bit in the air, making it easier to stick to your skin.
 Apply the sequin to your lid with the tweezers. Carefully place it on your lid exactly where you want it. After it’s on the skin, press it firmly into place with the tweezers or your fingertip. Allow the glue to dry, and then blink a few times to double check that the sequin is securely in place.If you aren’t happy with the placement of the sequin, you can start over. Simply peel the sequin off, clean your lid with a bit of makeup remover, and try again.
 You don’t need to do anything dramatic with your lashes. Because your eyelids are flashy enough on their own, a little bit of mascara is all you need to finish off the eyes. Mascara will just open the eye up and add a bit of volume to your lashes. Make sure to apply the mascara very carefully so that you don’t accidentally knock a sequin loose.
 Bright, bold lips only distract from the gorgeous eyes you’ve just created. You can leave your lips completely bare, or add a bit of nude or light pink product. A bit of clear gloss can add a little bit of shine to your pout, to match the sparkle of your lids.Just remember, makeup is all about balance. Let your eyes do the talking and keep the lips basic.
 Instead of having your hair in your face, style it away from your face to showcase your dramatic eyes. You can simply tuck it behind your ears, put your hair in a sleek ponytail, or throw it into a trendy top knot. If you have hair hanging in your face, you’ll distract from your sequined eyelids.