

Determine the nicotine concentration of the e-fluid you are already using. It should be indicated on the label, and it is measured in milligrams of nicotine per milliliter of fluid (mg/ml).
Determine the concentration of your concentrated nicotine solution. It should be given on the label, in mg/ml.
Apply this formula: percentage of concentrated nicotine solution in your e-fluid = 100 * (desired concentration / concentration of nicotine solution)

For example, if your desired concentration is 3mg/ml, and you have 75mg/ml nicotine solution, your e-fluid needs to be 100 * (3/75) = 4% nicotine solution.;
,

As a starting point, try a concentration of 10% flavor concentrate. (This means that your e-fluid will be 10% flavor concentrate.)
Use trial and error to refine this. (The needed concentration may be different for different flavors, even if they are from the same manufacturer.)

, Take whatever percentage of the e-fluid is unaccounted for after the nicotine and flavorings, and split it up however you want between vegetable glycerin and/or propylene glycol. Experiment to see what works best for you.

For example, using 4% nicotine solution and 10% flavor concentrate, you could use 86% VG, or 70% PG and 16% VG.


Determine how much e-fluid your bottles hold. This should be indicated on the label or packaging.
Apply this formula for each ingredient: Amount of ingredient = volume of container * (percentage of ingredient / 100)

For example, let's say we want to make an e-fluid of 4% nicotine, 10% flavor, and 86% VG in a 30ml bottle. The measurements would be:

Nicotine: 30ml * .04 = 1.2ml
Flavor: 30ml * .10 = 3ml
VG: 30ml * .86 = 25.8ml



, Some e-fluid ingredients, such as vegetable glycerin, are highly viscous. Most liquids get more viscous when cold, and so your ingredients will also be more viscous if they have been in the refrigerator.

Highly viscous ingredients create two problems in mixing e-fluid. First, they can be difficult or impossible to get into the syringe. Second, they may refuse to mix effectively with the other ingredients.
 However, vegetable glycerin can be so viscous that it will refuse to go into the widest syringe you can find. At this level of viscosity, it also won't mix easily at all with the other ingredients., If your ingredients are very viscous, you may have no option but to make them less viscous. This can be done by heating them. You may find it necessary to do this with your vegetable glycerin, but probably not with any other ingredient.

To heat vegetable glycerin, you can put it in the microwave briefly. Exact time depends on amount and starting temperature, but 15 seconds is a good starting point.
Another way to heat ingredients is with a heated bath. This approach has the advantage of letting you maintain the ingredient at a high temperature for a long time, should that matter to you. It would also be an option if you need to heat an ingredient that you're nervous about putting in the microwave.

Put a flat-bottomed metal colander in a pot.
Put a coffee mug in the colander.
Fill the pot with water, enough to cover most of the outside of the mug but not enough to go inside the mug.
Put the ingredient into the mug.
Heat the pot on the stove until bubbles start to form in the water.
Turn the heat to low.
At this point, your ingredient should be maintained at a very warm and steady temperature. You can measure it out into syringes directly from the mug in the heated bath.


The dripper bottles you're going to put your finished e-fluid in.
Some wide-gauge industrial syringes (see "Things You'll Need").

Labeled containers for syringe-cleaning water and ingredients.


You can clean a syringe by drawing water into it, squirting the water out, and then pumping the syringe until it no longer sprays water droplets.
Clean a dirty syringe before using it with a new ingredient. For example, if you are using one syringe with multiple flavor concentrates, clean it in between switching concentrates.
 Label the containers so you don't get them mixed up (this could be dangerous), and clean them thoroughly when done.,,,, This can be done using the syringes.,