 Go to Amazon.com and click the Try Prime link at the top left corner of the page. You can also click the Try Prime link located at the right side of the top banner, just to left of the shopping cart.When you click either of these links, a dialog window will open with another link that will direct you to the sign up page.;
, Once you’re on the sign up page, find the gold box in the center of the screen marked “Start your 30-day Prime free trial.” You’ll then be prompted to sign into your Amazon account or, if you aren’t a member, to create a free account.Enter your name, email address, and password to create an account.
Once you’ve created or signed into your account, you’ll be prompted to enter payment information. You won’t be charged for the free trial, but you’ll automatically be billed $99 (US) for an annual subscription when the trial expires. To avoid getting billed, cancel your free trial before it expires.  

, After your free trial expires, you’ll have multiple paid subscription options. For most users, the least expensive is the annual plan, which costs $99, or $8.25 per month (US). You can also pay by the month but, at $10.99 per month, it’s more expensive than the annual option.Select See More Plans on the Prime sign up page to compare plans.
 If you’re a student and have a valid .edu email address, you can sign up for Prime Student. Click See More Plans on the Prime sign up page, then find the “Are you a student?” link at the bottom of the compare plans dialog box. Clicking that link will bring you to the Prime Student sign up page.Prime Student offers users a six month free trial, plus 50% off Prime membership once the trial expires.
 If you’re a US resident and receive government assistance, you can use your EBT card to purchase a $5.99 per month Prime plan. After clicking See More Plans on the Prime sign up page, find the “Do you have a valid EBT card?” link at the bottom of the compare plans dialog box. The link will direct you to the EBT discount plan information page, where you can click on the Get Started box to set up your plan.You’ll have to enter your EBT number and upload an image of your card.

