 Take the mattress, sheets, and any other bedding out of the crib before you begin. You'll need direct access to all sides of the crib, including the bottom, and the bedding will only get in the way.









It's a good idea to set aside the mattress and bedding in a separate room. Sawdust and other particles may get into the bedding if you keep it nearby.
 If you're able to adjust the height of the crib sides and base, do so now. The height you choose will be the final height of the toddler bed.








To create a loft-style toddler bed, you should adjust the base and sides to their highest points. Note that you'll also need to create a ladder for your toddler to use if you opt for a loft-style bed.
To create a standard toddler bed that won't require the use of a ladder, adjust the base and sides to their lowest points.
 Use a saw to cut an opening into one of the long sides of the crib. Start at one end of the crib and remove roughly one-third of the total side length.








If you can remove the side completely, it might be in your best interest to do so before you trim it down to size. Otherwise, you'll need to work carefully to avoid damaging the remainder of the crib.
Trim the side so that the new edge lies flush with one of the remaining vertical slats. This slat will become the new side edge of the rail. If desired, you can also use a portion of the removed rail to finish off the new edge.
Secure the rail back onto the side of the bed if you removed it while trimming it down. Make sure that the rail is sturdy and unable to wiggle around before continuing.
 Use a saw to trim down the slats of the removed railing. The new length of these slats should roughly match the size of the opening you created in the side of the bed.









Note that this is only necessary if you plan to create a ladder for a loft-style toddler bed. These newly trimmed slats will form the rungs or steps of the ladder.
Make sure that the steps are large enough for your toddler to use. Each of the slats must also be equal in length.
 Cut a length of sturdy wood into two equal pieces. These pieces will form the sides of the ladder.









Use pallet wood or another type of sturdy wood for this. The wood should be at least 1-1/2 inch (3.8 cm) thick and 4 inches (10 cm) wide.
The exact length will vary based on how high the bottom of the bed is. Measure the distance between the bottom of the bed and the floor, holding the measuring stick at a 45 degree angle so that it juts out and away from the side of the bed.
Trim the bottom of each length on a slight angle. Doing so will allow the ladder sides to rest evenly on the floor.
 Use a router to cut notches into the sides and top of the ladder.









You'll need to create two to three pairs of notches along both ladder sides. These notches should be the size and shape of the step pieces you cut earlier. Try to match the size as evenly as possible to keep the steps more secure.
Cut a final pair of notches into the top of each side piece. These notches should allow the side pieces to fit over the bottom side of the bed.
 Slide the step pieces into the notches positioned along the ladder sides. Hold the step pieces in place using wood glue.









Test the steps once the glue dries. If they still don't seem secure, install nails or screws into each step from the outside to fix them to the ladder sides. When finished, the steps should not be able to wiggle around.
 Attach the top of the ladder to the bottom of the bed using wood glue and screws.









Note that the ladder should be centered beneath the opening of the bed rail.
Test the ladder after installing it. Make sure that it does not move around when you apply pressure.
 Screw a corner bracket over the edge of the guardrail. Secure one side of the bracket to a slat along the underside of the bed and the other side of the bracket to the outermost rail post.









Opt for a 3 inch (7.6 cm) metal corner bracket with four nail holes. Use 1 inch (2.5 cm) Phillips-head screws in each of the four screw holes.
Adding the corner bracket to the edge of the rail will make the rail more secure. Your toddler will likely grab onto this side of the rail when getting into bed, creating excess pressure on it, and the rail could collapse if it isn't properly strengthened.
 Place the mattress back on the bed and cover it with the appropriate bedding. Your toddler should now be able to use his or her newly converted bed.









If desired, you can also sand down the edges and give the bed a new coat of paint. Doing so is only necessary if the crib/bed is in bad shape after you finish making the alterations.

