 Another way you can expand your capacity for joy is to spend quality time with those who bring joy in your life. This could be good friends, family members, or even students that you mentor or teach. Spend time with individuals that make you feel good through their words and actions. Look for the people that make you laugh and spend more time with them.Reach out to people who bring you joy if you start to feel down or swallowed by negativity. Meet up with family who make you feel good and have a cup of coffee with friends that make you laugh.
 If you have a partner or spouse, work on cultivating a joyful relationship with them. This means maintaining good communication with them and working on supporting each other every day. Be honest with your partner and support them when they need it. Be good listeners for each other and focus on being joyful together.For example, if you are starting to feel like you are not connecting as much with your partner as you would like, you may arrange weekly dinners where you sit down together and spend time over a meal. You can also have weekly date nights where you go out just the two of you and do something fun.
 Caring for an animal has many health benefits, such as helping fight depression, lowering blood pressure, and increasing compassion and empathy. Just petting a dog or cat can increase serotonin and dopamine, which are neurotransmitters related to feelings of calm and pleasure.Spending time with your pet, nurturing, and caring for them can help bring more joy to your daily life.


If you don't have a pet or can't have one, consider volunteering at a shelter instead.
 Use your current relationships to help you embrace new experiences and challenges. Enlist friends to try a new experience with you. Approach a new challenge with the support and guidance of family or friends. Having joyful experiences may mean getting out of your comfort zone and taking risks.For example, if you have always wanted to try scuba diving, enlist a friend to try it with you. If you have always wanted to take a painting class, ask a family member to go with you.
 To cultivate positivity and joy in your life, let go of any sources of negativity. Avoid relationships with people who bring negativity into your life. Say no to these relationships and focus instead on people who bring positivity and energy into your life.For example, you may have a friend who often complains and whines or a coworker who is selfish and self-centered. You may realize there is a family member who has hateful beliefs that you find harmful. Try cutting these people out of your life or spending less time with them so you can focus on cultivating joy.

