 Domestic abuse can be emotional, mental, physical, or sexual abuse or a combination of any of these.Abusers can go long stretches between episodes of abuse, and be loving and attentive when they are not abusing. Because of this, some victims might feel unsure if they are truly experiencing DV. Regardless of how frequently someone might make you feel scared or in danger, if they do make you feel that way, you are in an abusive relationship.Not all abusive relationships start out that way, and sometimes it can take months or years before an abuser begins his or her violent behavior. Sometimes, controlling and manipulative behaviors develop so gradually that the victim might not be able to pinpoint when the relationship took a turn for the worse and became "violent."Abuse looks different in every violent relationship. Some abusers never lay their hands on their victim, but instead use psychological tactics to make their victim feel dependent and worthless.If you fear that you are being abused, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 or 1-800-787-3224 (TTY for deaf callers) and talk to a counselor, who can help you understand if your situation is abusive.
 Even if you choose not to immediately leave the relationship, it is important to have someone else be aware that you are being abused in case of an emergency.You may wish to set up a safe word or code word to be used if you need them to contact help for you. For instance, you could agree that if you call and ask them about their "Uncle Michael," they should call 9-1-1 to your location., Even if you do not report each incident to the police, keep detailed records for yourself to have in case you need them at a later time. Sometimes evidence of a pattern of abuse can help you to gain custody or to seek damages or incarceration for the abuser. Evidence of abuse can also help you get a restraining order.Keep a large manila envelope in which to store evidence of abuse. You can give this envelope to your trusted friend and ask him or her to keep it at another location, to prevent your partner from finding it. If you do not have someone to leave it with, be sure to put it somewhere that your partner will not find it.
Write down the date and time of any incidents that occur, and whether they involve physical, sexual, emotional, financial, or other types of abuse. Write down specifically what happened, including what you did and what your partner did before, during, and after the episode and whether or not anyone else was involved (pets, children, other family members) or witnessed the episode. Think of it as a legal document, and try to write in as neutral a way as you can, avoiding emotional language.
If you are physically abused, take pictures of any bruises, cuts, or marks that your partner makes on your, or any damage that he or she does to your property or home.
If he or she sends intimidating or coercive text messages, emails, or written notes, save them and include them in your file.
 Be aware of their moods and tone of voice. This may help you recognize when they may have an abusive episode.If an argument breaks out, make sure you are in an area that has an escape route like an accessible door or window, and you are away from anything that may be used as a weapon. Stay away bathrooms with small windows and kitchens or other areas where dangerous household objects are stored.
 A safety plan is a plan based on your circumstances and the type of abuse that is occurring. It deals with what you should do in the event of a violent attack, as well as a longterm plan for how you can get out of the violent situation for good.If you have children, pets, or are pregnant, your safety plan should include how you will keep them safe during a violent episode and what you will do to protect them if you leave.
Visit http://www.thehotline.org/help/path-to-safety/ or call 1-800-799-7233 for help making a safety plan. A counselor with the National Domestic Violence Hotline can help you take all of your personal situation factors into account as you make your plan.
 Being prepared can help your reduce panic in an otherwise frightening situation. Know all of your options to remove yourself from the abusive episode without incurring more violence.If you have children, it is important to practice the safety plan and escape plan with them as well. Teach them to call 911, to run to a neighbor's home, and/or to call a family friend if they are scared.You may not wish to share all of your safety plan with young children, as they may tell your partner and you may get into an even worse altercation for defying his or her authority. It is not uncommon for abusers to try to use children against the battered parent.
 These documents include social security cards, birth certificates, marriage licenses, and any other legal documents with your name appearing on them.If children are involved, include their personal information as well, such as birth certificates, social security cards, tribal identification cards, medical and vaccine records, school records, etc.. If you are unable to store the originals, you may wish to make copies of them and store those.
When you have told a trusted friend that you are being abused, give them a copy of these documents to keep for you. If you have to leave your home abruptly, you can get the documents from them at a later time.
 During an emergency or in the event that you have to immediately leave your home, the suitcase can contain vital documents and things from your home that you'll need. You can keep your documents in this suitcase.Some things to include: a few change of clothes, several days' supply of any essential medications, contact information for shelters and local resources, cash and credit cards, a copy of keys.
Keep this bag outside of the home, preferably at the home of a trusted person. If you do not have a trusted friend to leave it with, keep it in a storage locker at a neutral location, or as a last resort, in the trunk of your car. Its important to keep it somewhere that your partner is unlikely to find it.
 Almost all cellular telephones will have emergency service access even without a phone plan.Keep this phone charged and ready in case you need to call the authorities and are unable to use the telephone in your home. If possible, keep the phone on a charger that is not readily visible to your partner and in a safe area.
 Have an account where funds are immediately available to you. Hide all evidence of this account from your partner; leave important documents with your trusted friend.Be sure to ask the bank to send statements to your friend's house and not your own. Tell the bank representative that it is important to you that the person you live with does not know you have created the account.
If you do not work outside of the home, this step may be difficult. In that case, you may be able to get financial assistance through government organizations once you leave your home permanently.

