 Your hands carry thousands of germs from the everyday objects you touch. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water before ever touching your eyes.If you touch your eyes with dirty fingers and hands, you could cause eye infections or scratches.
 Use contact lens eye drops or lubricating drops to keep your eyes moist throughout the day. This will help keep your lenses from getting stuck.If you develop itchiness or redness after using drops, try to find a product marked “preservative-free.”

, Clean your lens case every day. After you’ve put in your contacts, wash the case with sterile solution or hot (preferably distilled) water. and soap. Do not leave the case full of tap water. That causes fungal and bacterial infections. Allow the case to air dry.Replace your lens case every three months. Even with daily cleaning, bacteria and other nasty stuff will eventually get into your case.
 After you’ve cleaned your case and let it air dry, put fresh, clean contact solution into the case. The solution loses its potency after awhile, so keeping it fresh every day will help your lenses stay disinfected and clean., Different types of lenses require different care products. Use the correct type of solution for your type of lenses. Follow your eye care professional’s recommendations for cleaning and sanitizing your lenses.Use only commercially prepared solutions, eye drops, and cleaners to reduce your risk of infection.
 Your eye care professional should give you a range of how long it is safe to wear your lenses each day. Use your lenses in accordance with these professional recommendations.


Do not sleep with lenses in unless you’ve been prescribed “extended wear” contact lenses. Even then, professionals don’t recommend sleeping in these lenses, as it can increase your risk of eye infections., If you’re going swimming, taking a bath or shower, or getting in the hot tub, take your lenses out first. This will help minimize your risk of infection., Your contacts can get stuck to your eyes when the lenses dry out. One way to help avoid this is to drink plenty of water throughout the day. Drinking enough fluids will help your eyes stay moist.


The recommended daily intake for men is at least 13 cups (3 liters) a day. The recommended intake for women is at least 9 cups (2.2 liters) a day.If you routinely have dry eyes, try to stay away from alcohol and excessive caffeine when possible. These substances dehydrate your body. Water is best for you, but other good options include fruit juices, milk, and unsweetened, non-caffeinated teas like Rooibos and many herbal teas.
 Studies have shown that smoking makes dry eyes worse. “Dry eye” can result in your contact lenses getting stuck.Smokers who wear contact lenses have more problems with their lenses than non-smokers.


Even passive (second-hand) exposure to cigarette smoke can cause issues for contact-lens wearers., You can help prevent eye issues by eating well, exercising, getting enough sleep, and reducing eye strain.Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, collards, kale, and other greens are excellent for eye health. Salmon, tuna, and other fatty fish contain omega-3 fatty acids that can help prevent some eye issues.
Studies have shown that people who exercise regularly have better eye health overall. They are also less likely to develop serious eye diseases such as glaucoma.If you don’t get enough sleep, it can have effects on your eyesight. The most common side effect is dry eyes. You might also experience eye twitches or spasms.Try to reduce eye strain when you can. You can do this by reducing glare from your electronics, setting up an ergonomically correct workstation, and taking frequent breaks from working that involves your eyes.
 Seeing an eye care professional regularly can help keep you from developing issues. Regular professional exams can also detect eye diseases such as glaucoma.If you have existing eye issues or you are in your late 30s, you should see an eye doctor yearly. Adults between the age of 20-30 should have an eye exam at least every two years., If your lenses continue to get stuck to your eyes, see an eye doctor. You may have a more serious issue. You can also ask your doctor about prevention methods.See a doctor immediately if you have any of the following symptoms:

Sudden loss of vision
Blurred vision
Flashes of light or “halos” (bright fields around objects)
Eye pain, irritation, swelling, or redness



