 It may help to start by thinking about who is the most important family member in your life and then consider asking that person to walk you down the aisle. Perhaps you consider your brother your most important person in your life. Or maybe the first person that pops into your head is your single mother who raised you on her own.You may write down a few people who are important to you in your family on a piece of paper and then choose one from the list. Or you may discuss the most important family members in your life with your partner or another family member and come up with the right person together.
Keep in mind you can be walked down the aisle by more than one person. For example, you may realize that your mother and your father are both important to you, and decide to ask them both to walk you down the aisle. This is your wedding after all, so you can make it your own.;
, Traditionally, the bride is escorted down the aisle by her father. If you want to go traditional, you may decide to ask your father to accompany you down the aisle. This can be an option in heterosexual marriage and same-sex marriage for a dash of tradition in the ceremony.You may opt for asking a father figure in your life if you are not close to your biological father, such as a mentor, a coach, or a close family friend.
 Perhaps your biological parent has passed or is still alive, but you were raised by a stepparent. You may decide to ask your stepparent to walk you down the aisle to honor their contribution to your life. Or you may ask both stepparents to walk you down the aisle to honor them both.If your biological parent or parents are still alive, you may feel a bit awkward asking a stepparent to walk you down the aisle. One option is to have one biological parent and one stepparent walk you down the aisle together.
 If your parents are no longer alive, you may consider reaching out to a family member you are close to. This could be an uncle, an aunt, or a cousin. You may also ask a grandparent, if they are still alive, or a sibling you are close to.Walking down the aisle with a sibling or another family member may be a good way to honor the memory of your parents as a family and acknowledge their contribution to your lives.
 If you are getting remarried to a new partner, you may find you are closer to your son or daughter than to other family. You may decide to ask your child or two of your children to walk you down the aisle.This is a good option for individuals who are older in age and getting married, as they may not be as close to their parents as they are to their children.

