 Controlling your negative emotions doesn’t mean you ignore or avoid your feelings of anger or sadness. On the contrary, you should directly acknowledge and confront your feelings. But you must channel your negative emotions into constructive, nonaggressive outlets.If you feel negative emotions while at work, make an effort to smile and be gracious to those around you, especially the person who gossiped about you.
Try deep breathing exercises. For instance, close your eyes, breathe in slowly for three seconds, then breathe out through your mouth for five seconds.
If you need to take a break, head out for a snack or a brisk walk around your workplace.
If you feel angry when you’re at home, you could play loud rock ‘n roll music with your band.
You might also go for a run if you feel angry or frustrated with a coworker.
 If you are angry, hurt, or ashamed by the gossip, you’ll feel powerless. But you can regain your sense of self-confidence by stepping back from the situation and looking at it clinically.For instance, remind yourself that the gossip is just idle talk with little to no basis in fact.
Remind yourself that despite the fact that you’re the subject of workplace gossip, you’re a winner and you always do a great job.
 It’s important to practice self-care after becoming the subject of workplace gossip. This means not blaming yourself for the gossip. Remember that nothing you did or didn’t do qualified you to deserve becoming the subject of workplace gossip.If you are ashamed, forgive yourself. Say, “I am a good person and I don’t deserve to be the subject of workplace gossip.”
Take some time to relax and do things you enjoy. For instance, you might take extra time out of your day to read a book or watch your favorite film.
Going to the spa or massage therapist is also a great way to relieve the stress that accompanies becoming the subject of workplace gossip.
 Even while it’s hard to stay upbeat when you’re the subject of workplace gossip, think about the positive things in your personal and professional lives. For instance, you might reflect on how excited you are to go home to your spouse or child, or drive the new car you just bought. When thinking about your professional life, take the long view – think of all the great accolades and accomplishments you’ve received at work, and how many more you’re sure to rack up in the future., Share your concerns about being the subject of workplace gossip with friends and family who care about you. Express to them how frustrated you are by the gossip. Listen as the empathize with you and shar their own stories about being the subject of workplace gossip. Use your conversations with loving friends and family to remember that despite being the subject of workplace gossip, you’re not alone.