 The easiest way to get someone who comes to your home to stop trying to convert you to their religion is to not answer the door. You aren’t obligated to answer the door to anyone. The downside of doing this, though, is that they may try again another time.


Look through the peephole to see who is knocking on your door before answering. If you don’t have a peephole, try peeking out the window.
If they ring the bell and you aren’t going to answer, try to make it seem as though you aren’t home. Turn the TV on mute and be as quiet as possible.
 If you do answer the door, there is no reason to be rude and simply slam the door in their face. You may not agree with their beliefs or their way of trying to convert you, but being rude won’t make the situation any more comfortable.Say, “Hello, how can I help you?” Don’t just open the door and say, “What do you want?”
Additionally, being rude may only serve to make them feel as though they need to show you the way, making them even more insistent.
 They will usually begin by explaining who they are and what their religion is. They will ask if they can come in to talk to you about their beliefs, and why they should be your beliefs too. Letting them get their first bit out will make it seem less rude when you say you aren’t interested, and turn them away.


Normally, their introduction will only take a minute or two. If they begin to rattle on for 5 minutes while standing outside their door, then it’s OK to interrupt them to explain that you’re not interested.
 Do this politely. Explain that you are not interested in converting to their religion. If you want to, you can tell them what religion/belief you follow, but you don’t have to.For example, you can say, “Thanks for stopping by, but I’m not interested in converting to your religion. I feel comfortable with my own beliefs, and I’d like to stick with them. Have a nice day!”

, It may be tempting, especially if you have strong beliefs of your own, but if you want them to leave you alone, engaging in conversation with them will not help you accomplish this. Remember that your visitors have strong beliefs, which have led them to walk around town trying to “save” everyone. It is unlikely that you can convince them of your own beliefs.That said, if you have time to waste, and feel like engaging in debate, there’s no reason that you cannot do this. Just realize that this will take up a lot of your time, and will likely lead nowhere.
 People who go door-to-door are used to having people turn them down, so they probably won’t be phased by your explanation. They may have counter arguments for why you should let them in to hear about all the ways their religion is the right one.At this point you can become more firm in your insistence that you aren’t interested. Tell them you have a lot of things to get done, and although you appreciate their visit, you have to go now.
 If the visitors continue to insist that you should hear them out, you can either just close the door without saying anything, or you can quickly make up an excuse and close the door without waiting for a response.


For example, you can say, “I really have to get back to what I was doing. Bye!” or “I’m sorry, I have something in the oven that I must check on. Have a nice day.”

