 If you see a questionable charge on your American Express account statement, go through your own receipts or other records to make sure it wasn't simply something you forgot about.


This can happen quite easily if you subscribed to a product or service that bills in installments, or if you bought something with a trial period and weren't billed right away.
Additionally, the name on your statement may not be the name of the store with which you're familiar. This happens frequently if you shop at local or family-owned businesses or franchises where the name of the business that owns the establishment may not be the same as the name of the store or restaurant itself. For example, you might have used your American Express card to pay for dinner at Bobby Sue's Restaurant, but the company itself may be B.S. Jones Restaurants LLC.;
, Make note of the date and time of the transaction listed on your account and compare this to your own records. Any discrepancies can be used as evidence when you file your dispute with American Express.


For example, if you were in Denver, Colorado at the date and time of the transaction, but the transaction occurred in Winter Park, Florida, any documentation such as other receipts or check stubs that prove you were in Denver would bolster your claim that the charge was unauthorized.
 To dispute an American Express charge you must have the log in information for your online account.


You also can begin the process by calling the phone number on the back of your American Express card. However, federal law requires you to provide written notification of any billing dispute.If the charge is still pending, you won't be able to file an inquiry yet. You can, however, monitor the pending charge by selecting it from the transaction list on your online account and clicking a link to monitor the charge for dispute. American Express will send an email to the address you provide to let you know when the charge has posted to your account., You can find a link to the Inquiry and Dispute Center on the main page when you access your account on the American Express website.If you don't have an online account set up, you can call the number on the back of your American Express card to begin the inquiry process. You will still have to send written information regarding your dispute., If you want to inquire about or dispute a charge, click the button that says "Begin" on the Inquiry and Dispute Center page.You'll be asked the reason for your inquiry, and can select a reason from a drop-down menu. Once you've selected the appropriate reason, you should next click the button that reads "Open a new inquiry."The reason you choose generates a code that will be included when American Express issues a chargeback to the merchant for the amount of the transaction you're disputing. Certain reason codes require notification to the merchant and a full inquiry process, while for others American Express will automatically issue a chargeback to the merchant and replace the funds in your account.To begin your inquiry, you'll be asked to select the time period corresponding to the statement on which the transaction appears. Then you can select the transaction you wish to dispute directly from your online statement., After you've selected the transaction you want to dispute, you'll be asked questions about the transaction to enable American Express to further investigate and resolve your issue.This is your opportunity to explain your problem with the transaction and why you believe you are entitled to a full or partial refund of the amount charged.
For example, if you ate at a restaurant and added a $20 tip, but the amount was changed to $200, you would explain that as part of your inquiry. In that situation, you're not disputing the entire amount, only a portion of it.
 When you're satisfied that the information you've provided is complete, click the button to submit and American Express will review the transaction.American Express will review the information you've sent and determine whether to issue an upfront chargeback or send an inquiry invoice to the merchant.When American Express sends an invoice to the merchant regarding your inquiry, the merchant has 20 days to review that invoice and respond.American Express will remove the disputed amount from your payment due, so you don't have to pay it while the transaction is being investigated., If you visit the Inquiry and Dispute Center, you can check the status of open inquiries at any time.Federal law requires credit card companies to acknowledge receipt of a dispute within 30 days and complete an investigation of that dispute within 90 days,but American Express typically works much faster than that, and tries to resolve investigations in less than a month.If American Express needs more information from you to resolve the dispute, you may be contacted about the merchant's response to your inquiry., Even after a chargeback, the merchant may continue to pursue you for the amount of the transaction.


While federal law provides the right to dispute credit card charges, the law says nothing about the merchant's role in the matter. Although the merchant cannot attempt to charge your card again, the agreement between American Express and merchants does not prohibit the merchant from coming after you directly and attempting to collect the amount charged back.Having proof to back up your side of the dispute will become essential in fighting the collection attempt, so keep any documentation you gathered when you initiated your inquiry in case the merchant contacts you directly or through a collection agency., Particularly if the transaction was fraudulent or unauthorized, don't assume that it was an isolated incident and will never happen again.


The federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recommends checking your transactions as frequently as possible if you have online or mobile access, and scrutinizing any paper statements very closely.If you suspect your card information was stolen, you can request a new card from American Express at americanexpress.com/cardreplacement. American Express will cancel the old card and send you the replacement right away., In cases of fraud or identity theft, you may have other accounts that have been compromised.


The Fair Credit Reporting Act entitles you to a free copy of your credit report from each of the three major credit bureaus once every 12 months. If the disputed American Express charge was unauthorized, you may have other unauthorized charges, or someone may have opened additional accounts in your name.You can get your free credit report by calling 1-877-322-8228 or visiting www.annualcreditreport.com. That website is the only website officially endorsed by the government for ordering the free credit report to which you're entitled by law.