 Onix is a Hidden Pokémon in Granite Cave that can appear after defeating Groudon/Kyogre. You can also find an Onix in the Mirage Caves, which you'll gain access to after obtaining Latios/Latias and the Eon Flute., You can find a Metal Coat at New Mauville, in the Generator room. They are also held by wild Magnemite, Skarmory, and Bronzors.You can find wild Magnemite in New Mauville and on Route 110.
You can find wild Skarmory on Route 113.
You can find Bronzor at Mt. Pyre, but it is a Hidden Pokémon that won't appear until after defeating Groudon/Kyogre.
 You can do this from your Pokémon menu. Onix needs to be holding this item in order to evolve when traded., You'll need to trade Onix to another game of Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire, X, or Y. If you're trading with a stranger online, make sure that they understand that you need the evolved Steelix traded back afterwards.

If you're trading remotely with someone, you'll need to have entered their Friend Code to add them to your list of players.
If you're trading with a friend in real life, you just need to be in the same room with wireless enabled for both systems.
 You start trading from the PokeNav:

Tap the PlayNav button on the right side of the second screen.
Open the Player Search System screen.
Select the person you're trading with from the Friends or Passersby lists.
Tap trade to start the trade process. The other person will be notified.
 It will evolve into Steelix immediately upon trading as long as it is holding a Metal Coat., Once the evolution is complete, have the other player trade Steelix back to you., You'll need to progress through the story and beat either Kyogre or Groudon before the Steelixite becomes available to find., You'll need the Mach Bike in order to reach the Steelixite item. You can get it from Rydel's Cycles. Make sure to pick the Mach Bike, not the Acro Bike., You'll find the entrance to the cave on Route 106., You’ll find it next to the large lone rock. Use the Mach Bike to get past the crumbling floor tiles., When Steelix is holding the Steelixite, it will be able to evolve into Mega Steelix during battles., This will last through the rest of the battle. Mega Steelix will revert to regular Steelix if it is knocked out or the battle ends.