 The federal Truth in Lending Act (TILA) requires lenders to provide you with a written statement that discloses all the important terms of the loan. You should get a written statement that itemizes the amount of the loan, the repayment date, and the annual percentage rate of the interest (APR). If the lender you are working with does not provide such a statement, you should be suspicious. A lender who is unwilling to provide this information may not be reputable., Any loan, including a short term payday loan, should be incorporated into a written loan agreement. Before signing anything and accepting any money, you should thoroughly read the agreement and ask questions about any terms you do not understand. The loan agreement should make clear the following information:The principal amount of the loan
The date that payment is due
The amount of any interest or “finance charge” that is applied
The equivalent APR of any interest rate or finance charge
The consequences or penalties for any late payments
Your right to renew the loan as needed, and any recurring charges.
 A typical loan from a bank or other established lender will advertise its interest rate. Many payday lenders will not advertise an interest rate. Instead, they will set a “finance charge” or lending fee. The finance charge may seem acceptable at the moment, but if you calculate the equivalent interest rate, you might not be interested.Suppose, for example, that a payday lender charges a $20 finance charge per $100 loan, for a two week period. $20 may seem affordable, and the lenders count on that. But this equates to an annual interest rate of 520% per year. A typical bank loan has an interest rate of about 10% to, at most, 20%.
 Payday lenders make their money by making the process easy for you -- too easy. If you are unable to pay at the end of your first two-week term, the lender will offer to let you refinance very easily. Instead of repaying the amount of your loan, you would only have to pay a finance charge of $20 to $50 dollars, and the lender would allow you to extend the loan for another two weeks. While such a service sounds helpful and accommodating, it really amounts to charging you interest in the range of 300% or more.Some lenders don't even wait for you to ask for an extension. If the loan is not repaid on time, the loan automatically extends and the fee is charged. In many cases, part of your loan application may grant the lender access to your savings account to withdraw payment directly.
To get out of this cycle of refinancing your payday loan, you need to find a way to cut your living expenses, earn more money, or otherwise get the initial loan repaid.

