 Maybe you don’t have a vegan-dedicated restaurant in your town, but there are probably some places with menu items that are vegan. Before you go out, have a few places in mind where you know you’ll be able to get a healthy meal and enjoy yourself.


Steakhouses, barbecue joints and fried chicken spots are probably out. If your friends insist on going to one, you could always order a heap of fries and ketchup and call it a day.
Many restaurants that offer cuisines from outside the US have vegan menu items. Try checking some menus out online, then up the restaurants beforehand to double check that dishes are vegan.
 If you’re seated at a restaurant and weren’t able to vet the place beforehand, side dishes are often the best bet. Unless you’re at a place where everything on the menu is made with bacon or ham drippings, you’ll probably find some tasty items that don’t have any animal products.


If you decide to order vegetables, be sure to request that they be cooked in oil instead of butter.
Look for tasty beans, peas, or other legumes and rice. These items aren’t often cooked with animal products.
 If you’re at a restaurant with tasty salads, you’re in luck. See if you can customize a salad to include extra vegetables, beans, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, and any other toppings they have that are vegan. Order it with oil and lemon juice or vinegar, since most dressings on offer probably contain an animal product or two.
 You might feel shy asking for favors at first, but as a vegan it definitely helps to speak up. You deserve to be able to eat a healthy, delicious meal, and most restaurant owners strive to be accommodating.


Explain that you don’t eat meat, milk or eggs, and ask if there’s something they can prepare for you without any animal products.
For example, they could give you plain pasta with garlic, olive oil and veggies, beans with veggies, rice and beans, and so on.
 Even if the host of a party knows you’re vegan, he or she might try to serve you something with eggs, milk or even fish, not quite understanding that vegans don’t eat any animal products. Hopefully your well-meaning host will have something on hand you can eat, but just in case, you should eat before you go.

