 The only things that should be on your resume are achievements. Anyone can do their job, but only a small percentage of the population can do their job well, wherever they go.


The best achievement is a promotion because it's an objective way to show that you impressed the people you work for.
Present quantified achievements. Most people do not think in terms of quantified achievements when they are in the job, but on the resume, that's the only part of the job that matters. Give evidence to show how you made a difference in your past roles.
Steer clear of expressions like "Duties included," "Responsibilities included," or "Responsible for." That's job-description language, and not what employers are looking for.Use action verbs instead, but minimize the use of "I" and articles (the, an, a).

Write a self evaluation and for each achievement, ask yourself: "What does this accomplishment say about me, and what I can do for this employer I want to work for?";
, Avoid being too modest. Don't be afraid to talk proudly about your accomplishments, just remember to avoid mentioning and bragging about every accomplishment you've ever had.
 An interviewer spends about 30 seconds reading through your resume; hence it is important to highlight the most important information on your resume. A resume should contain information relevant to the job opportunity. Your resume should not exceed 1 – 2 pages.


If you have a long job history behind you, beware of age discrimination. Employers might think you're too expensive if you have loads of experience. If you're at the senior level, list about 15 years of job history (no more) and don't provide the date of your college graduation if it was more than about 10 years ago.
When your resume gets you a chance to be interviewed, then you can elaborate on your hard work. , It's implied. Of course, if someone wants a reference, you will give one. No one presumes that you will not.


Don't list references on your resume; if they are requested along with your resume, list them on a separate sheet.If you have an excellent reference, like a CEO of a company, have the reference call before you even go to the interview. Sets the tone for the employer to think you are amazing.
 Only list personal interests that reveal a quality that will help you meet the employer's needs. If you are in sports marketing, then by all means, list that you kayak. If you are a dedicated and/or successful athlete, put it down because it shows focus and achievement. If you are a mediocre hobbyist, leave it off. Personal interests that don't make you stand out as an achiever do not help you.
 Stay away from overused templates (like those in Microsoft Word) because it makes you look completely generic, but don't use more than three different fonts and try to stick to two different text sizes. You want it to look smart but not generic., This is a very common mistake. It’s always good to have a spell check done once you have finished preparing your resume. It can be difficult to catch or identify your own mistakes, the best way to identify your mistakes is to have your resume reviewed by someone else or by reading aloud.
 Your resume should include the same keywords that appear in the job listing. If your resume lacks the right keywords, your resume is unlikely to get noticed as it will not appear to be a fit for that particular job opportunity.
 Be sure to read and update your resume for every job you apply for. Updating your skills section, contact number, address details, current location etc. is very important.
 Writing an objective statement is important to let an interviewer know what your focus is. An objective needs to be clear and has to focus on the target job opportunity. Ensure it is short and emphasizes on your interest in the type of work for which you are applying.
 It is good to write active statements which showcase your relevant skills and accomplishments, if you have made significant contributions and improvements in this positions include a quick note stating this, you can elaborate in the interview. This will help a potential employer easily identify how you added value to your role.
 Remember you need to show that you have the key skills required for the particular job opportunity. If your resume lacks this point; there is a chance that your resume will be overlooked.

