 In most of the twenty-two states (plus DC) where marijuana is legal, you must acquire a license in order to legally cultivate marijuana. Of these states, only three are currently issuing licenses, and five more have plans to do so. Even in states that allow cultivation, many cities have municipal bans, so you'll want to be sure cultivation is legal where you are.


Arizona – Only dispensaries are allowed to grow marijuana for sale. You can find instructions on how to apply for a dispensary license at http://azdhs.gov/documents/licensing/medical-marijuana/dispensaries/DRC-ApplicationInstructions.pdf.
Connecticut – You will need to acquire a producer license. This requires a non-refundable $25,000 application fee and a $75,000 registration fee.Oregon – A license is required. You can find information on how to apply at http://www.oregon.gov/olcc/marijuana/Documents/Licensing_Forms/mj_app_producer_cultivation_plan.pdf.
States where a license is required, but licenses have not yet been issued: Alaska, California,Hawaii, Illinois,and Maryland.States where licenses are required, but no more are currently being issued: Delaware,Maine,Minnesota, Nevada,New Hampshire,New Jersey,New Mexico,New York,Rhode Island,Vermont,Washington,and Washington, DC.
States where medical marijuana is legal, but cultivation for sale is illegal: Michigan.
 Most states have strict requirements regulating the growth and processing of medical marijuana. You will be generally required to pay an annual fee for your license, to demonstrate that your growing site is secure, to show that your growing area is not located near a school, and to submit your products for laboratory analysis. Check with your state authority for the particular requirements in your area.
 Growing medical marijuana for sale will probably not make you rich. Medical marijuana is strictly regulated. In Oregon, California, and Arizona, the market is very crowded, resulting in low prices.In Connecticut, the $100,000 cost of acquiring a license makes anything other than a large-scale venture unprofitable. The most attractive options are states that are in the process of issuing licenses: Alaska, Hawaii, Illinois and Maryland.
 In some states, like Arizona, only dispensaries can grow marijuana, so you will be selling your own product. This means you'll need to establish a dispensary as well as growing marijuana. In other states, it is illegal to both grow and sell marijuana. You'll need to find dispensaries to sell to. In these states, it is illegal to sell directly to users.

