 If your refrigerator automatically makes ice, your job is a whole lot easier. It's still good to understand how to maintain the components, though, to keep it in good working order. All refrigerators are slightly different, but most of them have the same basic components:


The Dispenser. This is where the ice comes from, and is usually operated by pressing a button, or pushing a glass against a lever. Some refrigerators have different settings.
The Freezer. Ice is frozen by cooling coils in the freezer, then routed through the dispenser. Maintaining your freezer and setting it at the proper temperature is important for the life of the ice maker.
The Ice Maker. Usually, ice makers are just small freezing units in the freezer, sometimes with a little metal control arm you can put up or down, to control whether or not ice is made. These typically have water filters that you can change every couple months.
 Jamming your glass into it can make the dispenser malfunction. If you notice the water or ice coming out seems to be erratic, check the dispenser port for signs of buildup and clean it with a clean cloth, if necessary.


If you have very hard water, mineral deposits will often form around the dispenser. This is normal, and can be cleaned off gently with a brush and some vinegar.
 If you have an ice dispenser that makes cubed ice, crushed ice, and all sorts of other options, it's important to toggle between them a few times a week, to keep the machine in good order.If you're not using it, frost and ice particles can build up and make the dispenser malfunction.
 Any colder that that, and ice will start to build up on the components of the ice maker, increasing the chance that something will malfunction.


If you see ice forming in your freezer, it could be because water is leaking from the freezing unit, and you need to check to make sure the ice maker is sealed and installed properly. Make sure the water lines are straight and connected properly, and that your freezer isn't too full of items.
Most newer ice makers will defrost regularly, but if you've got an older one, you may need to defrost your freezer every couple of months to keep the ice maker functioning properly. Ideally, twice a year is perfect.
 Every now and then, it's a good idea to remove the ice from the ice bin in the freezer, and turn off the ice maker. With a clean towel, wipe out the inside of the tray, and check the feeler arm to make sure everything is still working properly. This should help eliminate sediment and other little particles from your ice cubes.


Don't store anything in the ice bin. Some people like to toss things directly into the ice that the maker creates, which can mess up the levels of the device.
