 If you plan on purchasing something, the frugal approach involves doing a bit of research to look for sales or promotions. For instance, finding the best price possible for the item you want by comparing prices from several retailers, or asking about any upcoming sales, is frugal. That said, avoiding a purchase that you know you need to make is cheap.Keep in mind, there is an important caveat in regards to waiting. If you're considering splurging on an unnecessary expense, it can be frugal decision to delay gratification and wait until you can make the purchase with more financial comfort.
 This one depends a bit on where you are, but in the U.S., your decision to eat out should include the assumption that you will tip. The specific amount is up to you, with a 15% tip being standard and a 20% tip being appropriate for especially good service. In short, skimping on the tip is not an appropriate way to save money, it’s cheap.If you want to spend less when you go out to eat, do so by skipping an appetizer or ordering one less drink instead of taking advantage of your server.
 Not everybody has the budget to buy great gifts for friends and family. Instead of buying a cheap gift or re-gifting, make your gifts at home. Even if you’re not crafty, think of something you like to do, or a homemade gift someone made you that you enjoy.For instance, if knitting is your hobby, bust out the needles and make your cousin a hat instead of buying that fancy looking six pack that got marked down because it’s three months old.
 There are all sorts of tips to be more frugal, including spending less on everyday necessities like hand soap and toilet paper. For instance, watering down soap is good way to make it last longer, but if you do it too much, your guests are going to wind up squirting bubbly water all over the place.Continuing the soap example, you may be able to buy a reusable dispenser and a large bottle of concentrated soap that is made to water down. This will give you a better soap experience that is frugal instead of cheap.
Groceries are another basic necessity. Instead of buying the cheapest possible groceries, use coupons to purchase higher quality items.
Similarly, get in the frugal habit of making meals from scratch. Meals prepared this way are often both less expensive and healthier.

