 Skipping breakfast can leave you feeling tired for the rest of the day. This is why breakfast is considered the most important meal of the day. A good breakfast should consist of healthy protein such as yogurt or eggs, fresh fruit or vegetables, and some low-sugar, high fiber carbohydrates such as whole grain cereal or oatmeal. Add a few almonds or walnuts for an additional energy boost and to regulate blood sugar by providing your body with healthy omega-3 fatty acids.


Try making a breakfast smoothie by combining fruit, yogurt, wheat germ, and other ingredients in a blender with a bit of ice for a quick, high-energy breakfast.
 Rather than having three large meals, you can boost your alertness and body’s energy by having small meals throughout the day. Your brain needs a steady supply of nutrients to stay energized throughout the day. Large meals can also increase the production of tryptophan in your body, an essential amino acid that induces sleep. Studies show that eating smaller meals, especially during the afternoon, helps regulate blood sugar, which prevents you from feeling fatigued after eating.


Try to eat four or five small meals a day, consisting mostly of fresh fruits, vegetables, and nuts to help boost your metabolism and prevent daytime drowsiness., Protein helps boost energy levels because it is required for many of the body’s metabolic processes. Eating a high-protein breakfast or lunch may help you to stay energized throughout the day. Avoid processed meats, red meat, and margarine because these can raise your cholesterol levels, slow down metabolism, and cause drowsiness.


Eat more healthy foods that are rich in protein, such as eggs, quail, chicken, turkey, salmon, tuna, trout, sardines, tofu, beans, pulses, natural cheese, and Greek yogurt., Eating a lot of carbohydrates make tryptophan more available to the brain, which can leave you feeling drowsy. However, this does not mean you should cut carbs out of your diet entirely. Try not to eat a large amount of carbs in the morning or middle of the day, and instead take a quick bedtime snack such as crackers, cereal with milk, or peanut butter on toast.


Consider cutting carbohydrates out of your diet such as white bread, enriched white pasta, granulated sugar, hard candies, gummies, foods with added sugars such as sugary cereals, dried fruits, jams, preserves, potato chips, crackers, and rice cakes., Food and drinks that are high in sugar can give you a quick energy boost, but they also leave you feeling even more fatigued throughout the day. Studies show that candy bars and sports energy bars should especially be avoided because they are ineffective for providing sustained energy throughout the day and can contribute to obesity.


Check the amount of sugar on the label of foods and beverages before buying them. Make sure that sugar content doesn’t exceed 50 grams for one serving.
Another way to avoid sugar is by choosing fresh, non-concentrated juices and smoothies., Water is the main component of blood and is essential for carrying nutrients to the cells and taking away waste products. Not getting enough water can slow down your body’s metabolism and make you feel fatigued. Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. Non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes can help you stay hydrated as well.


To maintain your energy level while you exercise, drink an eight ounce glass of water before you start and another after you finish. If you’ll be exercising continuously for longer than 30 minutes, drink small amounts every 15 to 30 minutes.
The average adult should have around two liters of water every day. If you drink caffeinated beverages, increase your water intake to 1 liter of water for every cup of caffeine you have., Caffeinated beverages such as coffee and tea can be helpful for staying awake when you have narcolepsy. However, in combination with certain stimulant medications, it can cause jitteriness, diarrhea, anxiety, or a racing heart. In general, try limit your caffeine intake to two cups of tea or one cup of coffee before late afternoon.


If coffee is part of your daily routine, it is best to avoid drinking it after 4 p.m. Having caffeine that late in the day can make it harder to get enough sleep at night., It is widely believed that drinking alcoholic beverages before bedtime can help you get better sleep. While it may help you relax for a while, it can disrupt your sleeping pattern over the course of the night. It also keeps you from getting a proper night’s sleep, which causes daytime drowsiness. Try to reduce or quit drinking alcohol to prevent sleep attacks and narcolepsy.


The recommended daily intake for most people is two cups of alcohol for men and one cup for women.
You should consider asking your doctor about how much alcohol you can drink depending on your individual condition.