 Straight-edgers reject the drug/alcohol lifestyle and instead, choose not to pollute the body and mind. If you want to change the system, you have to outsmart it. And that, you can only achieve with a clear mind.;
, Contrary to common belief about hardcore punk, the straight-edge lifestyle in no way promotes self-harm of any kind. This means no cutting, burning, or harming yourself. Eat healthily and exercise often, and just take good care of your mental, emotional and physical health.
 Most straight-edgers abstain from or reduce consumption of meat and animal products and become vegetarians or even vegans. Make your environment a better place.
 If you want to, you can listen to some old school straightedge bands, such as Minor Threat. Or, you can listen to melodic hardcore music, such as Bad Religion. Contemporary hardcore music is subsumed by the metal scene, with labels such as metalcore, grindcore, deathcore, emocore, or even nintendocore.
 Actively oppose or passively ignore the ideology of the establishment. Hardcore punk is rooted in a response to the commodification of punk rock, and the wholesale rejection of consumer-culture and capitalism. Be an individual. Think for yourself. Do your own thing.


In the beginning, practitioners of the straight-edge lifestyle would often wear an "X" on the back of their hands, or as a patch on a jacket to display their allegiance to the lifestyle. At hardcore concerts, it was bad form to offer a beer to someone with an X on the back of their hand.
While you don't have to be straight-edge to be hardcore, straight-edgers are most commonly associated with the hardcore community, so it's a good idea to familiarize yourself with the hardcore philosophy, at least, regardless of whether or not you embrace it.
 More than any other music or scene, hardcore is defined by DIY attitudes, styles, and opinions.

Contrary to what many believe, it is possible to outsmart the system and to change it from within. However, if you don't do it yourself, it won't get done, says that hardcore way of thinking. Get out there and start creating. Whether it be starting a band, getting that new job, creating an art project, promoting a political movement or taking an alternate direction in your life, hardcore philosophy makes it necessary for you to do it yourself.