 There are many brands and options out there. Kenwood, Pioneer, JL audio, and Sony are top of the line in this category. Each of these brands offers an entire line of stereos that are suited to fit different needs and budgets.;
, Match the colors on the harnesses or follow the included diagram. This makes it much easier to install and later remove the head-unit should you decide to take it to another car, and a wiring harness adapter usually only costs around $20 or less.You may also need to purchase an antenna adaptor for your new head unit and vehicle., You will need a service manual such as Haynes, but any manual that provides details for your make and model should work. Every stereo is different, and sometimes it is required that you remove parts of the dash/console to remove the stereo. This is where the manual will be most helpful.It can also be helpful to have a comprehensive guide on aftermarket stereo installation.
 This will cut power to the car and allow you to safely work on the electrical components (like stereo wiring).
 This will usually consist of taking off some portion of the dash and or faceplate (consult your service manual) and then taking out the mounting screws that hold in your head unit. Once you’ve done this, the unit will slide right out., It will be plugged into the back of your head unit. You will have access to it when you pull the head unit out. Some people choose to cut these wires away (especially if they didn’t purchase a wiring adaptor) but this can void the warranty., The wires will be clearly marked, as the adaptor is designed to make your car and head unit fit together. Crimp the wires as instructed in the wiring harness adapter's instructions. After crimping (or soldering as some choose to do), twist on appropriate sized wire nuts and make sure to keep your wires as neat as possible., This part is even easier than connecting the adaptor to the head unit. It literally is designed to plug right into your factory wiring harness. Do that now., If you needed an antenna adaptor, you can plug it into the back of the head unit and plug the antenna lead into the adaptor. Otherwise, your antenna should plug directly into the back of the head unit., The size of your original and aftermarket head units may be different. They typically come in one of three sizes - Single DIN, DIN and a half, Double DIN. If your aftermarket head unit is a different size than the original, you may need an adaptor, or DIN cage, to mount it.If they are the same size, the aftermarket stereo should bolt into the original mounting brackets for the head unit., This is where your service manual will come in handy again. Now you need to put back together any pieces of the dash that were removed to get the stereo out., This will restore power to your car, and by extension, your new head unit.
 Now you should be able to turn on your stereo and enjoy a crisp, clean sound.

