 If you are afraid to tell the person, the least confrontational way of letting them know would be to leave an anonymous note on their desk. One drawback with this method is that it might cause the person to try to figure out who sent the note in the first place, distracting them from the real issue. Just make sure to word the note as kindly as possible, avoiding any language or handwriting that could give you away. Also be sure to place the note somewhere where no one else could accidentally come across it, as this will embarrass the person unnecessarily., Leaving a kit with some refreshing products is a great way to anonymously let the person know that there is a problem with their body odor. Include things like mouthwash, deodorant, scented lotion, or wet wipes in a caddy or gift box, and make it look nice so it seems more like a gift than a mandate. Leave the fresh kit in their gym locker, on their desk, or somewhere where they can find it in private., Bad body odor is such a common problem in office settings that there are many sites that send someone an anonymous email for you. By filling out a few fields, the sites send an email explaining to the person that they have body odor, and some sites even include tips for managing body odor. This is a great way to not only let the person know, but also to provide them with some information so that they can treat the problem proactively. Try one of these sites or look one up yourself:


http://www.smell-well.net/us/odor-issue
http://www.nooffenseoranything.com/bodyodor.html

, If the offending person is your superior or you have tried other methods of telling them without success, you should go to the HR department at your work. Whether the body odor is unavoidable due to a medical condition or the coworker is unwilling to do anything about it, the HR department will handle it in a way that appeases both of you. Perhaps another discussion from a third party will let the person know it’s not just you that things they have an odor issue, or maybe HR will move you to a desk further away from them. Either way, HR will help to resolve the issue delicately so that no one has to feel uncomfortable while at work.