 If your abuser keeps money tightly controlled, withholds money from you, or does not allow you to earn your own money, it can be difficult to establish an emergency fund. Keep any change you can keep, return items to a store for cash back, hide any money given to you as a gift, or find other ways to build some emergency cash. If you can’t get emergency cash, try applying for a credit card in your name, but be sure that you have statements sent to a PO Box, a work address, or even to a friend’s house so that your abuser does not find out. Do not access your credit card account from your home computer.Having a credit card can help you establish or build credit (as long as you pay it off responsibly), which you may need for independent living after you leave., You pack light, but include the following in your bag:Changes of clothing for you and any children
Copies of important documents (birth certificates, passports, driver’s license, bank or credit card account information, paystubs, social security card(s), etc)
Medications for you or your children
Special personal items like photographs or jewelry
Non-perishable snacks, You should certainly not provoke instances of abuse solely to gather evidence, but it may help you take legal action in the future if you do collect evidence of abuse. Take pictures of injuries, destroyed objects, or a room that was trashed during a violent episode, keep bloodied clothing or towels, and collect any documentation about hospital visits due to abuse.Whenever you are injured in an episode of violence, you should seek medical treatment in the emergency room and keep the records. This could be key to being awarded an order of protection, custody or your children, or a contested divorce.
 If there is already an extra key, hide it in a place that you can easily access it on your way out. Check the spot prior to your departure to ensure that your abuser has not found the key and removed it.


You should also keep your vehicle ready to leave; park facing out so that you can drive away quickly. Keep your car fueled with gas so that you always have a nearly full tank., While sometimes just getting away is the most important thing, you are more likely to get—and stay—away if you have a plan for where to go. Ideally, you should talk to a shelter, abuse resource center, or a friend or relative ahead of time. In an emergency, however, these places should be able to take you in or refer you to a safe place even without notice.


If you are going to stay with a friend or relative, try to choose someone who would not be immediately obvious to your abuser.
 Too many people (particularly women) stay in an abusive relationship because they fear for what will happen to their pets if they leave. Some shelters may allow you to take a pet with you. If you cannot, you may be able to leave the pet with a neighbor or friend or even take it to a no-kill shelter for safekeeping. In the end, you need to realize that your own life is more important than that of a pet, however difficult that can be to swallow.
 You should talk to an attorney before you leave about taking your children with you. While you should absolutely keep them away from harm, you do not want to harm your potential to keep them safe in the future by harming your chances of getting or maintaining custody of your children.

