 Whether you have always wondered what Buddhism is really about, want to learn all you can about a foreign country before you visit, or are interested in the psychology behind color theory, there is a book that will distract you from fatigue and muscle achiness while also exercising your brain.


Listen to the classic text Tao Te Ching for only a dollar. Or find a modern perspective on how to live according to ancient spiritual values in an increasingly complex society.Brewing Up a Business: Adventures in Beer from the Founder of Dogfish Head Craft Brewery, by Sam Calagione, will get you started with home brewing.Listen to Goethe’s Theory of Colours, from 1810, which artists looked to for inspiration in testing the bounds of what was considered beautiful., Are you on the job market and need to polish your interview skills? Do you wish you had a better handle on your finances? This type of instructive book will keep your mind fully engaged on other things while your feet keep moving.


Try Dale Carnegie’s The Art of Public Speaking to help increase your professional confidence.

The Total Money Makeover by Dave Ramsey is a practical guide to gaining control of your spending. He teaches you how to prioritize expenses and offers actionable steps for doing so., Along with studying one from a textbook or computer program, find audio books popular with native speakers to increase your vocabulary and understanding of grammar.


The best way to learn a new language is through immersion, or hearing it as much as possible.
If you are planning a trip to another country, audio books by native speakers will help you get used to accents and speaking speed. You can't get these details from a text., That political issue you keep hearing about but don’t really understand—there’s definitely a book about that. Pick out a current best-seller or classic treatise on a social topic you are unfamiliar with. Or examine another viewpoint of an issue you have been inflexible on to see if a compelling alternative perspective exists. Democracy in America, by Alexis de Tocqueville, offers a look at American social and political culture from an foreigner’s perspective.Destiny Disrupted: A History Of The World Through Islamic Eyes, by Tamim Ansary, will teach you what Islam is basically about and how this religious culture is similar and different to that of America.