 Physical abuse is any action done to a woman with the intention of harming or endangering her. It can also include forcing her to physically act in any way that is against her will.Physical abuse can include:


Punching, kicking, hitting, or attacking a woman physically.
Using a weapon to physically injure a woman.
Using physical strength to make a woman do something, act submissive, or give up control.;
, Physical abuse often results in injuries like cuts and bruises. The person doing the abusing may force the woman to cover up these injuries. If you see a woman with the following, she may be in an abusive physical relationship:


Marks of injury like burns, bruises, open wounds, and unexplained fractures.
She may avoid contact with everyone.
You may notice she trembles a lot and is startled easily.
 Sexual abuse is when a woman is forced to engage in sexual acts against her consent. It can also include another person controlling her ability to choose what to do with her body, such as forcing her to go through with a pregnancy or have an abortion. Sexual abuse may also include:


Forcing the woman to have sex or engage in sexual activities, or forcing her to watch while someone else engages in sexual activities.
Harming the woman during intercourse.
 There are certain signs that you can look out for if you are concerned that a woman you may know is being sexually abused. However, many of these signs are physical and can be covered up by clothing, which will make it hard to recognize. Signs include:


Bruises around her buttocks, breasts, and genitals.
Difficulty walking, sitting or moving.
Unexplained pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases, or stomach and abdominal pain.
Signs of exhaustion.
 A common sign of physical abuse is giving unbelievable excuses to account for reoccurring injuries. The woman may seem to have a new injury, and a new excuse, every day. The person abusing her may threaten her with more violence if she tells anyone what really happened to her, so she comes up with excuses for each injury.


If you notice that a woman you know seems to have a new injury every day, you should consider confronting her about her situation. See Method 4 for more information.
 Some abusers may force the woman to remain isolated in order to hide the injuries that have been inflicted upon her.


If you have attempted to see your friend on several occasions, and she has declined or given odd excuses, you may be right in becoming suspicious.

