 Most clubs have elected leaders or officers. Your club may or may not need more authority than just one leader. It helps, however, to delegate responsibility to a few club members. Have the club vote on leadership roles once you’ve had your first few meetings. Remember that all roles are not always necessary. If your club doesn’t handle money and only meets to play soccer during the week, you probably don’t need a treasurer.President: The club president is the leader and face of the club. The president often runs meetings and makes final decisions.
Vice president: The VP usually helps the president with any tasks involved with running the club. Having a vice president may help if the president has a lot on their plate in terms of scheduling events or meeting with larger organizations.
Secretary: The secretary takes care of the paperwork and contacts for the club. They might take notes during meetings and send out emails to club members.
Treasurer: The treasurer is in charge of keeping track of funds. If your club raises money, for example, the treasurer would establish a budget and oversee any cash flow and banking accounts., Keep a list of emails and phone numbers for when you need to communicate with group members. Call or text club members in the event that you need to cancel a meeting or change locations.


Consider using social media. Make a Facebook group or club website to post announcements or send messages.
 Be consistent with the time and location of your meetings. Expect club members to do the jobs they sign up for, and give them space to do their best. Hold a meeting if something needs to be changed or adjusted.


Remain established and active. Keep your eyes open for new members and opportunities to promote yourselves., Your club might hold annual fundraising events, or you might be preparing for a special performance. Whatever your goal is, make sure you address it in each meeting. This will help give everyone a common goal to work towards, and members will see a clear purpose for club meetings.
 The whole point is to have a good time! Set a cheerful and positive environment so that people want to join the club, and stay in the club. Keep things fresh by thinking up new ideas and talking to group members about what they would like to do. 