 Natural and home remedies are very popular, but unfortunately there is little evidence that most of them work for blackheads.Some people will see better results than others.
 Tea tree oil is one of the few natural remedies to be clinically proven to work in most cases. Use a product containing at least 5% concentration of tea tree oil, or apply 100% tea tree oil directly to blemishes.It can take longer for tea tree oil to work compared to benzoyl peroxide. However, tea tree oil does not usually cause the side effects that the harsher chemicals do.Do not ingest tea tree oil. It is toxic when consumed., A pore strip mixture made with honey, lemon juice, and egg white will help heal your skin and reduce blackheads. Honey has natural antibacterial properties that will help kill acne-causing bacteria on your ski.The egg whites will thicken the mixture and the lemon juice will help with brightening the skin. Mix together 1 tablespoon of raw honey, 1 egg white, and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice in a small bowl.


Add 1-2 drops of an essential oil. Try calendula oil, which helps accelerate skin healing and is antibacterial.Lavender oil is also antibacterial, and can soothe and calm you as well.Heat the mixture in the microwave for about five to 10 seconds. Do not overheat! Applying an overheated mixture could seriously burn your skin.
Spread a thin layer of the mixture over the blackheads.
Press a strip of cotton over the mixture and let it dry for 20 minutes.
Carefully peel the strip away and rinse your face thoroughly with cool water.
 A steam bath will help open your pores and can also treat blackheads by using an antibacterial essential oil.


Boil 1 quart of water. Add one to two drops of herbal essential oils. Try any of the following:

Peppermint or spearmint. Both of these contain menthol, which is an antiseptic and can help boost your immune system.Thyme. Thyme oil is antibacterial and helps open up blood vessels.Calendula. Calendula is antibacterial and can help accelerate skin healing.Lavender. Lavender is also antibacterial and will help soothe and relax you.Let the boiling water cool briefly. Cover your head with a light towel and hold your face over the steaming pot for 10 minutes. Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water so you do not burn or scald your skin.
Wash your face with a mild cleanser and moisturize.
 Vinegar contains acetic acid,which has been shown to help reduce acne.Creating a blend of vinegar and orange and sweet basil essential oils, which both have antibacterial properties, may help get rid of your blackheads.Dilute 1 tablespoon vinegar with 2 tablespoons water. Add five to 10 drops each of orange essential oil and sweet basil essential oil to the dilution. It is important not to have a solution with more than 3 – 5% concentration of oils. Start with the lower concentration and increase it if necessary, but not past the recommended amount.Use a cotton swab or pad to apply the treatment to your blackheads.
Do not go into the sun after applying this treatment, as orange essential oil makes your skin more sensitive to sunlight and you could burn.