 Tear off a sheet of parchment paper roughly 18 inches (46 cm) in length and spread it over a flat portion of your kitchen counter.









This section or parchment paper will provide you with a clean, nonstick surface on which to place your formed meatballs before you cook them.
Note that you can also use wax paper instead of parchment paper.
If you plan on baking your meatballs, you can line a baking dish or baking sheet with parchment paper instead of lining the counter. You could also grease the dish and line the formed meatballs on it without the use of parchment paper.;
, Use your hands or a wooden spoon to mix the ingredients thoroughly.









Ground beef is the simplest meat option for you to use, but you can also use a combination made of equal parts ground beef and ground pork, ground beef and ground sausage, or ground beef and ground veal. For a healthier option, you could skip the beef completely and use ground turkey, instead.
You can use either unseasoned or seasoned bread crumbs. Dry bread crumbs are often easiest to work with, but you could also tear a slice of fresh bread into small crumbs and use that in place of dry crumbs for a fresher, softer result.
Make sure to slightly beat the egg with a fork or whisk before adding it to the mixture. Otherwise, it may fail to bind the meat properly.
Salt and pepper are basic seasonings to add to your meatballs, but minced onion and parsley can be used if you want to give the flavor more depth. Other herbs, like oregano or cilantro, could be used instead of or alongside the parsley, as well.
 Use your hands to roll portions of the meat mixture into balls. Line the meatballs up on your parchment paper until ready to cook.









If you have a melon-baller or small ice cream scoop, you could use that to form your meatballs instead of your hands. You could also use a teaspoon to help you portion off the meat into workable amounts.
 Place the baking dish in the oven as it preheats to warm the dish and the oil.









Only use enough oil to grease the pan. If you notice any puddles of olive oil, you should wipe them out or spread them further with a clean paper towel.
Nonstick cooking spray may be used instead of cooking oil.
 Remove your baking dish from the oven after it finishes preheating. Place your meatballs in the dish, spacing them roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart from one another.









Keep the meatballs in a single layer and do not allow them to touch as they bake. If the meatballs bake while touching one another, they may end up sticking together.
Gently press down on each meatball as you place it in the baking dish in order to somewhat flatten the bottom. By giving each ball a flat edge, you reduce the risk of the meatballs rolling around and coming into contact with each other in the oven.
 Place the baking dish with the meatball in the preheated oven. Cook for 15 minutes, or until the top sides are well-browned.
 Use tongs to turn the meatballs to the other side. Return them to the oven and continue baking for an additional 5 minutes.









When done, the meatballs should be slightly crispy on the outside. They should not be burnt, however.
 Remove the meatballs from the oven and let rest for 3 to 5 minutes before serving. The meatballs can be enjoyed on their own, with pasta, or in a variety of other dishes.










Let the oil heat for 1 or 2 minutes to ensure that it reaches an adequate temperature.
If you do not have olive oil, standard vegetable oil can be used instead.
 Add the meatballs to the hot oil and cook on medium-high for 2 to 5 minutes, stirring frequently, until well-browned on all sides.









The meatballs should not be stacked or touching when you add them to the pan. If you cannot comfortably fit all of the meatballs into the pan at once, prepare them in batches.
 After the meatballs have browned, turn the heat down to medium-low and continue cooking for 5 to 7 minutes.









The meatballs are done once the juices run clear and the inside is no longer pink.
 Remove the meatballs from the heat and let rest for 5 minutes before serving alone, with pasta, or in other dishes.
 By combining ground hamburger with eggs, bread crumbs, grated Parmesan cheese, and dry onion soup mix, you can create meatballs that are both flavorful and supremely easy to make.
 Mix ground beef together with classic Italian flavors like garlic, Romano cheese, and oregano to form meatballs that serve as the perfect accompaniment to spaghetti and other Italian dishes.
 These Spanish-style meatballs are prepared with ground beef, ground pork, onion, garlic, oregano, and cumin.









Albondigas meatballs can be enjoyed on their own or in a variety of other Spanish dishes. Use them in soups or drench them in tomato-based sauce to serve as an appetizer.
 These meatballs get their trademark "spiky" appearance from the addition of white rice, which is added to the ground beef prior to forming it into balls.
 Meatballs made from a simple recipe are tossed with a tangy sauce made of white vinegar, brown sugar, and soy sauce.









Serve these meatballs in stir-fries or on their own with a side of rice or noodles.
 Swedish meatballs are served in a rich sauce and prepared with warm spices like nutmeg and allspice. Serve up a batch as an appetizer or main dish.









For a unique twist, prepare Swedish meatballs with sweet and sour sauce. Use a standard Swedish meatball recipe but serve the meatballs in a tangy sauce instead of the traditional rich, creamy sauce that usually accompanies them.
 You can replace meats like beef, pork, and turkey with textured vegetable protein in order to create a healthy vegetarian alternative to the standard meatball.









Serve these meatless meatballs as you would serve any ordinary meatball. For instance, you can enjoy them on their own, in pasta dishes and soups, or on sandwiches.
 Most meatball recipes can be served and enjoyed on their own, but adding meatballs to other dishes can be a good way to enhance the flavor of both the meatballs and the dish itself.









Italian pasta dishes like spaghetti and meatballs are, perhaps, the most common example of a dish that features meatballs.

Meatball soup is also a popular meatball dish. For a cheap, easy twist, you could also add meatballs to ramen in order to create Ramen meatball soup.
Meatball sub sandwiches are a relatively mess-free way to enjoy meatballs drenched in sauce, as well.
 If you are unable to cook and serve your meatballs right this moment, but you still want to have some on hand for easy access, you can freeze the pre-formed meatballs until ready to use.








