 If you have a chemical burn, then you should seek immediate medical attention. Call emergency services or 911 if the burn victim has any of the following serious symptoms:pale complexion
fainting
shallow breathing
a burn that covers a large area of skin, such as 3 inches (8cm) in diameter or more
a burn that is around the feet, face, eyes, hands, groin, buttocks, or a major joint

, You can also call the poison control center in your area if you do not think the burn is severe. If you know what the compound was that burned you, have that information ready. The operator can provide treatment advice that is specific to the chemical that burned you. If you don't know what chemical burned you, you should still call poison control. The operators can ask questions to determine with a reasonable certainty what the chemical might be.


If your burn is serious and you are taken to a hospital before you can call the poison control center, you should make sure that you have someone at the hospital call so you can find out how to proceed. The doctor will know the basics of how to treat your burn, but the poison control center can give you a more specific idea.
This information is invaluable as some compounds may need to be left open to air while others require an occlusive dressing., Once you arrive at the hospital, you will receive various treatments, depending on the severity of the burn. If there are any large blisters or any areas that required scrubbing, you will receive some medicine for pain and then they would clean the burn. If there are large blisters, they will perform a controlled rupture to relieve pressure. Any smaller blisters will be left alone.


Your wound will then be covered with Silvadene cream using a tongue blade. They will then cover the wound with a 4 x 4 gauze pad, which will be applied over your wound to protect the site or the burn. Another rolled gauze will be wrapped around the wound site., Chemical burns in the eye, also known as ocular chemical burns, are extremely serious and you should call 911 right away. You should also get to the nearest eye wash station as soon as possible and begin washing them out with copious amounts of water for dilution purposes. It will also help prevent irreversible scarring of the cornea and conjunctiva, which can cause possible blindness.


Eye chemical burns from acids or alkalis require emergency care and treatment. Otherwise, you risk permanent vision loss.
For an ocular burn, you may be sent to an ophthalmologist so they can do a visual acuity test, which is where she will assess the damage to your eyes.
Some studies indicated good results with copious irrigation with acidic ocular burns. The use of steroid eye drops, vitamin C eye drops, and antibiotic eye drops were used to help treat the eyes., You should continue to follow the care instructions given to you by the burn center in order to prevent infections or complications. However, they can happen, which means there are things you should look for after you suffer a burn. Watch daily for signs of infection, such as expanding redness, pus, fever, or green drainage. If any of these are present, you must seek emergency medical treatment immediately.


Follow up with your primary care provider or a toxicologist if necessary. Some toxic agents can be absorbed through the skin and can cause systemic toxicity. Inhaled vapors can cause both systemic toxicity and lung problems, such as asthma. Some inhaled substances can even be fatal.If you are a diabetic, are on steroids or chemotherapy, or have a weakened immune system for any reason, you are at risk for infection and ought to be especially careful for signs of infection.
You should recheck your wound daily as well as wash and change the dressing. Your skin should start to peel and regrow new skin within 10-14 days, depending on the kind of burn.