 If you believe your landlord's proposed rent increase is illegal or excessive, contact your landlord to discuss the issue.You need an opportunity to sit down and talk to your landlord about the rent increase with minimal distractions. Bring any documents or information that you think might strengthen your position.
For example, if you're planning on offering to assist your landlord with needed repairs, you might want to bring evidence of your ability to make basic household repairs, including names of references.
 Regardless of the reasons for the rent increase, you may be able to get your landlord to agree to lower the increase.If you're a good tenant and always pay your rent early or on time, emphasize that. Your landlord probably will be inclined to keep you around if you're a responsible tenant rather than having to find and take a risk on someone new.
Use this opportunity to find out what your landlord needs and whether you have the ability to help. For example, if you're bilingual, you might offer your services translating standard documents and notices for your landlord so tenants whose first language isn't English can understand them more easily.
Be polite but firm. Let your landlord know that you understand and respect his or her position. Stick to the facts, and avoid making personal attacks or accusations against your landlord.
 If there are other types of assistance you can offer your landlord apart from money, you may be able to work out an arrangement. It can be expensive for a landlord to turn over an apartment and get it ready for a new tenant. You may be able to convince the landlord to lower your increase by agreeing to sign a lease for a longer term.
If you're handy, you could offer to take on renovations of your unit, or even help the landlord fix up other units when tenants move out.
You also could offer to pay all or a portion of your rent before the due date. This negotiation strategy may work better with private landlords than corporate management companies.
 Written confirmation of your agreement may be necessary if your landlord later tries to charge you more.Keep in mind a written lease cannot be changed except in writing, so if you and your landlord work out a deal that isn't included in your main lease, it must be in writing as an amendment or addendum to the lease, signed by both you and your landlord.
 Send it to your landlord. Keep a copy for yourself.

In the first paragraph summarize the key points of the agreement as you understand them.
In the second paragraph provide your landlord a deadline to respond if the terms you have outlined in the letter don't reflect the agreement as he/she understands it.
If you receive no response from your landlord, the letter can help you in court should there be subsequent legal action.

