 Make yourself a double serving of green tea as you normally would. After you’ve steeped the two bags in the hot water for five minutes, remove them and place them in the refrigerator. Leave the bags in there for several minutes until they have cooled.

Place one bag over each eye and leave them in place for five to ten minutes. Remove and discard the bags.
The tannin in the green tea acts as an astringent. It can tighten the skin around your eyes and reduce swelling.
 Boil 16 oz. (474 mL) of water and then pour it over the tea in the bowl. Allow the infusion to cool completely before removing the bags or straining out the leaves.

Place a soft, clean cloth in the infusion and allow the liquid to saturate the cloth.
Remove the cloth and place it gently over your face for five to ten minutes.
It’s safe to make and apply this compress several times per day.
 Put 1/8 cup of organic green tea leaves into a large bowl. If you only have tea bags, simply open them up and remove the leaves yourself. Place the bowl on a sturdy surface, like your kitchen table. Boil two cups of water, then pour it into the bowl. Place a clean towel over the bowl and let the infusion steep for five minutes. Remove the towel and immediately hold your face directly over the bowl.

Drape a large towel over both your head and the bowl so that the steam can’t escape. Let the steam envelop your face.
Keep your eyes closed. Breathe deeply and normally. If the steam feels uncomfortable, you may need to allow the water to cool a little more. Be careful not to burn yourself.
Steam for ten minutes. Only use this facial steam once per week.
 Boil water and make tea as you normally would using one organic green tea bag. Remove the bag, cut it open and dump the used tea leaves into a clean bowl. Add a pinch of granulated sugar and a splash of water. Stir and add more water until you have a thick, pulpy scrub. Gently rub the mixture in a circular motion onto damp skin, then rinse off with lukewarm water.

You can use this scrub on your face or hop in the shower and also apply it to your neck, hands and legs.
Exfoliate with this mixture only once per week.

