 Use the jar lifter to set them into the canner. Fit as many as you can in the canner at once. Close the lid on the canner and lock it in place. Depending on the type of canner you are using, either leave the pressure weight off or leave the petcock open.Be sure to read the instructions on the canner to make sure you complete the process correctly.
Don't stack jars on top of one another.
 The canner is working effectively when it begins producing large amounts of steam. Once the jars are inside and the heat is turned up, it should begin producing the appropriate amount of steam within 10 to 15 minutes. The pressure should hold steady at between 10 and 12 pounds, depending on your pressure canner model and altitude. If it rises above that, turn the heat down a little.
 This may be anywhere from 65 to 90 minutes, and it changes depending on whether the meat is raw or cooked.It's important to process the jars for exactly as long as is recommended for safety purposes.


Stay in the kitchen while the pressure canner is working, and monitor the pressure gauge. If it drops too low or high, adjust the heat on the stove as necessary.
 When the correct amount of time has elapsed, let the pressure return to zero and the jars cool a bit before you remove them from the pressure canner.
 Open the lid of the canner and remove the jars with the jar lifter, then set them on a dishtowel. Make sure your workspace isn't too drafty or cold; the cool air could cause the hot jars to crack. Set the jars a few inches apart so they cool properly. You'll hear popping noises as the lids seal.


Don't touch the jars as they cool, or they may not seal properly.
Check the seals after the cooling process is finished. They should be slightly indented.
 Jars that have been properly sealed can be stores on shelves in the pantry or another cool, dark area. Label the jars with their contents and the date before storing them.


Don't store jars of meat in the sunlight or in a warm area.
Jars that did not seal should be refrigerated or put through the canning process again.

