 This location needs to be easily accessible to both you and the pigeons. You will have to go to this location daily to put out pigeon feed, plus you’ll have to go back to check the trap on a regular basis. Once the pigeons are caught, you’ll then need to move the trap from this location to another location, so you’ll need to be able to access it while holding and carrying a bulky, and possibly heavy, trap.
 You may have to do this everyday, maybe multiple times a day, for up to a week before laying out the trap.The key is to try to attract as many of the pesky pigeons as possible to the area so they’ll be around when you put out the trap.
 After a week or so of baiting the pigeons, it’s time to try to catch them. Read the instructions for your specific trap to make sure you understand how to operate the trap door, and set it up. Place a bunch of pigeon feed inside the trap, and immediately outside the trap door., Hopefully you were able to capture several of the pigeons from your property in the cage without much trouble. Now you’ll need to take the cage somewhere to release them. Ideally this should be an area away from private property as other property owners may not appreciate being stuck with your pesky pigeons.Keep in mind that many pigeons have an innate homing ability which allows them to find their “home”, i.e. the place where they find food, from miles, possibly even hundreds of miles, away. If the pigeons on your property were there for some time, and found regular food, they might actually come back to you! You should prepare for this by implementing pigeon deterrents while they’re gone in anticipation of their return. If, by luck, they do not come back, the pigeon deterrents will help keep other pigeons from stumbling onto your property and setting up house.
 Rather than catching the pesky pigeons, you could just leave them alone. They’re just trying to survive like the rest of us. If they’re on your property, they’ve found a place that makes them feel safe and provides them with food and shelter. They aren’t harmful, and contrary to popular opinion, you’re not going to get any nasty diseases from having them around., Pigeons, while messy in large, unruly groups, are actually quite nice pets when you have a manageable number and the proper pigeon loft for them to live. You can even train them to return to their loft from far away and enter them in pigeon races. Check out the American Pigeon Racing Union (APRU) to get an idea of the fun you could have with pigeons.
 Pest control companies handle the removal and elimination of pests of all sorts, including pigeons. If your pigeon problem is severe, or you’ve tried other methods that haven’t worked, it may be time to call in a professional. Different pest control companies will “handle” pigeons differently.Make sure you tell them you’re looking for a humane solution if you do not want the birds to be killed.

