;
, With only a few differences, only Goodreads Librarian's are able to make edits to books that they themselves didn't create. Other users can only edit book listings they themselves created, but not others.
 By learning this, you'll know what to expect when it comes to adjusting the information in a Goodreads book record as a Goodreads Librarian as the edit page is a modified edition of the Manually Enter Books page on Goodreads. Also, Goodreads Librarians should know and understand when to create alternate cover editions (Goodreads sometimes refers to this as their ACEs) when they don't exist yet, and knowing the proper format is crucial in this pages' knowledge.

Although that's one of the jobs a Goodreads Librarian should know how to perform extraordinarily well, knowing what is a new book and what is just a new edition of an already established book is vital to understanding your Librarian role on Goodreads and to understanding what issues you'll come to need to tackle.
 If you find same titles and authors when you search for a book, there's a good possibility that you'll need to combine or split these books instead, but not all books will have editions to edit or combine.


It isn't mentioned too often and is often overlooked, but there are ways to remove absolute duplicate editions with what Goodreads calls a "merge". However, it's much trickier to tackle and should be done in only certain circumstances.
 Some books will need edits made that can only be made under Super Librarians, which is sort-of like a supervisor of all Librarians who has even more privileges than that of a regular Librarian. However, the majority of books are editable by regular Librarians. If you still need help editing a book, you can still post in the Goodreads Librarians Group asking for a Super Librarian explaining the situation., Look for the book you'll need to edit the details too.
 Although this link could either be under the "publishing date and publisher" or if you have the details expanded, under the "Other Editions" and the three links below that, or just a little to the left of the right siderail labeled "Genres".


Most Goodreads Librarians who work on the Goodreads database, will want to have the book profile details expanded. However, doing this will be left up to you and how you will read to understand if a book needs edits made.
, These fields include the "literary awards", "characters", "series" and plot settings of the book which Goodreads calls their "book settings". These additional fields are found underneath the four existent lines in Work Settings that all users have, just below "media type", which need to be spelled out as is shown on the book itself, characters, series and book settings.


For literary awards, these award names must be spelled out as is shown on or in the book itself, and must be rather notable awards. To list these, you'd write the award name followed by a space followed by the year in parenthesis. For those where the book was a nominee, you'd type the word "Nominee" to the right of the award title before the opening parenthesis.For "characters" field, only list the most crucial characters that you come across and only one character per line entry. However, if the characters name could pose to become a spoiler, type an alias to the character (with the preceding *spoiler* designation) in the box and type their real characters name in the Alias field. However, if you had to combine editions, any characters written to those other editions will combine into this record too, so double check for duplicate character entries before adding others.. If you are currently reading the book and have gotten through knowing the characters well enough, enter each of these characters in the form by clicking on the "add characters" link, type the name into the "Add a character" textbox and click "Add". If there are characters in this box, verify that all the names are correct and push forward. You can correct the names of these characters or merge with other characters by clicking the "Merge with Another" button and complete the tasks to merge the characters together.
For "series" and "settings", follow the series rules and this list should populate by itself. And as for settings, you can add popular settings of the book, but realize that if you are working in a series, this list will autopopulate with other settings from other volumes of the book.Add or adjust the plot-setting(or settings) of the book to ensure all readers understand where this book is set. Fill out the remainder of the form after you click the "add new setting" or "edit setting". These boxes include text-entries for the place name (to designate what place the information is from) and year, as well as the drop-down for the country.
 Look below the line for "Save Changes", "Cancel changes" and the "Delete This Book" link for the "Add a comment" link for librarian comments and leave a comment. Perhaps it might be that other reputable sites list the book as having x pages when the book is in front of you has different and you've verified the ISBN/ASIN to match - but this is just one good reason to explain and each reason to leave a comment here is different. This is a completely-optional link that doesn't need to be added to unless it is worthy of noting for further Librarians to understand. However, if you see something in this area when you make an edit, check to make sure the change hasn't been noted for changing and make the change itself.If the comment you leave here is too pressing and needs to be acted upon faster than just a few days to a few months time (or until another Librarian opens up this page), you may want to leave a note on the Google Groups link for action instead., Although short summaries for some edits are possible (such as "adding additional details" when the previous version was lacking these details), others may take more words to properly explain (especially when there was data but was inaccurate for some reason. You may end up explaining that you had to research/verify the data at an approved site and included the corrected details.Remember, you can always verify books with Amazon and WorldCat, but never with Amazon's competitors.


You'll need to explain what you did in your edit in this field as all Goodreads Librarians will see this history and ensure that the details were carried out correctly.
 Recognize that while "Save Changes" will publish the edit, there are only certain times when books can be deleted from the database (which is part of the merge process, but has certain rules to follow prior to deleting the book. However, if you are unsure that you are making the correct decision to edit a book, you can always back out or click the "Cancel changes" button to reverse your own decisions without publishing any portion of your edit (which can sometimes come in handy).

