 The account does not have to be at the same bank as the merchant service provider, but you need a business checking account to accept payment from a merchant service provider.;
, The merchant service provider will use this information to determine if you will be a worthwhile customer. You need not supply the provider with an exact figure; estimating the amount of money you take in is enough.
 Merchant service providers charge processing fees, as well as monthly fees, Internet processing fees, address verification charges, and a percentage of each credit-card-paying customer's bill. Monthly fees average $10 a month. Per-transaction charges can cost as much as $0.50, on top of a percentage of the transaction total.



Ask the provider how the company handles issues such as declined cards and chargebacks.
Find out if there a form of contact available to troubleshoot problems. Ideally, you should be able to get help 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The service provider should respond to issues promptly and helpfully.
Make sure that there is an alternative method of running a card if your terminal goes down. Choose a provider that offers next-day service to get you a replacement terminal.
 Your options may be limited by the models your provider offers. The 3 primary types of credit card machines include:


Wireless terminals. These are available in a variety of configurations. Self-contained units have a place to swipe the card, and then transmit and receive the data and print out the signature slip and receipt. Prices on this type of terminal range from $200 to $600.
Cell phone swipers. Every kind of cell phone can use some type of a swipe attachment to run a card. Software that you install on the phone translates the data and uses the cell phone's network to transmit it. The the customer receives a receipt via email. Pricing starts at $80 for a basic unit, with advanced features increasing the cost.
Countertop machines. These are the most common type of machine, seen in every store that accepts credit cards. The machine connects through a phone line or wireless network. Used or refurbished models can be purchased for as little as $70. Pricing for new units start at $90.
 Once a merchant service provider approves your application, you will be shipped a credit card machine.

