 Safety is obviously important when dealing with fire, but you’re also dealing with electrical charges and batteries, which contain dangerous ingredients.


Wear gloves. Although there aren’t many safety measures available in prison to make the infamous lighter from “Orange Is the New Black,” you’ll want to take safety precautions and protect your hands.
Keep a fire extinguisher and garbage receptacle ready. If you need to dispose of batteries, be sure to recycle them. Some municipalities and states, like California, require batteries to be recycled, and your community might have battery collection procedures.
Dispose of the battery immediately if it starts to leak. This could be battery acid, which is dangerous and corrosive.;
, You don’t want a leaky battery. Plus, you’ll need a charge to generate the flame. Most batteries will work, but a AA alkaline battery is common for this type of lighter and a good size.Use two batteries if possible, or a single 9 volt, because one AA battery might not provide enough power., You need metal foil to make this lighter. If you don’t have kitchen aluminum foil available, you can use a gum wrapper or foil from a cigarette lighter, for example.








If you’re using a AA battery, try folding over the foil once and making a strip about a centimeter wide and three inches long. This way, it forms a small bridge over the battery when each end is connected.
Make the metal strip small enough to heat up easily, but not so small that it quickly burns up or breaks apart.You might have to play with the size and the shape of the metal strip to see what works best.
 This type of flame will start quickly and burn out quickly. So, have a flammable source on hand to transfer the fire, if you want to keep the flame going.


Sheets of loose paper, newspaper, or dry leaves will work well here.
It is important to transfer the fire and not let the battery itself light on fire, since it could explode.
 On most batteries, this should be clearly marked. On a AA battery and other cylindrical batteries, the positive (+) end or terminal—known as the cathode—has a small convex bump, while the negative (-) end or terminal—known as the anode—has the inverse: a small concave indent into which the bump can fit.
 When you’re ready to light a flame, attach one end of the foil to the negative side of the battery. Then, carefully attach the other end of the foil to the positive end, and voila! Fire!








