 If you need a procedure that your regular family dentist does not perform, ask for a referral to a qualified prosthodontist. Your dentist can usually offer suggestions for professionals they have successfully worked with in the past.Prosthodontists are often "team leaders" when different dental professionals work together, so it's likely that your dentist has worked with several prosthodontists in the past.;
, Use this national organization’s easy online search engine at www.abpros.org. Simply enter your location by state, city, or zip code and you will see a list a certified prosthodontists in your area.This site only lists prosthodontists in the United States. To search for professionals in other countries, go through a website like the Association of Prosthodontists of Canada at www.prosthodontics.ca or another site that lists specialists internationally.
If you don’t have your own computer at home, try using one at a public library. You can also ask a friend, family member, or your doctor to help you search online.
 Like the ABP, the ACP uses a simple online search engine at www.gotoapro.org. The benefit of this site is that you can search by procedure as well as location, for instance, “dental implants,” “sleep apnea,” or, “congenital mouth defects,” among others., Before choosing a professional and starting a dental procedure, make sure it will be covered by your insurance. Call your health or dental insurance company directly and ask whether they cover the procedure you need done. Often, they can provide a list on “in-network” professionals whose work they will cover.You can locate the phone number for your insurance company on your insurance card.
 Visit a website like www.healthgrades.com to read what other patients have to say about your chosen prosthodontist. There is often information available about wait times, how easy it is to get an appointment, and whether people like their prosthodontist and the outcome of their treatment. These are sometimes called “patient satisfaction surveys.”, Sometimes the easiest way to find a prosthodontist is by word-of-mouth. Ask a friend, family member, or co-worker who has dental prosthetics or has had extensive dental work if they see a prosthodontist who they know and trust. Often, you can see the same doctor; if not, you can probably see another professional within the same organization.