 Loosen the screw or screws holding the sliding scale in place. Move the sliding scale until the larger jaws of the caliper are fully pressed against each other. Compare the 0 positions on the sliding scale and the fixed scale, which is engraved on the caliper body. If the two 0 marks are lined up exactly, skip ahead to reading the measurement. Otherwise, continue to the next step to correct the error.;
, While this is not common, some vernier calipers have an adjustment wheel on the sliding scale, which can be pushed to adjust the sliding scale without affecting the caliper jaws. If your model has this wheel, push it until the zeroes on the sliding scale and fixed scale line up, then skip ahead to reading the measurement. Otherwise, continue to the next step.


Watch the jaws closely to make sure you are not pushing a fine adjustment screw, which opens and closes the jaws by small amounts.
 If the sliding scale's 0 is to the right of the fixed scale's 0, read the measurement on the fixed scale that lines up with the sliding scale's 0. This is a positive zero error, so write this down with a + sign.



For example, if the sliding scale's 0 is at 0.9mm on the fixed scale, write down "zero error: +0.9 mm."

, If the sliding scale's 0 is to the left of the fixed scale's 0, take the following steps:With jaws closed, look for a mark on the sliding scale that lines up exactly with a value on the fixed scale
Move the sliding scale so that mark lines up with the next highest value. Repeat until the sliding scale 0 is to the right of the fixed scale 0. Note the amount of distance moved.
Read the value on the fixed scale that lines up with the sliding scale's 0.
Subtract the amount of distance moved from the value you just read. Write down this zero error, including the negative sign.

For example, the 7 on the sliding scale lines up with the 5mm mark on the fixed scale. Move the sliding scale until it is further right than the fixed scale, then line up the 7 with the next fixed-scale mark: 7mm. Note that you moved a distance of 7 - 5 = 2mm. The sliding scale's 0 is now located at the 0.7mm mark. The zero error is equal to 0.7mm - 2mm = -1.3mm.
 Any time you take a measurement, subtract your zero error from the result to get the actual dimensions of the object. Don't forget to take the sign of the zero error (+ or -) into account.For example, if your zero error is +0.9mm, and you take a measurement that reads 5.52mm, the actual value is 5.52 - 0.9 = 4.62mm.
For example, if your zero error is -1.3mm, and you take a measurement that reads 3.20mm, the actual value is 3.20 - (-1.3) = 3.20 + 1.3 = 4.50mm.
 Clamp the large, flat jaws around an object to measure an outside dimension. Insert the smaller, curved jaws into an object and expand them outward to measure the interior dimension. Tighten the locking screw to keep the scale in place.


Slide the scale to open or close the jaws. If your caliper has a fine adjustment screw, you can use this to make more precise adjustments.
 Once you have the caliper jaws in the right position, look at the fixed scale, engraved onto the body of the caliper. Typically there is an imperial and a metric fixed scale; either one will work. Take these steps to find the first couple digits of your measurement:Find the 0 value on the smaller, sliding scale, next to the fixed scale you are using.
On the fixed scale, find the nearest mark to the left of that 0, or exactly on it.
Read that mark's value just like you would read a ruler – but note that the imperial side of a caliper divides each inch into tenths, not sixteenths as most rulers do.
 Examine the sliding scale carefully, starting at the 0 mark and moving right. Stop when you find a mark that lines up exactly with any mark on the fixed scale. Read this value on the sliding scale as you would a regular ruler, using the unit engraved on the sliding scale.


The value of the fixed-scale mark makes no difference. You only need to read the value on the sliding scale.
 This should be a simple case of writing the fixed scale digits, then writing the sliding scale digits afterward. Check the unit engraved on each scales just to make sure.


For example, your fixed scale measures 1.3 and is marked "inches." Your sliding scale measures 4.3 and is marked "0.01 inches," meaning it represents 0.043 inches. The exact measurement is 1.3 inches + 0.043 inches - 1.343 inches.
If you found a zero error earlier, don't forget to subtract it from your measurement.

