 Unfold and expand four to seven white paper lanterns. Vary the sizes of the lanterns between small, medium, and large.


By default, this project calls for standard paper lanterns. You can save time by using paper lanterns that already come with LED lights built inside, however.
 Coat a small patch of the paper lantern with hot glue, then press a handful of polyester stuffing on top. Continue until the entire lantern is covered, then repeat with the remaining lanterns.Work in small patches and take your time to create a natural effect. Bunch up each handful of stuffing before sticking it on, and do not stretch the stuffing across the surface. The final result should look fluffy and a little lumpy.
Allow the glue to cool and dry while you continue onto the next step.
 Tightly tie 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 cm) of clear twine to either end of a 2-inch wide wooden dowel. Form loops with the tail ends of the twine, and hang those loops from screw hooks or other similar hardware.


The right hardware and correct placement will depend on where you wish to hang the cloud. Adhesive hooks might be better if you wish to use the cloud as a temporary decoration. You could also use larger strands of twine and loop them directly over the ends of a tree branch if you plan to hang the cloud outside.
Note that the length of the dowel will depend upon how large you want your finished cloud to be and how many covered lanterns you plan to use.
 Tie additional clear twine onto the top wire of the paper lantern. Attach the other end of the twine to the center of the hanging dowel.


Since this first covered lantern serves as the base of the cloud, it's best to start with one of the larger ones.
Adjust the length of the twine as needed to change the height of the cloud.
 Tie additional covered lanterns to the dowel in the same manner used to attach the first. Vary the lantern size, lantern placement, and string length as needed to build the cloud outward to either side.


You'll also need to build onto the top and bottom of the cloud, but ideally, the width should be longer than the height.
Continue attaching more covered lanterns to the dowel as needed until the cloud looks the way you'd like it to look. Use your fingers to gently pluck and fluff the stuffing as needed while hanging each cloud piece.
 Drape mini LED curtain lights over the wooden dowel, then position the hanging strands so that they fall through the tops of each lantern and out from the bottoms.


Use clear lights or pale blue lights to create the most natural effect. LED lights that blink are also ideal since they can mimic the behavior and appearance of lightning.
The curtain lights will likely be visible from the bottom of the cloud, creating the appearance of cascading rain.
Note that this step is only optional. You can skip it if you decide to use paper lanterns with built-in LED lights or if you would prefer a non-illuminated cloud.
 Now that the cloud is finished and hanging up, it's ready to use as a decoration. Turn on the LED lights when you want to see a stormy shower and leave them off when you want to create a more serene ambiance.