 Is this what you want to do? Are there other ways, like adoption, that fit you better? Are you ready to be a parent? Becoming a parent is a big transposition. Children can be tiresome, but at the same time so adorable and wonderful. Are you ready to do what it takes to be a mother? Can you afford a child?,;
, Read about artificial insemination on the Internet or in books to find out more about the whole process.
 Not all clinics inseminate single women.
 This conversation can be on phone or face to face.
 One insemination often costs about 300 to 700 dollars (if you live in the United States) and you may need to be inseminated 4 times or more to get pregnant.
 Ask the doctor to test if you have chlamydia, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV. Also take a blood test to see if you are immune to rubella. If you are infected by rubella during your pregnancy, the child can get severe malformations and disabilities. If you are not immune to rubella, you can vaccinate yourself before the insemination. If you have a cat or often meet cats, it can be a good idea to talk to your doctor about a test for toxoplasmosis.
 The certificate from the doctor shall discuss your current circumstance of life and not the disability or illness in general.
 That is done by using ultrasound imaging and eventual blood tests. The ultrasound imaging shows if your womb and ovaries look normal. The blood tests show the hormone levels in your body.
 Or have you had chlamydia or gonorrhea before? Then you should do an X-ray examination in order to see if you have passage through the fallopian tubes. Talk with your gynecologist about this examination.
 Use your calendar. You count from the first day the menstruation starts (=day 1) up until the last day before the next menstruation starts. How many days you bleed doesn't matter in this context.
 That means it will, on an average, take 3-4 inseminations before you are pregnant. If you are 35-40 year old you need, on an average, 6 inseminations, and 11 inseminations if you are older than 40. The risk for miscarriage is the same as in every other way to become pregnant. The risk is 19% if you are younger than 35, and sadly 44% if you are older than 40. If you are older than 45, the chance to become pregnant and give birth to a healthy child is endlessly small.
 Furthermore, eat healthy! This will increase your chance to get pregnant.
 It has to be during your ovulation. You can talk about this with your clinic.
 The insemination is painless and lasts for 5-10 minutes. A doctor or accoucheuse will insert sperm in your vagina or uterus with a catheter or needle-less syringe. After the insemination you may get allowed to rest for 30 minutes or so. You may get a pregnancy test from the clinic.
 Go home again, and after a certain period of time, use the pregnancy test. If you are pregnant - congratulations! But it's more likely that you need some more inseminations before you are pregnant, so be prepared.
 Hope for the best and don't give up!

