 You need to figure this out before you can teach reading skills. Most students learn by seeing (visual learners), hearing (auditory learners), or doing (kinesthetic learners).Talk to your principal or school guidance counselor about which tests you can give them.


Teach visual learners with outlines, diagrams, and illustrated handouts.Teach auditory learners through audio books, oral reports, and rhyming games.Teach kinesthetic learners through role-playing activities, games, and field trips.;
, One of the best ways to help kids get excited about reading is to choose material that already interests them. During the first week of school, talk to your students about their likes. You can ask about favorite movies, characters, or songs. Then you can tailor the reading material towards their interests.


For example, maybe several kids say that they love monkeys. Curious George would be a great place to start!
Maybe your kids are into magic. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone is a good choice for young readers.
 For very young readers, try titles along the lines of Dr. Seuss books or first-reader skill level. Literary devices like rhyming or alliteration also appeal to young readers. Look for books that are richly illustrated with engaging pictures so that students can connect words and images.In addition to Dr. Seuss, some good examples include:



The Cat from Hunger Mountain by Ed Young.

Little Red by Bethan Woollvin.

Freedom in Congo Square by Carole Boston Weatherford.
 As you read, angle the book so that your students can see the text and the illustrations. Make connections between the texts and the images. Before you turn the page, ask students engaging questions, such as:


What do you think Little Red Riding Hood will do next?
Why do you think Dr. Seuss made the Lorax speak for the trees?
If you were one of the billy goats, what would you do?

, Writing can build grammar, stamina, and a love for reading. At the beginning of class, have students write a short paragraph that summarizes their homework assignment or what they read in class yesterday. To make the response a bit more enjoyable, ask them to also write about what they liked about the reading and what they disliked. Other ideas for assignments include:


Writing a letter to the main character.
Converting the plot of the book into a news story.
Writing an interview with the main character.

