 Runner’s knee can be managed in the comfort of your own household by following PRICE therapy – Protection, Rest, Immobilization, Compression and Elevation.Individuals enduring this ailment are advised to avoid contact with high temperatures such as hot baths, saunas and heat packs since it can dilate blood vessels that increase incidents of bleeding.Extreme activities and application of too much pressure in the injured area such as having a massage should also be avoided to prevent further damage to the affected area.;
, Patients are advised to have adequate periods of rest to promote the body’s natural process of healing. The more you stay off your leg, the better it will feel and the quicker it will heal.


The only movements you should consider doing, at least initially, are exercises that have been approved by your doctor or physical therapist.
Using crutches or canes are helpful to act as a support, take pressure off your knee and promote healing.
 Stability of the injured area must be maintained to prevent additional damage to the area and its surrounding tissues. This can be done by putting a splint and bandages around the affected area.


Again, talk to your doctor about your options. He or she may recommend something so simple as KT tape or suggest a veritable splint or brace.During this time, you can address your future exercise plan, too.
 A cold compress can be placed over the injured area to promote the constriction of blood vessels; this reduces the risk of bleeding and swelling. It is especially helpful in the first hours of the initial injury.


It's advised to use ice packs 20 to 30 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for 2 to 3 days or until the pain is gone.Use a cold pack or an ice covered with towel for your cold compress.
Compression also aids in stimulating the flow of lymph fluid, which carries important nutrients to the damaged tissues surrounding the injury. Lymph fluid also removes waste from cells and body tissues which is an important function during the tissue regeneration process., The injured area should be kept elevated at all times. This action aids in proper blood circulation that makes healing faster. With reduced blood flow, there will be less swelling, which allows your knee to resume functioning more quickly.Both sitting and laying down are acceptable; just make sure if you're sitting, that your knee is above your pelvis. A few pillows beneath your knee should do the trick.
 During consultations, doctors generally address first the most transparent symptoms: pain and inflammation. Prescription drugs are given to ease the sensation of pain and lessen the degree of inflammation, but you can also find suitable medication over-the-counter.


Painkillers may be classified as simple painkillers – commonly over the counter like Paracetamol – and stronger painkillers, which are only prescribed if simple painkillers do not reach the desired effect. Examples of prescription painkillers are codeine and tramadol.
Stronger types of painkillers must be taken in its proper dosage and properly administered to avoid addiction and dependence.
 This is an oral "Non-steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID). It's a type of drug that acts upon certain body chemicals to prevent the progress of inflammation during injuries. Examples of this medicine are Ibuprofen, Aspirin and Naproxen. Stronger NSAIDs are available through prescription.


Health practitioners, however, do not encourage intake of this drug for the first 48 hours of injury to let the body follow its natural course of healing., This is specific exercises done with a physical therapist that can help strengthen the knees and also involves things that can temporarily support your knee activities.


Individuals suffering from the condition are encouraged to try certain exercises that may help in strengthening the patella and keeping its normal function. These exercises can be utilized to divert sensations of pain and regulate proper circulation of blood to different parts of the body including the affected parts. The specific exercises will be discussed in more detail in the next section.
 A surgical procedure is recommended by doctors if other non-invasive measures fail. It is performed by specialists to link and restore the harmed tissues of the patella (kneecap) and recuperate its optimal purpose.


Arthroscopic surgery is performed using an arthroscope, a device that makes small incisions in the knee joints and contains a camera to view the inside of the knee to be repaired. This surgery uses small shavers or scissors to remove the tissues causing damage in the knee.
 You may not be able to fully stretch your legs because of the pain from your runner's knee. This exercise will support and help you stretch your legs. here's how it's done:


Using a rolled towel, place it on your heel to elevate it on the floor and let gravity strengthen your knee. You may feel discomfort, but try to relax your legs.
Hold the position for 2 minutes and repeat 3 times in one session. Do this several times a day.
 This strengthening knee exercise maybe painful so you should do it carefully and with guidance. Here's how to execute this exercise:


Sit on the floor with your legs stretch in front of you. Slowly slide the heel of the affected leg towards the side of your buttock and your knees reaching your chest.
After this process, go back to your original position. Do 2 sets of 15 in each session.
 Stand facing the wall with your hands on the wall at about eye level. Place your injured leg behind you with your heel on the floor and the other leg in front of you with your knees bent. Turn your back foot slightly inward; it should look like a pidgeon-toe. To feel the stretch:


Slowly lean on the wall. You are in the right position if you feel a stretch in the calf of your legs.
Hold the position for 15 – 30 seconds and the go back to your original position.
Repeat 3 times in 1 session. You can repeat it several times a day.
 First, find a doorway to perform this exercise. This is a great one as the doorway provides you stability and takes pressure off your arms and legs. Here's how to do it:


Lie on the floor on your back and with your uninjured leg stretch out through the doorway.
Raise your injured leg on the wall next to the door frame.
Keep your legs stretched. You have achieved the right position if you feel the stretch at the back of your thigh.
Hold the position for 15 to 30 seconds and repeat 3 times in that session.
 Lie on your back with your legs straight in front of you. Bend your uninjured leg while keeping your heel flat on the floor. Tighten the leg muscle of your injured leg and raise it about 8 inches (20.3 cm) above the floor.


Keep your legs straight and thigh muscles contracted and then slowly go back to your original position. Do 2 sets of 15 in each session.
 Two types of squats are appropriate for runner's knee: the prisoner squat and the Bulgarian split squat. Here's how they're done:


For the prisoner squat:






Assume a standing position with your feet apart.
Place your fingers on the back of your head and stick out your chest.
Slowly move your body downward as far as possible while the knees are bent and the hips are pushed backward.
Hold the position and gradually return to the starting position.


For the Bulgarian split squat:






Position your left foot in front of the right foot about 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m) apart.
Lift the instep of the right foot on a chair or any support.
Then, pull the shoulders backward and your chest up.
Slowly lower the body as far as possible and maintain position.
Stop and return to your initial pose.
 This condition can be caused by several factors such as the following:Overuse. Too much bending of the knee can traumatize nerve endings of the kneecap. Over extension of the tissues connecting the muscles into the bones (tendons) can also strike the attack of runner’s knee.







A fall or blow. A forceful disturbance of the knee can irritate the surrounding tissue and can trigger the condition.







Misalignment. There are instances where certain parts of the body are not in their proper position or alignment, often due to trauma or injury. These circumstances post a greater stress to the associated area since weight is not equally dispersed. It can therefore be the basis of aches and damages to specific joints.







Foot problems. A condition known as flat feet causes the arches of the foot to crumple, thus extending the muscles and tendons of the leg. This may impact the progress of runner’s knee.

Fragile thigh muscles. Weakness or imbalances in these muscles can put too much weight in the knees that can be unbearable and may lead to the development of the ailment.
 Specific types of people are more prone to runner's knee. Here's who needs to look out for this ailment:Physical activity. Activities such as running and jumping or activities that require repeated knee bending can cause overuse of the knee. This can irritate nerves in our knees and can affect tendons, causing pain. Before doing vigorous physical activity, make sure you have properly warmed up and stretched to avoid injury.







Gender. Women are more at risk than men of having runner’s knee because their bone structure is different from men. They have wider hips, which can contribute to this condition.







Misalignment of the bones. Bones are part of our body’s balance. They need to be properly aligned in order for weight to be properly distributed.

Constant overuse of the knee. This can cause repetitive stress that wears away at the knee. Knees are, unfortunately, part of most activities that we do.

Foot problems. Flat-footedness is a condition of the feet where, literally speaking, the soles of the feet appear to be flat when stepping on the floor. This condition is common in infants and toddlers. With its impact regarding runner’s knee, as you make your step, it can stretch your muscles and tendons that are connected to the knee.
 Individuals affected by this condition may experience one or more of the following signs and symptoms:Pain. A sensation of pain may be due to damage of the cartilage under the patellar region. The pain is sharp and pulsating and usually felt behind or around the kneecap where the thighbone and kneecap meet. It flares up when squatting, running, walking and even while sitting. The level of pain will worsen if activities are not limited.







Swelling. Any trauma or irritation can cause inflammation to the knee and its adjacent tissues as this is the body’s compensatory mechanism to injury. The body’s immune system will release inflammatory chemicals in order to remove harmful stimuli, including damaged cells, irritants, or pathogens and begin the healing process.A popping or grinding sensation. If muscles are not properly conditioned prior to activity, it can stress the knee causing it to tremble or quiver. It can also tighten the muscles that can produce popping sensations, especially during sudden movements of the knee.







