 Like any fresh produce you use, it is important to wash your kale to remove any dirt from the leaves and stems. You can wash the kale by holding it under running water or by immersing the kale into a bowl of clean, cold water.


It is also a good idea to check the leaves for bugs, especially if you purchased the kale from a farm stand or market. You can still eat the kale after you remove a bug from it, just make sure that you rinse it well.
 You will also want to trim the kale to remove the tough ends of the stems. Cut off the ends of the kale stems and then chop your kale as desired.


Depending on the variety of kale you are using, you might want to cut off the stems altogether. Some varieties of kale have very tough stems that might be difficult to chew, even after you cook them.
 Kale makes a great addition to fruit smoothies because it is loaded with antioxidants and it won’t overpower the other ingredients in your smoothie. You can add a handful of kale to your smoothies for an added boost of nutrition.Try making a green smoothie with a cup of orange juice, a ripe banana, a handful of ice cubes, and a handful of fresh, clean kale. Toss everything into your blender and blend for about 30 to 60 seconds.
 Kale has a crunchy, chewy texture when it is raw., If you prefer your greens cooked, then you can also cook your kale. Kale is quite versatile, so you can steam or boil it, add it to a stir fry, toss some into your soup, or use it to replace other types of greens in your recipes.


For example, you could try making spinach lasagna with steamed kale instead of spinach, or add some kale to an omelet instead of using chopped broccoli.
You can also try making kale chips, which is a healthier alternative to potato chips., For any fresh kale that you do not eat, make sure that you store it in an airtight container, such as in a Ziploc bag or a plastic container with a tight fitting lid. Place the bag or container in your refrigerator and use the rest of the kale within the next few days.

