 Pour enough canola oil into a large, heavy-bottomed pot to fill it halfway. Preheat the oil over medium-high heat until it reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).You could also use a deep-fryer if you have one. Otherwise, nearly any heavy-bottomed pot should work.
Check the temperature of the oil with a cooking thermometer. It must remain between 350 and 375 degrees Fahrenheit (180 and 190 degrees Celsius) throughout the entire cooking process. Adjust the heat as needed to keep it within this range.;
, Place the flour and ground black pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. Seal the bag and shake to combine.


If you don't have a large enough bag, combine the flour and pepper in a large bowl. Mix well to spread the pepper throughout the flour.
 Place the chicken in the bag of seasoned flour, seal the bag, and shake well until the pieces are completely yet lightly coated.


It might be easiest to coat the chicken in batches. Work with one-quarter to one-third of the pieces at one time, and remove the previous batch before adding the next one.
 Place the coated chicken in the preheated oil and fry until they are cooked through and begin to float.


Fry the chicken wings in two or three batches to avoid over-crowding the pan. If you try to fry too many at once, the pieces may stick together and the temperature of the oil may drop too low.
Note that each batch will usually take 8 to 10 minutes.
The chicken wings should no longer be pink inside when finished, and the juices should run clear. If desired, you can also check for doneness with an instant-read meat thermometer. The thermometer should read 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius) once the chicken is ready., Transfer each piece of finished chicken into a shallow bowl filled with lemon juice. Toss gently to coat the chicken.


You do not need to drain the oil off the chicken before dunking it in lemon juice, but you should hold each piece above the oil for several seconds to allow some of the excess oil to drip off.
 Take the wings out of the lemon juice and transfer them to a serving plate. Season well with lemon pepper.


Coat all sides of each wing with lemon pepper seasoning.
If you don't have lemon pepper seasoning, combine equal parts dried grated lemon zest and ground black pepper, then coat the chicken with that.
 Enjoy the lemon pepper wings while they're still hot for the best flavor.

