 Many perfumes in products like lotion and soap can be irritating to sensitive skin. Opt for products that say “perfume free,” or “unscented” on the label. Laundry detergent frequently has perfumes in it, and choosing unscented detergent to wash your clothes can really help your skin problems.Detergents that claim to be “deodorant” or “antibacterial” can also be irritating. It’s best to avoid these.You may want to try plant-based detergents.;
, Ever wonder how your pink soap got its color? Many body care products — including lotion, soap, shampoo, and laundry detergent — contain harsh dyes to make them look more appealing. Whenever possible, choose products stating they are dye-free or colorless, or when given the choice, pick the plain looking items over those with bright or unnatural colors.Dye will be labeled as “FD&C” or “D&C” then a color and number., Acid found in products can cause flare ups in skin prone to outbreaks and sensitivity. Many facial cleansers contain acid because they can help to fight breakouts. Check the ingredients list and avoid products that list acid.Some ingredients to look for are alpha-hydroxy acids, beta-hydroxy acids, ascorbic acid, and kojic acid.Borax, or boric acid, is also present in many soaps and cleaners and should be avoided., Products containing alcohol can cause skin irritation or allergic reaction on sensitive skin. Many cosmetics, cleaning products, and even medications contain ethanol (or “ethyl alcohol”).Alcohol can have a drying effect on skin, which can lead to irritation. Check the ingredients list and avoid these whenever possible.


Cetyl, stearyl, lanolin, and cetearyl alcohols are known as “fatty alcohols” are not as rough on sensitive skin — though note for yourself if you react to a product containing these.Limit your alcohol consumptions to improve skin quality, as well. Drinking alcohol can worsen preexisting conditions such as rosacea and psoriasis and dehydrates your body., Acetate is present in nail polish remover and hair dye, among other products.Sulfates may be found in shampoo and household products. Hydroquinone is a chemical used for bleaching or skin lightening and may be in lotions or cosmetics.These ingredients aren’t inherently unhealthy, but may be irritating to sensitive skin.


When contacting these chemicals, wear gloves.
Note if you react to products containing these ingredients. Recognizing your skin allergies can involves some sleuthing — learn for yourself what to avoid.
 Most commercial cleansers contain harsh chemicals. Unfortunately, what’s bad for germs is also tough on sensitive skin. Try plant-based cleaning products or those that are labeled as “hypoallergenic” or “for sensitive skin.” Wear rubber gloves whenever you're cleaning for added protection.
 If your skin is prone to itching and redness, use a moisturizer with ingredients like aloe, jojoba, or chamomile. These are especially soothing to sensitive skin.Use heavier, thicker creams or ointments in the winter, and lighter moisturizing creams in the summer.If your skin is very dry, or seems to react to almost any lotion you use, try a petroleum-based products like Vaseline or Eucerin. These can feel oily, but are very hydrating and are unlikely to cause skin irritation.
 If your skin problems are due to allergic-type reactions — frequently causing redness and itching — then look for products labeled “hypoallergenic.” These contain fewer ingredients that are common causes of allergic reactions in skin.


Many products that are hypoallergenic are also free of dyes and perfumes, but not always. Even if something is listed as hypoallergenic, check the ingredients list and go for dye, perfume, alcohol, and acid-free options.
If you go through numerous hypoallergenic products to no avail, try using the mildest products on the market — baby products. Baby shampoo, soap, and lotion are formulated for delicate skin, and may be gentle enough to nourish your skin without irritating it.

