 One of your best friends while tapering is your pharmacist. Her knowledge is paramount in your tapering success. She will offer solutions such as: compounding your prescriptions, over-the-counter drugs to avoid and other insightful pharmacological issues.


If your doctor prescribed other drugs instead of alprazolam, the taper plan will take that into account as well.
 At times, your withdrawal symptoms may make it difficult for you to function normally. But it is important that you take care of yourself while you taper. This will help your body through the detox process. Although there are no studies directly indicating this, physical activity and health may benefit you and minimize withdrawal symptoms.


Drink plenty of fluids.
Eat plenty of healthy foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. Stay away from processed and refined foods.
Get as much quality sleep as you can.
Get regular exercise.
 While you are tapering, limit your caffeine intake as well as tobacco and alcohol use. Alcohol, for example, creates toxins in your body that can hinder the recovery process., Avoid using any over-the-counter (OTC) drugs without talking to a pharmacist or doctor first. Many OTC drugs can add stress to your central nervous system as you taper. These include antihistamines and sleep aids.
 Tapering schedules are based on how long you have been taking the alprazolam, and at what dosage. Track your dosage reductions by keeping an eye on when you take your dosage and how much the dosage is. You can keep track of when you have had good or bad days and adjust your taper accordingly. Keep in mind that you will make minor tweaks and adjustments as you move forward.


A journal entry example in a spreadsheet form might look like this:

1) January 1, 2015
2) 12:00 PM
3) Current dose: 2 mgs
4) Dose reduction: .02 mgs
5) Total reduction level: 1.88 mgs


You may add several daily entries for a multiple daily dosages.
Include any withdrawal symptoms or change of mood you notice.
 During your tapering process, you should be seeing your doctor every one to four weeks, depending on your taper schedule.Bring up any concerns and difficulties you are still experiencing.


Mention any withdrawal symptoms you may be experiencing, such as anxiety, irritability, agitation, insomnia, panic or headaches.
If you experience any severe symptoms like hallucinations or seizures, seek medical attention immediately.
 If you do experience severe withdrawal symptoms, a doctor may prescribe other drugs to help offset these symptoms. A doctor may also suggest an antiepileptic (anti-seizure) medication, such as carbamazepine (Tegretol). The risk of epileptic seizures increases greatly during withdrawal from alprazolam.


If you have a slowly designed taper plan, this is not a typical course of action that needs to be taken.
 Paying attention to your mental health is important after withdrawal from benzodiazepines, as it can take weeks, months or even years to fully reverse the neurological changes they cause. The acute process may take up to three months, but full recovery may take a couple years. It’s a good idea to visit a psychologist and/or a psychiatrist during this period.Consider continuing to see a mental health professional after your tapering schedule.
 If you have been taking high dosages of alprazolam, you may want to consider enrolling in a 12-step rehab program. The tapering schedule is separate from a rehab program, but if you are experiencing addition, a rehab program can be very helpful.