 Make sure you have a pressure canner and canning jars.


Use a pressure canner (also known as a pressure cooker) to regulate the pressure during the canning process.Use good quality canning jars such as Mason jars.Hot, high-pressure steam cooks, seals and sterilizes the meat in the canning jars.
Fill the canner with 2-3 inches of water.
Start timing the canning process once the pressure gauge reaches the desired level.Once the process is complete, remove the canner from heat and allow to cool.
Do not open until fully cool and depressurized naturally. Forcing cooling by running cold water on the canner can result in food spoilage and warping of the canner lid.Canned food stored in a cool, dry place can last up to a year., Use either the hot pack or raw pack method.Hot pack the poultry. Boil, steam or bake meat until about two-thirds done. Add 1 teaspoon salt per quart to the jar, if desired. Fill jars with pieces and hot broth, leaving 1-1/4 inch headspace.
Raw pack the poultry. Add 1 teaspoon salt per quart, if desired. Fill jars loosely with raw meat pieces, leaving 1-1/4 inch headspace. Do not add liquid.
You can leave the bones in or take them out. If the bones are in, the canning time will take longer.This method also works for rabbit.
Remember that higher altitudes require higher canning pressure.
Process for 65-90 minutes depending on altitude., Use fresh, chilled meat.


Shape chopped meat into patties or balls. Cook until lightly browned.
Ground meat may be sauteed without shaping.
Before canning, drain to remove excess fat.
Fill jars with pieces.
Add boiling meat broth, tomato juice, or water, leaving 1-inch headspace. Add 2 teaspoons of salt per quart to the jars, if desired.
Process for 75-90 minutes depending on altitude., Remove all large bones first.


The hot pack method is best for these cuts of meat.
Precook meat until rare by roasting, stewing, or browning in a small amount of fat.
Add 1 teaspoons of salt per quart to the jar, if desired.
Fill jars with pieces and add boiling broth, meat drippings, water, or tomato juice, leaving 1-inch headspace.
Process for 75-90 minutes depending on altitude.