 There is never an ideal time to fly long haul, but if you fly through the night, there is more of a chance that your child will sleep through at least some of the journey. This will make the journey -- as well as the time that you need to keep your child occupied -- seem a lot shorter.;
, Many larger airlines have in-flight entertainment such as films, music and even children's channels. However, there are times when it might be broken or unsuitable. The wearing of the headphones might also irritate your child.
 During the times that in-flight entertainment just won't cut it, you should always have alternative sources of entertainment on hand. Bring along items such as:


Portable video game consoles
An MP3 player, plus music and audio books
An electronic book that can be used softly
Coloring books, activity books and blank drawing paper - Do not forget the pencils and crayons!
Stickers - These are useful for making designs on blank pages while drawing.
Magnetic games - Buy the travel-size game kits available from many toy stores, service stations and airport gift stores.
Books to read together
Flash-cards and other learning items
Kid's puzzle books - Sudoku, crosswords, find-a-word, mad-libs, jokes, etc.
Print off some games to play on paper, such as tic-tac-toe, mazes or dot-to-dots. There are many such print-outs available on kids' sites online.
A couple of your child's favorite toys which are portable enough, such as stuffed animals or dolls

, Surprise and reward your child for his patience on long journeys. Wrap up a new toy and present him with it after he has proven that he has been well-behaved enough -- it's a shameless bribery, but it may work.
 Snacks can keep your children satisfied, which may encourage napping. Choose foods that aren’t packed with sugar and that won’t melt or crumble apart. Licorice, cracker sandwiches, cereal and granola bars are good bets. Try preparing these snacks in unique ways. Young kids will love cereal pieces strung onto yarn to form an edible necklace.
 Children hate being restricted. Once they're strapped in, they can't pick up toys they've dropped, or move about and look around as much as they want to. A child on a long-haul flight is a time bomb of energy. Vary activities as much as possible. Alternate between playing music, giving out snacks, playing with toys and reading books.
 Contact the tourism board or local chamber of commerce of your destination before leaving for your trip. Request travel brochures and tourist information. Arrange these in a folder for ease of viewing during the flight. Let the kids flip through the fliers and magazines while in flight to further prepare them and boost their enthusiasm. Give kids as young as eight a calculator and a budget. Then, let them work out a simple, affordable itinerary. Before coming back home, toss or recycle the pamphlets to lighten the load.
 Prior to the return flight, take your digital camera’s memory stick to a drugstore and pop it into a do-it-yourself photo center. Request one-hour prints. Then, purchase a small scrapbook for each child and let them record their memories with special pens while they stick down photos with double-sided tape. You’ll be pleasantly surprised at what they thought were the important moments of their family vacation.
 You do have a captive audience, after all. The excitement of new places can be overwhelming. Remind young ones what to do if they get separated from you, who they can trust and about safety in numbers. It’s also a good idea to have the kids help you make out a safety card that they can keep with them. The card can remind them of everything from the name of the hotel that they are staying in, to the first names of mom and dad.
 If traveling within a single country, it may be possible to rent electronic gadgets for the time that you will be in the air. Some entertainment companies rent DVD players, movies and headphones for use on vacation and during flights.
