 A trader of binary options should have some feel for the anticipated direction in price movement of the stock or other asset such as commodity futures or currency exchanges. Within most platforms the two choices are referred to as "put" and "call." Put is the prediction of a price decline, while call is the prediction of a price increase.


Unlike traditional options, anticipating the magnitude of a price movement is not required. Instead, one must only be able to correctly predict whether the price of the chosen asset will be higher or lower than the "strike" (or target) price at a specified future time.
 Evaluate the current market conditions surrounding your chosen stocks or other asset and determine whether the price is more likely to rise or fall. If your insight is correct on the expiration date, your payoff is the settlement value as stated in your original contract. The return rate on each winning trade is established by the broker and made known ahead of time.


For example, let's say an investor who follows foreign currency movements senses that the USD (U.S. dollar) is gaining ground against the JPY (Japanese yen) and wants to hedge his risk and try to prevent his Japanese investment from dropping in value. He may do this by buying 10,000 binary contracts which say that “USD/JPY will be above 119.50” by 4:00 PM ET tomorrow. If his analysis is correct and the USD gains ground over the Yen, rising above 119.50, the 10,000 binary contracts will expire in-the-money, yielding a total payout of $1,000,000. If the investor paid $75 per contract, he will make $25 per contract, which is a $250,000 total profit, a 33% rate of return on his investment. However, if the yen does not end above 119.50, the 10,000 binary contracts will expire out-of-the-money. In this case, the trader would lose his initial investment on the binaries, but would be compensated by the gain in value in his Japanese investments.
 Binary options are generally simpler to trade because they require only a sense of direction of the price movement of the stock. Traditional options require a sense of both direction and magnitude of the price movement. No actual stocks are ever bought or sold, so the selling of shares and stop-losses are not part of the process.


A stop-loss is an order you would place with a stock broker to buy or sell once the stock hits a certain price.Binary options always have a controlled risk-to-reward ratio, meaning the risk and reward are predetermined at the time the contract is acquired. Traditional options have no defined boundaries of risk and reward and therefore the gains and losses can be limitless.
Binary options can involve the trading and hedging strategies used in trading traditional options. You should always conduct a market analysis prior to each trade. There are many variables to consider when trying to decide whether the price of a stock or other asset is going to increase or decrease within a specific time period. Without analysis, the risk of losing money increases substantially.
Unlike a traditional option, the payout amount is not proportional to the amount by which the option ends up ahead. As long as a binary option settles ahead by even one tick, the winner receives the entire fixed payoff amount.
Binary options contracts can last almost any length of time, ranging from minutes to months. Some brokers provide contract times of as short as thirty seconds. Others can last a year. This provides great flexibility and almost unlimited money-making (and money-losing) opportunities. Traders must know exactly what they're doing.