 Since the only concern with hypothyroidism is hormone productions, the only medication used for hypothyroidism is synthetic hormones. When the thyroid gland is not producing enough of any hormone, it must be supplemented. This can be supplemented with a synthetic thyroid hormone such as Synthroid, in doses ranging from 50 micrograms to 300 micrograms. Your doctor will use blood tests to determine your specific dose. Your doctor will start you on a lower dose. between 50 to 100 micrograms daily and recheck the blood tests four to six weeks after starting the medication, looking for changes in your hormone levels.


Your doctor will also take into account your clinical symptoms, such as weight gain, energy level, fatigue, concentration, depression, or other symptoms of decreased metabolism. If your levels are not to the point of hypothyroidism yet, your doctor may still prescribe a low dose of synthetic hormone to help level out the symptoms.In addition to synthetic hormones, your doctor may prescribe Armour Thyroid, which is actual bovine desiccated thyroid gland to help regulate yours. Starting dose is commonly 60 mg daily, and continued until blood tests indicate a response., Radioactive iodine is used to destroy any active nodules in your thyroid in order to stop their uncontrolled production of the thyroid hormone. Radioactive Iodine therapy involves injection of radionuclide tagged iodine into a vein. The iodine is taken up by the thyroid gland, which absorbs the radioactive iodine. The radiation destroys the cells that comprise these active nodules that are producing excessive thyroid hormone, which causes the gland to shrink and symptoms to disappear within three to six months.


A single dose of this medication is successful in 80% of cases. Pregnant women should not have this procedure.
 Your doctor may prescribe you anti-thyroid medications such as methimazole when radioactive iodine is not permitted, such as with pregnant women or children. These medications prevent your thyroid from producing excess levels of the thyroid hormone and start helping symptoms in six to 12 weeks. Methimazole is prescribed at 15 to 30 mg per daily.


Treatment of a thyroid storm is treated with beta-blockers, as well as hydration and sedatives. Beta blockers are also prescribed if you have increased heart rate as a result of your hyperthyroidism., Your doctor may suggest surgery with thyroidectomy as the treatment of choice if you did not respond to medication or cannot take the medication, if you are pregnant, or are a child. This procedure is also done in cases for those with large goiters that are unsightly or compressing the trachea.


This surgery consists of the removal of the gland. If you have this surgery, you will have to have lifelong treatment to replace your thyroid hormone since you no longer have a gland to produce it.Another option is a subtotal thyroidectomy. A surgeon will remove up to 90 percent of your thyroid gland under general anaesthetic. The remaining tissue may still produce enough thyroid hormone to mean replacement treatments are never required or not required for many years. You should monitor your general health for signs of change to your hormone health if you have a subtotal thyroidectomy.

