 Cavalier King Charles Spaniels have luxurious coats and come in four different color combinations known as Blenheim (chestnut red and white), Black and Tan, Tricolor (chestnut red, white and black) and Ruby (solid chestnut red). Most breeders value Cavaliers with long, slightly wavy fur. They prefer dogs to have clearly definable colors. They don't like dogs with a lot of "ticking". This means that if a Cavalier has a predominantly black back, they shouldn't have "ticks" or little spots of other colors mixed in. , Purebred Cavalier show dogs are normally celebrated for their straight fur. If the dog you’re thinking of adopting has a slight wave in its fur, this is completely acceptable. Cavaliers require a modicum of grooming. You should brush them regularly — a couple of times a week. A Cavalier Spaniels rarely have their coats trimmed and they generally only require bathing once every couple of weeks.Cavaliers shed a lot. When you go to pick out a Cavalier for yourself, pay close attention to their coat. If you see a lot of loose hair on the dog or in its area, ask the seller how frequently they brush the dog or clean the area. Most of the time, shedding is the result of the dog’s environment or its diet — both of which can be changed by you.
 Purebred Cavaliers generally have a lot of health issues resulting from generations of inbreeding to keep their line pure. The most obvious signs of a healthy Cavalier will be its coat, its eyes, and its ears. These tend to be the biggest problem areas on Cavaliers and therefore should be the first aspects to consider when purchasing a new Cavalier.


Make sure its eyes, nose, and ears are clean and free of discharge. Its coat should be clean and free of parasites such as fleas. A puppy with prominent ribs and a potbelly is likely to have worms. Worms can be treated, but could indicate that his care or that of the mother, was less than ideal., Regardless of what the seller says, have your vet check out your new friend. Make sure they focus on issues specific to Cavaliers (like those mentioned above) and environmental concerns like mites, fleas, ticks, and heart worms.


Health-wise, always have puppies checked out prior to purchase. A heart murmur in a puppy is likely to be bad news in the long run, with a high risk of progression into premature heart failure. If you get an adult dog, then it is wise to have a veterinarian check the dog prior to purchase also. The veterinarian can check for common ailments that affect Cavaliers and other issues.