 Back pain can have many different sources, from small muscle strains to bone diseases. Speak with your doctor about the type, regularity, and severity of back pain you are experiencing. Although your doctor will be able to provide you with general information regarding pain management, you may need to consult a back specialist if you have a disorder or serious injury.


Ask your doctor for recommendations, like “What can I do everyday to minimize my back pain?”, “Should I seek out a back specialist?”, or “Should I be exercising on my own or should I seek out further assistance?”;
, Seek out a back specialist, osteopath, or physical therapist for more tailored and specific treatment for back pain. There are many back specialists out there, from surgeons to chiropractors, that can help provide you with the assistance and support you need. Finding a back specialist will provide you with hands-on support, informational resources, and exercise plans catered to your pain and ability.


Ask your specialist questions like “What exercises do you recommend for my back condition?”, “What stretches or exercises can I do at home?”, or “
Finding a specialist starts with your primary-care physician. Back pain is so common that most family doctors will have experience providing the appropriate recommendations for a specialist and treatment., Personal trainers often have comprehensive understandings of exercise routines. Most trainers will be able to provide hands-on support while you exercise and Seek out the advice of a personal trainer at your gym to better understand the types of exercises that will help support your back.


Go to you local gym and ask to speak with a trainer. Ask the trainer about exercises they recommend for your ability, what machines or exercises you should avoid, and how to better improve your form to reduce the chances of injury.
Ask questions like, “Do you have a trainer on staff that has experience providing assistance with back pain”, “What exercises would you recommend to relieve back pain?”, or “What aerobic or strength building exercises might I still be able to do with back pain?”
If you cannot afford a personal trainer, then you may want to seek out a physical therapy consultation. There are many different types of physical therapists with different treatment modalities. For example, you can ask your physical therapist about deweighted training.
 Stretching every day, whether you plan on exercising or not, will help relieve your back of tension, increase blood flow, and help you gain mobility. There are a variety of low-impact back stretches that loosen your back and reduce your pain as much as possible.Try supported hamstring stretches, like twists, knee-tucks, and cross-legged stretches.Ask your doctor, personal trainer, or specialist for stretches you can do at home to improve your exercise routine and reduce your pain.
Mind-body exercise like Pilates and yoga are also good for the back and for stretching.
 Although exercise is instrumental to back health, be sure to start small and work your way up incrementally. Most of the exercises and lifts designed to gain body mass will often increase the chances of making your back pain or injury worse. Be sure to avoid any exercise or weight that requires that you hold a free weight in front of your body, to repetitively bend at the waist, or induces pain. Consult a trainer or physical therapist to figure out what starting weight will best promote back health.
Remember that your back health is most important. Weights that you once lifted with ease might now have to be worked back up to.
 Bodyweight exercises are simple exercises that require you to use the weight of your body to build strength. Bodyweight exercises will allow you to strengthen muscle groups that you might not be able exercise while experiencing back pain. Try to incorporate body exercises into your routine to strengthen your back without risking injury or further damage.Try back strengthening exercises like planks, scissor kicks, or knee push ups., Swimming is a great low-impact aerobic exercise that engages almost every muscle in your body. Try swimming at a slow and consistent pace for longer periods of time to increase your strength, mobility, and overall health. If you find that you do not yet have complete range, try using modifying strokes, like the breaststroke or backstroke.Try swimming in a lap pool at your gym.
If you live close to a large body of water, try swimming distances while the weather permits.
Swim for as long as you would normally do other aerobic exercises. A good place to start is around 20 minutes and to build up from there.
Another idea if you are not a good swimmer is to walk the lanes of the swimming pool. You may want to get aqua shoes and put on weights to your ankles to make it more challenging. You should to do this for 40 minutes four times a week.
 Water jogging and water aerobics are two exercises that can promote cardiovascular health and provide pain relief. The buoyancy that water provides will allow you to have greater ranges of motion while relieving tension in disc, muscles, tendons, and ligaments. Water aerobics and jogging often come with foam dumbbells and belts that can provide further support and increase resistance.Enrolling in a water aerobics class is another way to be introduced to the techniques of water aerobics in a structured environment. Many water aerobics classes are listed online by location.Try aerobic exercises like jogging in place, jogging the length of the pool, or one-legged balance exercises.
Be sure to mix intense bursts of exercise with more moderate rests, like one to five minutes of hard water running with less intense periods of walking., Free weights often require strength in ligaments and tendons, which generally are the cause for back pain. Seated or controlled weight machines will provide that support for you without jeopardizing your form or comfort.


Try a using a leg curl machine instead of squats, or a seated fly machine instead of using free weights on a bench. Try and do four to five exercises of a total body workout.
 Upright exercises, like jogging, running, and cycling, can often cause unwanted strain and stress on your back, especially if you have back pain. Try using a recumbent bicycle to relieve tension in your back while comfortably getting aerobic exercise. Most gyms and back specialists will have a stationary recumbent bicycle machine if you are uninterested or unable to purchase one.Try beginning with a moderate amount of time on the recumbent bicycle, like 30 minutes, and begin to add more time as you build up strength. According to the President’s Recommendations you want to get 30 minutes of moderate intensity exercise, like swimming or biking, five times a week for a total of 150 minutes per week.

