 Some students learn best when they can look at a sample of what you’re trying to teach them, and it might be useful for them to have an example to fall back on later in the process. For elementary school age students, use examples that are more opinion-based. Focus on more academically based examples for middle and high school students.For example, you might show elementary school age students a piece of writing that argues that one brand of soda is better than the other. The best brand of soda is based on opinion, but your students will still see that they still have to give reasons or justification that supports their opinion.
For middle and high school age students, a good example might be an article that argues that older teens need more sleep than elementary age children. This article will likely use scientific research to support its claims, so your students will see that the reasons and justifications they give to support their position need to based on more than how they feel about a particular subject.;
, Once you’ve shown your students examples of persuasive writing, lead a discussion during which you ask your students to point out what they found effective about the writing and what they thought didn't work.


For example, if you've read a piece about the benefits of more sleep for older students, you could say "Do you think older students need more sleep? Why?" Your students therefore not only have to assess the article's argument, but how the author used evidence to support that argument., Once your students have evaluated a completed piece of persuasive writing, show them what the process of creating one looks like by talking through it with them.


For example, using an overhead projector, start drafting your own essay on a topic you’ve selected beforehand. Think out loud and write as you go so that your students can actually see what the writing process looks like.
This is an especially useful strategy when you’re working with students who don’t have a lot of experience with writing - elementary school students or perhaps students whose first language is not English. This method can also be useful for older students as the complexity of their assignments increases.