 If you use your Keurig very frequently and it hasn’t been cleaned in a long time, it may be in need of a total descaling. Start by pouring any remaining water out of the reservoir and returning it to the base empty. From here, you’ll be using the reservoir to disperse a special homemade cleaning solution through the machine.”Scale” refers to the natural mineral deposits from water that accumulate on surfaces over time.If you decide to descale your Keurig, be sure to clean the water reservoir separately once you’re finished.
 Ordinary white vinegar can be used to safely descale your Keurig without the need for harsh chemicals. Run a few ounces of cool water in with the vinegar to dilute it. Fill the reservoir about two thirds of the way full.Vinegar is an excellent natural cleaning agent. It’s mild, non-toxic and rinses away easily, leaving your coffee maker clean and sanitized.When the brew cycle is activated, the vinegar mixture will be pulled through the water line and spout of the machine, eliminating buildup from the inside.
 The acidity of the vinegar will help dissolve calcium deposits and hard water stains inside the machine. Use a large mug or another container to catch the hot contents as it emerges from the spout. Continue cycling the vinegar solution until nothing is left in the reservoir.Do not place a K-cup in the brewing chamber. You’re just trying to flush the interior of the machine with the vinegar solution.Run the Keurig on the largest cup setting to keep the maximum amount of water flowing through the machine.Dispose of the used vinegar solution after each cycle.
 Some parts of the Keurig, such as the spout and brewing chamber, may be accessible to clean by hand. If there’s any mineral buildup remaining in these areas, you can scrub them with an unused toothbrush or the corner of a sponge.Detail small holes and crevices, such as the grooves around the K-cup compartment, with a toothpick or paperclip., Empty the reservoir and fill it back up with fresh or distilled water. Run the two or three more cycles to ensure that all the vinegar has been rinsed out. Keep running the Keurig until the water is completely clean and odorless.You may need to drain and refill the reservoir a couple of times before the lingering notes of vinegar are fully dissipated.If your Keurig is especially dirty, it may be a good idea to let the vinegar solution sit in the machine for 20-30 minutes before rinsing it out.

