 This includes anything that the pets like to regularly lie or sleep on which isn't always intended to serve as pet bedding. If the bedding can go in the dryer, 15 or 20 minutes in a hot dryer will kill adults, larvae and eggs.;
, You should especially do this in areas that don't get much exposure to sunlight (fleas like humid and cool spots), anywhere that you find dried blood and feces (flea debris), and upholstered furniture. Before vacuuming the carpets, sprinkle salt, Borax or baking soda throughout. Work it into the base of the carpet with a broom. Let it sit for a few hours; all of these powders will cause the flea eggs that are tucked deep into the carpet to dry out.


Don't let your pets walk on the carpet during this time, since they might get some stuff on their paws and lick it off, causing them to get sick. If there's a chance the pet will walk on the carpet, use baking soda and be thorough when working it into the base of the carpet so it doesn't sit on the surface and get on your pet's paws.
When the vacuum bag is full, seal it in a plastic trash bag and put it in a covered trash container, preferably outside. Otherwise, the little buggers can crawl out and make themselves cozy again.
 A 4x4m room needs a 10L/Day dehumidifier (it removes 10L of water in the air per day). Apparently, fleas require 50% or higher relative humidity to live. Keep the humidity in your room under 50% for 2 days will kill adult fleas and larva, and stop flea eggs from hatching. You just need to vacuum the flea jerky and their eggs.
 Trim lawns and weeds and expose any cool, moist dark spots (which fleas love) to sunlight, or keep your pet away from those spots.
 Use any gentle shampoo. Wash the neck first so that the fleas don't jump up to the head during the bath. Be thorough because you'll probably see several fleas come off and float around in the water. Alternatively, wash kitten in Head and Shoulders anti-dandruff shampoo. The acid in the shampoo kills fleas - you can pick off any remaining fleas still clinging on as they appear to be stunned.
 Take two cups of fresh rosemary leaves and add them to two pints of water. Boil for thirty minutes. Strain the liquid, discard the leaves and mix it with up to a gallon of warm water. Pour this over your pet until saturated. Do not rinse off, but allow your pet to air dry.


This is something to do on a hot day only. Also add 2 to 3 drops of the lemon mixture (see step 2 of next section) under your pet's collar to help keep fleas off.
 After your pet is dry, use a flea comb that is specifically designed to remove fleas in order to get rid of stubborn ones that remain. Use the brush all over their skin.
 Take the pet's collar or neckerchief and put on drops of Eucalyptus oil, tea tree oil, citronella, lavender, or geranium. This will need to be done weekly.



Note: Do not use essential oils on cats! While cats are extremely sensitive to Eucalyptus and tea tree oils, a cat's ability to metabolize any essential oils inhaled, ingested or absorbed through skin is considered to be weak and there is always a risk of overloading a cat's system.
With tea tree oil, be especially careful to use products with 1% or less of this essential oil. It can cause nausea, vomiting, lethargy and general weakness, and should be used with caution. With this oil, more is not better.
 Plant it around your house. Do not do this if your pets are prone to eating plants or if you have children around.
 Slice a lemon thinly, add it to a pint of water and heat to a boiling point. Let it sit overnight and in the morning, spray it onto areas where you suspect fleas hang out (beware of staining) and rub it over your pet's fur. Don't soak, but rather dampen the fur. Do this once a month to combat fleas.


Do not use a lot at first, and keep an eye out for signs of digestive discomfort in your pet.
 In a spray bottle, add: 1/4 distilled white vinegar to 3/4 water. If you want, you can also add 1 tablespoon of dish soap to get rid of dirt. This mixture makes a safe cleaner for your counters and surfaces. It is also a very effective flea remover from all of your fabrics. Spray it once or twice a week on your fabrics and your flea problem will be over., This is a relatively easy and affordable way of getting rid of fleas on a dog. Salt dries up the eggs of fleas and eventually kills all of them.The first part:

Look for affected areas on dog/cat, and for each affected area, grab a pinch of salt.
Wet the tips of your fingers very lightly (a drop of water is perfect) and massage the area.
Reapply to each area day after day until the infestation is clear.
Don't put too much salt on, as it may irritate the dog's skin.
 If fleas are a problem in a specific area of your yard or home, fill an aluminum pie pan with soapy water and set it out in the area (i.e.under a bed). The fleas are trapped on top of the water due to the tension of the surface of the water. Change the water daily until there are no more fleas. If you are placing the pie pan outside, empty daily to prevent mosquitoes.
 If you miss any areas where fleas are infesting, you don't want to give them the chance to multiply.


Vacuum thoroughly every other day. Since fleas can develop resistance to insecticides, vacuuming regularly is essential in order to bring them under control.
Mow the lawn regularly.
Wash pet bedding in hot, soapy water at least once a week.
 This helps you monitor your progress. The more fleas you see, the more you need to clean.

