 If you think your focus and cognitive skills are getting worse with your MS, ask your doctor for a reference to a neuropsychologist. This specialist will assess your cognitive function. They may be able to pinpoint the causes of the cognitive decline and come up with a treatment.During a cognitive assessment, the neuropsychologist will test your memory. They may discuss any memory problems with you or someone who spends a lot of time with you. You might be asked about how often you forget about events or appointments, or how often you lose something. They will listen to you as you talk to evaluate what you say and how you say it. You may be asked questions about common knowledge, like months of the year, or asked to repeat something you were told a few minutes ago.
For example, they may ask you, "Can you name the months of the year?", "What is today's date?", or "What is the capital of this state?"
Cognitive assessment takes hours to complete. It is also an expensive procedure, so discuss it with your doctor and family before undergoing the procedure. Your doctor may be able to do a brief cognitive screen first to determine if it is necessary.
 Cognitive rehabilitation is a procedure that doctors are starting to use on MS patients who undergo cognitive changes. Cognitive rehabilitation is done by neuropsychologists, occupational therapists, or speech and language pathologists. It aims to help memory loss, decreased learning ability, and negative cognitive changes.


Cognitive rehabilitation is done for multiple weeks or months. You go to one or more one-hour sessions per week. During a session, you will go through exercises to improve memory and learn how to cope with cognitive changes.
Results for cognitive rehabilitation are mixed. However, studies showed that the treatment helped relieve fatigue in MS patients. This may help with cognitive function and focus., Many people with MS suffer from depression. Depression can interfere with your focus and negatively impact your cognitive function. Depression slows down your thinking processes. If your symptoms are joined by feelings of hopelessness, sadness, emptiness, difficulty sleeping, or other signs of depression, seek treatment from a mental health professional.Talk to your doctor about whether or not you have depression if you have never been diagnosed before.
You can treat depression through various ways, including lifestyle changes, therapy, and medication. Talk to your doctor about the best way for you to treat any depression symptoms.

