 One of the major causes of hair loss is inflammation, which is a common occurrence when your body isn't getting enough nutrients or is stressed from an underlying condition. Omega-3 fatty acids help to reduce inflammation and can lead to a reduction in hair loss as well as potentially helping your hair grow back.


Fish oil and flaxseed oil are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Take 2 capsules or 1 tablespoon of oil every day.
You can also consume omega-3s in the form of salmon, oysters, walnuts, and flaxseed in addition to supplementing your diet with capsules or pure oil.;
, Zinc aids in the synthesis of hair keratin, and it's common to have a deficiency. A zinc deficiency can also lead to hypothyroidism, which is another cause of hair loss.Make sure you're taking in plenty of zinc by eating oysters, shellfish, poultry and other zinc-rich foods and consider taking a supplement in the amount of 30 mg every day., Anemia, which is a condition in which your blood has too few red blood cells, is a common cause for hair loss. Taking iron supplements can help to cure anemia, bringing life back to languishing hair follicles. This isn't a cure-all, however; only take iron supplements if you know you're anemic. See your doctor to determine whether iron supplements could help you stop losing hair.


It is recommend that you get most of your iron through iron-rich foods like spinach, tofu, beans, oysters, and beef. Supplement an iron-rich diet with 325 milligrams per day of iron.
Iron deficiency is more common in women than men, especially around the time of menstruation., Biotin is a B-vitamin that's essential for hair growth. If your biotin levels are low, you may have brittle hair and nails. The general daily recommended dosage of biotin is 2.5 mg, but it's important to consult with your doctor to make sure you take the right amount for your needs.


Don't take more than the recommended daily dosage, since overdosing on biotin is just as unhealthy as having too little in your system.Most hair loss is not caused by a biotin deficiency, so don't expect to get big results unless you're sure that's what's causing the problem. If your hair loss is the result of a hormonal problem or if it's just part of your genetics, biotin isn't going to make a very noticeable difference.
 Hair is actually made out of protein, and when you aren't getting enough, your hair stops growing. Women need at least 46 grams of protein per day to stay healthy, and men need at least 56.The best way to get protein is through your diet, by eating meat, fish, poultry, beans, tofu, nuts, and leafy greens. But if you're having trouble getting enough protein in your meals, you might want to consider taking a protein supplement to make sure you meet the CDC's recommended protein requirements.
 Saw palmetto blocks the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Since DHT leads to hair loss in men, taking saw palmetto supplements may help prevent hair loss. However, the efficacy of saw palmetto as a hair loss treatment is up for debate; according to the National Institutes of Health, there's not enough evidence to show for sure that it helps. It has been used for many years as a hair loss treatment in Native American cultures, so it might be worth a try.The recommended general dosage is 160 mg of saw palmetto extract taken twice a day. Choose an extract comprised of 85 to 95 percent total fatty acids.

