 Each section of hair should be about 1 inch thick. If you grab too much hair at once, the hot air brush will not be as effective. Brush each section of hair with a regular brush before using the hot air brush to avoid knots. Take your small handful of hair and place the hot air brush underneath it, near the roots.
 Pull the brush outwards towards the ends of your hair, while slowly turning the brush inward. As you turn the brush inward, guide your hair so that it curls under and around the hot brush.
 Roll the brush, with your hair curling around it, upward toward your roots. Once you reach your roots, hold the hot air brush in place for 10 seconds. Finally, pull the brush outwards towards the ends of your hair, and let your curl fall from the hot air brush.If your hair gets caught, gently untangle it from the brush. Then, brush through it with a regular brush before attempting to use the hot air brush again.
Add a spritz of flexible hold hairspray to each curl as you finish curling it.
 Squirt a nickel sized amount of smoothing serum into your hands, and rub your palms together. Then, run your hands through your hair. Take extra care to ensure that your smoothing serum is applied to all of your hair. The smoothing serum will help eliminate the frizz from your hair.
 If you're looking to tame your natural, frizzy curls into waves, the hot air brush should be used differently. Instead of curling each small section of hair, you can simply brush through each section with the hot air brush. The heated brush will leave your hair looking silky and smooth.Brush from the underside of your hair, and begin at the roots. Brush your hair slowly to allow the hot air brush to smooth your hair.
 Finish working on the bottom section of your hair before moving to the top section of your hair. When it comes time to use the hot air brush on the top section of your hair, take down one small piece of hair at a time. Curl (or straighten) each piece individually before letting down the next piece of hair., After you've finished all of your hair, you should give it a final brush-through and a layer of flexible hairspray. Let your hair cool completely before brushing through it with a regular brush or comb. If you want to add a final boost of volume, flip your hair upside-down and spray the roots with hairspray.


If you used the hot air brush to tame your curls, you should finish with a sheen spray to enhance your smooth and silky new locks.

