 If you have the necessary experience or education, you must first obtain an application. There are three ways to get an application.


You can visit any office of the Nevada State Contractors Board and pick up an application in person. For a listing of offices, consult the website.The Contractors Board also has a 24 hour automated phone line you can use to request an application be mailed to you. The number is (775) 688-1141.You go online and download an application from the Contractor's Board website. If you have access to a printer, this is probably the quickest and easiest route., In addition to filling out the application, you need to include a number of materials to present to the board. These materials help verify your experience and education and allow the board to make an informed decision about granting you a license.


You need to submit four Reference Certificates with your application. These certificates, which you can get when you obtain your application, must be filled out by someone who has firsthand knowledge of your experience. You can choose co-workers, supervisors, union representatives, architects, engineers, and anyone else you have worked with during your time as a journeymen, supervisor, or foreman.Also, include a detailed resume of your work history. Include all relevant projects you have worked on, any tasks you have performed, and any trades or crafts you've mastered.If you're using education in place of experience, include college transcripts or a certificate of an apprenticeship., There is a $300 application fee, that can be paid via check. Include a check made out to the Nevada Contractor's Board in your application packet., Once you've gathered all the needed materials, you can complete and then submit your application.


Use ink or a typewriter to complete all the fields in your application and carefully proofread the document afterwards. Missing or inaccurate information could result in an application being rejected.Make sure to sign and date your application.You need to submit your application in person. There are two Nevada State Contractors Board offices, open Mondays to Fridays from 8AM to 5PM.One of the offices is in Henderson Nevada, and the address is 2310 Corporate Circle, Suite 200. The phone number is (702) 486-1100.The other office is in Reno, Nevada. The address is 9670 Gateway Drive, suite 100. The phone number is (775) 688-1141., Applications get rejected for a variety of reasons. If yours is rejected, know your options.


You can appeal before the board. You have 60 days after receiving your rejection to request a hearing.If your application is rejected due to missing information, you have 60 days from when you are notified of missing information to resubmit the application.Unfortunately, if your application is rejected you cannot be refunded your application fee.