 Research has shown that learning a new skill can improve brain functions. New skills not only improve memory, but they help the portion of the brain that ensures protection of the memories. Furthermore, new skills, particularly the more complex skills, engage the brain comprehensively instead of in small portions.Juggle. Research has shown that juggling can improve connections and white matter in the brain.Woodworking is a great way to keep the brain engaged. It requires precise measurements and concentration.
Digital photography has been shown to have a very significant impact on mental health, perhaps because of how difficult and complex the task can be.;
, Brain games such as Sudoku and crossword puzzles positively have been shown to improve connections in the brain. They also affect short-term memory, and have been shown to stave off the growth of protein deposits (beta amyloid) that negatively impact brain health. Try to keep your mind as active as possible.Starting brain games, and being mentally active in general, early in life has shown to be more beneficial than attempting to start later in life.
Once the brain games stop being complex, it no longer has the same brain health impact it once did. If the game is easy, find a new game., Work with short goals first. Try memorizing increasingly more difficult lists.Whether it’s all the states in the U.S., or all the bones in the human body, attempting to memorize complex lists helps the brain significantly. Try memorizing one of the following:Shoot for as many digits in the number pi as you can.
Lock down the ingredients in a complicated recipe.
Find a favorite speech and commit it to memory.
 Reading an array of material – books, periodicals, poetry – engages and exercises the brain. Learning new words is similar to learning a new language, which has been shown to improve brain function and expand brain activity in multiple sections.Reading stimulates the brain and slows the onset of Alzheimer’s and dementia.
Most people have difficulty focusing on reading for just five straight minutes without distraction.
Look for articles that pertain to what you currently find interesting in the world.
If you have a favorite author, look up one of their books on a popular website and then check recommended authors. You may find a new favorite.

