 Use a small hoop, earring, rubber band or hair band to create a hoop. Use something that is clean; don't introduce bacteria or dirt to the tank. You can hold the hoop in the tank if wished but it's much easier to tie a thread or filament around the hoop object, then attach it to a piece of balsa wood, ruler or similar item that you can then run across the top of the tank and leave dangling in place. That way, you don't have to get your hands wet and can concentrate on encouraging the fish to swim through the hoop instead.


Another alternative is to make a loop using a pipe cleaner and hang the non-looped end over the edge of the tank. However, this will need to be held by hand when you start moving the hoop inward, or you can tie it the ruler/wood, etc., if it's long enough.;
, Do this gently and with care. You're starting at the side because it's easier for you to interact with the fish at the edge to begin with. As the fish becomes more accomplished at going through the hoop, you can move the hoop more towards the middle until eventually it is only placed in the middle of the tank.
 Splash the water or call the fish to try to attract it.



Tap at the glass and move your finger in the direction of the hoop to try to persuade the fish to swim toward the hoop.
Offer rewards for a job well done. Drop a few flakes or a tiny fish treat after each successful swim through the hoop––while there's no guarantee the betta will associate the reward with swimming through the hoop object, it's worth a try to the fish may just click over time. Don't overfeed it though.
 Repeat the actions from the previous step for up to 20 minutes at a time.
 Do not leave it in the tank unattended in case the fish gets caught up in it or the string.
 The more familiarity your betta has with the hoop object, the greater the chance it will find it fun to swim through and repeat the experience each time that you add the hoop object. Keep moving the hoop after the fish successfully masters it in the initial placement, until eventually you can place the hoop in the center of the tank and the fish happily swims through.


Keep up the treats. If the treats are associated with the hoop, you must continue with them for good performance until the betta goes through the hoop without encouragement.

