


Speak clearly. Speak clearly for others to understand what you are trying to say. Speak fluently.







Smile! Smiling is free, isn’t it? It does not matter if you don’t have the best teeth in the world. Think of something funny and that will create the perfect smile.







hygiene. If you smell bad nobody will want to come near you. Hygiene is one of the most important things. Shower daily, and wash your hair as usual. Brush your teeth to avoid bad breath; you can also chew a mint chewing gum if you’re worried about your breath smelling bad. You can also find scented shower gels in beauty stores.






Make eye contact. When you don’t look somebody in the eye they often assume you’re are feeling insecure or that you’re being dishonest about something.





;
, Having a good personality means being helpful, friendly, caring and funny towards your friends and even random people. Practice saying hello. Remember to make eye contact!

, Don’t embarrass them and insult them. Take their feelings heart-to-heart, Humans have feelings to!

, Call up a friend and tell her/him that you thought it would be a good idea to take them somewhere. If they refuse because they’re busy beg them a little more, if they refuse even more give up, and mention maybe another time.
 Everybody wants a laugh; you can tell a joke or pretend to be somebody else. Don’t make fun of anybody. You can also make somebody laugh by pulling a funny face.
 When you talk to people, let them know you are excited to talk to them. Give people your undivided attention, even if they’re talking about something completely boring.
 Get a few close friends, make sure you always walk together and eat lunch together. Look for friends who you have something in common with. Walk around like you’re super confident and super happy!

, Start with clean face and then conceal any under eye circles. Use dark brown liquid eyeliner and make a super thin line on your upper lashline, and make it a bit thicker towards the outside of your eye. Put on lengthening mascara that doesn’t look clumpy and only apply it on the top lashes. For your face makeup be sure to sure mineral powder makeup. You can get this at Nord storms, at bare minerals for $25. If you wear blush try to go for the natural colours and do not use eye shadow for school, unless it’s really light.
 As for if it’s curly, Use a taming serum or whatever, and then wear your hair curly. Try to wear your hair, in different styles everyday, side braids, curly, straight, down, up or in a bun, its up to you!

, Don’t roll up your skirt, and show your stomach. Unbutton the top buttons of your polo shirt and unbutton your blazer buttons. Don’t make your skirt too long but don’t make it look too short. You can put on a nice sliver or gold bracelet for the accessories.
 Try doing more chores around the house and ask for more pocket money. To look amazing shop at the popular stores such as Abercrombie and Fitch, Hollister, American Eagle, Forever21 and Juicy Couture. Buy to two of everything two dresses, two different styled tops, two hoodies and two pairs of jeans. Remember to buy shoes!

