 Wrap ice in a towel or cold compress cloth and place it on the top of the hand. Use a loosely wrapped bandage or cloth to hold the ice in place to prevent the fractured hand from swelling. Never apply ice directly to the skin, as it can cause frostbite.Apply an ice pack or cold compress for 10 to 20 minutes at a time. Just make sure the ice doesn't get the splint or cast wet.
Applying ice to the injury will help decrease swelling of the hand and can improve healing time.
 Keeping the injured hand elevated above the level of your heart can help to reduce swelling and increase drainage of fluid in your hand. Elevation of the hand is the most effective way to promote healing, and keeping your hand elevated during the first week of your injury is extremely important.If you develop numbness or pressure in the cast, go to the doctor and have it checked for compartment syndrome.
When walking, it is important to keep the hand elevated and not naturally dangling along the side of the body, as is normally done.
Arm slings may be prescribed by your doctor, but they usually keep your hand below the level of your heart, and they can increase the likelihood of shoulder stiffness. An arm sling can also cause additional problems and is not a necessity when caring for a fracture.Use an elevation sling for support rather than the traditional sling. This keeps the wrist and hand above the level of the heart and close to the body for protection

, If you are feeling considerable pain, you can take ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), aspirin or acetaminophen (Tylenol).All of these are available over-the-counter. Be sure to follow the dosage recommendations on the bottle.
 After the first week, your doctor will be able to assess and better guide the ongoing treatment. You should also call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following:Increased pain
Numbness, tingling, burning or stinging in the injured area
Pressure against the inside of the cast that turns to throbbing, tingling or pain
Circulation problems (look for discolored, pale, blue, gray or cold fingers and nails)
Bleeding, pus, or bad odors coming from the splint or cast

