 Different salmon species have different features and invite different methods of cooking. To make dry fish you will want to avoid King Salmon and Coho Salmon. Opt for "Chums" (also known as Arctic Kita) or Humpy's (also known as pinks). Red Salmon can also be used. The fish must be as fresh as possible, and never frozen.
 Keep the bottom lip on the fish, but remove the cheeks and gills along with the head.;
, Starting at this hole, insert your knife and slice the fish upwards towards the head. Slice the fish entirely up the belly until it can be spread open.
 Once all of the guts have been removed, take the knife and cut the 'blood line' (which can be found at the base of the spine within the open belly; it will look like a dark red strip). Remove all of the blood from within the blood line.
, Turn the fish to one side. On the back of the fish, an inch beyond the spine, cut the meat and continue to slice the meat all the way to the base of the tail.
 Avoid the rib cage. Use your knife and cut down toward the stomach of the fish, tracing the rib cage as you cut.
 Follow the meat cut up to the base of the tail and then stop.
 Keep the meat on at the base of the tail.
 Once you have cut the fillets on each side of the fish, you should have three strips connected together at the base of the tail. Keep both of your fillets attached to the tail, but remove the body, by cutting through the spinal cord at the base of the tail.
 Starting on one fillet, lay it flat on the cutting board. Hold the knife at an angle, and slice the fish's meat approximately 2 inches (5.1 cm) from the base of the tail. Do not cut through the skin of the fish. Cut only the meat. Continue making slits in the fish every 2 inches (5.1 cm) until you reach the bottom.
, With your other fillet, repeat this process of cutting slices into the fish and one vertical strip down.
 Hang the fish only on sunny, windy days when the flies are not active. Hang the fish off the ground (typically on a pole with one fillet on each side). The skin should be facing outwards, the fillets inwards. Allow them to sun-dry for 24 hours.
 Flip the fish so that the fillets are facing outwards and let them dry again for another 24 hours in the sun and wind.
 Hang the fish in a smokehouse and keep smoke on the fillets for two to four weeks. Alder smoke works best, and alder chips are typically quite affordable.

