 Regular climbing techniques will only work if some of the grout between bricks is missing or if bricks are jutting out. Basically, if the wall is perfectly smooth, you're not going to be able to climb it with standard techniques. Look up the wall, and see if you can find enough handholds and toeholds to get you up the wall.Try to visualize your climb up the wall. For instance, point out places you could get a grip or toehold, and visualize using them to actually climb it. Assess whether you can make it or not.You must also have considerable strength in your fingers in order to successfully complete this technique, especially in your fingertips. If you do not think you can support the majority of your body weight using your fingers, you should try another technique.;
, Look for items that jut out vertically to make it easier to climb. For instance, if a pillar of brick juts out, you can wrap yourself around it for better climbing. Similarly, you can use a solid drainpipe to help you climb., The best shoes to wear will be those that allow you to catch edges. For instance, shoes that have a sharp edge can allow you to grip the wall from the side of the shoe as well as the front. In addition, the shoe needs to have good support throughout the sole so that when you grip with your toes, it can support the whole foot.Also, choose shoes that have good traction to help create friction when you need it.
 You need to balance your weight mostly on your feet. Your hands are primarily there for balance. After you find your first foothold, look for handholds to support you as pull yourself up. Step up onto a foot hold, balancing your weight on the friction. Grab a handhold to help pull yourself up.When looking for footholds, pick ones that provide the most contact possible with your foot. In other words, look for the widest spaces and holds.The closer the foothold is to the ground, the easier it will be to pull yourself up. If you pick one that's too high, you'll have a harder time getting off the ground. When looking, try to pick ones that are further down.
 Alternate moving your feet and hands up the wall. As you look for places, don't be afraid to turn your foot to the side to help you get a better hold.With your other hand, grab the next nearest hold that you can reach for comfortably and securely. Find the next hold with your foot. Pull yourself up using both your hand and foot before looking for your next hold.
Make sure to check bricks before placing weight on them. Loose bricks could cause you to tumble. To check one, reach your hand out and jiggle it. If it seems like it might fall out, skip it.
 Putting yourself as close to the wall as possible helps you to keep your balance. It pushes your center of gravity over your feet, making it easier to hang on., To give yourself much needed additional support, bend your legs at the knee and climb along the bricks as you pull yourself up with each fingertip grip. The sharp edge of your shoe sole should be placed into the indentation formed between bricks, even if there are no gaps in the grout there.If you can't get your foot in a space, you can try "smearing," where you basically use friction over cracks to hold your foot. Place your foot flat against the wall to grip into the cracks. Only use this type of hold very quickly as you're moving to a new position., Once both hands reach the mantel on the wall, shift your feet so that they are approximately at the same level. Step off with your dominant foot to propel yourself over the wall.


Make sure that the palms of your hands are flat on the surface before pushing off.
Alternatively, you could swing your dominant leg over the upper edge of the wall and hook the heel of your leg over the side. Use the strength of your arms and dominant leg to swing your body sideways over the top of the wall.

