 Shopping haul videos in which you share everything that you brought home from a particular shopping spree are easy to record and fun to share. Provide a brief anecdote or description of each item to make the video fun and informative.


They don't have to be new acquisitions. Share a collection that you've had for a long time. Pick something you're passionate about or that you have a big recent collection of. You might record a recent haul of:
Clothing or jewelry
Books, music, or records
Make-up
Food
Booze
Shoes or hats
Toys
Games

, What are you good at? What's your expertise? Maybe you make the best cup of hot cocoa this side of the Mississippi, or your boomerang skills are unmatched. Maybe you're great at double-clutching, draining hook shots, or writing rhyming poetry. Can you do the worm? Clue us into the tricks of the trade.


Practice your steps a few times and watch other videos to see if you have anything to add before uploading your contribution to the conversation about whatever skill you're filling us in on.
Record a game walkthrough. If you're a gamer, record yourself playing a game you're particularly good at and show other people the shortcuts, cheats, and tricks that make the game easier. You can record your own voiceover using CamStudio and include your own commentary track.
 Review videos, in particular review videos in which you express an extreme or passionate opinion, can sometimes be quite popular on YouTube. Pick a thing that you're knowledgeable and passionate about and review it for the camera. It could even turn into a series if it's something that you encounter frequently.


Have you seen the new Batman flick and have an opinion about it? What about the new One Direction song or album? What's up with the last Harry Potter novel? Without spoiling it for anyone who hasn't been to see it or heard it yet, come up with a list of plusses and minuses and review it like you're Siskel and/or Ebert. Watch some other review videos to get a hang of the format and record your own.
Do you know a lot about sushi, Jujyfruit, or some other consumable? Record yourself talking about it, sampling a particular product and offering your tasting notes and opinion about it.
Give it a star, popcorn, or chrysanthemum rating based on your own particular system you've come up with for judging stuff. Make it fun and silly.
You could also do an unboxing video of a new product. If you just got a new iPhone, Xbox, or Chechnyan gas mask off eBay, record a video of yourself opening it and let everyone see all the details up close. These are helpful videos for people to watch because they can decide if it lives up to the hype. They can also enjoy your reaction and opening if they can't get one themselves.
 Diaries are old. Recording your life on webcam and keeping it on YouTube can be much faster, more personal, and easier than taking the time to write down your day's events and your feelings. If you're going through something emotional, if you're angry, or even if you're just feeling drained after a long day of school or work, turn on the video camera and start recording.


Talk politics. What's got you steamed about the upcoming election? Who makes sense? Who can you believe? What issues get you stirred up? Riff and record yourself talking about the political scene.
Talk sports. Make predictions about the upcoming playoffs in a video, or guess about the heavyweight championship's chances of changing hands at the next Wrestlemania.
Don't upload it straight to YouTube, but keep it on your computer until you decide whether or not you want it public.
 A particular genre of video, sometimes called "What's in my bag" but also including backpacks, wallets, and purse versions, are sometimes popular and quick to record. Simply select something you keep stuff in that's too cluttered and go through the stuff on camera. It can stimulate funny stories, goofy memories, and other talking.

