


Schedule your hike when there are no expected thunderstorms. Lighting strikes are the number 1 cause of death on Half Dome.;
,


Bring enough clothing to account for the temperature reduction that you are likely to experience. The top of Half Dome is typically 15 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (8 to 11 degrees Celsius) cooler than Yosemite Valley, which is where you will begin your hike.
Pack a bag to carry any recyclables or garbage, as there are no receptacles on the trail.
Bring plenty of water. It is suggested that you bring at least 1 gallon (3.79 L) of water if you plan to hike to the top of Half Dome.
Bring toilet paper and a bag or portable toilet.
There are scattered bathrooms on the trail, but solid bodily waste must be buried at least 6 inches (15.24 cm) below the surface and 100 feet (30.48 m) from any water or trails if you are unable to reach a bathroom in time. You must take any toilet paper you use with you.
Bring matches or another means of starting a fire in case you must spend the night outdoors.
Bring a flashlight in case you remain outdoors after nightfall.
Bring a first-aid kit with items that include pain killers (such as those you'd find over-the-counter in a pharmacy) and foot medication for blisters and sores.
Bring plenty of food. You will be exerting a lot of energy on this hike.
Bring a tent if you intend to spread the hike over multiple days.
Bring a map of the route you intend to take. Contact Yosemite National Park prior to leaving to verify that they have trail maps if you intend to get 1 while there.



Wear hiking boots that have strong ankle-support and traction. Doing so will help prevent blisters and ankle injuries.
Wear hiking gloves. These will be especially useful when hiking the last part of the trail, as you must use cables to climb the steep rock formation.
Wear a hat or other form of head protection. This will help with insect and solar protection.
Wear sunscreen and sunglasses to protect your skin and eyes.
Wear rain protection, such as a raincoat, if any inclement weather is expected.



Drive to Yosemite National Park and park near Curry Village. Ask a park employee for detailed directions if you are unsure how to get to Curry Village.
Board the shuttle bus and ask the driver to drop you off at stop 16, which is for Mist Trail/Half Dome.
Cross the bridge and turn right. Follow the dirt road to the end, which is where the trail begins.
Once you reach the next bridge, which should only take a few minutes, you will reach a fork in the trail.
Turn left if you want to take the shorter route (Mist Trail). Turn right if you want to take the longer route (Muir Trail).
Follow your trail map to navigate the trail that you choose. Follow all recommended safety precautions at all times.
Once you near the end of the trail, you will reach a steep incline that must be scaled using cables that are pre-installed for hikers. You do not need your own equipment.
Once you have reached the top of Half Dome, you have completed your ascent. Follow the trail back down using your trail map for a safe exit.

