 If you don’t have much structure to your mornings, make a plan to change that. Having a good morning routine can help you to wake up feeling like you have a direction and purpose. If your morning routine has not been working out for you, make a plan to change the way you wake up and start your day.;
, Sleep deprivation can cause a wide range of health problems, so it’s important to make sure that you are getting enough sleep every night. Your sleep needs are based on your age as well as other factors. For example, adults need between 7-8 hours of sleep per night, but if you have been sleep deprived for a while, you may require more until your body recovers., You might instinctively stretch in the morning, but if not it’s a good habit to incorporate. You don’t have to spend much time stretching to reap the energizing benefits. Even 30 seconds of stretching can help get your day off to a healthy start.


If you have more time in the morning, try doing some morning yoga. Yoga will stretch your body, increase blood flow, and help you build strength., Morning exercise is a great way to get your day off to a healthy start. You should aim for 30 minutes of exercise every day, but even 15 minutes of exercise in the morning can help you to feel more energized and healthy all day.Some research has even found that morning exercise helps improve sleep and getting enough sleep is essential to having a healthy start to your morning.Get a workout dvd that you can do right in your living room first thing in the morning or look up workout videos on the internet.
Try walking or biking to work to add a little more movement to your morning. If you take the bus or subway to work, try getting off a stop or two before your usual stop and walk the rest of the way. If you drive, try parking your car in a spot that far away from the entrance., Getting up and hopping in the shower first thing in the morning can help you to feel more alert, but it can also help start your day on a more relaxing and pleasant note. Use body wash and other products that smell nice and allow yourself plenty of time for a luxurious shower.


Make your morning shower even more enjoyable by listening to your favorite music and singing along. Research has shown that our brains release dopamine when we listen to music and oxytocin when we sing. These chemicals reduce stress, increase feelings of happiness, and help keep use mentally and physically healthy. Combining music and singing while you shower will provide some great benefits for your brain and body at the beginning of your day.<
Try adding a cold blast of water at the end of your shower to increase your circulation and feel more awake. , To have a healthy start to your day, breakfast is a must. Eating a healthy breakfast every day has been show to help people maintain a healthy weight, have more strength and endurance, and concentrate better on difficult tasks.Make sure that you are eating a breakfast that includes complex carbohydrates, fruit, and some lean protein.


Avoid high calorie breakfast options like eggs, bacon, and pancakes. You should also try to limit juice and processed foods in the morning to get your day off to a healthy start.Try making yourself a smoothie if you usually eat breakfast on the go. Blend some frozen fruit with other ingredients like yogurt, tofu, or low-fat milk to create a nutritious breakfast that you can take with you. , Proper hydration is important for your body to function well. Drinking water helps with digestion, metabolism, skin and muscle health, and kidney function. After a night of sleeping and perspiring, your body needs to be rehydrated. Drink a glass of water as part of your morning routine and fill a water bottle to bring with you when you head to work or school.Choose water instead of juice, soda, or other sugary beverages.

