  If you do this, people are likely to ask you for help more often and to look up to you.  This also affects your future and happiness, and your parents and teachers will respect you more.;
, Like, don't say like all the time, you know?

,  They're not worth wasting your breath on.



Be mature. You can be popular when you're mean, but it doesn't last long. Think that you are decent and look nice, but don't brag.  Walk straight and speak clearly.
  Take a shower everyday using a nice smelling body wash. Wash your hair when it gets greasy, or every other day.  Use deodorant if you want.  Brush your teeth after each meal.  Floss once in the morning. Use a nice smelling body lotion to smell extra sweet!

,  Leave it long, or cut it short.  If you cut it short, think carefully first, because it will take a while for it to grow back, but it can look very cute. Just make sure to avoid cutting it too short. Medium length hair looks good, too.


Get blonde/red highlights, colorful streaks, side bangs, or a fringe.  Make sure to keep it healthy and get regular trims.  Style it in ponytails and braids.
  Red, black, white, blue, and purple are good colours to wear.  Wear lots of leggings, jeans, t-shirts, sweaters, sweatpants, shorts, and occasionally skirts, if you are a girl.  You don't have to shop at stores like H&M, Aeropostale, Triple Flip, Hollister, Justice and The Gap. Save your money for things that matter. Just get clothing that looks good on you and flatters your body and skin tone.
  Talk to everyone and try to be funny.  Make lots of hilarious jokes and have hellos, goodbyes, and small talk a lot.  Smile a lot and laugh when it's appropriate.  You can talk to people about how mean your teacher is next year, or that super hard test that's coming up. Play with them at recess and introduce them or let them introduce you to their friends.  This is how your friends spread.  Making friends and being popular is very easy, at least in Grade 5.
  Okay, don't try to be skinny.  Don't starve yourself.  Don't go on a diet.  Just eat healthy foods everyday.  You can still eat sweets, just don't make that all you eat.  

Drink lots of water, and eat lots of protein, fruits and vegetables.  Yogurt and milk is good to drink/eat too.  
Exercise everyday for at least 30 minutes.  Being healthy and fit will make you feel happy and will make you physically strong, which is very attractive. Running, doing the monkey bars, biking, or dance are all good exercises.  Do any exercise you want.







