 The most important thing to consider when choosing how to dress without a bra is how an outfit will make you feel. Don’t wear anything that makes you feel uncomfortable or self-conscious. Choose something that flatters your body, suits your style, and makes you feel great when you put it on.


For example, if wearing low cut tops makes you feel self-conscious, then this is probably not the best braless clothing choice for you. You might consider a low-back top or spaghetti strap dress instead.;
, There are some types of tops and dresses that don’t look as good with a bra, so wearing these when you go braless might be a good idea. Try wearing low back and backless tops, or go for a strapless or spaghetti strap dress or top. Some other items that might look better without a bra include:


Dresses and tops with plunging necklines.
Tops with laced-up fronts, backs, or sides.
Tops and dresses with keyholes in the back.
Halter tops and tube tops.
 Some items of clothing have built-in bras, breast cups, or elastic bands that eliminate the need for a bra. Try looking for clothes that have some built-in support to make going braless a little easier.


A tank top with a built-in bra may make a convenient undershirt while you’re transitioning into bralessness. Even once you’re accustomed to not wearing a bra, a shelf tank can make a great undershirt when you need one (with a thin, vintage T-shirt, for example).A bodysuit or leotard makes a cute addition to a braless outfit. Wear a thin button-down top or lacy sweater over it for a breezy, classic look. Bonus: bodysuits and leotards provide some built-in support for your breasts.
 Layers are great without a bra because they can hide your bralessness. This wardrobe technique is especially useful in the wintertime. For this reason, winter might even be the best time to try going braless, if you’re nervous about the transition.A thick sweater will hide your nipples, so this might be a good braless clothing choice if you are worried about your nipples showing.
A T-shirt over or under a long-sleeve shirt is also a great braless combo.
A jacket or cardigan is also a great option for layering your braless look. These can be a lifesaver when it gets cold or windy, or when it rains unexpectedly.