 Nursing tops can be purchased at maternity stores and most major clothing retailers. These tops have hidden openings that allow you to easily feed your baby. You can get a variety of items such as tops, bras, and dresses.Nursing bras that are made like sports bras are usually better. You will not have to worry about fidgeting with any straps or fastenings.;
, Button up shirts, front-zip sweatshirts, or oversize shirts and sweaters are options as well. Wear a tank or camisole under t-shirts that will hide your midsection if your t-shirt is pulled up. Lift your shirt just enough to allow access to the nipple while the rest of your breast is covered.Cut slits in an old t-shirt and wear it under an oversized shirt or sweater. Then you can just pull up your top shirt to nurse.
Dresses are not ideal. If you do wear a dress, it should open from the front., The two types of nursing covers you can purchase are canopies and wearable covers. Canopies are like wearing an apron around your neck. You just throw it on when you are ready to feed. Wearable covers are worn as part of your outfit (e.g. nursing poncho, nursing scarf) and are meant to blend in a little more.Take extra caution when using a cover. If your baby falls asleep when eating under the cover, they might not be getting enough oxygen. Babies typically make grunting and gulping sounds when eating. If your baby stops sucking or becomes too quiet, they may be falling asleep.
Choose a cover with a plain design. Bright colors and patterns will draw more attention to you.
The cover should be washable and made from a breathable fabric.
If you do not want to purchase a cover, you can always use a blanket or large scarf of your own.
Your baby may not like nursing with a cover up. Try it at home first to see if your baby will be comfortable with it.
 Soft carriers and slings are a good way to nurse in public.Adjust your baby’s head so that it is level with your breast and then lift your breast to your baby’s mouth. Their head should be opposite of the part that goes over your shoulder. If you plan to stand up, make sure your baby’s bottom is supported.Some slings are made especially for nursing. If you are not using a nursing sling, make sure that it is adjustable and can be used for nursing.
Any sling you use should be washable, adjustable, and comfortable.

