 If you know or are acquainted with someone in the group, use them as your way in. You'll feel more comfortable with someone you already know and it is an instant conversation starter. Tap them on the shoulder or give them a quick greeting to let them know you are there. If everyone notices or if it interrupts the group discussion, apologize and introduce yourself.


“I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. I know John from work and I had to say hello. I'm Jane, by the way, nice to meet all of you.”

, If you don't know anyone in the group, you can just introduce yourself. This tactic takes some bravery, but those in the conversation will admire you for your courage. Wait for an opening or a lull in the conversation so you don't interrupt anyone. You can choose to introduce yourself to one person in the group or the whole group.“Hi, I'm Jane.”
”How are you?”
“Mind if I join?” or “Mind if I sit here?”

, If you have set yourself up to be naturally within earshot of the conversation and have listened for awhile to the topic, you can use that to be able to interject into the conversation with minimal effort. Make sure you are interested and excited about the conversation, it will show. You'll also want to start with a gentle way of entering into the conversation, such as:


“I'm sorry, I couldn't help but overhear...”
“Excuse me, were you all talking about...”
"I was over here, looking at the movie collection, did I hear you mention..."

, Once you introduce yourself, you can further the introduction by asking questions or starting a new topic. Make sure you are following along with the flow of the conversation, try not to jump in and change the topic abruptly. When you are just meeting someone, or a group of people at an event, there are several topics you can cover.Ask about the situation: “So how do you guys know the bride and groom?
Ask about or compliment the environment: “This place is beautiful! Do you know who picked it for the event?”
Comment or ask about the group: “You guys seem like you've known each other for a long time.”
Ask about or comment on an interesting outside topic: “Have you seen that new action movie? What did you think of it?”
Start a story of your own “The strangest thing happened to me this morning.”

, Another way into a conversation that is particularly useful for parties or more active events. Look around to see if there are card games, party games, or a pool table being used that you can use to join in. If you are attending and event where there is music or dancing, ask someone to dance.Once you have joined in on the activity it gives you something to talk about to the other participants.


”Can I get in on the next game?”
”Mind if I join in?”
”Do you guys have room for one more?”

