 To reduce nasal congestion, drain mucus, and soothe sore muscles, take a warm shower or bath for 5 to 10 minutes. Keep the water temperature around 40–45ºC. Make sure the water is not too hot or cold, especially if you have a fever. Some studies suggest that warm showers also help reduce anxiety and stress. Lukewarm baths can also benefit children and infants with nasal congestion.People with sensitive skin should only take a warm shower once or twice a week to prevent their skin from drying out.
Keeping your body clean can also help reduce the risk of further viral or bacterial infections.;
, For a quick steam treatment, you can heat up a pot of distilled water to almost boiling (approx. 80–85ºC). When it starts producing a lot of steam, remove the pot from the heat. Place a towel over your head, close your eyes and breathe deeply for about 5 to 10 minutes.Steam helps loosen mucus while also washing away any foreign matter (like dust or pollen) that came into contact with your nasal passages.
 Soak a small, clean towel in lukewarm water for 3 to 5 minutes before wringing out the water. Place it on your forehead or on other sore muscles for 5 minutes. Repeat this process for a total of 20 minutes. Or, you can use a hot water bottle or gel pack to apply a gentle heat. If you have sensitive skin, don't apply heat greater than 30 degrees C. If you have a fever, don't use heat. Instead, apply an ice pack.


Applying a warm towel to your forehead or neck can help drain the mucus and relieve sinus headaches caused by inflammation and congestion in the nasal passages. The heat opens up blood vessels, which increases blood flow and supplies oxygen and nutrients to reduce pain in joints and relax sore muscles, ligaments, and tendons.Don’t use heat on injuries, wounds or stitches. People with poor circulation and diabetes should practice caution when using warm compression.
 Saline sprays add moisture to nasal passages and help clean them of crusts and mucus. You can purchase over-the-counter saline sprays, available as either a pressurized canister or pump spray bottle, at most drug stores. Ask your doctor for a recommendation. Follow the specific packaged instructions on the saline spray that you purchase. Realize that some may sting slightly or cause irritation.Saline sprays work by inserting the spray applicator into your nostril and spraying a fine mist of the solution while you inhale. Most saline sprays are safe to use as often as you like on a daily basis. But, if you experience nosebleeds, discontinue use for a few days. If bleeding or irritation continues, speak with your doctor.
 A neti pot helps you irrigate your nasal passages, which flushes mucus from your sinuses. Place 4 ounces of saline solution in your neti pot.. Tilting your head to one side, insert the tip of the neti pot into the other nostril and pour it into the nostril. The liquid should flow down and out of your other nostril. Tilt your head to the opposite side and repeat with the other nostril. A saline solution is poured into one nostril, and it carries mucus out the other. Start with just 1 irrigation a day. If you notice improvement, use 8 to 16 ounces of solution in each nostril 1 to 2 times a day.Neti pots are available at most drug stores and health food shops.
You can buy a saline solution or make your own. To make your own solution, use ¼ tsp. of kosher or pickling salt, ¼ tsp. of baking soda and 8 ounces of warm distilled water (around 40°C or 105°F).
 Place ½ teaspoon of sea salt in a glass of distilled or sterilized warm (30-35ºC) water and stir until it's dissolved. Gargle the water for 1 to 2 minutes, then spit it out instead of swallowing. If the salt irritates your mouth or throat, you can also use plain, distilled warm water for gargles. Repeat the gargling every few hours to moisturize your sinuses. This will let the mucus drain and can soothe a sore throat.


The salt contains anti-viral properties that kill germs and promote healing. This can reduce the recovery period of a cold., Gently blow your nose when you have a cold. This can keep your sinuses clear. Experts recommended that you blow your nose by holding a finger over one nostril and gently blowing the other into a tissue. Repeat with the other nostril. Wash your hands each time you blow your nose, to avoid chances of other infections by bacteria or viruses.Avoid blowing it too hard because the pressure can impact your ears, giving you an earache on top of your cold. Only blow your nose as often as necessary.

