 This is the single most effective way to keep yourself from getting the cold or flu and make sure you don't spread it to anyone else.The cold virus is easily spread through touch, so washing your hands is the best way to get rid of it when you pick it up. It's especially important to wash your hands after being in a public space where lots of people who might have the cold and flu have touched what you touched. Wash your hands thoroughly with warm water and soap after you:


Ride the subway, bus, or train
Go to the grocery store or any other highly-trafficked store
Go to school or work
Go to a public restroom
Use gym equipment;
, Touching banisters and elevator buttons is unavoidable, but you can avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. Touching these parts of your face makes it easy for the cold or flu to get into your system. Don't rub your eyes, wipe your nose or lick your fingers before you get a chance to wash your hands with warm water and soap.


Antibacterial gel and wipes are handy to have around for when there's not a facility nearby to wash your hands.
If you must wipe your nose or touch your face, cover your hand with a tissue - or worst case, a sleeve - to avoid transmitting germs directly from your fingers to your face.
 During cold and flu season, it's best to turn down offers to share food and drinks. Coming into contact with someone else's saliva or mucous is a sure way to catch whatever virus they might be incubating. Use your own utensils and get your own cup instead of sharing with someone else.
 Maybe it's obvious that you shouldn't use someone else's toothbrush, but there are other personal items you should also avoid sharing. Don't use someone's razor, nail clippers and other items that come into contact with their bodily fluids. The same goes for sharing towels, washcloths, and even bedding items, like sheets and pillow cases. These items can all pass along someone else's cold or flu germs.


Don't share people's makeup, either. Using someone else's lipstick, eyeliner, mascara, and foundation could transfer their germs to your face.
Avoid using someone else's cell phone, and sanitize your own frequently.
 If you think that someone may be ill, it's a good idea to keep a safe distance while you're interacting with that person..


You could also consider wearing a face mask when you go out to filter out bacteria and viruses.
 When everyone around you is sick, you're going to need to take extra care to avoid getting ill. One smart preventative measure is to get a flu shot, which many people find keeps them well until flu season passes. See your doctor to get a flu shot, or visit a local pharmacy to get one at a discount.


Different flu shots are approved for different groups of people. Some are meant to be administered only to people 18 years or older, while others are designed for children or babies. Be sure to go to a professional clinic to get the right type of shot.If you are considered "high risk," you should definitely get a flu shot. The "high risk" category includes the following groups: people over 65 or under 5, pregnant women, and people with certain medical conditions.