 Before you hit a muddy stretch of road, if it looks deep at all, hop out of your vehicle and take a closer look. Get a stick and test the depth of the mud by sinking it in. Try to spot any objects hidden in the mud, such as large rocks, which could damage the underside of your vehicle.Expect that you will get a bit dirty checking out the road, but it could save you lots of time and hassle in the long run. Make sure that it is safe to get out of your vehicle by checking for traffic and environmental hazards.;
, Many newer model vehicles come with a standard traction control option. This feature may automatically engage when you hit poor driving conditions. If that isn’t the case, then you’ll need to activate it by pressing a button which is usually located on the dash or console area. Check your owner’s manual for more details about your particular vehicle.However, be aware that the traction control may make it more difficult for your vehicle to climb out of the mud if it gets stuck. In this case, disengage the traction feature and only turn it back on when you are moving once again.
 Locate your gear lever or switch on your dashboard or console area. You will see a series of labels, like 2H, right next to it. When you need that extra boost of traction, move the lever or switch to the position of 4H or 4L. Going to 4H will engage all four wheels on your vehicle. However, if the road is really nasty, go ahead and move to 4L, as this will cause your tires to move more slowly but with greater gripping power.Be aware that all-wheel drive vehicles will not have the 2H option, as they use all four tires all the time.
Some 4WD systems can begin to seize and dry out if they not used over a long period of time. Try to use your 4WD every two months or so, even it if’s just on slightly wet roads., If you are driving a 2WD, go ahead and move down to the second or third gear. Depending on the design of your vehicle, this usually just requires that you move the gear lever down to the spot marked “2” or “3.” This will allow you to keep a consistent pace across a difficult, muddy road. Switch back to a higher gear whenever you hit more stable roads to lessen the pressure on your engine and wheels., Try to keep going for as long as you can by using your initial momentum. Keep a steady, medium speed. If you do need to press the gas pedal, do so slowly to avoid causing the tires to spin out. Also, be aware that you might skid if you hit the brakes too hard.Avoiding any rapid speed changes gives your tires a moment to adjust to the terrain and get a good grip., The goal is to place your tires in an untouched part of the road or within the highest rut area possible. Otherwise, you run the risk of sinking into lower/deeper ruts or even getting stuck on the middle area between ruts. This is an especially important step to follow if you are driving on a road that is frequented by larger vehicles, such as semi-trucks.It is helpful to know the ground clearance of your vehicle, or the space that be measured between your vehicle’s undercarriage and the road. This will give you a better idea how your vehicle will handle ruts or deeper patches of mud.
 If your vehicle continues to travel straight or to the side, even when you turn the steering wheel, then you are in a skid. Let off the gas and wait for the vehicle to slow down. As your car slows, wait for the front wheels to gain control once more. Then, turn your steering wheel in the same direction. This should let you regain control over the whole vehicle.Resist the urge to slam on the brakes if you begin to skid. This will only cause you to lose control faster.
Hidden patches of ice under the mud can cause you to skid out. That is why you take essentially the same actions to regain control on a muddy road as you would on an icy one., When you are back on dry road, pull over in a safe spot and walk around your vehicle looking for any problems. Examine your undercarriage to make sure that all brake lines and other parts are undisturbed. Take a moment to wipe any mud off your side mirrors and windows as well.Drive slowly as you go out of the mud, so that your tires will have a sufficient chance to toss off all of the mud chunks.

