 Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Get out a baking sheet and line it with a sheet of parchment paper. This will prevent the potato wedges from sticking, but will also help them crisp up as they bake. Set the sheet aside., Scrub 2 pounds (907 g) of new potatoes. Carefully cut each potato into 10 to 12 wedges. Put the wedges in the bowl with your seasonings and stir to coat the wedges. You'll need to season the potatoes with:2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder

, Spread the seasoned potato wedges on the baking sheet. You can scatter them or arrange them in shingles, which will make it easier to top them evenly. Either way, the wedges should be in a single layer.If the potatoes are stacked or overlapping, the wedges won't cook evenly or become crispy.
 Put the baking sheet in the oven and bake the seasoned wedges for 20 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and flip the wedges over. Put the sheet back in the oven and bake them for another 15 to 20 minutes. The wedges should be crisp on the edges and the centers should be soft., Cut one ripe avocado in half and remove the pit. Scoop the flesh into a bowl and add 1/2 cup (115 g) of sour cream. Use a potato masher to blend the avocado and sour cream. Stir in the juice of one lime and a pinch of salt. Set the sauce aside.If you'd like a smoother sauce, you can blend the avocado sour cream sauce in a blender or food processor.
 Take the cooked potato wedges out of the oven and arrange them close together on the baking sheet. Scatter cheddar cheese and crispy, crumbled bacon over the wedges. Return the sheet to the oven and cook the wedges for 5 to 6 minutes.This will melt the cheese and make the bacon even crispier.
 Carefully remove the sheet from the oven and transfer the wedges to a serving plate or tray. Drizzle the avocado sour cream sauce over the wedges and sprinkle chopped scallions or chives on top. Serve the wedges right away.Loaded pub wedges are best eaten immediately. Avoid storing them, since the potatoes will become soggy and the sauce shouldn't be heated.

