 You will need one standard cup (milk glass will do), some alcohol, cups to put the alcohol in, a table, and a quarter. Players (as many as you would like) sit around the table, either standing or in chairs. The milk glass is placed in the center of the table, at least 10 inches away from each player. Each person gets their own cup, filled with the alcohol of their choosing. Beer is usually used rather than hard liquor., Players take turns shooting, generally proceeding counterclockwise around the table. The objective is to bounce the quarter off of the table, into the milk glass at the center of the table. If the quarter lands in the glass, then the shooter chooses any player in the game to take a drink from his or her own beverage. The shooter's turn doesn't end until he or she misses., After a miss, the shooter passes the quarter to the next player. Sometimes, after a miss, the shooter can opt to play "chance", which gives them another attempt. All that is required of this is for the shooter to say the word "chance" after a miss. A successful "chance" shot means the shooter can continue shooting normally, but a miss results in a penalty drink., The great thing about quarters is that there is a great deal of replay value. If the shooter hits three in a row, he or she is allowed to make up a rule. Rules should be creative and fun, and can involve performing a ritual when drinking, or prohibiting the use of certain common words. A player who breaks any of the rules must take a penalty drink.As the game progresses and the players become inebriated, the many rules often prove difficult to remember. The objective of the game is not to be a stickler however, but to enjoy the game and have fun.
Some examples of made-up rules include, but are not limited too: banning the word "drink," have a drink before each attempted shot, no use of proper names, etc.
 If the shooter were to hit the top rim of the glass and miss the shot, the other players may call for a challenge (challenging the shooter to get it in). If the shooter misses again, he or she must take a drink for each challenging player, but if the shooter gets it in the glass all challengers must drink. However, the shooter does not have to accept the initial challenge, and can instead choose to pass the coin on to the next shooter., Players are disqualified from the game when they cannot, or do not want to, consume any more of their alcoholic beverage. The last remaining player is the winner. You can then replay the game over and over again, seeing whether or not that shooter can remain unbeaten.