 If you have multiple diya that you wish to decorate, you should gather the lamps together so you can paint these in sequence, and by having all your tools and supplies handy, you can save yourself time and effort. For this project you'll need:


Acrylic paints (assorted colors)
Bucket or tub
Diya(s)
Clear epoxy/shellac (optional; non-flammable)
Glitter (optional)
Glue (non-flammable)
Paintbrushes
Plastic plate or palette
Stiff bristle brush;
, If your diya is not fully cleaned, your paint might darken or your brush might gunk up, giving you an effect you hadn't intended or wanted! To clean your diya, soak it in a bucket or tub filled with warm water for about an hour, and then scrub it with your stiff bristle brush.Before adding any paint to your diya, you should allow it to dry completely.
 Pour a moderate amount of the colors you are planning to use to paint your diya onto your plastic plate or palette. From among those colors, choose one to be your base coat. Once you have decided on your base coat, you may want to add a little extra paint, as this will be spread over the entire surface of your diya lamp.
 Now that you have your colors at the ready and your lamp is clean and dry, you can begin painting. Take your brush and dip it into your base coat color and spread this color over the entire surface of your diya.


The clay of your diya lamp will likely absorb much of the paint you apply, so you may have to wait for your base coat to dry and then add another layer to your base.While waiting for your base coat to dry, you might consider starting the base coat for another diya.
Using a light color as the base coat may give more contrast to your later designs, causing these to pop.
 Diwali is a popular religious festival that incorporate the use of the Diya in celebration of light's triumph over darkness.In this spirit, you may want to incorporate symbolic representations of light and dark, like sun and moon, or the stars shining brightly on a field of dark blue.


The use of metallic colors, such as silver, gold, and copper, will give your diya a richer, more sophisticated appearance.
 It is likely that your diya lamp will be lit at some point, so you may want to think about adding light reflective effects to it. Glitter and sequins might catch the gentle light of this small lamp and glitter softly, adding extra appeal to your decorative paint.Use your glue in small amounts to adhere your reflective materials. If you are working with fine material, like glitter, you may want to use a clear epoxy/varnish, like shellac. Apply a thin layer of your clear epoxy with a brush, then sprinkle or blow your glitter onto it.
Paint your epoxy in patters and then apply your glitter to create specific effects, like swirls and shapes.
Use glitter to give celestial designs the appearance of twinkling.
 Painting the edges of your lamp a darker color, like black or dark brown, will give its natural shape more definition. Applied delicately, this can give your diya an elegant aesthetic.