 Pour the warm water into a large mixing bowl and sprinkle the yeast over it. Let the mixture sit for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the yeast is dissolved and the mixture is frothy.


The water should be between 105 and 115 degrees Fahrenheit (40 and 46 degrees Celsius) for best results.
If you plan on using a standing mixer, combine the two ingredients in the bowl of the mixer.;
, Combine the four ingredients in a medium microwave-safe bowl, mixing them together lightly with a whisk.


Break the butter into chunks before adding it. Doing so will allow the butter to melt quicker.
 Place the coconut milk mixture in the microwave and heat it on full power for 1 minutes.


Stir the mixture thoroughly after removing it from the microwave. The ingredients may not be melted when you remove the dish from the microwave, but adequate stirring should be enough to melt them down afterward.
 Add the two ingredients to the coconut milk mixture and whisk lightly to combine evenly.


You may want to let the mixture cool slightly before adding the egg. If you add the egg while the mixture is steaming hot, it could curdle.
The other option is to temper the egg by beating it in a separate dish and adding a small amount of the hot coconut mixture. Stir the two together until evenly combined, slowly bringing the temperature of the egg up in the process. Add this tempered egg into the rest of the mixture and whisk to combine.
 Dump the coconut milk mixture into the bowl containing the yeast mixture. Mix with an electric mixer at medium speed for 2 minutes.


You can use a stand mixer or an electric hand mixer for this.
When done, everything in the bowl should be smooth and evenly combined.
 Sprinkle the flour into the liquid ingredients. Continue mixing the dough on medium speed for another 2 minutes, or until all of the ingredients have combined evenly into a dough.


The ingredients need to form a soft, sticky dough. If the dough does not hold together, you may need to add up to another 1/4 cup (60 ml) of flour.
 Dump the dough out of the bowl and onto a clean, lightly floured counter or table. Knead the dough for 8 to 12 minutes, or until the dough becomes smooth and elastic.


This step incorporates more air into the dough, so you'll have airy bread if you complete it. If you prefer dense bread, however, skip or shorten the knead time.
You can add a little flour to the dough as you knead it, but try to avoid adding too much. This dough must remain sticky and soft. If the dough becomes tough, the rolls will become tough, too.
 Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl. Cover it with a clean dish towel and let it rise in a warm spot for 1 to 2 hours, or until doubled in size.


Spray the bowl with a little nonstick cooking spray before placing the dough inside.
After placing the dough inside, it's also a good idea to turn it once so that all sides are coated in the cooking spray. This reduces the surface stickiness of the dough.
For best results, let the dough rise in a spot that is both warm and draft-free.
 After the dough has doubled in size, use your fist to lightly punch it back down.


If you the dough clings to your hand when you touch it, you can spray a little cooking spray onto your skin or dust your hands lightly with flour.
 Break the dough into 12 evenly sized pieces. Roll these pieces into balls.


The simplest way to form dough balls is to simply pinch the dough off in chunks and roll them into shape.
Another option would be to roll the entire portion of dough into a long cylinder. Use a knife to slice that cylinder into evenly sized 1-inch (2.5-cm) rounds.
 Place the dough balls in a lightly greased 12-inch (30-cm) round baking pan.


Spray the baking pan with nonstick cooking spray before placing the dough balls inside.
 Loosely cover the unbaked rolls with the same dish towel and place them back in a warm location. Let them rise for 30 minutes, or until they have nearly doubled in size.


Alternatively, you can let the dough rise slowly by placing it in your refrigerator for 12 to 24 hours.
Prepare the coconut sauce as the dough balls rise.
 Before you measure out the coconut milk, give the can or container a thorough stir.


Coconut milk has a tendency to coagulate. When you are working with an unopened can, you can usually smooth it out by shaking the can. When working with an opened can, you'll need to stir the contents to combine them again.
 In a medium bowl, combine the coconut milk, water, and sugar. Whisk together until smooth and evenly combined.


Note that the mixture may seem overly sweet at this point if you taste it now. As it bakes, though, much of the sweetness will be absorbed by the buns, making the sauce itself a little less sugary.
Cover the coconut sauce loosely and set it aside as you wait for the dough to finish rising.
 You may want to preheat the oven shortly before the dough has fully risen.
 Evenly pour the coconut sauce over the unbaked rolls, making sure that each roll is thoroughly drenched.


Some of the sauce should cling to the surface of the dough, coating the tops and sides. Note that most of the sauce will sink to the bottom of the pan, though.
If you prefer crispier buns and less sauce, you can brush a little of the sauce on the tops and sides of each roll with a pastry brush instead of pouring the entire batch of sauce on top. When using this option, you will not use all of the prepared coconut sauce and there should be very little sauce sitting in the bottom of the pan.
 If desired, lightly sprinkle a little raw sugar over the tops of the buns.


Since the sauce is so sweet as it is, it might be best to skip this step the first time you prepare the pani popo. If the sauce itself does not overwhelm you when you taste the finished product, you can add this final dusting of sugar the next time you prepare the dish.
 Place the rolls in your preheated oven and cook until the crust is a deep golden brown.


Note that the internal temperature of the buns should be 190 degrees Fahrenheit (88 degrees Celsius).
 Let the finished buns cool slightly, but enjoy them while they are still warm and fresh.


Try waiting for 30 minutes before serving the buns. This allows the bread to set and the sauce to thicken.
Serve the buns straight from the pan and scoop up any extra sauce with a spoon, or invert the pan and serve the rolls upside-down.

