 A healthy diet for your crickets will result in a healthy diet for your reptiles. Fresh fruits and vegetables are also a source of water for your crickets. The following foods are ideal for your crickets:Potatoes
Carrots
Greens such as romaine lettuce, collard greens, mustard greens, broccoli, and dandelion leaves
Fruits such as apples, oranges, grapefruits, berries, mango, and papaya

, A healthy diet consists of both fresh foods and dry foods. Your crickets will eat almost anything that you give them, including their fellow crickets. It is important that you always have a food bowl in their cage.Nutritious dry food includes:Cricket chow
Alfalfa
Wheat Bran
Seeds and nuts such as unsalted raw sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, almonds, and peanuts
Crushed cat food, dog food, or chicken feed that is vegetable based

, At least two days before you plan to feed the crickets to your reptile, feed them a mixture of all of the healthy foods that you have been giving them. Gut loading is different from regular feeding because you are giving them multiple foods at once. Gut loading makes sure that your reptile is getting the most nutritious cricket possible.Move the crickets that you plan to give to your reptile into a different container for gut loading.
 Only provide your crickets with dechlorinated water. You can purchase a dechlorinator from your local pet store for 5 or 10 bucks. It typically takes one or two drops of dechlorinator for every gallon of water. However always read the instructions.You can dechlorinate a gallon of water and keep it aside to give to your crickets.
It should not take more than 5 minutes for the dechlorinator to work.
 While your crickets need water, you must be careful and not drown them. Use a damp sponge, paper towel, cotton ball or fresh fruit as water sources. Do not use a water bowl or any other type of standing water. It does not take much for crickets to drown.You can also purchase a feeder cricket watering device.
Check the water supply multiple times a week to make sure that it is still damp.

