 Learn to take good product photographs, or use a scanner well if your item is flat. Be sure to include enough detail in your photographs to show all flaws in an item.


Learn how to take a basic quality photograph. Make sure it is in focus!
Consider creating a mini studio including photographic lighting.
Learn how to color correct photographs taken in interior or other lights.
Use a mixture of close ups and wide shots to give your customers a good feel for the item.
Remember that your photographs are part of your listing and will be considered in any disputed transaction. Photographs must be as 'true' as your listing text.
You pay no more for larger photographs than smaller ones, so make your photographs as large as possible for the eBay system.
Consider paying extra for oversize photographs and other eBay photographic features.
Only use a scanner for flat items.

You can develop trust and rapport with a simple webcam -- just keep it personal and real.
Highlight what YOU want the prospective buyer to see. Share details about the product that would otherwise go unnoticed in a flat photograph.
 For ten cents you can schedule any start time for your auctions. Peak buying periods are generally considered to be, Saturday, Friday and Sunday evenings between 6 and 8 pm eastern standard time. That said, the peak periods for your particular customers may vary.
 A PowerSeller resists the temptation to use "fluff" words like "L@@K", "WOW" and "MUST SEE" as these provide no information for your customer about your item, do not show up in searches, and are generally ignored by most buyers. Instead, the wise PowerSeller uses descriptive words in the headline, realizing that the headline is the "ad for the ad". A PowerSeller is also "search engine savvy", realizing that keywords in the headline are picked up by the eBay search engine, and by Google, more often than not.
 A PowerSeller has achieved their level by maintaining a high ratio of positive feedback. This is primarily accomplished by having clear and accurate descriptions of the items so that the bidder can clearly "imagine" the item as if it were sitting in front of her along with describing the flaws in the item. A great description should entice the bidder to bid while at the same time providing full and complete disclosure of the item's condition. Always be scrupulously honest in your descriptions.
 They offer to accept Checks, Money Orders, all types of credit and debit cards through PayPal, Billpoint, or their own Merchant Accounts. By offering a wide variety of payment options, they open up their market of available bidders and end up with higher ending bids as a result.
 By accepting bids from around the world you dramatically increase the number of customers you can attract and probably increase the end price of your item. On the down side shipping to many other countries is often difficult and awkward.
 Whether it is a discount on shipping multiple items or a discount on the actual price of multiple items, PowerSellers realize the value of a good customer and treat that customer special. Unexpected discounts tell the customer "You're special" and build a reciprocity that keeps customers coming back or searching the PowerSellers' auctions.