 If you keep a journal, try writing about the lie in an entry that questions your motives and what impact the lie has had on you and others. Writing as means of personal reflection has been shown to have multiple mental and emotional benefits, and it can be one of the best ways to understand yourself better and organize your thoughts.No journal? No problem! Open up a Word doc on your computer and do a free-write, or jot down some ideas in an old school notebook. If you have a personal blog, try writing about the lie in the blog.
If you see a therapist regularly, you can ask for their help in thinking about the problem.
 While it used to be thought that email is an inappropriate mode for conveying serious emotions or problems, it has since become widely acceptable as a suitable medium for both casual communications and serious discussions. That being said, mailing a real letter can be a special gesture as it shows effort and respect.


If you don’t have the person’s email or postal address, try checking with friends for a way to get in touch.
Don’t write a letter by hand if you have messy handwriting. You’re already asking someone to read your confession and apology; you don’t want to additionally ask them to puzzle over your handwriting.
 Once you’ve thought about your actions, think about what you want to say in your letter and how you want to say it. Put these thoughts into a structured outline so that you won’t get off track in the course of writing your letter.


Your outline should be no more than one page. Write just one bullet or the topic sentence for each paragraph and then fill in the surrounding text later., Flesh out the points on your outline so that you have at least three full paragraphs. The first should explain what you lied about and why you’re writing the letter. The second should express your remorse for your actions and an apology. The third should express the hope that your apology helps in some way but also clarifies that you don’t expect to be forgiven.You can (and should!) include more specific and personal details in your letter, but don’t stray too far from the simple formula of disclosure, apology, and conclusion.
 Your letter can be elegantly written but it shouldn’t be overly verbose. Too many words will dilute the impact of a clear, direct, and responsibility-acknowledging apology., We’ve all impulsively fired off an email or text when we were emotional, and most the time it doesn’t end well. More often than not, we find ourselves regretful of the rash missive because, even if you stand by its intent, you ultimately deem its timing or language as less than optimal.So take a lesson from your past and set your letter or email aside for a night.


If you’re writing an email, save it as a draft but don’t enter the addressee yet. This will ensure that you don’t mistakenly send the email before it’s all prepared.
If you’re mailing a letter, wait to buy the stamps you need until the next day so that, even if you get the urge to send it off right away, you won’t be able to apply the necessary postage.
 Find some time the next morning or afternoon to review your letter. You’ll be able to fix any overlooked typos or awkward phrases and, more importantly, your fresh perspective will allow you amend bigger problems like rationalizing language or sentimental, mealy-mouthed platitudes.


If you have a close, trusted friend who knows the situation, think about reading your letter to them and asking for their feedback., It can be tempting to edit something to death as a way of delaying the ultimate, scary step of pressing ‘Send’ on your email or dropping your letter in the mailbox. At a certain point, though, you need to accept your final draft and send it on its way. The sooner you do so, the sooner you can begin to move on.

