 One great way to relax is to meditate. You don't need to learn complicated techniques or yoga. A few minutes of simple meditation every day can help release tension and anxiety.The key to effective meditation is to find a quiet spot away from distractions. Focus your mind and energy without letting your mind wander.Try progressive muscle relaxation. Start by wearing loose clothes and being barefoot. Take a few slow, deep breaths to start relaxation. When you feel relaxed, focus on your right foot. Think about how it feels. Then, slowly tense the muscles in your foot and hold for 10 seconds. As you relax your foot, feel the tension releasing as your foot feels limp and loose. Breathe deep as you focus on the way your foot feels. Then, do the same thing for your left foot. Continue up your body, going back and forth between right and left side, with each muscle group. Try not to tense any muscles other than those you are focusing on.Body scan meditation is a stationary relaxation technique. You focus on your body and how each part feels while remaining still. It is thought to help you let go of things that need to be done and release pent-up emotions. Start by lying on your bed or the floor. Focus your attention at the top of your head and move down your body.Make sure to breathe deeply as you tune into each part of your body. Pay attention to each finger, each muscle, each separate body part. After you are done, sit in silence for a while. Then open your eyes slowly.
Practice mindfulness meditation. For this, sit and focus only on the present. Don't worry about the future or the past. Start in a quiet place and get in a comfortable position. Choose something to focus on, like a feeling, a scene, a flame, or a meaningful word. Your eyes can be closed or open. Remain calm and focused on the moment. This helps you reduce overwhelming stress by only focusing on the now.;
, Deep breathing is one of the most effective relaxation techniques. It is used as the basis for many other relaxation and meditation techniques. Breathing is easy to learn and can be done anywhere at anytime.


Start by sitting straight in a chair in a quiet room. Close your eyes. Clear your mind of outside thoughts. Focus only on your surroundings. Think about how your feet feel on the floor, the posture of your back, the clothes against your skin.
Turn your attention to your breathing. Inhale and exhale at a tempo that feels good and comfortable for you. Don't breathe too deeply. Keep the breaths calming and natural. Try to make the exhale last longer than the inhale.Make sure you are breathing through your belly. Place your hand on your stomach and feel each breath. Breathe in through your nose and exhale through your mouth. Your stomach should move while your chest does not., Sounds can have a powerful relaxation effect. Try closing your eyes and lying down while listening to something that relaxes you. If you are at work or driving, turn on music and focus on it while trying to push out other thoughts.


Listen to uplifting music. Put in your favorite CD, make a playlist of fun songs, or listen to a genre that makes you happy. Sing along to the songs for added relaxation.Put on nature CDs of crashing waves or rain. If you prefer music, try piano or violin instrumental music, or New Age sounds like Enya.
Buy a fountain and keep it by your desk at work. When you need to relax, take a moment to close your eyes and listen to the soothing water., Spend a few minutes every day writing about your day. You can journal about everything and anything. Write pages if you feel like it. Just jot down two lines. Make the activity about clearing your stress and allowing yourself to relax.


Write out your frustrations about the day. What bothered you? Can you fix it? If not, then just get it out so you can try to move on.Use the journal to boost your self esteem. Write reminders to yourself about your positive attributes. Assure yourself it is okay to have bad days. Write things like, "You are awesome" or "I love myself."
Don't add journaling into your relaxation practice if it adds even more stress., Spend time each day where you are not influenced by technology. Distractions and responsibilities linked to e-mail, social media, and the internet can keep you stressed without you realizing it. Set aside time every day to free yourself from those distractions.Put your cell phone in another room, log off your laptop, and turn off the television. Go for a walk. Sit in the park and watch the squirrels. Take a bath. Read. Cook dinner. It doesn't matter what you do; just focus on your task and enjoy the moment without technological distractions.
Try going for 30 minutes on weekdays without technology. Try an hour a day on the weekends.
 Nature has great restorative properties. Research has even shown how being in nature can improve mental health. Sunshine contains Vitamin D, which helps boost moods. Fresh air also provides mental and physical benefits.Take a walk. Garden. Play an outdoor sport. Go to a state park and go hiking. If you have the time, go camping for the weekend.
You don't have to exercise to enjoy the restorative qualities of nature. Sit in the park and feed the pigeons. Eat dinner on your patio. Talk on the phone outside.