 If you would like to preserve an entire branch of fall leaves, this preservation method is easier to use than wax. Choose a branch with leaves that are vibrant and firmly attached.This method will make the colors more vibrant. Yellows become more intense, and reds and oranges become a vibrant ruddy color.
Look for sprigs that have fallen off the tree on their own instead of breaking them off the tree yourself. Removing a branch from a tree can damage it.
Do not choose branches that have diseased leaves or those that have gone through a frost. This method does not work on leaves that have already gone through a frost.
 Strike the end of each branch with a hammer to split it open, exposing the live portion of the wood. This exposes the live wood of the branch so that it can absorb the glycerin solution properly. Otherwise, the solution will not be able to reach the leaves.


If you're just preserving individual leaves, you can skip this step.
 You can find vegetable glycerin in your local craft or grocery store. To make a solution, add 17 oz (530 ml) of liquid vegetable glycerin to half a gallon (2 liters) of water in a large bucket or vase.


Glycerin is a natural product derived from vegetables, making this a fairly organic option to preserve your leaves.
If you're preserving a large, woody branch, mix in four to five drops of mild liquid dish soap. The dish soap acts as a surfactant, breaking down the glycerin molecules so that they can penetrate the wood more easily. For best results, use a mild dish soap with no added colors or scents. You could also use liquid surfactant, which is available at most gardening stores.
 Allow the branches and leaves to absorb the glycerin for at least three to five days. Store the bucket in a shaded place during the absorption process.


If you're preserving individual leaves, you'll need to weight them so they stay submerged. Pour the solution into a flat pan, place the leaves in the solution, and cover them with a plate or lid to hold them down., The color will look brighter, and the leaves should feel supple. You can use the whole preserved branch in your crafts or you can pluck the leaves off and use them separately.

