 Before you can file a lawsuit as a debt buyer, you will need to have information about the debt owed, as well as the identity and location of the debtor.You will need all documents you have concerning the purchase. One of the key defenses in a debt collection lawsuit is that the debtor does not owe the debt to the debt buyer.
The reason this defense succeeds is that debt buyers typically buy a portfolio of debts including limited information about each of the debts in the portfolio, rather than specific documentation that can prove the legitimacy of each debt.
If you can't prove that you lawfully purchased the particular debt for which you're suing, you may be unable to collect it through the courts.
You also need to determine what state's statute of limitations applies to the debt and whether it has expired. The statute of limitations sets a deadline after which you can't sue to collect a debt, although you can continue to pursue other collection efforts.
Since charged-off debts typically are sold by creditors on an "as is" basis with no guarantee as to their accuracy or whether you can collect them in court, additional documentation may be needed to win your lawsuit, particularly if the debtor obtains legal representation.;
, Typically you will want to file your lawsuit in the civil court of the county where the debtor lives.The court located in the county where the debtor resides has personal jurisdiction over the debtor and can order him or her to pay.
Depending on how old the debt is, you may have to do some research to find out where the debtor currently lives.
The debtor's residence not only impacts where the lawsuit may be filed, but also whether you can serve the debtor with notice of the lawsuit once its filed. You can't win a debt collection lawsuit as a debt buyer unless the court has jurisdiction over the debtor.
 In almost all cases, a debt buyer is represented by an attorney, typically part of a law firm that specializes in debt collection lawsuits.In some cases, law firms act as debt buyers and buy bad debts from credit card companies then sue to collect the debt.
Other debt buyers have in-house attorneys or work with national networks of attorneys and law firms willing to take debt collection cases.
Typically these attorneys are paid on a contingency basis, receiving a certain fee per dollar they collect.
 The complaint identifies you and the debtor and sets forth allegations describing the debt you want to collect.The complaint is the document that initiates your lawsuit for debt collection. The first few paragraphs of the complaint identify you as a debt buyer and identify the defendant.
Typically, you will next assert the reasons the court in which you're filing your lawsuit has jurisdiction over your lawsuit.
The next paragraphs include facts about the debt owed in a list of allegations against the debtor. At this point, you don't have to provide proof of any of these statements.
 You must take your complaint and other required paperwork to the clerk of the court where the lawsuit will be heard.After the clerk files the lawsuit, you will receive copies back. One of these copies is yours, the other must be served on the debtor.
You must fill out a summons that will tell the debtor how long he or she has to respond to your lawsuit and when a hearing is scheduled.
 You are responsible for getting a sheriff's deputy or private process server to hand-deliver a copy of the complaint and summons to the debtor.Keep in mind that given the inaccurate and insufficient information provided in a portfolio of charged-off debts, you may not have the debtor's correct name or address. This is particularly likely to be the case if the debt is several years old.
You may have to conduct your own research to find the current location of the individual listed as owing the debt.
If the debtor is improperly served, he or she will have a defense to your lawsuit and may be able to get the lawsuit dismissed.
 The debtor typically has between 20 and 30 days to file an answer to your lawsuit or you can file a motion for a default judgment from the court.If the debtor does not respond to your lawsuit, you typically can ask the court to enter a default order in your favor. If you get a default judgment, you can proceed to enforce that judgment without having a trial.
In some states, you must send an additional notice to the debtor if you intend to seek a default judgment from the court. This notice provides the debtor with additional time to answer the lawsuit.
If the debtor does file an answer, typically he or she will deny all or most of the allegations. He or she also may raise various defenses, such as a claim that the statute of limitations for suing on the debt has already past.
Evaluate any defenses and determine whether you have enough information to defeat the defenses at trial.
If the debtor also has filed a motion to dismiss, you may have to appear at a hearing to argue that your lawsuit should not be dismissed. Keep in mind that these hearings can become like mini-trials, because you must present evidence to prove that the allegations in your complaint have merit.
 Particularly if the debtor has hired an attorney, you may have interrogatories or requests for production to which you must respond under oath.For example, the debtor may ask you to present proof of the debt and the amount owed.
You also may have to submit documents showing you lawfully purchased the debt from the original creditor. Otherwise, the debtor may assert that you don't have standing to sue because the debtor did not enter into a contract with you.
Keep in mind that if you cannot produce documents demonstrating a valid assignment of the debt from the original creditor to you, the debtor probably will ask the court to dismiss the lawsuit. If you can't prove that the debtor owes you the money, you cannot win your lawsuit for debt collection as a debt buyer.
 You and your attorney will need to work together to organize the paperwork you'll need to present to the judge at trial.If the debtor has not responded to the lawsuit, you typically are able to get a default judgment without presenting much proof of the debt. However, if the debtor has responded and denied the allegations set forth in your complaint, you must prepare to prove each of those allegations in court.
However, keep in mind that some courts require you to present adequate proof of the debt and the identity of the debtor before a judge will enter a default judgment.
Account documents you receive may be inaccurate or contain false or insufficient information, particularly if you bought a portfolio of charged-off debts from a creditor. Particularly if the debtor is represented by an attorney, this level of evidence won't be sufficient to collect the debt.
 Assuming the debtor has not made arrangements with you to satisfy the debt, the court will hold a hearing to determine whether he or she is legally obligated to pay you.Before the hearing, you may be required to participate in mediation or a settlement conference, depending on the court's rules.
Typically, if a debt collection lawsuit proceeds to a hearing, the debtor is represented by an attorney.
At the hearing, both you and the debtor will be required to present your case and provide evidence to support each of the allegations you made in your complaint.
 After the hearing, the judge will make his or her ruling. If you win the case, the judge will issue an order for the debtor to pay the amount you proved.The judge's order may differ from the amount you listed on your complaint. The judge will order the debtor to pay the amount you proved he or she owed you – not the amount alleged.
The judge may issue his or her order from the bench, or you may receive it days or weeks later.
You will need a written order before you can enforce the judgment against the debtor.
 Whether you have a default judgment or a court order after a hearing, you must contact the judgment debtor to collect the debt – the court will not collect it for you.Keep in mind that often the threat of wage garnishment is enough to get the debtor to make arrangements with you to satisfy the judgment.
Even if the debtor avoided paying the debt in the past, most will do whatever they can to avoid wage garnishment, which often is seen as embarrassing and shameful.
Provide the debtor with a deadline to pay the debt in full or make installment arrangements to avoid garnishment.
 While the most common method of enforcing a judgment is to garnish the judgment-debtor's wages, state laws differ regarding how long you can wait to apply for a wage garnishment or whether you can garnish wages at all under the circumstances of your case.You only have a certain period of time to collect on your judgment. Although typically it is several years, it's in your best interest to start the process as soon as possible after the judge enters the order.
Wage garnishment is available in almost every state, provided the judgment-debtor receives regular wages that are above the poverty line.
You typically can collect up to 25 percent of the debtor's wages out of each paycheck until the judgment is paid in full. However, this amount may be less if the debtor has a lower income or if he or she already has another garnishment in place.
The state's garnishment law also will have information on the procedure used to apply for garnishment in that state. Keep in mind that these procedures differ widely among states, and tools available in one state may not be available in others.
If you were working with an attorney licensed in the state where the debtor lives, he or she typically will already know the law on how to enforce the judgment and will work with you to collect the money.
 Before you can seize assets or garnish a debtor's wages, you need to know what assets the debtor has available and where he or she is employed.To garnish someone's wages, you must first have information about his or her employer and the amount of wages he or she receives.
To get the information you need, you must file a set of interrogatories, which are written questions the debtor must answer honestly and completely. The debtor is considered to be under oath when he or she is writing the responses.
In some states you must send these questions to the debtor directly, while in others the questions are sent to the debtor's employer.
Some states such as Missouri do not allow you to file interrogatories after the judgment has been entered. This can make it difficult for you to determine where the debtor works or how much money he or she makes., The clerk of the court that issued the judgment typically has the forms you will need to begin the wage garnishment process.Your application typically must be accompanied by a certified copy of the court's order.
If you filed interrogatories, you can use the answers from those questions to complete your application.
You must list the original amount of the judgment entered, as well as any additional costs and interest you are allowed to charge. Based on this, you must include your calculation of the total amount to be garnished from the debtor's wages – minus any amount the debtor already has paid you.
 The writ of garnishment typically will be served by a sheriff's deputy on the debtor's employer instructing wages to be garnished to satisfy the judgment.The writ of garnishment must be served on the debtor's employer by the sheriff's department in the county where the debtor's employer is located.
Depending on the jurisdiction, you may have to serve a notice form on the debtor as well, stating that his or her wages are being garnished and outlining his or her rights.
If the debtor objects to the garnishment or believes his or her wages are exempt, he or she may file a claim of exemption with the court that issued the writ.

