 Before parents can be ordered to pay damages for the acts of their children, you must be able to show that the child caused the loss or destruction of property.Many states require the child to have been adjudicated delinquent before the victims can go after the parents for damages.
In some states, parents can be held liable for damages even if the child was not adjudicated delinquent. However, the plaintiff must be able to show that the child's actions were willful or malicious.
Hawaii's parental responsibility law has much broader application than that of other states, making parents responsible for their child's negligent acts as well as intentional acts.
 To hold parents accountable for juvenile crime, you must prove that they had legal custody and responsibility for the child's actions at the time the crime was committed.As with criminal liability, the plaintiff must prove that the parent had legal responsibility for the child. If the child's parents are divorced or legally separated, this means the plaintiff must show the parent they're suing had custody of the child when the damages occurred.
Typically custody and responsibility for a child could be shown by introducing a copy of the custody order in the parents' divorce case, or a court-approved parenting time agreement.
If the child is staying with a relative other than their parents, that relative is only accountable for the child's crimes if they have legal guardianship of the child.
 Parental responsibility laws require proof that the parents neglected their child, and that neglect contributed to the child's delinquency.Direct evidence of parental neglect can be used, including reports from any child welfare calls or inspections that were conducted.
Plaintiffs also might rely on witness testimony from neighbors, family friends and relatives, or the child's teachers to show a neglect of parental responsibility.
In many states, if the child has been adjudicated delinquent in a juvenile court, the adjudication itself can be introduced to prove "negligence per se." Legally, the existence of a juvenile adjudication is sufficient evidence that the parents have neglected their parental duties.
 In many states, parental responsibility laws hold parents accountable if they allow access to firearms used by the child in the commission of a crime, or if the child has access to a car that causes damages.Some states such as Hawaii hold parents liable for any property damages or injuries that result from accidents the child has while driving a car.
Many states also have gun control laws that hold parents responsible if firearms in the house are not locked away to restrict children from having access to them.
If the plaintiff can prove the parent provided the child with access, the parent will be held accountable for any damage caused by the child, including property loss and personal injury.
 Negligent parents can only be held responsible for damages proven to have resulted from the child's delinquent acts, typically subject to a maximum limit set in the state's parental responsibility law.Parental responsibility laws cap the amount of damages for which parents can be liable in many states. However, some states such as Louisiana do not limit parents' financial exposure when their child commits a criminal act.
Some states only allow victims to collect actual damages from parents, not amounts designed to compensate for pain and suffering.
Actual damages must be quantifiable and backed up by proof of expenses incurred. For example, if a child was adjudicated delinquent for painting graffiti on the wall of a business, the business could sue the parents for the amount of money it cost to cover or remove the graffiti.
However, if the child was required to remove the graffiti as part of his or her sentence, the business could not rightfully sue for the costs of removal, since it did not actually incur those expenses.

