 Sometimes when we're stressed, bored, depressed or angry, we may have feelings of hunger. But in fact, these are just strong emotions that may be triggering hunger-like signals.To figure out if you're experiencing real, physical hunger ask yourself:


When is the last time I ate? If it's been more than four to five hours, you might be physically hungry.
Is it close to a regular eating time?
Did I skip a meal today?
Am I experiencing typical hunger signals? These include: empty or pit feeling, stomach growling, or stomach pangs.
 Having some zen time is another effective way to curb food cravings. Taking deep breaths from your belly area will fill your stomach with air and can calm you down.


A recent study says that meditation makes you a more “mindful” eater because you become more in tune with your hunger signals and are in turn less likely to eat out of boredom.If you get hunger pangs, close your eyes and focus on your breath until the feelings pass.You can also try walking meditation. It's an active form of meditation that can help you focus, calm down and get you away from a craving food.
 A good sweat session not only burns calories and helps you consume less of them, but it also can suppress your appetite for up to two hours.By upping your workouts and adding some interval training, you can activate the hormones that will make you feel fuller and not crave food.


Aerobic exercise lowers levels of a chemical called ghrelin and also increases the amount of another appetite-suppressing hormone in your body.Adding intervals, or short bursts of speed, to your cardio workout will maximize the hunger-dampening effect.If you are hungry after a workout, try drinking a glass of water. Often hunger pangs are a sign of thirst.
 When a craving or desire to eat hits, it can be difficult to distract yourself from the idea. Writing up a list of other activities that you can do to help distract yourself can be helpful.You can try:


Listening to music
Reading a book or magazine
Doing household chores
Taking a hot bath or shower
Watch a movie
Play a game

