 If you don’t know what you are going to be putting in the unit, then it makes it very difficult for you decide what size (see step 2) and what amenities (see step 3) you are going to need.;
, Storage unit sizes can range from small storage lockers up to 10 × 30 units. Assess how much space you are going to require and start searching for locations with that size unit available.
 Different storage facilities have different amenities: climate-controlled units, security cameras, gates with access codes, multiple stories. These are some of the things to keep in mind while making your decision.
 Most facilities will have the size unit you are looking for, but it may not be available the time that you need it. Plan ahead and make sure that your unit is available during that time that you are going to be needing it.
 These days, the internet makes it easy for you to comparison shop for units online, allowing you to find the perfect unit to fit your needs. Use a search service online to search for facilities in your area.
 A lot of facilities will offer special discounts for students, veterans, or just for special times of the year. Make sure you do some research to see if you qualify for any of these.
 With the services listed above, you can easily reserve the unit online for free. Nothing will be charged to you for the reservation and as long as you move in on, or before that move-in date, that unit is yours.
 As previously mentioned, that unit is yours before or up until that reservation date, so make sure you claim it by then. Bring your payment with you as this will be the time that you will need to pay some, if not all of the owed price.
 This may be on the same day that you show up to claim your unit, but it doesn’t have to be. Depending on how much stuff you plan on storing, this could be an entire day’s worth of work. These days facilities have drive-up access for you to bring you stuff in your car, truck or moving van, so take advantage of that. Plan accordingly and make sure you read the storing tips to ensure that you place your items in the unit properly.
 After your unit has served its purpose, don’t forget about it. You are not required to do anything post move-out, but don’t abandon your unit while there are still things inside. That is where storage auctions come into play, and if you have ever seen an episode of Storage Wars, you know that people sometimes leave some pretty valuable stuff in their units.

