 For this look, you will need two different eyeshadows: a lighter base color and a darker color to use for shading.


You can pick any color for the base, as long as it's lighter than the crease color. Pick your favorite or coordinate it with your clothes.
Some colors will look more flattering on you than others. Shades that match your eye color (blues for blue eyes, for example) will make them pop. Bright, vivid colors will look great on darker skin, while jewel tones tend to suit lighter skin.
The most common shadow color to use is a simple black. A darker version of the base eyeshadow is also popular.
Many eyeshadows come in palettes containing colors that work well together., Load a clean eyeshadow brush with powder. Apply the eyeshadow to your lid beginning at the outer edge. Move the brush horizontally across your eyelid. Go back and forth a couple times for even coverage.


Tap off the excess before bringing a loaded eyeshadow brush to your face to prevent fallout. This is especially important when working with non-neutral colors that contrast with your skin.
 Start from the outer corner and swipe across inward towards your nose. You can use the same brush you used with the first color without needing to clean it off.
 Load a clean eyeshadow brush with a little highlighter and gently touch it by your tear duct. This will brighten your eyes and make them look more vivid.Highlighters can be any type of powder makeup that is very light (at least a little lighter than your natural skin tone). Popular choices of eye shadow highlighters are honey and white. You can also use lighter tones from powder foundations, concealers, or contouring kits.
 Use a clean makeup brush. A buffing brush will work best. Place the brush at the outer corner of your eyelid at the lashline. Make small, circular buffing motions from the corner to about a quarter of the way across your eyelid. This should blend the two colors together to create a seamless, airbrushed look. Next, run your brush back and forth along your eye crease. This will soften the shadow and make it look less harsh., Feel free to go a little heavy with the liner if you want. For the easiest (but still glamorous) look, simply line your upper lid with black. Start at the top outer corner of your eyelid and trace the lid towards your nose.


If your hand isn't steady, try using a pencil instead of liquid liner. Liquid liner can be easier for some people to use but is harder to smudge and blend to correct uneven lines.
Another easy and popular eyeliner style is the cat eye look. Simply add two more lines to the standard upper eyelid one you started with. Extend this line further out until the corner lines up with the end of your eyebrow. Next, take it back in and lightly line the outer half of your lower lid. Liquid and gel liners typically give you the best results for this sharp look.
 Mascara works to open up your eyes by enhancing the lashes. For this style, you can use dark, dramatic mascara on either the top or both eyelids.


Do your best to keep your mascara from clumping. To prevent clumping don't use more than two coats. If your mascara is clumping with only one or two coats, try removing excess product from the brush with a tissue before applying.