 This code will lookup the number of the last person that called you. This may be able to bypass blocked numbers.;
, Since UK cell numbers start with 07, you can easily determine whether or not the caller is calling you from a landline. If so, you may be able to find the number in the white pages or, at least, narrow down to a city or region by area code. Mobile numbers, however, aren’t stored in a directory and will require more research.
 A Google search can help if the number belongs to a public company or organization. It's not a guarantee, but it's a good first place to start. If you don't find anything on Google, try some other search engines, like Yahoo!, Bing, and others.
 These services search through public records such as voter registration to find matching phone numbers. None of these services are free, however. You'll likely need to pay to perform a search using them. Popular reverse lookup services include:192.com
FreeFindPeopleUK.co.uk

, There's a very good chance that any site that claims to track phone numbers is a scam. The only way that you can legally trace a number is by matching it with public records. Beyond that, only the authorities can trace numbers.
 If you are regularly receiving nuisance calls from the same number, you can report it to British Telecom. Oftentimes this will allow you to resolve the issue without getting the police involved. Call 0800 661 441 to report nuisance calls to BT., You can hire a private investigator if you've hit a dead end. Be aware that the investigator will only be able to search through public sources as well. These services aren't cheap, but can be much more thorough than a reverse phone lookup service. You may be able to find an investigator that will guarantee results or you get a refund. Many require an upfront payment with no guarantee.


Some private investigators will only take the case if the results are to be used in a legal case.
 If you are getting harassed by an unknown number, you can report it to the authorities. Law enforcement personnel may be able to trace the phone number. Usually they will only do so if it is part of a larger case. You can find the contact information for your local police department at police.uk.
 If you need to prevent a number from constantly harassing you, your carrier should be able to block it. This will prevent the number from being able to reach you. Different carriers have different blocking policies. Contact your carrier's Customer Service department for details.

