 Testing out a nude before you take it home is essential, but you don't want to apply it to your lips (too many germs!). A good place to try it out is the back of your hand, where you can see how it looks against your skin before you purchase it.You can also try it on your inner wrist, which may match the color of your face and lips more closely.;
, Often, the outer edges of your lips will be slightly darker than the rest of your lips, particularly if you have a darker skin tone. When looking at the color, make sure you match the outer edge of your lips. Otherwise, it can leave your lips looking washed out., When picking out a color, think about your natural lip color. Try to pick something that is similar. You want it to work with your lip color rather than against it, as it will be more difficult to achieve a nude effect with a lipstick that works against your natural color.That is, if you have naturally rosy lips, try to pick a nude with a hint of rose.
 If you have fair skin, you may be tempted to pick a tan nude. However, that can really wash out your face. Instead, pick a nude that has a hint of pink. It should still be very soft, but it will help keep you from looking too pale., If you're not totally fair but still light-skinned, you can go a bit darker. If you pick something too soft, your lips won't have any definition. Pick a light pink or beige with enough definition to distinguish your lips from the rest of your face., If your skin is in the medium range, try a more golden hue. Make sure that the color you choose is slightly darker than your skin tone, so you have definition. In addition, try not to pick something to heavy, texture-wise.If you want slightly more color, you can go with a peach undertone. Salmon can also be an appropriate color.
 Often, if you try to pick a "nude" for darker skin, you'll choose something that's too light. Make sure that the color you choose matches your skin tone or is a bit darker.For a bit of shimmer, go for a bronze or gold undertone., If you can't find what you like, you can blend colors instead. For instance, for a dark nude, try coloring in your lips with a brown pencil, then adding a brown lipstick with a hint of rose on top. Make sure to blend them together well.To create a completely nude shade, make sure you are matching the color to the outer edges of your lips.
 Nude lipsticks tend to show every nook and cranny on your lips, which is a problem if you have dry lips. Therefore, it's important to take care of dry lips before you apply a nude lipstick. For instance, you could try using a lip scrub to smooth out your lips first, giving you a more polished look., Moisturizing can also help smooth out your lips before applying a nude lipstick. After using a lip scrub, apply a moisturizing lip balm. That way, you have a nice, soft base to apply the lipstick over., If you're trying to truly wipe our your lip color, you may need to add a bit of concealer to your lips before applying the lipstick. The concealer will help block out your natural lip color, helping you achieve the nude look., Nude lipsticks can be a bit flat, so adding a bit of gloss can help them shine a bit. However, you don't need too much. Just apply a bit to the middle of your lips for a tiny bit of pop.