 Like the Facebook website, you can copy and paste text, website URLs or images into the Facebook app on your Android mobile device. You can also use these instructions to copy and paste text, links or images from Facebook and into other apps.


When you copy and paste text into Facebook, you won't be able to keep the original formatting and font. Copying someone's Facebook post will not copy the Likes and comments—just the text.
If you want to share an article on Facebook, copy the article's URL from your browser's address bar.
Some Android users have reported issues copying text from Facebook Messenger chat heads. You'll need to copy the text from within the Facebook Messenger or Facebook app., The process for copying content on mobile devices depends on what you're copying.


To copy text, press and hold the selected text to bring up the text selector. You'll see two teardrop-shaped icons that can be moved to the beginning and end of the text you wish to select. You'll also see four options appear in a pop-up menu: "Select All," "Copy," "Share," and "Web Search." If you wish to select all of the text in a given screen, tap "Select All." If you wish to select only certain text, move those teardrop-shaped icons to the beginning and end of the text you wish to select. You'll see it highlighted accordingly. When satisfied, click "Copy" from the menu that still appears.
To copy a link, press and hold the selected link, then select "Copy link URL" from the menu that appears. To copy an address from your address bar, tap and hold it. Then click "Select All" to highlight the whole thing and select "Copy" from the menu that appears.
To copy an image, you'll need to copy the image's address instead of the image itself. Press and hold on an image and select "View Image" to open the image in a new tab. Copy the address bar (per the instructions listed above) for the direct address to the image.
 You can paste anywhere you can type, including status updates, messages, and comments. Tap the text field to place your cursor. You may also paste content you've copied from Facebook in any editable text field.
 Tapping "Paste" will paste the copied content to the text field

