 Nuts are full of mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids (the good fat), protein and fiber. Replacing another protein with nuts helps balance the diet and increase micronutrient intake, such as B vitamins. Vitamin pills do not contain enough of the many micronutrients called phytonutrients; you get them from unrefined/whole foods. However, since nuts are high in calories and often come salted, it is important to understand serving size and nutritional information.;
, Nuts can contain 150 to 180 calories per 1 oz. and 10 to 22 g of fat per 1 oz. They also contain approximately 4 to 7 g of protein in 1 oz.


Subtract the amount of protein consumed in the nuts from daily protein needed. The average adult female needs approximately 46 g of protein per day.
Subtract the amount of calories and fat from total consumption for the day. The average adult female needs approximately 2,000 calories a day and 20% to 35% should come from fat calories, limiting saturated to less than 10% of total calories.
Try to consume 1.5 oz. of nuts daily. According to scientific evidence, 1.5 oz. is the optimal amount of nuts for heart health, especially in women with Type II Diabetes.
 Many pre-packaged nuts are roasted and salted or seasoned. These seasonings often contain msg or salt and can add a considerable amount of sodium to your diet. To avoid excess sodium, go for nuts without salt or seasoning. If you need the salt or seasoning for flavor, try to buy the nuts lowest in sodium. Excess sodium can lead to water retention and may increase the risk for hypertension.
 Nuts make great snacks because they do not need refrigeration and can be eaten quickly. Also, they are filling and help keep unhealthy snacking between meals to a minimum. The extra protein provides a longer lasting source of energy than a simple carbohydrate would.
 If you are having trouble getting enough nuts into your diet or don’t like the flavor of them plain, try adding them to meals. Cashews and peanuts go well in a stir fry or chili. They cook like a raw whole bean, so the longer they are cooked the softer their texture becomes.

