 To ensure that the grill pan is hot enough to cook the steak, it’s important to preheat it. Place the pan on the stovetop, and turn the heat to high. Allow the pan to heat for approximately 5 minutes.You’ll know that the pan is hot enough when you sprinkle a few drops of water over the pan and it evaporates quickly.
You can cook the flank steak pinwheels on an actual grill if you prefer. Preheat it on high just as you would with a pan.;
, To secure the pinwheels for grilling, you’ll need toothpicks to keep the rolls shut as they cooks. However, you need to soak the toothpicks in water first to keep them from burning. Place 8 to 10 toothpicks in a glass of water for at least 20 minutes.You can also use wooden skewers usually used for making kabobs. Soak them as you would the toothpicks.
 For the pinwheels, you’ll need 1 large flank steak that’s approximately 1 to 2 pounds (454 to 904 g). Ready it for the pinwheels by taking a very sharp knife and cutting the steak in half horizontally with the grain of the meat. Stop approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) from where you would completely slice it in half, though, so the steak remains intact.Before you butterfly the steak, you may want to slice off the edges to create a square. That often makes it easier to roll it up later.
As you’re cutting the steak, trim away any fat that you see.
If you’re not comfortable butterflying the steak yourself, you can ask your butcher to do it when you buy the steak.
 Once the steak is butterflied, unfold it so it lays flat on your work surface. Season both sides of the meat with salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.You can add other herbs to season the steak if you like. Italian seasoning, oregano, or basil would all work well.
 When the steak is properly seasoned, lay it out so the grain runs left to right. Spread 6 ounces (150 g) of shredded Asiago cheese across the meat to make the first layer of the pinwheel.You can substitute mozzarella or provolone for the Asiago if you prefer.
Make sure to leave a 1-inch (2.5-cm) border on one end of the meat. That way, when you roll up the steak, the fillings won’t spill out.
 With the Asiago cheese in place on the steak, lay 8 ounces (225 g) of loose spinach leaves with the stems removed over it. Try to create as even as layer of the leaves as possible.You can substitute arugula leaves for the spinach if you prefer.
 After you’ve added the spinach layer, place 6 ounces (188 g) of crumbled Gorgonzola over it. Next, set 4 whole scallions over the Gorgonzola to serve as the final layer of the pinwheel.You can omit the scallions if you prefer.
 When all of the layers are in place on the steak, start rolling it up on one of the long sides. Roll away from you, keeping the steak as tight as possible.Make sure to tuck the fillings in as you roll to keep them from falling out.
 Once the steak is fully rolled up, close the seam with the soaked toothpicks. Place them as evenly as you can along the seam so the meat is divided equally., With a sharp knife, carefully cut the pinwheel into slices. Use the toothpicks as a guide, cutting just behind each one. That will keep all of the pinwheels closed.Handle the steak very gently as you cut it to avoid squeezing out too much of the filling.
You should wind up with 8 to 10 pinwheels when you’re finished cutting the steak.
 When the slices are cut, set them in the heated grill pan. Allow the pinwheels to cook for 6 to 7 minutes for medium-rare to medium.Adjust the cooking time based on your doneness preference. Cook the first side for 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well to well.
 Once the first side of the pinwheels is finished cooking, use a spatula to carefully flip them over. Allow them to cook on the other side for another 6 to 7 minutes.You should cook each side of the pinwheel for the same amount of time, so if you’re adjusting the cooking time for the first side, do the same for the second side.
To ensure that your steak is cooked properly, it’s a good idea to use a digital meat thermometer to test the temperature. Look for 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees Celsius) for medium-rare or 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) for medium. For medium-well, look for 150 degrees Fahrenheit (66 degrees Celsius). Well done steaks should be at 155 to 160 degrees Fahrenheit (68 to 71 degrees Celsius).
 When the pinwheels are finished cooking, transfer them to a cutting board. Take out the toothpicks, and let the meat rest for approximately 5 minutes. Next, plate the pinwheels up and serve.