 Many people make the mistake of washing their hair every day. This practice strips your hair of healthy oils that protect it from drying out. While washing your hair is obviously necessary to keep it looking healthy and fresh, see if you can scale back to washing it just once or twice a week. In a few weeks' time, your hair will look and feel less dry and brittle.If you're used to washing your hair more often, it might take a few weeks for your scalp to adjust. For the first few weeks, your scalp might continue overproducing oil. If you can wait it out, you'll find that your body will eventually grow used to your new routine and produce less oil between washes.
To perk up your hair between washes, try using dry shampoo. It's a simple mixture of powder (such as cornstarch or baby powder) and essential oils. While dry shampoo doesn't clean your hair, it does absorb oil and add a pleasant scent that gives your hair the appearance of being freshly washed.;
, Do you tend to use gobs of shampoo in an effort to get your hair clean? It's really not necessary to use more than a dime or quarter-sized amount, depending on your hair length. Extra shampoo can be hard on your hair by washing away the protective oils that keep your hair soft and shiny, rather than dry.A good rule of thumb to follow is that if your hair ends up "squeaky clean," you've used too much shampoo. When your hair dries, it will feel drier than it should.
To avoid using too much shampoo, wet your hair completely before applying shampoo. Rub the shampoo between your palms and work it into your hair from the roots to the tips.
 Using a hair dryer causes your hair to get dry, brittle and frayed. It leads to more split ends and dull-looking hair if you do it too often. Even though you might be tempted to dry your hair with a hair dryer, try giving it a break and letting it air dry at least five days out of the week. If you can go longer without using a hair dryer, even better.When you do use a hair dryer, use a low, warm or cool setting instead of a high, hot setting.
To air dry your hair, pat it dry gently with a towel. Don't roughly rub it dry, or you'll end up with frizz. Comb it out using a wide-toothed comb and apply hair oil or styling cream if desired.
 Put away your curling iron, straightening iron, and any other tools you use to apply heat to your hair. Regularly styling your hair using heating tools causes dryness, breakage, and split ends. Embrace your hair's natural texture instead of taming it with tools.If you want to curl or straighten your hair for a special occasion, be sure to use a heat protectant product on your hair first. Never apply direct heat to unprotected hair.
Try using styling techniques that don't involve heat. For example, you can create beautiful curls using pins or a cut up t-shirt.
 Dyeing, bleaching, and chemically straightening or perming your hair will dry it out. Once your hair has been damaged by a treatment, it's difficult to restore it to life. In most cases you'll have to care for it the best you can until your hair has time to grow back healthy and strong.If you love dyeing your hair, try a henna treatment. Henna dye is a natural alternative to chemical dye. It won't dry out or damage your hair.
If you want to lighten your hair in color, try using honey or chamomile treatments. Do not use lemon juice to lighten your hair, since this can dry it out.
Tight weaves, braids and extensions can also be damaging to hair.

