 Like Generation III, these will give your Pichu a Friendship boost. They work a little differently in Generation IV though; the Luxury Ball only gives a bonus when leveling up and walking, and the Soothe Bell will give a 50% boost to all Friendship activities.
 Like Generation III, you'll gain 1 Friendship every 256 steps. You'll gain a bonus if your Pichu is in a Luxury Ball.
 There are a couple of different massage locations that can give you a Friendship boost. You can only get one massage every 24 hours.


Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - The massage girl in Veilstone City will give you a 3-point boost.
Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - A massage at the Ribbon Syndicate will give you a 20-point(!) boost if your Friendship is less than 100.
Black and White - A massage from the lady on Castelia Street can give you up to 30 Friendship points.
Black 2 and White 2 - The massage lady can be found at the Medal Office, and gives the same bonuses as the one from Black and White.
 Like the previous Generations, Vitamin items will give you a good Friendship boost. No new Vitamins were introduced in Generation IV or V.
 You'll get a few Friendship points every time Pichu levels up

, EV-lowering berries can give you a big boost in Friendship. Give your Pichu Pomeg, Kelpsy, Qualot, Hondew, Grepa, or Tamato berries for up to 10 Friendship, depending on the current Friendship level.
 Like all other Generations, getting knocked out will lower Pichu's Friendship by 1. Switch Pichu out with another Pokémon if it looks like it's going to faint.
 Healing items have a major negative effect on your Friendship, and it can take a while to make the loss back. Avoid the following items, and do all of your healing at a Pokémon Center instead:


Energy Powder: -5 points
Heal Powder: -5 points
Energy Root: -10 points
Revival Herb: -15 points

, If you're playing the Generation IV games, you can check Pichu's happiness by visiting the Pokémon Fan Club in Hearthome City. Make sure Pichu is the first Pokémon in your party. The phrase that the checker says will change depending on Pichu's Friendship level, and the phrases for Platinum are different.


50 - 99: "You should treat it better. It's not used to you." (D,P) "It's feeling neutral toward you. It's up to you to change that." (Plat)
100 - 149: "It's quite cute." (D,P) "It's warming up to you. That's my impression." (Plat)
150 - 199: "It's friendly towards you. It looks sort of happy." (D,P) "It's quite friendly to you. It must be happy being with you." (Plat)
200 - 254: "I get the feeling that it really trusts you." (D,P) "It's very friendly toward you. I can tell you treat it kindly." (Plat)
255: "It looks really happy! It must love you a lot." (D,P) "It simply adores you! Why, I feel like I am intruding!" (Plat)

, If you're playing the Generation V games, you can find the Friendship checker at the Pokémon Fan Club in Icirrus City. The phrase will change depending on Pichu's Friendship level:


70 - 99: "The relationship is neither good nor bad… It looks neutral."
100 - 149: "It is a little friendly to you… That's what I'm getting."
150 - 194: "It is friendly to you. It must be happy with you."
195 - 254: "It is quite friendly to you! You must be a kind person!"
255: "It is super friendly to you! I'm a bit jealous!"

, Since you won't know the exact number unless you're checking in every time you raise your friendship, you'll have to guess based on the phrase and the actions you perform. When you level up Pichu when it has a Friendship of 220 or greater it will evolve immediately into Pikachu.


If Pichu doesn't evolve when leveled up, then its Friendship is not at 220 yet.

