 Most propane torches consist of a small gas tank fitted with a regulator, with or without an electric igniter. If yours doesn't have an igniter, you'll need to use a striker to light the torch.


If you need low heat, opt for a propane torch with a flame-spreading tip, which will allow you to diffuse the flame to lower its heat.
When using a high heat for repairing chain-link fences and the like, consider using an oxygen-fuel torch. These torches have 2 separate tanks for gas (usually propane or MAPP) and oxygen.;
, Before using the propane torch, you should put on a pair of heavy work gloves and safety glasses. It is also best to wear long sleeves and pants. Your propane torch should only ever be used in well ventilated areas. Be cautious of wind when using your torch. It can cause the flame to jump and catch unintended things on fire. Never ignite your torch near flammable material.
Avoid clothing that is loose or hangs. Loose or hanging clothing is more likely to accidentally catch on fire when operating a torch.
 Hold the torch with the tip facing away from you and open the gas valve. If you have a striker, place it over the torch nozzle and strike it to ignite the gas. If your torch has an electric igniter, pull the trigger to ignite the gas. This may take several tries.Some propane torches have a safety trigger that must be depressed when lighting the gas.
If you are using your torch indoors, make sure to open a window for ventilation. If using one outdoors, be cautious of the wind causing the flame to jump to flammable objects., Once the propane torch is lit, you can adjust the height of the flame by turning the gas valve. For soldering or other high heat applications, a small flame is best. A larger flame works better for low heat applications.The flame will have a bright inner cone and a more diffuse outer cone. The hottest point of the flame is the very tip of the inner cone.
 For soldering pipe, place the tip of the inner cone against the joint and hold the torch steady. For loosening rusty bolts, try to focus the flame on the nut only or the surrounding metal. For low heat applications, hold the flame further away from the material and keep the torch in motion.


Applying your torch to metal will cause the metal to expand. When loosening bolts, it may be best to heat the surrounding metal to prevent the bolt from expanding.
 After use, rotate the gas valve until it closes completely. Allow the propane torch to cool down and then store it in a dry location. Listen for running gas to ensure safety.


Separate your torch from the fuel cylinder when you finish using it. This will provide less opportunity for accidents.If you hear leaking gas, check the valve and make sure it is completely closed. If you still hear gas, check for leaks in the fashion explained in the section on troubleshooting your torch.

