 When cutting your plants, be sure that your clippers are clean and sharp. This will promote faster healing and prevent your plant from getting sick.You may also want to wear gloves to keep your hands from getting dirty and to protect them from any potential pests.
Clean your harvesting tools with rubbing alcohol between plants, too, to reduce the risk of spreading diseases.
 Most people want their herbs to be a sustainable supply that will regrow even after being used. In order to be sure that you don't accidentally kill your herbs, don't harvest more than ⅓ of the plant that you can see.For harvesting leaves, you'll want to snip (from a mature plant) a few inches down the stem.You can also simply pick off the few pieces that you need when you need them, but clipping them will stimulate better growth afterward.
The most tender leaves, ideal for salads and dressings, are located at the top of the plant. Older, more flavorful leaves are good for cooking recipes and will be located at the bottom of the plant., While you are harvesting, look for yellowed and dying leaves as well as flower buds. Removing these unwanted items encourages better, faster leaf growth, and in the case of the latter it helps to keep the leaves more tender.Let one plant go to seed (that is, do not weed or prune it away and allow nature to do the work of reseeding for you) from your stock in order to have seeds for the next year's crop.
 Some herbs, like parsley and chives, do not have sprigs that produce leaves on their stalks. Rather, their stalk is the herb. In the case of parsley, you’ll need to clip them from the ground. Otherwise, the plant will not send up new shoots to replace the old ones.For other plants, however, you’ll want to leave some of the stalk intact. For chives, leave 2 to 3 inches when you harvest to support new growth.
 Herbs like dandelion, burdock, and yellow dock which have single-stemmed tap roots can't simply be pulled out: the top portion of the plant will break away from the bottom portion. You will need to use a shovel or digging fork to get the roots out. Be forewarned: some roots can be very deep and very large depending on the plant; burdock, for example, can have roots that grow up to 12 inches in length and 1 inch thick., If you intend to use your freshly picked herbs for cooking, you will want to remove them from the stem by sliding a thumb and your forefinger from top to bottom, pulling them off as you go. If you intend to use them for their fragrance or preserve them for later, leave your herbs' leaves and/or flowers on the stem.


If the herb will simply be used for flavoring in the cooking but will not be eaten, it's okay to cook the entire stem with the leaf to make it easier to remove the item when you're finished. For example, bay leaves are commonly used for seasoning soups, chilis, and other savory foods, but they are never eaten, so you might find it easier to leave them on the stem for removal.
If the leaves will not come off easily, such as with parsley and bay leaves, you can use a pair of scissors to snip them off.