 Heel balm can come in a container or in stick form and will help to moisturize your dry and cracked heels. Put it on in the morning to increase the elasticity of the skin on your heels before you start to walk around and move for the day and then put it on again at night to hydrate your feet while you sleep.You may find heel balm to be slippery on your heels, especially when you move around during the day in shoes without socks. If so, start with a small amount of heel balm on the rims of your heels and on any cracked areas.
If you don’t want to get heel balm on your hands, you can use a heel balm stick for easy application.
 These foot files act like power sanders for your feet and are great for removing dry, dead skin. You simply hold the foot file in your hand and run it over your feet, preferably in the bathtub so the dry skin does not end up all over your bathroom. Wash away the powdery foot dust with water once you are done using the foot file. Try to get into the habit of using the foot file twice a week.Most battery powered foot files are $30-$40USD. They are a good option if you are looking for a quick and fast way to remove dry skin on your feet.
 Though home remedies can help remove dry skin and prevent foot irritation, your doctor may be able to recommend over the counter foot creams or medicated ointments to speed up the healing of your dry skin.There are many over the counter foot creams that can help relieve dry skin on your feet. Your doctor may also prescribe a stronger cream or ointment, depending on the severity of your dry skin.
 If you display the symptoms of Athlete’s foot, such as an irritated or burning sensation on your feet, peeling and cracked skin, and bleeding and pain, you should speak to your doctor about treatment. Your doctor will prescribe a topical, antifungal foot cream, or an antifungal drug, to help treat your Athlete’s Foot.


You should also check if you have symptoms of eczema on your feet, such as scaly skin, painful breaking of the skin, and possibly weeping or bleeding from the skin. Your doctor should help you determine the cause of your eczema, such as an irritant that you use when working or a substance in your shoes or socks, and prescribe a steroid cream or ointment.