 Determining the latitude with the sun can only be done when it is at its highest point. Check your watch or you may use the method of creating a quadrant and placing a stick in the ground, at the very southern end of a north-south line. It’s noon as soon as the shadow of the stick crosses the north-south line.Use a plumb line to ensure that the stick is vertical.A plumb line is exactly as it sounds: a line with any type of plumb attached to it. Gravity will ensure that the plumb creates a vertical line.
 You may only set up your measurements knowing north and south. Mark north and south with a line running along the ground. Set up a quadrant with its aiming beam parallel to this line.
 The aiming beam -- or hands of the cross -- should be centered on the support beam-- or body of the cross -- so that it can pivot up and down. There should be 4 nails at the hands of the cross, each only pounded far enough to keep it stable. There should be 2 nails at either end of the face of the cross and 2 nails at either end of the top of the hands of the cross.Center a protractor at the pivot point. Suspend the plumb line also from this pivot point., Once noon, line up the nails on the aiming beam with the sun. Do not look directly at the sun but rather use the shadows of the nails to find the correct position. Move the aiming beam up and down so that the two shadows from the nails move closer together and create a single shadow on the ground., Once the beam is aimed correctly, use the protractor to measure from the vertical plumb line to the portion of the aiming beam closest to it. Keep the horizon at 90 degrees as you make your measurements., Your reading will only be correct in both the spring and autumn equinoxes that fall on March and September 21 respectively. If you are taking measurements around December 21, or midwinter, subtract 23.45 degrees from your reading. In contrast, add 23.45 degrees if you are taking measurements around midsummer, June 21.The measurements are not completely accurate, other than spring and autumn equinox, because of the way the Earth is tilted as it orbits around the sun.While there are complex tables that give you the correct factor to determine your exact latitude and longitude on any given day, accurately estimate based on the date relative to the spring and autumn equinox. For example, if you are measuring at the start of May, which is half-way between the spring -- when the sun is directly above the equator -- and summer equinox -- when the sun is above 23.45 degrees north of the Equator, you would just need to add half of 23.45 degrees -- 11.73 -- to your measurement.