 Since you have to be 18 years of age or older to get married in Tennessee (without parental consent), you’ll have to provide proof of age. A certified birth certificate or government issued photo identification (such as a driver’s license) is acceptable., This is another requirement for obtaining the marriage license. It’s a good idea to have the social security card itself in hand. If you’re not a US citizen, and don't have a social security card, then you’ll need a valid passport.
 There’s certain information you’ll need for the application, such as:


Your parents’ full names (including mother’s maiden name)
Your parents’ state of birth and address (if living)
The number of your prior marriages
The date your last marriage ended (if applicable)., If you're the prospective bride, and you had your name changed in a divorce, you should also have changed your name on your driver's license. If you didn't, you’ll need to provide a certified copy of your divorce decree. It’s probably wise for both the bride and groom to have any divorce decrees available, just in case any issues concerning the divorce come up during the application process.
 If either the bride or groom is a widow or widower, having a certified copy of the deceased spouse’s death certificate is a good idea, again in case the county clerk has any questions.
 The clerk’s office is where you’ll be able to get your application. Most, if not all, county clerk offices have a website. A listing of the counties and their contact information can be found at www.tncountyclerk.com.
 In order to save time, many county clerks provide an online form that allows you to submit much of the necessary application information in advance. Check with the clerk’s office to see if they offer this service. , There’s a charge to apply for a marriage license in Tennessee. It varies from county to county, but it’s usually around $100. Look on the clerk's website, or call. Also, find out if you need to bring cash, in case some clerks don’t accept checks or credit/debit cards. , If you take this course within a year prior to the date you apply for the license, the county clerk will deduct $60 from the application fee. You'll need to get a Certificate of Completion when you finish the course. Again, the clerk’s office can give you more information about this. , The clerk’s office will tell you the days and times when they process marriage license applications. They’ll set up a specific date and time for you if they work by appointment. They may also have this information online.
 If you forget the fee or any of the needed documents (referred to in Part 1), you’ll have wasted a trip to the clerk's office. Check to make sure you have everything you need, before you leave home, including the Certificate of Completion for the premarital preparation course, if you took it., Under Tennessee law, both the bride and groom need to sign the application and swear to the truth of the information it contains. To speed the process, it’s best to arrange your schedules so that you can go to the clerk’s office at the same time., If either applicant for the marriage license is 16 or 17 years old, his or her parents, guardian, next of kin, or person having custody has to join in the license application, under oath. They have to state that the applicant is 16 or over, and that the applicant has their consent to marry. , The marriage license is only valid for 30 days. If you don’t get married within that 30 day period, you’ll basically have to start the application process from scratch. 