 If you know that the weather will be rainy, choose an area that you can enjoy in the rain, such as a trek through the forest. Consider visibility and safety, since waterways can flood and rocks can become slippery. When in doubt, plan to keep your hiking short and bed down early., Each time you open your pack water drips in. Even if it’s only a small amount of water, it can quickly compromise your pack. The water will remain in your waterproofed pack for the entire trek, so don’t risk lugging around the unnecessary weight.

Store frequently needed items and your snacks in pockets or in dry bags attached to the outside of your pack., If you don’t have a waterproof map, then make sure that your map never gets wet. Ideally, it should be secured in a plastic see-through bag. Try not to remove it when it’s exposed to rain., Regularly munching on snacks will help you keep your body warmer, which is important when you’re getting wet. Rain can cause hypothermia if you get too cool, so plan to eat more often than on a dry hike., The wetness from your socks can rub away your natural skin oils, which is what causes blisters. Applying a light salve to your feet can help prevent this from happening. Carry a salve and smooth it onto your feet when you settle in for the night., When it’s raining, some hikers forget to drink their water. Even if you don’t feel thirsty, make sure that you’re sipping on your water to keep yourself hydrated. Dehydration can quickly become an issue., Rainy weather makes breaks less desirable because it allows your body to cool down, causing you to be cold and uncomfortable. You also have the incentive to keep going until you reach your destination and can get out of the rain. However, not taking breaks can easily tire you out. Stay energized by taking shorter breaks than you normally would but more often.For example, if you would normally take a 15 minute break after hiking for an hour and a half, take a five minute break every 30 minutes.
 When you do stop to camp, keep your wet items separate from your dry items. Carrying wet gear into your tent can easily lead to everything being wet. Instead, cover up your gear and leave it outside the tent., When you stop to camp or to take an extended break, take off your shoes so that your feet have a chance to dry out. If you have dry socks, put them on. Otherwise, leave your feet bare. This will help keep your skin healthy and avoid blisters., Rain can lead to hypothermia, even if it’s not very cold out. Stay safe by monitoring yourself for signs of hypothermia. If you do notice any, take steps to warm yourself, such as pitching camp and changing your wet clothes for dry ones.Symptoms of mild hypothermia include shivering, slurred speech, tiredness, cool or pale skin, and shallow breathing.
Symptoms of moderate hypothermia include confusion, drowsiness, tiredness, shallow breathing, cold or pale skin, ceasing of shivering, and shedding clothes despite being cold.

