 Sometimes a customer will vent their frustrations on you and it can affect your emotions. Taking customer anger personally can put you in a negative space and make your day harder.Realize that the customer is most likely angry or disappointed at their situation, and not you. A defective product could have unforeseen consequences, which can put customers in a bad mood. Channel your emotions so that you can better serve the customer instead of getting upset.If a customer is angry, you can say something like, "I'm sorry that happened," or "I understand your frustration. I'll do my best to help you."

, If you are working too many overtime hours or are on call frequently, it could increase your stress and have a negative impact on your health.Even if you have set hours, it doesn't mean that you're aren't bringing your work home with you mentally. Remember to separate your work from your home life and leave work at your office. Bringing the stress and anxiety home with you can deteriorate your own well-being and relationships with family and friends.


Take your vacation time and make sure to plan something that you can enjoy.
 Eating unhealthy things like fast food everyday will reduce your focus and limit your concentration.This can make it hard to communicate effectively to customers or help them find solutions. Eat healthy during the day. If there isn't anywhere healthy to eat around you, consider making your lunch and bringing it to work.


Foods that help boost concentration and efficiency include, beets, broccoli, green leafy vegetables, salmon, and walnuts., If the stress of the job is having a negative impact on your life or relationship with others, it's a good idea to talk to your supervisor. They may be able to relocate you to a different department that could be less stressful or reduce the amount of work that they expect from you. Supervisors may also have additional techniques or strategies to help you become more efficient or minimize your stress.


There's a good chance that if you are having problems coping with the work environment that your colleagues are experiencing similar things.
You can say something like, "I'm doing my best, but I can't seem to get everything accomplished and it's making me a bit stressed. Do you have any tactics that you think would help me?"

