 Maybe you like to cook. Perhaps you make earrings and necklaces in your spare time. A lot of people have a skill or two that most people don’t have. If that sounds like you, you might be able to start a business manufacturing something unique and selling it at a profit. Being able to sell something unique is the key. You’re probably never going to make plain white t-shirts and make any money selling them, because huge manufacturers already make plain white shirts and they sell them more cheaply than you can even make them. But no one can make exactly the same cookies you can make, and no one can make exactly the same custom earrings you make. It’s the uniqueness of these items that makes them worth more than generic items.
 If you don’t know how much you spend making what you sell, there’s no way to know how to price each item. Be very specific when you make calculations. You need to know the cost per unit of each and every item, and you need to know how much time it takes you to make each item.For instance, if you’re making cookies, you need to know how much flour, in dollars and cents, is in each cookie, and you need to know how much each cookie costs you to make. If each cookie costs you a dollar to make, and it takes you an hour to make and bake 24 cookies, you know you’re going to have to sell each cookie for at least three dollars and sell about fifty cookies to even make $100. Do you think you can sell fifty cookies before they go stale?

, When you’re just getting started, it’s a good idea to use your classmates to test out your products (as long as you’re selling the type of product they can afford). When you’re selling unique items, it’s very important to get feedback about what people like and don’t like about your products. After all, you have more control over your own products than anyone else, and you can modify them to make them more marketable .Some schools don’t allow this kind of thing, but sometimes are willing to grant more leeway with respect to selling unique, handcrafted items than they are selling things like candy. Even if you can’t sell on school property, you can still sell to classmates outside of school.
 While you might need a credit card to open a webpage with an online store, you won’t need one to post items for sale on Craigslist, Facebook, or even to advertise them on a free blog, like Tumblr. Take attractive, well lit pictures of your items, and post them in your advertisements along with descriptions that are clear and free of spelling and grammatical errors.