 Sometimes part of procrastinating is filling our day up with so many side tasks that we have difficulty seeing what we are really doing. Look for useful indicators that your procrastinating that include:Sitting down to do something important and then deciding to get coffee or a snack.
Filling up your day with low priority tasks.
Re-reading memos or e-mails many times before deciding what to do with them.
 Many people are inclined to make to-do-lists. However, these can make your day seem daunting and without being tangibly incorporated into your day are little more than wishful aspirations. You need to consider how much time you have and how long each task will take in order to effectively get moving and avoid a day of laziness.Make sure you actually account for how long tasks will take you. This reduces the chance you will procrastinate because you are working along a tangible schedule. Also, realize that things may come up that alter your schedule. This is okay. All you need to do is add this to the schedule and adjust your day.
Set boundaries. People who are prone to procrastination should avoid blending life/work boundaries. Assuming you will end each work day at 5:30 P.M. forces you to be productive within a certain timespan.
 You may procrastinate when you feel like there are too many things to do and you shouldn't bother even starting. Most people believe that they are working harder than they actually are. This is because people feel so overwhelmed and fragmented by endless tasks. We live in a world of constant stimulation and information. Simplify your life and you'll be less likely to be overwhelmed into inactivity.Try media fasting for a week. Not all the information that we consume everyday from all kind of media is useful. Unless it's required for you to consume certain information for your work, stop everything else for a week. No TV, no newspaper, no social websites, no leisure Internet surfing, no watching videos on the Internet. You might want to create your own rule for this tip.
 For example, if you see a stack of papers need to be dumped, dump into the bin it straight away. It is not important but sooner or later you have to do it. Make it a habit to do it now and you'll stop having an endless list of tasks to do later.


This will be hard at first, but it will help you to build a good habit. The tendency to put things off until later can snowball procrastination and laziness.

