 Another great way to get fried chicken back to a delicious crispy, golden-brown consistency is to simply fry it again. As with the oven method above, you'll want to take your chicken out of the refrigerator and let it sit in a safe spot for about half an hour before you start to cook it. Do any required prep work (like setting the table, making side dishes, etc.) while you wait.


If you don't let the chicken warm back up, it can affect the frying process. Dropping cold chicken into hot oil will significantly reduce the temperature of the oil for a minute or two, preventing you from giving it a crispy exterior., When your chicken is nearly at room temperature, set a pan on the stove and turn the burner to high. Heavier pans like cast iron skillets and dutch ovens are best as they tend to retain heat well. Add plenty of frying oil to the pan and allow it to heat — you want at least enough that the bottoms of your chicken pieces will be submerged.


Don't use olive oil or another oil with a similarly low smoke point, as the smoke can give your chicken a bitter, burnt flavor. Instead, use a high-smoke point oil with a neutral flavor like canola, peanut, or vegetable oil.If you have a deep fryer, you may use it for this method, though this equipment is not required.
 Carefully add the chicken pieces to the hot oil (a set of tongs can help protect from splashes). Fry the pieces in the oil for about two to three minutes, turning regularly.


Feel free to adjust the precise cooking time as you wish. Longer cooking times will give you a drier, crispier skin, but cooking for too long will eventually dry out the meat itself.Don't be afraid to check your chicken's texture as it cooks.
 When its skin is dry and crispy, the chicken is done. Transfer the pieces one by one to a wire rack set over a pan and allow them to drain. This step is crucial — letting the oil drain out will help get the skin even crispier. It should take about three to five minutes for the chicken to drain completely., Carefully dispose of the excess oil (or reuse it) after allowing it to cool. Enjoy your chicken as soon as it is cool enough to eat.

