 Before buying frogs, check out the specimens at multiple pet stores. Different stores have different quality standards regarding the frogs they source, and how well they care for them once they are in the shop. A happy, healthy frog will be easier to keep and will have a much longer lifespan.Look for a bright green coloring. A healthy American tree frog will be a light lime green to a dark olive or emerald green, with a creamy white to yellow stripe on their sides and creamy white belly. They will change color slightly as a means of camouflage and to indicate mood changes.
Look for frogs that have bright eyes and seem alert.
Avoid frogs with brown spots, dull skin, or dry skin. Extreme changes in color, like turning yellow-green or dark brown, can indicate stress or illness.;
, Wild caught (WC) frogs are likely to carry disease, which will spread to your other frogs. Wild caught frogs also suffer from stress in captivity, so it is cruel to keep them. Wild caught frogs may also be very old, so their remaining lifespan will be quite short., If you want to buy a new type of frog, you'll need to set up an entirely different aquarium habitat for it. Different species of frogs also have different care needs.Certain varieties of frogs are dangerous when housed with other types, which will be very stressful to your frog.
Frogs are also cannibalistic so a small frog could be lunch for a larger frog.
 Your tree frog does not need love and affection. These are observational animals and thus do not like to be held. A frog's skin is very delicate and the oils on your skin can be very harmful to them.
 It isn't necessary to know your frog's sex, but the males tend to be a lot noisier than the females. If you will be keeping your frog in your bedroom, try to purchase a female frog.Males are usually smaller than females and have yellow or greenish-yellow throats.
At about 1 year of age, males will begin to call. The call gradually becomes louder and louder, and lasts about 20 seconds.
Females are usually larger than males, and they have creamy white throats.
Females don't call all the time, although they will make a short brief response call to a male. They will also sometimes call in distress when they are annoyed by being handled or by another frog sitting on them.
 Before you add a new frog to an enclosure with existing ones, you should keep it in its own habitat for at least three months. If your frog shows no signs of illness, infection, or parasites after three months, you can introduce him to your other frogs.A lengthy quarantine time is necessary because symptoms of sickness or parasites do not always appear right away.

