 There are four different types of grenades, and not all can be found on all maps or campaign levels, so you will need to get used to using all four types. Each type has its own strengths and weaknesses, so know what they are.

Frag grenades are a human-based grenade type which allow the user to 'bounce' the grenade off walls or floors to reach a target, making them highly useful around corners.



 


Plasma grenades are a Covenant-based grenade type which have adhesive properties, allowing them to stick to vehicles, players and some other surfaces.






Spike grenades, like plasma grenades, are a Covenant-based grenade type used primarily by Brutes, and also have an adhesive quality. However, they also shoot spikes out when detonated and can adhere to all terrain.






Incendiary grenades are a Covenant-based grenade type which explode with fire when detonated. They are only found in Halo 3's campaign being used by Brutes, but can be Forged to appear in player maps.





;
, Consider setting up a Custom Game when you can only use grenades or place a lot in Forge so that you can have an unlimited supply to use. The more you practice, either against targets or other players, the more skilled you will become with using them.
 Now you know what each grenade type's feel and capabilities are, it's time to put them into action in different situations. In a game you will need to assess the situation and act accordingly. Some times you will need to act very quickly, so your grenade throwing needs to be fluid.

Use frag grenades when attempting to kill a player around a corner, in a corridor or some other enclosed space. If your aim is good enough (typically for frag grenades it should be at your opponent's feet) then you stand a good chance of bouncing the grenade right at your enemy and killing him.






If someone is rushing you, a good idea is to use a plasma or spike grenade to 'stick' them. Even if you die, you still stand a chance of collecting a Kill From The Grave medal if the grenade kills them after you've died. Try aiming directly for their torso to maximize your aim.






Vehicles are easy to take down with plasma or spike grenades (although spike grenades are usually more effective). Simply aim for where the vehicle is heading and hope it blows it up.
 Blindly throwing a grenade may get you a kill occasionally, but to really be successful with them, you'll need to know where your opponent is going and throw a grenade just as they get there. If you know someone is chasing you around the corner, drop a grenade at their feet just as they turn it. If someone is coming over a man cannon, lob a grenade where they will land. If you can master guessing where they'll be, you'll gather many kills.
 The grenade/battle rifle combination is a powerful and deadly one, where you drop a grenade at someone's feet and finish them off with a single headshot. Other combinations also prove effective, so be creative and use the grenades as a nice addition to your arsenal.

