 You can use a water bottle or a soda bottle. Remove the cap and peel off the label. Clean the bottle out and let it dry.








The best size is a small water bottle.
Make sure it's thoroughly rinsed it out and clean, especially if you’re using a soda or juice bottle.
 Measure across the bottom of your bottle. Cut two pieces of straw down to that measurement. Use only the smooth part of the straw, not the bendy. These will hold the axels and wheels.
 Tape the first straw about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) from the bottle. Tape the other straw about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) below the domed part. Make sure that the straws are straight and parallel to each other. If they are crooked, your car won't go straight.








If your bottle has ribs, use those as a guide.
Use strong, sturdy tape, such as duct tape.
 Next, cut them down so that they are 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wider than your bottle. They need to be long enough so that they can slide into the straws and hold the wheels.
 You should have about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) sticking out of each end of each straw. You will be sliding the wheels onto the skewers next.
 Get four bottle caps. Draw an X on top of each one to find the center. Use a nail and hammer to punch a hole into the middle of each X.









You can also trace four circles onto a sheet of cardboard, then cut them out.
You can also use buttons instead of bottle caps. Don't poke holes in them and make sure that they are the same size.If you're scared to use a nail and hammer, stuff a small piece of sponge into each bottle cap., Slide the wheels over the ends of the skewers. Make sure that the inside of the bottle cap is facing out. Don't press the wheels too close to the bottle, or they will get stuck. If the wheels are too loose, secure them with a drop of glue or clay.








If you are using buttons, simply hot glue them to the end of each skewer.If you stuffed the inside of the bottle caps with sponge, simply slide them onto the skewers., Set the "car" down so that it is sitting on top of its wheels. Find a spot on top of the car just below the bottle's dome. Use a craft blade to poke two slits in an X-shape. This will allow you to attach your car's "engine."







, Tuck a straw about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) into a balloon. Wrap a piece of tape around the end of the balloon in a tight spiral. Make sure that the tape goes over the mouth of the balloon and onto the straw. Also, make sure that there are no gaps. You want an airtight seal.









Insert the straw bendy-side-first into the balloon.
 Slide the other end of the straw into the X you just made. Keep pushing the straw through the hole until it comes out of the bottle's mouth. You want about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of straw sticking out of the bottle's mouth.If it is too long, cut it down.









The straw should bend naturally at its bendy part inside the bottle.
 Blow some air into the balloon through the straw. Pinch the straw so that the air doesn't come out. Place the car down on a flat, smooth surface. Let go of the straw. Watch the car go, go, go!








Fill the balloon by blowing through the straw opening at the end of the bottle.
Put your finger over the end of the straw once you're done filling the balloon.
When you’re ready, let go of the straw and watch the car go.

