 Even if it is just one comment, a mean post on the internet can be stressful and hurt your feelings or make you feel bad about yourself. Using coping techniques like meditation can help you deal with the effects the mean comments are having on you.Sit or lie somewhere comfortable and allow your body to relax as much as possible.
Focus your mind on your breathing or on relaxing your body more. You may want to focus on a phrase or word like “Calm” or “I am relaxed”.
You can use meditation when a mean comment has you extra stressed, as well as practice it regularly to improve your health and well-being overall.
 Controlling and slowing your breathing can help you when you are feeling anxious or upset about a mean comment.Inhale slowly through your nose. Try to feel the breath all the way to your belly.
Hold it for a few seconds, then slowly exhale through your mouth.
Repeat this as many times as you need to. Try to take longer to inhale, hold it for longer, and take longer to exhale with each breathe.
 Mean comments can affect you when you read them, as well as for a while after that. You may feel betrayed, angry, depressed, confused, or sad. Don’t ignore how you are feeling. The best way to deal with the way the comments make you feel is to acknowledge it.


Talk to someone close to you about how the comments make you feel and why they make you feel this way.
”You might say, “Someone left a mean comment on my page and it really made me feel bad. Can I talk to you about it?”
Write about how you feel in your journal. Write down each feeling and why you think the comment made you feel this way. Write about how you can feel better.
Talk to someone like a parent, religious leader, or therapist if the comments are causing you to become depressed, lose sleep or affect your eating habits.
 Don’t let the bully win by beating yourself up or believing the comments.Instead, deal with the mean comments by thinking about all the good things about you and the positive things in your life.


Make a list of all the positive things about you. Include things about your personality, skills and talents you have.
Look over your list frequently, but make a special effort to look over it after you receive a mean comment. This will help you deal with the comment without feeling bad about yourself.
Look at the nice and positive comments that people have sent you on the internet. Add any words they use to your list.
 It can be easy to start believing what the mean comments say and to start using negative self-talk like, “I AM stupid” or “I must be ugly”. Protect your self-esteem and your feelings by using positive self-talk to protect your feelings.Any time you notice that you have thought something negative about yourself, immediately tell yourself the thought wasn’t true and remind yourself how great you are.
For example, you might say to yourself, “These comments aren’t true. I am a good person, people like me, and I like myself.”

, It’ll be much easier to deal with mean comments on the internet if you aren’t always on the online.So, turn your electronic device off and do something that you enjoy or to improve yourself. You’ll handle your feelings about being cyberbullied better if you do.


Spend time with friends and family in-person instead of online. They can help you deal with the mean comments, have fun, and feel better about yourself.
Do something active like going for a bike ride, taking a hike, or doing martial arts. It will give you time away from the internet and support your health.
Take a class or volunteer in your community. You’ll have the chance to meet new positive people as well as improve yourself or your community.

