 Open wounds are a gateway for bacteria to enter your body so it is essential that your hands are clean before you start caring for the cut. Use warm water and soap and dry your hands after you are done.If the cut is severe and bleeding heavily, skip the hand washing step and apply pressure to the wound immediately. Once you are controlling the bleeding, seek medical attention.
If you do not have access to water, use wet wipes or alcoholic soap to clean your hands or wear medical gloves.;
, It may be necessary to scrub the wound gently to remove all debris.After you are done, carefully pat the wound dry.
You may also flush the wound with a sterile saline solution if available.
 Use a clean cloth or a towel. Continue applying pressure until the bleeding has stopped or mostly stopped. You may not be able to stop the bleeding entirely and this is fine.If possible, elevate the bleeding part above the level of the heart, such as lifting your arm above your heart or sitting on a chair and elevating your injured leg, to reduce blood flow.
Cool the affected area with a clean cloth dampened with cold water or ice pack wrapped in a towel if necessary (see Tips). The lowered temperature slows down blood flow to the area and reduces bleeding.
 Open wounds are a gateway for bacteria to enter your body. You can reduce the risk of infection by applying antibiotic ointment (such as Neosporin) to the skin around the cut.Only apply a thin layer and use the medication according to the label.
Do not use topical antimicrobial ointment for cuts that are deep and penetrate blood vessels without consulting your doctor first.
 Try to place the bandage so that you bring the edges of the cut together to help seal the cut.Use a non-stick bandage or a sterile pad and tubular bandage to hold the pad in place.
 Take care not to pull the wound apart when you remove the bandage. If the cut begins to bleed, apply pressure until the bleeding stops.


Re-apply antimicrobial ointment (if needed) when you apply a clean bandage.
Keep the cut moist and covered until the skin has had time to heal.
Leave the cut open to air once it has sealed and no longer susceptible to rip open.

