 Distance selling regulations (DSRs) apply to customers and businesses in the UK and Europe. If you buy something from a website, a mail order company or by the telephone without actually seeing or touching the item, then you are protected.;
, Auctions, such as those you might find on eBay, are excluded from the DSRs unless the seller is a merchant or is using the "Buy It Now" format. Additionally, DSRs do not apply to made-to-measure, personalised or perishable items such as flowers.
 By law, a distance seller must provide the following information not only on their site or in their sales pitch, but in a durable medium such as email or on paper. Look for a business address, not a PO BOX, phone number and email contact. Additionally check items are accurately described and that prices include tax. Details of payments accepted and return policies must also be made clear. Any distance seller failing to provide this information is breaking the law.
 The DSRs state that the customer can return an item for any reason as long as they notify the business within seven days. You are entitled to a refund of the cost of the item, as well as any postage you paid to have the item delivered to you. The cost of returning the item to the business often falls to the customer. Check their information to see if this has been made clear.
 The DSRs currently do not exclude pierced jewellery from being returned for a full refund, even if tamper seals are broken. A distance retailer may try to claim otherwise, but the law is clear. However, do your best to make sure you are an understanding customer. Do not try jewellery on if you intend to return it, as due to blood-borne infection, it cannot be resold as new and the business may take you to court for breach of contract.
 As a customer, your responsibility is to make sure that the item you wish to return reaches the business in a resalable condition. Original packaging should be included, as well as any tags. Use recorded post, as this will help prove you met your responsibilities to get it back to them safely.
 If you receive something that is faulty, you can expect for a replacement to be sent to you free of charge, or to receive a full refund including all postage costs that may be incurred.
