 Add approximately 4 cups (946 ml) of water to a large stock pot. Place the pot on the stove, and heat over medium-high to high heat until it comes to a boil., Once the water has come to a boil, add ¾ pound (341 g) of carrots that have been cut into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces to the water. Allow the carrots to cook until they are very tender, which should take approximately 45 minutes.If the pot looks like it’s going to boil over, lower the heat.
 When the carrots are finished cooking, remove the pot from the heat. Pour the carrots into a colander and shake well to remove the excess water.Be careful when draining the carrots. The water will be extremely hot, so it can burn your skin if it splashes on you.
 After the carrots are drained, return them to the pot. Place it back on the stove on medium, and allow them to heat for 1 to 2 minutes to get rid of any remaining moisture. Take the carrots off the heat, and set aside for the moment.Don’t overcook the carrots or they may become too dry. You just want to make sure that they aren’t overly wet.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the crust, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (205 degrees Celsius) and allow it to preheat. Next, grease a 9-inch (23-cm) springform pan with butter to keep the cheesecake from sticking.Use can use nonstick cooking spray to grease the pan if you prefer.
 Add ⅔ cup (55 g) of finely ground graham cracker crumbs, ⅔ cup (55 g) of gingersnap cookie crumbs, ⅔ cup (70 g) of ground pecans, and ⅓ cup (67 g) of white sugar to a medium bowl. Toss the ingredients together well until they’re fully blended.If you prefer, you can use all graham cracker or all gingersnap crumbs for the crust.
You can substitute another nut for the pecans, such as walnuts.
 When the cookie crumb mixture is blended, add 4 tablespoons (57 g) of softened, unsalted butter to the bowl. Stir well until the mixture has a crumbly texture that sticks together when pressed.While the butter should be softened, don’t allow it to melt completely.
 After you’ve mixed the butter into the cookie crumb mixture, use clean hands to press the mixture into the bottom of the greased springform pan. Make sure to press the crust mixture 2-inches (5-cm) up the sides of the pan as well.Press the crust mixture into the pan in as even a layer as you can. Smooth any lumps or uneven areas so the crust will cook evenly.
 When the crust mixture is pressed into the pan, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the crust to bake for approximately 7 minutes, or until it is set., When the crust is finished baking, remove the pan from the oven and set aside. Lower the oven temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) so it won’t be too hot when you’re ready to bake the cheesecake.While you want to lower the oven temperature, you should leave it on so it will be preheated when you place the prepared cheesecake inside.
 Add the cooked carrots to a food processor. Process the carrots for approximately 30 seconds or until they are smooth and pureed.While you’re processing the carrots, you may need to stop halfway through to scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula. Scrap down the sides of the bowl as many times as necessary to create a smooth mixture.
 After the carrots are pureed, add ½ cup (100 g) of packed brown sugar, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of lemon juice, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of orange zest, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of minced, fresh ginger root, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of ground cinnamon, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of ground mace, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground allspice to the food processor. Puree the mixture for another 30 seconds.For the best tasting cheesecake, use fresh lemon juice.
Stop the food processor and scrape down the sides of the bowl as necessary to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined.
 After you’ve mixed the carrots with the sugar and seasonings, let the mixture sit for 5 to 10 minutes. The carrot mixture should be cool when you mix in the cream cheese in the next step., Once the carrot mixture has cooled for several minutes, add 2 8-ounce (225 g) packages of cream cheese that have been diced and softened to the food processor. Puree the mixture for a minute until it is fully combined.Make sure to stop the food processor and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula before processing it again to ensure that all of the cream cheese is incorporated.
 Once you’ve mixed the cream cheese into the filling, add 4 eggs to the food processor. However, add the eggs one at a time, processing each addition before adding the next.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 After you’ve beaten the eggs into the cheesecake filling, carefully spread it over the prepared crust. Next, sprinkle the top of the cake with ¼ cup (30 g) of chopped pecans.If you prefer, you can substitute another nut for the pecans, such as walnuts.
 Once the cake is prepared, place it in the preheated oven. Allow it to bake for 50 to 60 minutes or until the center of the cake is just set.You can be sure that the cheesecake is finished baking by inserting a toothpick, knife, or cake tester into the center. If it comes out clean, the cheesecake is ready.
 When the cake is finished baking, remove the pan from the oven. Let the cake cool on wire for 10 minutes. Run a knife along the edges of the cake to help loosen it, and allow it cool for another hour.The cake is fairly fragile, so be careful when you’re running the knife around the edges.
 Once the cake is cool, cover the pan loosely with a piece of plastic wrap. Store it in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours before cutting the cake and serving it.You can prepare the cheesecake a day ahead and refrigerate it overnight if you like.
Cover any leftover cheesecake, and store it in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for 5 to 6 days.

