 Even moreso than a formal analysis of music getting a full emotional reaction requires you really invest yourself in listening. Find a time and place you won't likely be distracted, and put on the song. Let yourself focus in on the mood of the song. Listen carefully to the lyrics if there are any. While you're listening to the music, try to figure out how the artist was feeling when he wrote the song. Giving your heart and mind over to the music will make it a lot easier to communicate your own personal response to the material.Listening with headphones is usually the preferable mode of listening intently; it helps to block out all external sound, and you'll be able to pick details out of the mix more clearly.
 Music journalists and reviewers make it their business to describe music in ways that sound fiercely descriptive and appealing-- or unappealing. Music reviews have become a very helpful outlet in the internet age, and you can usually read many reviews about the most obscure albums. Reading some of them may give you a better understanding how to describe music yourself. The webzine Pitchfork is often recommended in this respect, but the pompous style of writing is not for everyone. More specialized and underground outlets like Heathen Harvest Periodical or Prog Sphere Magazine may offer better examples of descriptive writing.Music reviews are also found in print form. Newspapers will often include them alongside film reviews. You can also buy music books that will focus specifically on a band, scene or genre.
 Actively visualizing the music you are listening to ties in with intent focus. If you're looking for interesting ways of describing the music, it's a good idea to meditate and imagine the music scoring a scene to an imagined film inside your head. The process of actively visualizing music may seem obtuse at first if you're not used to it, but it can otherwise be a great way of appreciating music without distractions.


For example: If the music is sad, you might visualize rain or images of death and loss. If the music is upbeat, you might think of a car racing down a highway. If the music is gentle, it may bring to mind the image of kittens nestling in a handknit blanket. No interpretation is wrong; if you are sincerely getting an image in your head because of the music, it must be for a good reason.
 It makes sense that descriptions of music can and should be poetic as well. If someone is emotionally rapt by a piece of music, they will often explain their feelings in terms of a metaphor. Metaphors and other descriptive poetic devices (like similes) will enable you to describe the emotional experience of the music.For a metaphor, you might say: Deathspell Omega's Paracletus is an absolute whirlwind of calculated madness.
For a simile, you might say: Anton Bruckner's first symphony sounds like going to an evening gala at the height of 19th-century Prussia.
 If you are hearing a song that's left a particular impression on you, it's likely you can compare experiencing the music to something else you've heard in the past. Comparing music with other music is a solid way to develop strong associations and expectations in the other person's mind. Comparing music can be done in objective (genre, tempo, musicians, etc.) or subjective (mood, tone, etc.) terms.For example: "Dream Theater's "A Change of Seasons" reminds me quite a bit of Yes' "Close to the Edge" in terms of its sprawling design, but it's obviously quite a bit darker and heavier in comparison."

