 After something frightening happens kids may feel afraid or act extra clingy. This is a good time to give them some extra attention in order to reassure them and help them begin to feel safe again.It’s also a good way to observe them and determine how they are coping with what happened.


It’s okay to give them extra hugs, pats on the back, or to hold their hand a bit more. The physical contact can help reassure all of you.
Ask them to help you out with small tasks. The extra attention will help them feel safe. The task may give them a sense of purpose and may distract them from dwelling on what happened.
 Consistency and order can help kids feel safe because they know what to expect and what to do. This can be especially true after a difficult or emergency situation has occurred. Do what you can to create and stick to a routine so that your kids can redevelop a sense of normalcy.For example, if you are staying in a temporary disaster shelter, have a bedtime routine with your kids of washing your face, brushing your teeth, and reading a book together.
Or, for instance, if someone has broken into your home you might develop a routine of locking the doors and engaging the alarm before you all go upstairs to get ready for bed.
Try to keep their routine at this time as close as possible to their normal routine. For instance, getting them back in school as soon as it is safe can help return that sense of normalcy.
Allow your kids to play, laugh, draw, read, and do the things they normally do (as much as possible).
 Your attitude about a situation can have a big influence on how kids handle it and react to it. Do what you can to stay positive and maintain a good attitude so that your kids can feel safe and maintain a positive attitude also.Think of this as a teachable moment. You can show your kids how to stay calm and positive even when something bad happens.
Be grateful for what you do have and for what is okay. For example, you might say, “The fire did ruin the table, but we handled it quickly and stopped it from spreading. I’m grateful for that.”
Try using humor as a way to stay positive. For instance, you could joke, “Well, we did want to remodel that room,” if a tree falls into your den.

