 Everyone has a biological or internal clock that senses what time of day or night it is, so that your body can prepare itself for the activities you will be doing during that time. This internal clock is controlled by hormones and enzymes like cortisol. Your neural functioning is affected by this internal clock. Because of this, you should try to stick to the activities your brain thinks you should be doing at each time of day.


This means avoiding stimulating yourself with substances like caffeine at nighttime, as this can affect when you go to sleep.
Keep your work space well lit during the day, as this will help to keep your brain stimulated.
 When you are constipated, your body forms and absorbs toxic substances that can affect your brain and nervous system. In turn, these toxins may act as a trigger for seizure activity.


Eat plenty of fiber by including fiber-rich fruits and vegetables in your diet. You should also stay hydrated in order to maintain good bowel health.
 The nicotine in cigarettes acts on brain receptors for the excitatory neurotransmitter (brain chemicals that stimulate brain functions) acetylcholine. This increases neuronal firing or the process in which the neurons or nerves relay messages to each other through electrical impulses. If there are excessive electrical impulses in the brain, it may aggravate the occurrence of temporal lobe seizures.


Talk to your doctor about methods you can use to quit smoking. You can also read an article about the topic here.
 Stress deranges normal neuronal activities in the brain which may act as a trigger for seizures. Try to live as stress-free a life as possible in order to control any stress-induced seizures you may experience.



Try meditating to control your stress levels. To meditate, find a quiet, calm place to sit. Close your eyes and focus solely on the air passing in and out of your body as you breathe. Let your worries and anxieties slip away. There are several different kinds of meditation, including mantra meditation, and mindful meditation.Another way to fight stress is to engage both your body and mind by practicing yoga. Yoga can help to strengthen your body, while also acting as a form of meditation for your mind. You can practice yoga at home, or you can sign up for a yoga class at your local gym or meditation center., These are not to control seizures but to prevent accidents and injuries during a seizure episode. You do not have control of yourself during a seizure and it could put you at risk for injury, especially if you are alone.


Do not swim or go into any body of water by yourself. Wear a life jacket before going into the water.
Do not climb ladders or position yourself in precarious places, as you may fall if you have a seizure.
Do not drive or operate dangerous mechanical tools.

