 If someone’s posts, comments, and messages consistently make you feel worse than you did before, you’re probably dealing with a toxic person. A few common signs of a toxic personality include lying frequently, putting others down, and being excessively pessimistic.For instance, if someone you know is constantly posting gloomy, self-pitying statuses on Facebook to get attention, they may be toxic.
A person isn’t necessarily toxic just because you dislike them. Rather, a toxic person is someone who saps your energy or brings out the worst in you.
Identify how you feel after reading or listening to this person's posts, comments, or messages. Do you feel drained, tired, unmotivated, worthless, or depressed? If so, this person is more than likely toxic and you may need to remove them from your friend list on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and so on.;
, It’s easy to take someone else’s toxicity personally, but their behavior says more about them than it does about you. They probably act the same way with everyone else, too.For instance, you might feel annoyed if an old friend always tries to one-up you when you post about your successes in life. However, comments like these are rooted in the other person’s insecurity and aren’t actually about you.
 Don’t let toxic people demand all of your attention. Decide what you can tolerate from your negative friends and family members, and stand firm on your limits.For example, you might tell a family member that you won’t reply anymore when they try to start political arguments with you.
Toxic people often disregard boundaries, so be prepared to stand up for yourself if someone tries to push your limits.
 Refuse to dwell on negativity, even if that’s clearly what the other person wants. You can often shut down complainers by asking them how they plan to fix a bad situation.For instance, if your brother messages you every day about how he hates his job, say something like, “That sounds hard to deal with. What do you think you could do to make the situation better?”
If the person refuses to try to solve the problem, politely excuse yourself by saying something like, “Well, I’ve got to go. Hope you find a solution!”

, You don’t need to humor a toxic person, even if they’re a family member or longtime friend. If their behavior is wearing you out, don’t feel pressured to like their post or reply to their message, even if that upsets them.Seeking the approval of a toxic person can backfire, as they’ll be more likely to keep pestering you in the future.
 If you know someone is prone to starting drama, consider whether engaging with them on social media is worth it. It might be best to avoid sending them a friend request or commenting on their post in the first place., If a toxic person tries to stir up trouble with you, don’t give them any ammunition. Reply to a critical or competitive remark by saying something neutral or positive. If you refuse to play their game, they’ll move on and bother someone else.For instance, if your sister-in-law frequently leaves comments on your posts implying that her kids are smarter than yours, it might make your blood boil. However, it’s still best to avoid a fight by replying, “Sounds like your kids are doing well. Have a good day!”

, You don’t have to boost anyone’s ego, listen to excessive self-pity, or get involved in other people’s arguments. If you don’t like the way a conversation or comment thread is going, don’t feel guilty about excusing yourself.If someone is pressuring you to agree with them, consider being honest about your disagreement. They might get upset, but they probably won’t ask you to indulge them in the future.
For instance, you could tell a chronic complainer, “Well, actually, I do think you could do something to change your situation.”
If someone tries to draw you into drama that doesn’t pertain to you, you can just say, “That’s none of my business,” or “I’d rather not get involved.”

, Don’t start a conversation with a toxic person unless you have to. If they start a conversation with you, keep your responses brief and polite. Don’t ask them more questions than necessary, and make it clear when you’re done talking.For instance, you can signal that a conversation is over by saying something like, “Well, I’ve got to go study with a classmate now. Nice talking with you!”
While avoiding conversation with certain toxic people may be beneficial, there are certain circumstances where you may want to consider having a discussion with the toxic person. For instance, if the toxic person is a friend whom you’ve had in your life for a long time, then something may have happened in their life to bring on the toxic behavior. In this situation, maybe your friend will be open to discussing how their toxic personality is affecting your relationship.
Keep in mind that you will need to be prepared to hear both positive and negative feedback, and you need to be able to provide the same introspection. Approaching the toxic person with this type of compassion and willingness to resolve the issue honestly, will help you find ways to stop their toxic pattern without the loss of friendship.
 Once or twice a year, go through your friend list and ask yourself whether you’re glad to have all of these people in your life. If you dread receiving messages from certain people, or if there are a few friends you always end up arguing with online, they may be toxic., If you don’t want to hurt someone’s feelings by unfriending them on Facebook, you can unfollow them instead. When you unfollow someone, you remain friends with them, but you stop seeing their posts in your news feed.People can’t tell when you unfollow them.
 If you want to cut contact with someone, remove them from your friend list. Block them if you don’t want to see any of their posts or comments anymore.If you’re on a social media site other than Facebook, unfriending might be the only way to stop seeing someone’s posts.
Don’t feel obligated to explain yourself when you unfriend someone. The other person may just try to draw you into an argument.
 Instead of dwelling on a few people’s negative behavior, seek out friends and family members who improve your life. When you surround yourself with positivity, you’ll be less affected by other people’s toxic behavior, both on the internet and in real life.