 Being prepared is the first step towards giving your hamster a clean cage. Make sure that you have two sponges--one for cleaning and one for disinfecting. You should use a general household disinfectant for the cleaning. Just make sure to thoroughly rinse the surfaces of the cage after cleaning.Have paper towels or clothes handy so that you can dry the cage.
Use a brush to clean the corners of the cage. A toothbrush works well for getting into small spaces.;
, You need to remove your hamster from his cage during the cleaning process. Ideally, you should have a back-up cage for him to use while you clean. Consider putting your hamster in a different room while you clean, so that the smell of disinfectant does not bother him.If you do not have a back-up cage, consider buying a different type of container for your hamster. A popular choice is a large ball made for hamsters to roll around in. Check your local pet store for these items.
Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly before handling your hamster. This will get rid of any unfamiliar scents and let him get used to your natural scent.
 Once you have safely relocated your hamster, you need to remove old materials from the main cage. Your hamster cage should have a good supply of bedding material. Popular choices are paper, pellets, or alfalfa shavings. Empty all of the soiled bedding into the trash.Empty the food and water containers, too.
 Once the cage is empty, you can thoroughly clean it. Using a clean sponge, use water and a disinfectant to clean all surfaces of the cage. Make sure to follow all directions for the cleaning product you choose. Use a small brush to get into tight corners.Wipe down the cage with a clean, damp sponge after disinfecting.
Dry all surfaces of the cage with paper towels or clean clothes.
Add new materials. After the cage is clean and dry, replace the old bedding with new bedding.
Do not use cat litter or cedar shavings, as these can be harmful to your hamster's health.
 You should get in the habit of thoroughly disinfecting your hamster's cage once a week. Make this a part of your weekly schedule. You should also do general maintenance to care for your hamster each day.Every day you should remove wet or soiled bedding from your hamster's cage.
You should also check daily to make sure that the cage is in good repair, with no holes or loose doors.

