 After all, the more, the merrier. It doesn't matter if it's 2 or 12, just having a few friends around will make everything more fun. Try to make it a number that's big enough for group activities but small enough to be manageable and still fun.


If you're not sure how many to invite, plan your night and then pick a number. Sometimes it will determine itself -- how many people you can fit in the car, an even number for teams, or the amount of chairs you have in your basement.;
, Go out to eat to your favorite restaurant, stay in and order pizza, ask your parents to cook dinner for you or cook it yourselves! Basically, feed your hungry friends and have fun messing around with them, not worrying about school or drama. Good food can make a good start to a great party.


It's a great idea to keep your friends busy -- everyone can build their own personal pizza with crazy toppings, decorate a cake, or build their own sandwiches or sundaes. Or just make mom and dad take care of it! Once everyone is fed, you can plan the rest of your party.
 Comedies are great with your friends! And then afterward, have everyone spend the night, staying up as late as possible. Who can make it to sunrise? Sure, there's already No Sleep Thursday, but it can be any day of the week. Movie marathon, perhaps?


If you're staying up late, make sure you have plenty of sugar to stay awake, lights to keep you awake, and things to keep you from getting bored and sleepy. You'll have a soda-can pyramid large enough for Facebook in no time. Mountain Dew fort, anyone?

, If they're girls (or boys who wear make-up...), of course! Invite some friends around to your house, have them bring their make-up and get going on making each other beautiful. Who cares if you look silly? You'll still have fun giggling at the photos! While you're making each other over, have a good chat about school, other friends, boys, movies, music, celebrities - anything!


You could also make this super ridiculous, too. Bright blue eyeshadow, red lips -- the kind of stuff you see in those terrible glamour shots. Then take pictures and have a sort of fashion show, pretending to be haute couture models. Do each other's make up with crazy colors, glitters, and hues.
 Save your money during the weeks before your party (and ask your friends to do the same) and get to shopping. Have fun trying on new outfits, even if you can't afford them! Heck, walk into stores you would never walk into and try on things you would never wear. But don't let the salesperson know!


If not the mall, what kind of shop could you just go crazy at? It's your day! Do you go nuts in bookstores? Would you love to spend hours trying on jewelry? Painting pottery? Outlet stores? Thrift shopping?

, You probably live pretty close to the pool or to the beach -- provided it's not winter, of course. If it's doable, make an entire day of it. Have each friend bring some snacks, their towel, and spend the day playing pool games and soaking up the sun. When everyone's tired of swimming, you can play backyard or beach games and have a barbecue or a bonfire.


Make sure your friends are cool with this! Some people either don't like it, can't swim, or are uncomfortable being in swimming suits. Run it by your friends first if this is how you'd like to celebrate your birthday.
 You can make your own karaoke joint in your basement! Buy or rent a machine (or find a friend that has one) and become a pop star for one night. When everyone's vocal chords are tired, start getting some competitive gaming on.


Make sure your parents are cool giving you control of part of the house! Let them know your plans so they don't worry and, more importantly, don't walk in every 5 minutes to check what's going on.
 They're not just for babies -- games can get any party going, can break the ice, and get everyone laughing. But you probably don't want those old games you've been playing for years. Here are some new ideas!


Go for a scavenger hunt. Have your parents (or any outside source) hide things around the house/neighborhood. Two teams could look for different clues and it could be a race to see who gets the last clue first.
Go for a photo scavenger hunt. Two teams each have a camera and take five or six photos in a given amount of time. They then exchange cameras and the other team has to recreate the photos in the exact same position in the exact same place. If you can travel around town, find a place they might not recognize!
Play balloon dare. Write dares on little pieces of paper, insert them into balloons, and blow them up. Then people have to go around choosing balloons and popping them, one at a time, completing the dare inside. But don't be too mean -- make the dares doable and only a little nerve-wracking!

, Invite 5-12 friends and all go down to the park for a day. Take a massive picnic, nail polishes, towels to sunbathe on and lots of sunglasses. Take a few footballs or other balls to kick around too.


If there's an outdoor pool near you, you could do the same idea there, chill out on the grass near the pool and take a dip if you get hot.
After you could all go home and have dinner, eat cake and then have a few of your friends stay for a sleepover.
 Because whether you're 3, 13, or 103, cake is part of any good birthday. When all is said and done (you might not want to have everyone in cake comas before you go laser tagging), bust out the cake and ring in your new year. Cakes and cupcakes are becoming so trendy, you could probably get one in any flavor you can imagine.


If you're having a party, you might want to provide a few other things for your guests, too. Drinks (water, soda), cake (possibly different flavors or an alternative for those who don't like it or are allergic), and snacks will keep your guests from leaving for the nearest Mickey D's.
 Split the party into two groups and see who will win the game -- what should the winners get? Everyone can bowl -- and those who aren't good at it usually can have fun laughing at themselves. See if there's a late night party night going on for the weekend of your birthday. Sometimes it's cheaper, too!


Bowling alleys usually have pool tables, dart boards, and an arcade, too! Not to mention the awesome, greasy bowling alley food. So when you're tired of repeatedly throwing a ball at 10 little pins, there will be more to do a hop, skip, and a jump away.
 Just like bowling, it's something everyone can do. And who doesn't like shooting people? If you have enough people for teams (and an even number), why not? Your birthday will get everyone's blood pumping for sure.


Being active is always good -- especially if it's a little out of the ordinary. Try going to a skateboarding park, playing frisbee golf, volleyball, going for a hike, or boating. Do something you don't normally do!

, Either save up your money for a professional treatment during the weeks before your party, ask your parents to pay for it as your birthday present or use your own beauty products and make over each other at your house! There are plenty of treatments to choose from and you'll feel great afterwards!


Even if you can't afford a trip to the spa, don't let that stop you! You and your friends can give each other mani-pedis, do facials (grab the cucumber slices!) and start a massage line! You get first position, of course.
 Just camping in your backyard works best at a party, just in case anyone wants to go inside the house during the night. You can sit around the fire, playing games, eating and drinking, telling stories, playing guitar, and enjoying the night sky, flickering flames, and good company. Remember the marshmallows!


The main thing that ruins a good bonfire is running out of wood and kindle. Make sure you have enough matches/lighter fluid and newspaper/wood/things to burn to keep the night going. And enough hot dogs, s'mores supplies, and soda!

, Sometimes staying at home, going to the movies, or to the cinema just isn't special enough. Take the day to a theme park! Just make sure all your friends have the entire day free, have some pocket change for food, and like roller coasters!


If the nearest theme park is a bit far away, ask your parents if you and a few friends can stay the night at a nearby hotel and make the weekend of it. You can pack sandwiches, an overnight bag, and get all the free coffee and shampoo you want! Now that's a birthday.
 Instead of the basic "go to the movies," or "go to a restaurant," do something you almost never do. Go horse back riding (as long as you and your friends can horse ride!). Go to a comedy show or live theatre. Paint mugs. Go to the aquarium. Dress up in prom wear. Why do what you do every weekend?


Anything normal can be made not normal with just a tweak or two. Go to your favorite restaurant, but dress up like you're going to hit the clubs. Hit the theme park with a list of 100 different things to do and go crazy getting it done. Turn making dinner into a cooking show. It's all in your imagination!

, One short trip to Pinterest will give you hundreds and hundreds of ideas. You don't need to do your classic "white trash bash" or "90s" party. It's 2017 and it's time to get creative. Have a glow party. Thrift store prom. Sandwich party. What have none of your friends ever done?


Talk to your parents about what's doable and what's not. Having a money party might be difficult, you know? So throw them a list of ideas and find out what you both think would be doable and fun.
 Whether it's spring, summer, winter, or fall, there's probably something going on where you and your friends could go cheer, eat popcorn, and get rowdy. Does your area have a league for baseball, hockey, soccer, football or basketball? Local leagues generally have cheap tickets and the games can be a lot of fun and totally energizing.


Make it extra fun by bringing soda, snacks, blankets, and chairs. It's like a picnic that comes with its own entertainment! Bring some travel games, too, in case the game has long breaks and you and your friends need to kill time.
 If you're celebrating on the weekend, there's probably something nearby that could be fun -- even if you're not sure! Take the chance on a band you've never seen or a show you've never heard of. Look up what's happening in your area and buy tickets as soon as possible. Make a night of it!


Sometimes concerts go late and can be expensive. Be sure to clear everything by your friends first before you make plans. They may be thinking pizza and video games when you have a lot of crazy ideas planned. But maybe you can change their minds, too!

