 This is one of the quickest and easiest ways to tell if the glasses are fake. A fake pair might say "inspired by", "like", or simply misspell the word "Gucci.” Look at every part of the sunglasses to check for misspellings., All Gucci sunglasses are only made in Italy by the Safilo Group. There should be a CE after it says "Made in Italy". This stands for "Conformité European", which means "European Conformity.”Scratch the paint that say says “Made in Italy.” If the paint comes off, then the sunglasses are likely fake.
 After the letters GG (stands for Guccio Gucci) there should be a model number. The model number will have four numbers followed by an “S” for sunglasses. Look up this model number on the internet. The sunglasses that come up in the search should look like your sunglasses. Sometimes, counterfeiters will put a model number on the glasses that matches a different type of glasses.You can also look for the color code. The color code should have five digits/numbers, which can be all letters, all numbers, or a mix.
 If there are nose pads, inspect them. The Gucci logo should be engraved on the metal piece in the middle. Many fake Gucci sunglasses do not have this on the nose pads., Sunglasses may not be polarized, even if they are dark. Put on the sunglasses and look at your computer monitor at different angles. If the glasses turn dark at some point, then they are polarized., Hinges on real Gucci sunglasses should not be made of plastic or have screws attaching the hinges to the frame. In fact, there shouldn’t be any screws at all on your sunglasses. After you’ve checked the hinges, test their movement. They should move fluidly without getting stuck., Fake sunglasses are typically made of cheaper, lighter materials. Real Gucci sunglasses should have a not heavy, but significant weight when held in your hand. You can look up online at the Gucci store what the weight for your particular model of sunglasses should be., Real Gucci sunglasses come with a certificate of authenticity and warranty that can be found inside of the packaging. The certificate of authenticity should come as a card in an envelope. The back of the card should have information about the color and style of the sunglasses. Compare the information on the card with your sunglasses to make sure they match., Real Gucci sunglasses should come in a Gucci box. The box should say “Gucci” in a logo and font that matches the Gucci on your sunglasses. Newer models of boxes are usually brown with gold lettering, but older models will vary the color and style of the packaging.Keep in mind that fake sunglasses can be put into real packaging.
 A carry case should come inside of the box. The logo and font should match the box and glasses as well. Inspect the carry case to make sure that the stitching is even and straight. Newer carry cases are usually brown with gold lettering, but older models will vary in style., A dust cloth should come with the box and carry case. The cloth should have the Gucci logo in the center that is consistent with the logo and font of the sunglasses, box, and carry case. Even if you have an older model, the dust cloth should be consistent in style with your other accessories., The sunglasses should come packaged inside of a plastic bag. The plastic bag will have a manufacturer’s sticker placed on top of the plastic. Check the sticker to make sure that the details match up with your sunglasses., The best and most reliable way to make sure you’re purchasing real Gucci sunglasses is to buy directly from a Gucci store. This way, there will be no doubt or need to check the sunglasses to make sure that they’re real. Not every area has a Gucci store, but Gucci does have a store that you can purchase from directly online.If ordering from Gucci online, make sure that your package has not been opened or tampered with in any way.
 If you can’t buy directly from Gucci, the next best way to assure that the sunglasses are real is to buy from a reliable retailer. For example, Bloomingdale’s, Neiman Marcus, or Nordstrom are some reliable luxury department stores that sell Gucci products. These department stores are sometimes found in standalone locations, but often they are found in malls., If you must buy from an online retailer that is not Gucci or an upscale department store, then make sure a return policy is offered. Only buy the sunglasses if there is a conditional return policy, and if the seller is trusted and has good ratings. This will give you the chance to inspect the sunglasses for authenticity before deciding to keep or return them.
 You will often see street vendors selling what they claim to be “luxury” items on busy streets. More often than not, the goods will be fake. You can tell this by the price of the products and by a quick inspection. Unless you are okay with fake goods, avoid street vendors.
 Gucci sunglasses are known for being notoriously expensive. The price is usually at or above $200. It's unlikely that an authentic pair of sunglasses will be much cheaper than that price.