 In particular, look for clothes that are made from cotton. A cotton shirt and a diaper are often enough to dress your baby in on hot days. Cotton absorbs body moisture, which means that the rash will be able to heal without continuing to be exacerbated by sweat.Cotton is also hypoallergenic, which means it will not cause your baby to get a rash like some other materials will.
Avoid washing your baby’s clothes using a strong detergent and bleach. Chemicals from these products can also cause rashes.;
, Calamine lotion is used to treat minor rashes and skin irritations. Another type of cream your doctor may prescribe is hydro-cortisone cream. To apply either of these lotions:


First, read the instruction label to read any special instructions. Put a small amount of the cream on a soft cloth, and then rub the cream on to the rash. Avoid getting the creams anywhere near your baby’s mouth, eyes, or nose.
It is important to ask your pediatrician before using certain lotions and creams on children younger than 6 months of age because there may be contents in these products that your baby is allergic to.
 Cornstarch is an effective product for absorbing moisture from the skin. It has a soothing effect that may relieve itchiness from rashes.Dust cornstarch on baby’s neck after a bath or before taking your baby to participate in an outdoor activity.
 Oats contain a very unique compound called avenanthramides. This compound is known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferatory properties, which means that oatmeal may be able to help treat rashes.As mentioned above, you can add oats to your baby’s bath. You can also try using oat extract. Wrap a cut of oatmeal in a clean washcloth. Twist the end of the washcloth to close and seal the contents. Soak the washcloth in warm water until the cloth and oats are wet. Gently squeeze the water content of the soaked oatmeal on to the baby’s rash. Pat the area dry.
 Applying a cold compress can help to reduce inflammation and irritation where the rash has formed. To make a cold compress:


Soak a washcloth in very cold water. Apply the cloth to the area for 5 to 10 minutes. Pat the area dry after this time has ended. Repeat this process as needed.

