 As a general rule, most dogs should transition off of puppy food and on to adult food when they are around one year old. This is when most dogs reach their full adult size and no longer need a huge amount of calories to support growth.Changing your dog's food when it is one year old is a general rule. Depending on other factors, your dog may need to switch a few months earlier or a few months later than its first birthday. The most common reason you might need to switch your puppy to dog food early is if he has gained too much weight or has been neutered.;
, Keep a puppy on puppy food until they are 12 months old, or change earlier if they are neutered or if they become overweight.


Depending on how old your dog is when it gets fixed, you may want to feed it puppy food for a few months afterword.
 Different dog breeds should be switched off of puppy food at different times. This is due to the differences in periods of growth for different types of dogs and when they reach their full grown size. In general, large dog breeds should be kept on puppy food for longer than small or toy breed dogs because they take longer to reach their full size.In general, large breed dogs, such as great Danes, should be kept on puppy food until they are 13 to 14 months old.
In general, small breed dogs, such as Chihuahuas, should be kept on puppy food until they are 7 to 9 months old.
 A puppy that is overweight may need to be switched off of puppy food sooner than expected. A puppy that is underweight may need to stay on puppy food until it gets its weight up. Discuss your dog's weight with its veterinarian and come up with a plan to get the dog to an ideal weight. This could be done by switching the dog to adult food, giving it fewer meals each day, or simply lowering the amount of puppy food it gets.Most often, your puppy will be weighed when it goes to the veterinarian. Your vet will tell you its weight and whether that weight is within a normal range.
 Once you have decided to switch your dog's food from puppy food to adult food you will need to find an adult food that is good for your dog. The easiest way to pick an adult food is to discuss options with your veterinarian. There are so many choices out there that it can be overwhelming without a little guidance.


When discussing adult food options with your veterinarian, be honest about your financial situation and what you can afford to pay for dog food. Your veterinarian may then be able to give you a few options that will be within your budget.
 If you try to switch your dog's food too abruptly it can get very sick due to a lack of bacteria that can digest a different food.Its system is simply not prepared to digest a new food. With this in mind, you will need to switch your dog's food gradually, adding a little bit more of the new food and a little bit less of the old food for every meal over the course of a week.This means that for the first couple of days transitioning food you mix a quarter new food with three quarters old food.
On the third and fourth days you mix half new food and half old food.
On the fifth and sixth days you mix together three quarters new food with one quarter old food.
On the seventh day you give the dog just the new food.
 While in most cases the food transition can happen over the course of one week, some dogs have delicate systems that require a longer period to get used to new food. If your dog is having difficulty digesting its new food, then slow down the pace. Mix less of the new food in to its previous food and wait until it is easily digesting a mixture before moving forward with transition.Signs that your dog is having a hard time adjusting to its new food usually include digestive problems, including vomiting or diarrhea.
 There is the chance that your dog will simply reject the new dog food that you have chosen. If your dog refuses to eat the new food, even when mixed with the old food, then you may need to find a new dog food.


This is common if you are trying to transition between wet and dry dog food. A dog that is used to one or the other may have a hard time eating a different consistency of food. In general, however, wet food is often more palatable to dogs and you may have a hard time getting your dog to eat kibble once it has eaten wet food., Once your dog is on its new adult diet, you will need to adjust the amount of food that it is receiving. The new food will have a different caloric content and you will need to take that in to account. To begin with, follow the directions on the food packaging, which usually suggests a serving size based on your dog's weight and age.As with the type of adult food you are feeding your dog, you can discuss serving size with your dog's veterinarian. They should be able to suggest how many calories your dog should be eating per day.

