 Most herbs are safe for allergy relief, but your medical history might put you at risk for certain treatments.


Discuss other remedies that might work for you if you are unable to use herbs.;
, This is the same thing that over the counter drugs with antihistamines do.
 A member of the daisy family, this herb comes from Europe and can be taken in tablet form.


Look for Butterbur tablets online or in retailers based in European countries. It can be hard to find in the United States.
Take a tablet 4 times a day to get the same result as an over the counter antihistamine. A study published in The British Medical Journal reports that the effects are the same, without any drowsiness.
 It is inexpensive and can be purchased online or in health food stores all over the world.


Look for nettles that are available in a tincture made from fresh or freeze dried nettle leaves. Using 2 to 4 mL (0.4 to 0.8 tsp.) 3 times per day will help relieve symptoms. You can also find it in a capsule form.
Wait 2 or 3 days if the nettles are not immediately effective. It often takes a few days for them to start working.
 Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) is also called orange-root and it grows wild in Canada and the United States.


Drink the tonic after applying a saline nasal spray to your nose for best results. The saline will clear out congestion and the Goldenseal will use its astringent and antibiotic properties to help rid the nasal passages of pollen.
 This herb is native to colder regions in the northern hemisphere but can be found in many health food stores and through homeopathic retailers.


Add a 1/2 tsp. (2.4 mL) to a cup of hot water to make a tea. This herb will help the body block antibodies that cause allergies.
 The licorice root is a plant used to flavor foods, drinks and tobacco and it also decreases inflammation and allergic reactions.


Take only moderate amounts of licorice, as directed by your doctor. Too much of this herb can cause high blood pressure and drain your body of its potassium reserves.

