 Remember that this is going to be outside with a bunch of hot sweaty and smelly people so before you go take a shower, you're probably going to want another one when you get home.;
, Almost all amphitheaters let you bring in at least one sealed bottle of water. Some people have entered with a gallon jug of water because it was sealed.
 If you burn easily bring sunscreen and don't wear black clothes or long sleeves, especially in the summer. People wearing long sleeves have been known to beg friends for cash to buy a shirt because it gets so hot.
 Mosh pits can get pretty dangerous and they form fast. Keep watching the area around you. A mosh pit is pretty scary if you've never been in one before or if you just don't like being in them. The area around them for a good 15–20 yards (13.7–18.3 m) can also be bad to stand in as you could get hit or trampled of people wanting to be in it. If one forms around you and you have to get out, get out fast and don't worry about your blanket, trying to get it will more than likely end up in you getting your head stepped on.
 If it rains enjoy it as it really cools you down.
 Try not to get too close to the front of the stage. Seeing as that's where most people go, it's way hotter there and that's where mosh pits like to form and you will get hurt it's also very crowded.
 Rather than blowing your money on that $10.00 cheeseburger, save it for a shirt. If you don't have enough for a shirt, you could possibly buy one in the parking lot for about $10.00. Some people had the experience of buying t-shirts for $4 each, instead of the usual $20.00 because they waited to buy them. But be aware that if you wait too long for that price to go down, you might not get the shirt that you wanted: as t-shirts sometimes sell out very quickly.
 Check online or phone to see if the venue allows backpacks. Concerts sometimes have free stuff and you don't want to carry it around all day. You also might bring a notepad and a disposable camera (outdoor venues usually let you bring one) to get pictures with bands you might be able to meet because wouldn't it suck to meet a great band with no paper for them to sign and no camera with which to get a photograph?

, It's rude to other people who may be enjoying the band - it makes them hate you. People can be very touchy about the musicians they like.

