 Zippers come in a variety of colors and styles. For this project, you will be braiding zippers together, so pick a few different colors. Shop online, or at a craft store, for the following materials:3 7-inch YKK Zippers
12 fold over crimp ends
7 mm jump rings
Lobster clasp
Scissors
Chain nose pliers
Bent nose pliers;
, On each zipper you should see a small metal clasp connecting the two zipper sides. Turn the zipper over and look for the small metal prongs connecting the two sides. Use the chain nose pliers to bend the prongs up, and pull the clasp off.Pull the zipper slide down, and separate the two pieces.You can also use scissors to remove the clasp. Cut across the zipper just above the clasp. You will lose some length from your bracelet if you use scissors instead of the chain nose pliers.Repeat this process for each zipper, until you have 6 individual pieces. Use the same method for each zipper., Use your scissors to remove the zipper teeth from each piece. Cut along the teeth, removing any excess cloth from the zipper. Set each strand of zipper teeth aside., Place a crimp end at each end of each strand of zipper teeth. Fold each side of the crimp over and push them down to close the crimp around the strand.Give the crimp a slight pull to make sure it's secure., The number of jump rings you'll need for your bracelet will depend on your wrist size. You will need both sets of pliers to open the jump rings.Hold one side of the jump ring with the chain nose pliers, and one side with the bent nose pliers. Make sure the opening of the jump ring is between the pliers.Pull one pair of pliers towards you, and push the other pair away from you. Don't pull the pliers to the side. Try to maintain the circle shape of the ring, and take care not to pull the ring apart., Thread each of the zipper strands onto the jump ring, and use the pliers to push the jump ring back together. Thread some wire through the jump ring and tie it around something to secure the bracelet.You could also secure the bracelet using tape or a clipboard.
Make three sets of two zippers and braid the zippers together. Keep one set on the left side, one in the middle, and one on the right.The set that was on the left is now in the middle. Cross the right set over this set. Now, the right set is in the middle. Cross the set that is currently on the left, over the set in the middle. Continue this process until you have finished braiding the zippers.When you have finished braiding the zippers, secure the loose ends in another jump ring., Open another jump ring and put a lobster clasp on it. Put the jump ring with the lobster clasp on it through one of the jump rings on the end of the bracelet.Add as many jump rings as you need to the other end of the bracelet. Don't make your bracelet too tight. It should fit comfortably around your wrist.,