 One of the biggest causes of aging is the sun. Exposing your skin to the sun over time can make it look older; therefore, pick a sunscreen with an SPF of 15 or higher. You can also pick a moisturizer with a sunscreen.Make sure to pick a broad-spectrum sunscreen, meaning the sunscreen protects you from both UVA and UVB rays.Some experts recommend SPF 30 or higher. Also, try to pick one that is at least water resistant so it will stay on your skin.;
, Moisturizing your skin every day can make a large difference in how your skin ages;however, it's important to pick one that's right for your skin.For oily skin, pick something light that's water-based. You should look for one that's noncomedogenic (it will say it on the bottle) to help keep your pores from clogging. For dry skin, you need something with more weight. An oil-based moisturizer is preferable. If you're somewhere in the middle, you should probably stick with a something lighter that's water-based. Most moisturizers are labelled for skin type. As you get older, though, your skin will need more moisture, so pick an oil-based moisturizer no matter what your skin type as you age.If your skin is sensitive, pick a moisturizer that will soothe rather than irritate. Ingredients that may irritate include scents, dyes, and acids. Ingredients that will soothe include aloe and chamomile.To cut down on your routine, consider buying a moisturizer with a built-in sunscreen, so you don't need to apply two products.
 While a sunless tanner isn't anti-aging on its own, tanning in the sun or at tanning beds can age your skin faster; therefore, using a tanning cream instead can be safer for your skin.If you're new to sunless tanners, pick a lotion or gel, which are easier to apply than mousses. Also, stick with a lighter color, as you can always apply more if you need to do so, but you can't take it off as easily if your skin becomes too dark.Also, apply a tiny bit in a small area before applying it to your whole body. That way, you can see what the color looks like on you.Skip applying sunless tanners around your mouth, nose, and eyes. While sunless tanners are generally more safe than tanning in the sun, the FDA hasn't approved their use near these areas., Washing the day off your face at the end of the day is important in keeping your skin healthy and young. Cleansers are often better than soaps.They are better targeted to deal with various skin problems.When choosing a cleanser, look for one that's meant for your skin type. They should be labelled to help you choose.If you have a specific problem, like acne, pick a cleanser that helps deal with that issue. Once again, the bottles should be labelled for skin problems, too., Creams with antioxidants can be beneficial. They help absorb free radicals that can cause damage to your skin.Antioxidants to look for include vitamin C, vitamin B3, and vitamin E. These vitamins are particularly effective in a cream because they are able to be absorbed into the skin more readily than others.A free radical is just oxygen that isn't stable.As an added bonus, vitamin B3 helps your skin retain moisture., Though vitamin A is also an antioxidant, it does more than just work on free radicals. It can also help increase production of collagen fibers in your skin. Collagen fibers affect elasticity, meaning it can cut down on wrinkles.Retinol is a form of vitamin A, so look for that on the label., This ingredient can also help reduce wrinkles. In addition, it may help protect your skin against the sun., These ingredients mimic peptides in your skin. Specifically, they can mimic collagen or elastin, the fibers the help regulate elasticity. They encourage your skin to produce more of these molecules, which in turn helps reduce wrinkles on your skin., Certain extracts also act as antioxidants. In addition, many of them are also anti-inflammatory, helping your skin be less puffy. Two to look for are green tea extract and grape seed extract. Grape seed extract also helps you heal from skin injuries., Using multiple anti-aging products, such as wrinkle creams, can actually work against you. Multiple products can irritate your skin, which does not help you with aging. Stick to one main product directly aimed at anti-aging., Before you slather a cream all over your face, it's best to test it on your skin. Put a small amount on the side of your neck. Leave it on for 24 hours, checking to see if you have a reaction to the cream, such as a rash. If you do, you don't want to use it on your face., Just because a product is more expensive, that does not mean it's more effective. Some less-expensive products can have the same or similar ingredients., You may think you are able to self-diagnose your skin, but a professional can help you decide what you actually need. Ask your dermatologist what's best for your skin. You may also consider talking to other skin care professionals.