 Many short-term memory problems can be attributed not so much to the ability of the brain, but the ability of the person to focus on a single task.If you've already forgotten the name of the nice gentleman who was just introduced to you not five minutes ago, it might not be only a memory problem. Were you really listening when you were introduced, or were you thinking ahead to what to say next? Instead, as you shake hands with the fellow, look him in the eye and repeat back the name out loud. Then, say it silently to yourself a couple of times (you'll probably have a few moments when you can tune out the small talk). Make a conscious, active effort to pay attention whenever you know you're likely to forget something., Whatever it is that you have to remember, commit it to writing. Use a white board, bulletin board, notebook, the palm of your hand, or any other format that helps. Write down your shopping list, your errands, your schedule, and even what you needed from downstairs, if you need to., In addition to writing down what you need to do, you can also "draw" it in your mind by visualizing yourself performing the task in as much detail as possible. If you need to remember to lock the door, for example, imagine yourself shutting the door and looking down at your hand on the doorknob. Then visualize yourself pulling the keys out of your pocket, hearing them jingle, inserting the key into the doorknob, locking the door, pulling the key out, and putting it back into your pocket. The more detailed your visualization, the more likely it will "stick"., Leave items where they are visible and where you will see them until you do whatever needs to be done to them. This could mean things like placing things to go upstairs at the bottom of the stairs, putting bills and paper in a certain, conspicuous location until they are processed, or simply always feeding the cat before you make your own breakfast.
It may help to tie tasks to a particular day of the week or a particular activity you already do. For instance, if you have a cactus plant to water once every two weeks, water it on the same day you get your paycheck.
We all know how powerful habits can be, so why not use them to your advantage? Form habits to help keep you get things done subconsciously, so that you're not depending as much on your conscious mind to remember. Attach a new habit to an old habit, like taking your medication every time you brush your teeth.
Make routines. Write them down, too. Then, place a note or other cue in a prominent location until the new routine becomes habit. Every time you get home, place your keys in the same place. Every time you leave, make sure they are with you, along with any other items you place nearby.
 A tickler file is a file that is set up by date. Have folders or divisions in the file for each day of the month. When something arrives in your purview that requires your attention at a later date, place it in the tickler file for that date. Be sure to check your tickler file daily., Don't rely on your memory to tell you when to be where tomorrow, and certainly don't rely on it for next week or next month. Instead, write it down in the calendar of your choice and make a habit of checking it regularly. Keep one calendar for all your appointments. Don't keep one for business and another for personal dates., Computer programs and even websites are available that include such things as calendars that will remind you when the time comes and to-do lists. Of course, you must have access to the computer before you forget an item., Whether in a class, in a meeting, or simply for personal reasons, take notes. Even if you never reread them, often the act of writing something down will cause it to go through your brain. If you do need to look back, you'll have a record of it.

Keep a notebook, or keep one notebook for each general subject, project, or interest. Having different colors and even shapes and sizes will help you to keep different notebooks straight.
If you manage to take notes electronically, a desktop search engine, such as Google Desktop or Copernic, can help you find old notes based on keywords. That means you don't have to spend as much time carefully organizing.
 For example, if fresh vegetables get lost in the crisper drawers until they turn to mush, don't put them in the crisper drawers. Instead, hang them in clear bags or set them on the shelves up where you can see them.
If you need to have things piled on your desk to ensure that they get attention, go ahead and pile. Use baskets or trays if you'd like to make it look neater or keep some order to it.
If you must take certain sets of items with you when you go somewhere, leave them in a bag when not in use. Canvas tote bags and basic duffel bags are inexpensive (try any thrift store), and you can have one for music lessons and another for gym clothes.
Set things up so you don't have to remember. If you habitually leave your shoes by the bed at night, or by the door when you come in, place a basket, shelf, or rack in that spot and make that where you put shoes that are in use.
 If there is something you do routinely, write down that routine. It could be as basic as the order in which you prefer to get ready for work or school in the morning, or it could be as intricate as the procedure for getting a part of your job done. You can use an electronic checklist or place the checklist in a plastic sheet protector and use erasable markers to check things off., For instance, if you cook for your family, write down your menu plans. (Hint: you may be able to do this all at once for the month or even the year.) Then, stick to your plan. In this example, purchase just the groceries you need for the week (take your list!), then prepare those meals this week., Memory has a lot to do with confidence. If you think or believe that you have such a problem, it is likely to come up automatically even if it is not there. This applies especially while trying to remember something. Your lack of confidence would eventually lead to a state where you forget the habit of remembering. Develop confidence by appreciating yourself whenever you remember something you usually forget.