 The first step in helping a lost or injured pigeon is to capture it safely. The method you use will depend on what condition the bird might be in. Take a look at the following methods that you can use to capture a pigeon:Get a container ready to hold the bird once you capture it.
If possible, put the bird in your container without using your hands to avoid further injury.
Throwing a blanket over a bird can help contain them while you capture it.
Leaving food in the container or enclosed room can help lure a bird in.
If you must, an injured and non-flying bird can usually be captured with just your hands.
 If you find a pigeon that needs your help you will need to provide a safe spot for them to rest. Giving them a comfortable space can help them relax and keep stress to a minimum.Keep the enclosure clean and dry.
A bird cage is ideal to use.
You can use something simple such as a cardboard box. However, you may want to use a mesh covering for the top of it to allow light and air into the box.
 If the pigeon is lost or injured, it will likely also be hungry and thirsty. While you decide what to do next with the pigeon, make sure you have given them access to fresh food and water.Pigeons can eat grains, greens, and seeds. A pigeon can also enjoy most fruits.
Do not offer your pigeon avocado, as they are thought to be toxic to pigeons.
Make sure you offer clean water. You can put the water in a simple bowl for them to drink from.
 Many pigeons are owned by other people and will have a noticeable band around one of its legs. This band will have a number or code on it that will help identify the owner of the pigeon. If the pigeon is unable to fly back to their owner, you can use this number to help return the bird yourself. Look for some of the following markings on the band to learn more about the owner:A.U. stands for the American Racing Pigeon Union
IF indicates the International Federation
C.U. stands for the Canadian Racing Pigeon Union
Other markings may indicate individual owners or private clubs.
 Once you've captured the pigeon and cared for its basic needs, you will want to deliver it to someone who can care for it further. Finding either a wildlife rehabilitation center or aviary veterinarian will allow the bird to get the care it needs. These centers can also help the pigeon be reunited with its owner.

