 During pregnancy, the baby gets nourishment from what you eat. Remember that you don't need to eat for two, as your level of activity isn't as high as it was before.;
, Too much vitamin A can be dangerous for the unborn child. If you take extra vitamin tablets, read the label on the container. The National Research Council's recommended dietary allowance for vitamin A during pregnancy is 1,000 retinol equivalents (RE)/day, which is equivalent to 3,300 IU as retinol or 5,000 IU of vitamin A obtained from the typical American diet as a combination of retinol and carotenoids, e.g., beta-carotene. An average balanced diet contains approximately 7,000-8,000 IU of vitamin A derived from different sources. The USRDA (recommended daily allowance) established by the Food and Drug Administration is 8,000 IU/day. Supplementation of 8,000 IU vitamin A (as retinol/retinyl esters) per day should be considered the recommended maximum prior to or during pregnancy. , Eat and drink at least four dairy products and calcium-rich foods a day to help ensure that you are getting 1000-1300 mg of calcium in your daily diet during pregnancy.You can also take calcium tablets to ensure your intake on vitamin D.
 Because the central nervous system begins to develop during the first weeks of pregnancy it's wise to take extra folic acid and continue until 8 weeks after conceiving. This reduces the chance of your baby getting neural tube defects such as spina bifida.



Avoid alcohol during pregnancy. Alcohol has been linked to premature delivery, intellectual disability, birth defects, and low birth weight in babies.
The Listeria bacteria can be harmful for the baby and can even cause a miscarriage. You can find the bacteria in milk, and raw meat or fish. That means that fillet American, half baked steak or carpaccio, and sushi are out.
Limit caffeine to no more than 300 mg per day. The caffeine content in various drinks depends on the beans or leaves used and how it was prepared. An 8-ounce cup of coffee has about 150 mg of caffeine on average while black tea has typically about 80 mg. A 12-ounce glass of caffeinated soda contains anywhere from 30-60 mg of caffeine. Remember, chocolate contains caffeine -- the amount of caffeine in a chocolate bar is equal to 1/4 cup of coffee.Decrease the total amount of fat you eat to 30% or less of your total daily calories. For a person eating 2000 calories a day, this would be 65 grams of fat or less per day.You see the intestine bacteria Salmonella a lot with pigs and poultry. Handle meat products hygienically and prevent cross contamination. By cooking meats thoroughly, you are killing the bacteria.
 Do you have a huge craving in gherkins, chocolate or something else? You are not the only one! Although there is no widely accepted explanation for food cravings, almost two-thirds of all pregnant women have them. Be smart with it: give in now and then, but don't go crazy because you can spoil your appetite. ,, Studies have shown that eating two servings of seafood every week can help child development and even result in higher IQs .

