 Dropping "the largest mammal in the world" in the city center is so much fun! Confusing, unique and twisted, this mod seems to live up to GTA 5's reputation for hilarity and utter madness. Ever wondered how a whale in the middle of the city center would affect the city's residents? Well, now you can! Just search for it on your favorite search engine, install the mod, and get ready for a "whale" of fun.;
, It seems that GTA 5's developers decided to give a real treat to the web users. You can reach your ultimate happiness by becoming a cat. The orange-haired cat might look innocent, but the real fun begins when it starts throwing Molotov Cocktails! Seeing an adorable, fluffy pet going on a rampage or driving a car is hilarious! Don't take my word for it, though. Try it out for yourself!

, Grab a taxi and pick a location high in the mountains. Ask for the driver to step it up and he will show you the true rally championship driving! He will risk his own life and the lives of his passengers for a little fun making the trip much more enjoyable.
 Any avid gamer by now knows that almost all games have a God Mode just waiting to be activated. Become invincible, get an extra equipment or fly through the sky like Superman! Change the weather, summon a garbage truck and activate drunk mode. Cheat codes are a great way to improve your gaming experience.
 Either bet on horse and car races or play stock markets. Making money while having fun and thrill of emotion is an amazing way to make the most out of the savings you gathered.
 So far, players have reported that 4 UFOs can be spotted in the game. The first is crashed underwater, around the very northern part of the map. After you achieve 100% game completion, three more will be available: one above Fort Zancudo, another near Sandy Shores, and one above Mt. Chiliad. However, the last one was reported to be seen only during thunderstorms.
 You can find a good number of information and secret locations hidden in the map.
 Gordo. But word of warning, this is a very scary and well played Easter Egg. For weaker players, it is better to just skip this Easter egg and try using one of the other eggs we've listed so far. The ghost can be found on Mt. Gordo between 11pm and 12am.
 In one of the best Easter Eggs in the game, you can visit the scene from the famous movie "No Country for Old Men". And as a bonus, you will also find a suitcase with $25K in it.

