 Some guys do not take hints, verbal or physical; they need to be sat down and spoken to. Sometimes, this is the only way a guy will understand that he messed up and hurt you. Once he understands that he hurt you, he may feel sorry. This section will give you a few tips on how to talk to the guy and get him to understand what he did wrong.
 Talking about serious matters at the wrong time can only make things worse. For example, if you or the guy are in a bad mood, the conversation is less likely to go smoothly. If the guy is busy doing something, he may not pay attention to you, and he may not remember the conversation later on. Instead, let the guy know that you need to talk to him, and try to set up a time and date when the two of you can talk without distractions.
 This can only make things worse. You might find yourself saying the wrong things, or taking things the wrong way. Try to enter the conversation with a calm, level mind., For example, instead of saying "You were a huge jerk when you made fun of my figure, you know that?" try telling him that "Your jokes about my figure the other day really hurt my feelings." If you start accusing the guy right of the bat, he may start feeling defensive and stop paying attention to what you are saying.
 Do not bring up any previous offenses, no matter how angry or upset you are. If you start bringing up part arguments, he may start accusing you of the things you did in the past. This will result in a verbal tennis match of who did what and not get you anywhere.Some guys may also find it more difficult to apologize when they are being accused of too many things at once.Some guys might be hesitant to apologize because they are afraid that might get accused for other things right afterwards. Thus, it is important to stay on topic., If he feels sympathy from you, he might be more likely to feel sorry. If he feels overly-accused by you, he might be more likely to feel defensive. This does not mean that you should accept or forgive his offenses; some things, such as cheating, are always wrong. At the same time, it might be worth listening to him. He might be feeling just as hurt as you are.


If the guy mentions that you hurt him too, try not to take offense, or your conversation might turn into an argument instead with both parties feeling angry instead of sorry.
Some guys might be hesitant to apologize if they feel like they have to take sole responsibility for the offense. Even if it really is all his fault, try hard to make it seem that way., Sometimes, the harder you force something, the more resistant it becomes. For example, some guys find it patronizing when someone depends an apology from them. As a result, they become even more reluctant to apologize for what they did. Instead, just explain to the guy that what he did hurt you. Most guys do not like to see those that they care for hurt. He may apologize in his own way.
 Men tend to find it difficult to say "sorry." Instead, look for physical apologies.Some of the more charming guys might apologize with a bouquet of flowers, but others might apologize with smaller things. Take a look around and try to notice them. For example, did he finally fix that cabinet you were complaining about? If your guy is a gamer, did he skip out on that high-level raid just to spend time with you?

