 Even the amateurs need to rest up before a big game, and a full eight hours of sleep can help you perform at your best.
 Whatever your diet, make sure you allow a few hours between the football game and your last meal. This will help you avoid cramps and stomach issues during play.
 Considering the venue of the game, the nature of the event, and the level of competition, decide what sports equipment you will need to play at your best and make sure clothing is clean and gear working properly.


Many football games mark the teams by asking players to wear certain colors or shades. Because teams can switch up during a day of football, it is smart to bring shirts for both teams.
Will you need indoor or outdoor shoes? Are your cleats clean? Your lucky socks?
If you are organizing the game or providing equipment, make sure you have all the necessary gear as early as you can! Cones for marking the field, mesh jerseys, extra footballs, trophies or certificates, flags and belts, etc.
 Whether you are playing for fun, for office bragging rights, or to raise money for a local charity, the football game will be more enjoyable if players develop a healthy amount of team spirit.


Friendly banter and light-hearted “trash talk” can be fun before a sporting event so long as everyone is respectful and playful.
Does your team have a clever name or rhyming cheer? Will your friends need signs or props to make the most of the game and support your team?
Consider sending out a playful text or email that pumps up the other players.
 Whether you are playing at a family reunion or company picnic, a football game might include dozens of players and spectators. Planning and logistics can be hectic for organizers.


Do your part to stay up to date with details on game day to help ensure a successful event.
Check the weather and traffic reports so you show up prepared and on time.
If you are organizing the game, be sure to alert the players to any changes in times or venues that might come up as the game approaches.
 There are various forms football can take, and the group should take time to make sure everyone knows what the local rules will be before they start strategizing. For instance:


How are you setting a first down? Every ten yards? Every two completions?
What are the rules for rushing? Counting to “ten alligator” slowly? One rush per first down?
How are you scoring touchdowns? Six points? Seven?
What are the rules for tackling? No grabbing clothes? Nothing near the head?
What counts as a player being “down” on a play? Do they have to be touched by an opponent?

, If you are playing in field or public park not specifically meant for football, you will need cones or other markers to define the boundaries of the field. For a football game, you will need to mark the end zones as well as the overall dimensions.


Use paces to count out the length and width of the field.
If you own the outdoor property you are playing on, consider using an environmentally friendly paint to mark the grass.
 Starting into strenuous activity with cold muscles can result in cramping and even injury.Do your body a solid by taking a quick jog or doing some calisthenics.
 When everyone is warmed up and ready, decide how the game will start and get the teams in position. Call hike and start the game!


Typically, whichever team receives the kickoff does not pick which side they aim for. This is especially useful outside when the wind and the direction of the sun can be important.

