 The children bouncing inside the bounce house should be around the same size. Don’t let toddlers and small children bounce with larger kids.


Consider having two bounce houses for events with a large number of children. For smaller parties, designate specific times for kids of different sizes to bounce.
Letting kids of different sizes bounce together may cause collisions, trampling, or even severe injuries like bone breaks.
Assign an adult, babysitter, or trusted teen to monitor the bounce house to keep kids of different sizes and ages separate.
 Most bounce houses have a maximum occupancy number. This number usually can be found listed on the outside of the bounce house. Though kids may want to be together all at once, keep the number of bouncers under the maximum occupancy to protect them.Maximum occupancy numbers help keep the bounce house empty enough so kids aren’t jumping on top of one another or too closely together, which can lead to injury.
Consider only letting in a small number of children at the same time. This allows the children more room to move around and jump, so they not only have more fun, but stay safe.The majority of injuries inside bounce houses occur due to kids either falling inside the bounce house or crashing into other children. This is why watching children is so important, as well as not overcrowding the bounce house., Bouncing and sliding properly can help reduce the risk of injury. Children should not bounce on their backs. Instead, they should remain on their feet while bouncing. When they fall, they should immediately get back up.When children slide down in a bounce house, they should slide feet first. They should never slide down face first. This can lead to neck or head injuries.
 Kids jump in bounce houses without shoes on. However, they should wear socks. The socks should have grip or tread on them to help the kids from slipping and falling.Don’t let your kid jump in socks with slick bottoms. This might cause an injury.
 Though kids may love wearing accessories at birthday parties or group events, they should remove them before getting into a bounce house. Anyone who bounces should remove any item that could get caught on the bounce house.This includes jewelry, watches, earrings, large hair barrettes, belts, and other similar accessories.
 Children should not be allowed to perform flips, tumbles, or other acrobatics inside a bounce house. When children jump and flip in the air, do cartwheels, or other similar moves, they increase the risk of hitting other children or falling.Serious neck and head injuries in bounce houses are usually caused by acrobatics. Kids can fall or bounce on their head or neck, or they may knock another child in the head with their foot as they flip through the air.
 Children should never be allowed to roughhouse or engage in horseplay in a bounce house. Jumping roughly, wrestling, shoving other children, or purposefully bouncing into someone else can cause serious injury.Young boys are especially prone to roughhousing in bounce houses. The adult or babysitter on duty should correct any rough behavior when it occurs. If the child continues to play roughly, he should be removed from the bounce house. This protects the safety of the other children.
 Before children enter a bounce house, they should be told the rules. This may be the job of the operator, the supervising adult, or the babysitter. Adults should make sure the children are listening to the rules and not being distracted by something as the rules are being outlined.Parents or guardians should make it their job to explain the rules and risks of bouncy houses to their children. Though someone at the bounce house should explain the rules before they go in, parents should not always count on others to instruct their children. Instead, parents should take responsibility and give their children rules.
Explain to children that if they do not follow the rules, they will be removed from the bouncy house and the privilege will be revoked.
 Openings and exits in a bounce house can pose dangers. Children are at risk of being jumped on and knocked down when entering a bounce house if other children are bouncing too close to the entrance. Children have been reported bouncing out of openings in bounce houses or bouncing off slides, resulting in injury.Children should use caution when bouncing near openings and edges of bounce houses. Encourage them to use the center of the bounce house instead of the edges, and to watch for kids entering or exiting the bounce house.
 Kids should leave all food, drinks, gum, and candy outside the bounce house. Food and drinks may spill inside the bounce house, which can lead to slipping and injuries.Food, candy, and gum pose choking hazards as the children bounce.

