 Menstrual cycles can be irregular, particularly in teenagers. Your friend cannot assume she’s pregnant from a late period alone, and needs to take a test to make sure. Keep in mind that other symptoms (like nausea, fatigue, or breast tenderness) are not necessarily indicative of pregnancy. Only a test can tell you for sure.You can buy home pregnancy tests at any pharmacy. You can also have a pregnancy test done at a doctor’s office or family planning clinic.
 Sometimes upset parents will kick their pregnant daughter out of the house. If this happens to your friend, be sure to step in and offer shelter, food, and clothing.


You could say to your friend, “I know things are hard right now. Please stay with me for a few days while we get things sorted out. I want you to be safe.”
See if your parents are okay with her staying with you for a few days while things get sorted out, or see if another mutual friend’s family will host her. You could say, “Mom, can Rebecca stay with us for a few days? She’s having some problems. I promise we will talk about it, but right now I want to make sure she’s got a place to stay.”
Have your parents or another trusted adult get her connected to social services., Help your friend make healthy food choices and learn about prenatal nutrition. Make sure she is taking a prenatal vitamin with folic acid, which is very important to help combat birth defects.Ask her if she wants to walk or exercise with you. Exercise is safe and encouraged during pregnancy, unless she was told otherwise by her doctor. You could say, “Let’s have a standing date once a week to walk for an hour. I need some exercise, too, and it will be more fun if I can do it with you!”, Help her get to her doctor’s appointments. Give her a ride if you can drive, or take a taxi or public transit together. Make sure she remembers to go to her appointments -- prenatal care is extremely important!Offer to come along to her appointments for moral support. You could say, “I’d be happy to come to the doctor with you next Thursday if you’d like. You can tell me if you’d rather have me wait in the waiting room or sit with you in the exam room.”

, Birth classes teach a woman and her birth support team what to expect in labor and delivery. They teach you ways to manage labor pain, as well as teach about prenatal care and discuss hospital procedures.Find out which hospital your friend plans to deliver at. Most of the time, these classes are available at the hospital. Generally, these classes also will let you tour the maternity ward and see a delivery room where your friend can expect to give birth.
Many hospitals also offer breastfeeding classes. If your friend is planning on breastfeeding, it is helpful to learn more about it and get professional guidance, to increase the likelihood of success.
 Taking care of babies isn’t easy! Your friend may have never changed a diaper or burped a baby. A parenting class can help teach your friend some basic skills to learn about infant care, as well as provide her with realistic expectations about what to expect with life with a baby.Parenting classes can be found at hospitals, health departments, or community centers. You may also be able to find classes for taking care of older children at these places, when the baby is older.
Parenting classes can also address the stress of having a child, and ways a parent can cope and get support.
 If she is planning on keeping the baby, help her get ready by researching and procuring necessary baby supplies, like clothes, a crib, and diapers.


Baby supplies add up fast! Help your friend find gently-used bargains that will save some money. Babies grow so quickly that most things aren’t used for very long and remain in good shape. Clip diaper and formula coupons for her.
You could even throw a baby shower for her to help her get needed supplies. It will help her feel good to celebrate and know that people in her life support her.
 As she progresses in her pregnancy and feels more uncomfortable and tired, she may not be as focused on her education. She may also be embarrassed to be at school with her growing belly and not want to be noticed. Help her find ways to continue her education in spite of her pregnancy.


In the United States, Title IX makes it illegal for schools to exclude pregnant teens and teen parents from school. But many schools find ways around this law and find ways to “punish” the student, increasing the risk of dropping out.Your friend has the right to stay at her current school and not be forced to transfer to an alternative school or into a GED program. Help her talk to her counselor or school administration to find out how they can accommodate her. Or, she may wish to find alternative schooling during her pregnancy. She also has the right to receive alternative services.