 Treat the gun’s range as its #1 selling point. Don’t get stuck with one that only shoots five feet when everyone else’s can shoot 50!Check the box or instructions to find out how many feet or meters the water will travel.


If the gun is already out of the box, test-fire each one and pick whichever one shoots the farthest.;
, To lower the number of times that you will have to reload, pick a gun that holds the most water. However, remember that the more water it carries, the more weight you have to carry! Choose a gun that holds as much water as possible, but still lets you move quickly so you can outrun your opponents.Guns that come hooked up to backpacks usually offer the most water-capacity.
Backpacks can be bulky and heavy, though, so avoid these if you need to be light on your feet.
 Check the nozzle to see if there is more than one option to control how much water is fired from your gun, and how far. If possible, choose a gun that lets you switch from “high-range” to “riot-blast.” These will help you control the amount of water that you use with each shot.


A high-range setting lets you fire a thin, powerful stream over long distances and save water.
The riot-blast setting doesn’t shoot as far, but it blasts a lot of water over a wide area right in front of you so you can soak close targets.
 If you are going to stick to one place during the fight, back your firepower up by having some grenades ready to throw at your opponents when they advance.Use these when your opponents are out of your gun’s range. Save a few for when your gun runs out of water and needs reloading.


Use regular balloons if that is all you have. But since these often blow up right in your face before you can even throw them, buy some “water bombs” instead. These are basically the same thing, but the rubber is tougher and less likely to burst when you handle them.
Place your filled balloons or bombs in a long can with a lid (like a tennis ball container). This will lessen the risk of them breaking. It will also keep you dry if they do end up bursting before you mean them to.To fill them up quickly, buy a special attachment for your outside faucet.

