 Well-nourished bodies are better equipped to handle anything, so, in looking out for your mind, look out for your body. Start your day off with a healthy breakfast and stay on track with small, nutritious meals throughout the day to keep energized.Many people stress eat -- that can be over or under-eating. If you know this is a problem for you, watch for it. It's probably just making the issue worse.;
, When you get 7-8 hours of sleep a night, you are ready to tackle the stress of any given day more easily. If you're tired, you'll likely be less patient and easily irritated -- which just exacerbates the stress cycle. Getting a good night's rest not only makes for a good day, but a good day makes for a good night.If sleeping is problematic, assess why. Noises? Lights? An insane schedule? What can you adjust to make sleeping easier?

, Yoga to aerobics to walking around the block after dinner can help relieve stress -- you don't have to go pounding the pavement if you're out of shape. A little goes a long, long way toward stress management and your health.


As if you didn't already know, exercise is good for the mind, body, and spirit. Not only does it increase your overall health and your sense of well-being, but it also gets your endorphins going. And that can seriously improve your mood. Oddly enough, it's similar to the calming effect of meditation., It is naturally human to cope with stress outwardly in a number of ways. However, usually those ways aren't so conducive to the problem alleviating itself. If you're prone to this, keep an eye out. Ask others to keep an eye out for you, too.


If you find yourself eating, smoking, or drinking (to name just a few), it may be in response to your stress. It can seem like it's helping with the problem, but when you think long-term, it's just making it worse. Take a hard, honest look at your habits.
 Nurturing yourself should be priority numero uno if you're trying to reduce stress. You can't be expected to be able to solve all life's problems if you're not at your best, so take a moment to just chill.Try to take at least 10 minutes a day to yourself. It can be in bed, on a yoga mat, or just in your office chair. Wherever it is, shut out everything and take a moment to just be calm.
 Though it may seem a bit silly, but so much of the body works in tandem with the brain, that if you change one, you can change the other. Yoga, meditation, and deep breathing all tell the body to be relaxed. Once you make it a habit, you'll feel the reduction in stress levels. And when stress does come, you'll be able to handle it more calmly and effectively.
 When it comes to stress, it probably won't just go away. You'll need to come up with a way to handle it. In general, there are four ways to think about this:Avoid the stressor
Alter the stressor
Adapt to the stressor
Accept the stressor

Thinking of it this way may help you sort your thoughts. Which one is most doable for you? How can you accomplish one of these domains?



, Family, friends, and your social network all have a big impact on how you handle stress. Having a group of people you can lean on can help keep you mentally healthy. However, support can also be something more concrete, like time or money. Even though it's hard to ask for help, it by no means makes you weak. If you're feeling stressed, you can look for support from:


Family and friends
Coworkers or people you know through hobbies or other interests
A professional counselor
People you know from church or a member of the clergy
Employee assistance programs at work, or stress management classes
Support groups

