 Some iPhones' hardware is geared toward using CDMA rather than GSM networks, meaning that trying to use a GSM network like AT&T on a phone built for CDMA will be a hit-or-miss experience.

For example, trying to activate a Verizon iPhone on an AT&T network might not work due to the iPhone being built to work with CDMA rather than GSM.The best way to figure out whether or not your phone will support your preferred network is by calling the carrier to which you'd like to switch and asking them.
 There are plenty of companies that will sell you stock unlock codes for your phone. These companies circumvent current restrictions by operating in countries not covered by US law.


Unlock Radar is a well-reviewed choice.
 Before paying any company to unlock your phone, research the company as thoroughly as possible. Find user reviews, and ask around in phone enthusiast forums. Always be wary of potential scams, especially when you are paying to skirt your carrier's policies.

Never enter your phone's information or your card details on a website that doesn't start with "HTTPS".
There are several apps that will claim to unlock your phone, but these are scams at best. Don't download unlocking software to your phone.
 Your iPhone will be added to Apple’s official unlocked phones list, which means it will stay unlocked even if you upgrade iOS versions. To add the iPhone to the list, the company you are paying will need your phone’s IMEI (International Mobile Station Equipment Identity) code, which is unique to your iPhone. There are a couple ways to find this:On any iPhone, you can dial *#06# and your IMEI code will be displayed.
You can also open your iPhone's Settings, tap General, tap About, and look at the number next to "IMEI" near the bottom of the page.
 If at all possible, use PayPal to complete the transaction rather than using a credit or debit card.

Be sure to select all of the correct information about your device so that you get a code that works for your phone.
 After your phone is unlocked by your selected service, you'll need to have a SIM card from your new carrier in order to take advantage of their network., Once you receive confirmation that your iPhone has been unlocked, you will need to activate it before the unlock takes effect.