 Any of the supplies or implements that you lack should be available at your local grocery store. This recipe takes about 15 minutes to prep, and about 6 hours to cook. All said, you can expect to get about six servings, though with suitable slow cookers, you may be able to fit a double recipe to make more., At this point, your slow cooker should not be on or plugged in. Mix together these ingredients in the slow cooker thoroughly with a mixing spoon., Spread the meatballs as evenly as possible when adding them to the cooker. Those that are piled up too high may not baste in the sauce and take on its flavor. Then plug in the slow cooker., Cover your slow cooker with its lid. If you set it to the "Low" setting, your meatballs should be finished in 6 to 8 hours. For a shorter cook time, set your cooker to "High" and they'll be ready in 3 to 5 hours., When the meatballs are done, you can turn your slow cooker to the "Warm" or "Buffet" setting, to keep the food hot while preventing it from overcooking. Then use your mixing spoon to stir 1 cup of sour cream into the slow cooker mixture.
 Put a pot of water large enough to accommodate your noodles on your stove top. Bring the water to a boil and prepare your egg noodles according to the instructions on their packaging. Generally you can expect regular egg noodles to take 8 to 10 minutes, and extra wide ones to take 10 to 12 minutes.Although you may be in the habit of adding salt to boiling noodles, you may want to avoid doing so here. It's very easy to add too much salt to the meatballs., Place a colander/strainer in a clean sink. Remove your noodles from the stove top, then pour them into the colander to drain the water. Transfer the noodles to the crock pot and mix everything together.


You may want to give your colander a few sharp, back-and-forth shakes to knock loose any water sticking to the noodles.
You might also want to serve the noodles on a plate to form a bed for the meatballs and sauce., Or, if you're planning on serving the meatballs buffet style, you may want to set your slow cooker to the "Warm" or "Buffet" setting. This way the food keeps warm without being overcooked. Otherwise, allow it to cool, serve, and enjoy your Swedish meatballs.


To dress up your meatballs a little, you may want to sprinkle some parsley flakes on top of the mixture.