 It'll have an orange rind with orange spikes. Squeeze it slightly to make sure it has some give and isn't rock hard and green. If you can't find a fully ripened fruit at the store, wait for it to turn orange before eating it.;
, While you won't be eating the outside, it's always a good idea to rinse fruit you're planning on cutting, to avoid any pesticides or other chemicals on the outside when you cut into it with a knife.
 Set one half aside. This is the best way of cutting the fruit for eating it by itself.


If you want to scoop the seeds out for use in a recipe or fruit salad, it can be easier to scoop if you cut it lengthwise. It's up to you.
 Slowly, but firmly, squeeze the fruit from the lower end. Each tiny greenish sac will contain a cucumber-like seed, and they should come to the cut surface of the fruit easily with a little pressure.
 Like a pomegranate, the seeds are perfectly edible, but are somewhat bland. What you're after is the sweet green flesh around the seed. You can take one at a time into your mouth and separate the seed before spitting it out, or take a whole mouthful and chew it up.


If you don't like the seeds, try pinching the sac of fruit gently with your front teeth. Suck the sac of fruit through your top and bottom teeth, pinching enough to hold the seed on the outside of your teeth, yet still allowing the fruit to pass through.
 You can also scoop out the seeds into a bowl and eat them with a spoon if you prefer. Its easier to break the little green kernels that way, but can be somewhat easier if you don't want to bury your face in the fruit.
 Like kiwi, kiwano can make a nice colorful addition to a fruit salad, and an unexpected treat for guests. Mix bananas, mango, and melon with a sprinkling of kiwano for a beautiful summer fruit salad., Grilling steaks or chops? Instead of topping with rich cheese or mushrooms, consider sprinkling some kiwano kernels on top of your meat a few minutes before serving for an exotic and tangy highlight., Seed one kiwano melon into a bowl and mix it with:


the juice of one lime
a clove of garlic
a palm-full of fresh chopped cilantro
one green onion, or a 1/8 of a white onion
a quarter-teaspoon of cumin
Mix in a small amount of vegetable oil to coat the mixture and use the salsa as a garnish for meat, grilled vegetables, or eat it with chips for some surprising nachos.
 Sprinkle a few green kernels into a champagne flute before mixing up a mimosa or to highlight a gin and tonic instead of a lime slice.
 Remove the Kiwano melon seeds and place in a cup. Fill the cup with sparkling red grape juice cocktail 3/4 of the way to the top of the cup. With the remainder space, add half and a half (optional), Serve in layers for the best look before stirring.

