 The key to training is finding a food that motivates your cat. Every cat is a sucker for at least one particular food, be it a flake of tuna, chicken, ham, prawns or even steak.


You need to find out what food is the "must have" treat for your cat, the food that she will do anything for. This may take a bit of experimentation, offering different morsels until you hit upon the one she really perks up for.
This food is going to be the treat you use as motivation.
 It might be her name, or a command such as "come" or "here", or it could be a clicker. The general idea is to get the cat to associate that command, or a "click" with getting her must-have treat.


Start off by "clicking" each time you put her food down. Clickers are small handheld gadgets that make a loud "click" when you press down on the trigger. They are widely used in dog training, and are equally suitable for cats.
Next, keep a supply of treats in a container in your pocket. When you are relaxing, for example watching TV, place a treat on your finger tips and hold within the cat's reach. Eventually she will stroll over for the treat. At the very moment she takes the treat, "click".
Think of this as taking a photo of the good behavior. The importance of clicking at the exact moment she takes the treat is to strengthen her association between clicks and treats.
Reinforce these first lessons by being consistent. Take every opportunity to get her to associate food with clicks. Teach her that clicks mean treats.
 Now she has learned that clicks mean treats, start making her work for the treat a little. Click when she is in a different room, and when she comes running, give her a treat and a click. Then several more clicks and treats so that she considers the trip it worthwhile.


At this stage, you may want to try letting her out when you has an empty stomach. Initially, let her out of the door, and immediately click. When she comes for a treat, click again.
Each time, let her wander a little further away before you click. The aim is that eventually, no matter where she is she will come to the click.
 Cats will not concentrate for more than 5 to 10 minutes at a time, and it takes repeated exposure to a command and reward system in order to train a cat.


Try to keep each session short, 5 minutes or less, and repeat the sessions 2 – 4 times each day.
If during a session the cat is looking around and not focusing on you or the treat, stop the session, and resume at the next allotted time.

