 Cooking corn off-the-cob (whether it's from a can or cut from the cob itself) is easy with a microwave. Start by draining the corn of any excess liquid — you want your finished product to be soft, delicious corn kernels, not corn soup. See below for instructions.



Canned corn: Open the can with a can opener until the lid is connected by just a small piece of metal. Tip the can into the sink, keeping the lid on, and let the excess liquid drain. Remove the lid and pour the corn into a strainer, then rinse with water and allow to drain.

Refrigerated corn: Draining is less of an issue here because there will usually be less excess moisture. Toss the corn lightly in a strainer or use a slotted spoon to drain the corn.
 Season your corn now for a delicious taste as soon as it comes out of the microwave! Salt and pepper give the sweet corn kernels an excellent savory dimension, while butter keeps them moist and gives a smooth texture.


You may use as much salt, pepper, and butter as you wish. If you're unsure, adding about one tablespoon of butter for every 12-ounce can of corn (the equivalent of about 1.5 cups of loose corn) and salt and pepper to taste should give great results.
 Making sure that your corn is in a microwave-safe container, transfer it to the microwave and cook it on "HIGH" or your preferred setting for about three minutes. Stop the microwave and stir every minute or so to ensure the butter and seasonings are combining well.


Don't use an airtight cover or lid — you want to keep the moisture in, but if steam builds up in an airtight container, it can cause an explosion. Leave the lid oven a crack to allow excess steam to escape.
 Carefully remove the corn from the microwave, take the lid off, and check to see that the corn has heated evenly. If so, stir the mixture and serve immediately. If not, feel free to return it to the microwave for a minute or two.


If you are cooking a large amount of corn (more than a can or two), be ready to microwave for a little extra time. In general, the more food you microwave at once, the longer it will take to cook.

