 For your first computer, you probably want to buy a computer that is of a basic standard, about 2.1Ghz processor, 1 to 2 GB of memory (RAM) and average graphics. If the machine isn't going to be used for intense photo editing (i.e. Photoshop), movie editing or gaming (none of which a young user would be likely to do) then graphics needn't be a major consideration.;
, Linux is generally your least expensive option, followed by Windows; Mac tends to be the priciest. Bear in mind that most computers come with Windows, the system that most people are familiar with. Most schools likely use Windows XP, so a machine with this installed, whilst now a rare occurrence, would be safest in terms of familiarity.
 Often, a quality computer that is a few years old will still perform very well and cost less than half of its original price. Bear in mind however that if using a website like eBay, you should carefully check the seller's feedback first; if they've been a problem before, it's likely they will again. Additionally, IF A DEAL SEEMS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE, IT PROBABLY IS. It's a sad reality, but there are people using websites like eBay to entice people into what seems like a good deal, and then not providing the item you pay for.
 If you are provided an allowance, you should set aside some of that every time you are given some. Offer to do extra chores around the house, or help a family member or neighbor. Many local newsagents will take on people of around 13/14 and upwards to do paper rounds.
 Be sure to ask someone who knows about computers their opinion; if they tell you it's not a good deal, then it isn't a good deal. If you go to a shop to buy your computer, be sure to take someone tech-savvy along with you. They can help to get you the computer that's just right for your needs. Also make sure you know what technical support you get with the computer; if you buy a machine that only comes with a repairs and support warranty for six months and it breaks after eight, you've wasted a lot of money.

