 This is the most important step of redecorating because it allows you not to spend excessively on things you don't really need. Your budget should only be a rough estimate, however.;
,: painting your existing wardrobe). If you want to totally start over, be aware that it will cost more.
 There's no use in throwing something out unless it is entirely unusable, such as an old, rotting basket.
 It is really much better to have at two windows, one large and one small in your bedroom. If there still isn't enough light but you can't afford lighting options like sconces, than try getting a very tall floor lamp that either has a wide, circular top that points to the ceiling or a floor lamp with three lamps attached to it.
 Some essentials that most people have and that I would recommend are: a large bookcase, an armoire/dresser, a vanity (if you are a girl), a large table, a nightstand, a chest to store your things in, a new mattress, sheet set, bed, new paint, three lamps, and three chairs. Remember that you could probably find a lot of stuff in the attic or basement.
 A queen size bed is a good size, because not only will there be a lot of space, there are also many more sheet sets and blankets that size than Full or Twin. It also costs less than King, but if you don't have the money or space, then just get a Twin. (To clear up any confusion, a bed is not the sheet set, blankets, pillows, and mattress altogether. It is just a frame to put the bed on.)

, Some stores that people like are Ethan Allen, Home Depot, and Benjamin Moore. It all depends on your budget and your tastes.
 This is almost always one of the fun parts. You could have a calm beach feel, a light, pink romantic theme, an autumnal feel, and many more. You can find a lot of them in an Ethan Allen catalog. If you don't want a theme, you don't have to have one, but a theme makes everything in your room come together. It doesn't have to be complicated, you could just have a simple colour scheme or a particular feel, like modern or classy. Another option is to have small themes all throughout the room, like polka-dot curtains and bedding and an ocean-themed desk and bookcase. Some themes complement each other, like polka dots and floral, while others look garish with each other, like stripes & stripes. Make sure your theme isn't too crowded or else your eyes will hurt.
 This will tell where everything goes in your room, and is very important. You don't need anything fancy, just a simple sketch.
 While the walls get painted, ask for the painters to also paint any furniture you want to paint.
 It's the first thing that people look at when they enter your room, so you have to make sure you get good bedding and a blanket/duvet that goes with it. A toss pillow or two couldn't hurt, either.
 This is because you need to know whether the bed will go with the bedding or not. Wooden beds look simple and country-style, while iron beds look elegant and sophisticated. Both can look modern if painted black.
 You may want to have only curtains, curtains and sheers, only sheers, only shades, or only curtains and shades. Sheers are a good choice because they cost less, look good, and they filter light while offering privacy. Country Curtains is very good for curtains and sheers, while Smith and Noble is good for shades.
 The lamps can look Asian, modern, elegant, etc. Chandeliers are very sophisticated, but simple ceiling lighting with white shades look modern.
 Dressers take up more room and are better for girls, as there is usually a mirror above one. However, armoires are good for both genders, takes up less space, and in my opinion, look better. If you have an armoire and are a girl, consider buying a vanity.
 The chest can be tall or short like a dresser. You could use a nightstand as a chest if you want.
 The nightstand could be a cross between a vanity/nightstand, having a mirror on the top, one drawer, and a chair.
 They can just be plain old tables and bookshelves, because they are only there for function, unless you really want a nice table/bookshelf.
