 Marination is the process of immersing food (in this case, meat) into a solution to add flavor and to tenderize the meat. All methods of tenderizing through marination use natural acids to break down the collagen fibers. Vinegars, wine, beer, fruit and milk products all contain natural acids that can be used separately or together to tenderize meat.


The only tools needed are a non-metallic container to hold the ingredients and a good knife to cut up things like onion and garlic to be added to the marinade.
The ingredients to use will vary by the type of meat and the desired flavors to be achieved. For beef, good marinades can be made from a base of red wine, any vinegar, beer, or fruits including tomato.  Keep in mind that the flavor from the marinade will become a big part of the flavor profile for your meat. Good choices for a red wine- or beer-based marinade will include the addition of onion, oregano or basil, garlic and, of course, salt and pepper. When starting with a vinegar, good spice profiles also include onion and garlic but could also use herbs de Provence or rosemary. If you like sweetness added to beef, good fruits to use are apple and cherry although using fruits with pork and chicken are usually more successful.
 The longer the meat is left in the marinade, the more flavorful and more tender it becomes. Just for safety's sake, put the meat into the refrigerator if it is to be marinated longer than an hour.
 When the marinade is done or when you have decided that the meat has marinated long enough, either drain off the marinade and discard, cook the meat along with the marinade or use the marinade separately to create a sauce or gravy.


Almost all marinades can be made into a good sauce. Cooking the meat in the marinade adds the meat juices to the sauce. Simply remove the meat after cooking, bring the juices to a boil and thicken with flour or cornstarch. If you use flour to thicken, lightly sprinkle flour into the juices while using a whisk to distribute and to remove any lumps. Dissolve cornstarch into about 1/4 cup of water and add the solution to the juices. Then cook for at least two minutes to cook in the cornstarch.

