;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Dutch Belted cattle are primarily black cattle though occasionally there's also red coloured and even silver-brown coloured cattle. All cattle have a characteristic white "belt" around their bellies, that starts at the mid rib and ends at the flanks, and goes all the way around them.

Body type and characteristics: Dutch Belted have the same angular-type body like any dairy breed does, with the typical "funnel butt" and finer bone structure than a typical beef animal would have. However, there are some herds of Dutch Belted cows that have the more beefier, fuller look to them than other cows will. The picture above of the cow in the background shows this exception. Cows average between 900 to 1500 lbs, and bulls average from 1350 to 2000 lbs. They have a slick coat in the summer like Holsteins would, but can get quite furry in the winter.

Head characteristics: They can be both polled and horned. DB's have the same kind of fine characteristics as a Brown Swiss would, that being a feminine, refined head in all females of this breed. Naturally, the bulls are quite masculine like any dairy bull would be.

Other characteristics: Dutch Belted cattle supposedly originated from Austria and Switzerland, and were very popular in the 17th century on many estates of the nobility during that time. This breed began to gain popularity in Holland in 1750. Dutch Belted cattle were once the most popular dairy breed in North America from 1815 to 1940. From then, Holsteins took over, and the Dutch Belted breed became quite scarce. Today, the American Livestock Breeds Conservancy lists the Dutch Belted as Critically Rare since there are barely 200 registered animals in the country.

Dutch Belted compare favorably with Holsteins in terms of milk production, averaging about 20,000 lbs of milk per year on forage alone. Their milk tests at 3.3 to 5.5 percent butterfat. They are very easy calvers, quite friendly, have surprising good longevity, fertility, and high meat quality.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Dutch Belted cattle, and compare them with pictures of Dutch Belted on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

