 Do you give in because you feel like other people’s needs are more important than your needs? Or do you give in because you feel that you do not deserve to enjoy yourself? Do you give in out of guilt?


Either way, you may be disregarding your own needs and desires out of a sense that they are not as important as other people’s needs and desires.
Try using a mantra to help you assert your own needs and desires. For example, you might simply tell yourself something like, "I matter, I have needs, and my time is important. It is okay to put myself first."

, You might better understand your behavior if you consider your fears and worries about saying no to people. Feeling frightened or worried that people will not like you or that they might reject you for not doing what they ask of you is a negative thought pattern that can drive you to do things that are uncomfortable for you.The next time you are considering helping someone with a request, ask yourself if you are doing out of a genuine desire to help or out of fear or worry. If you are doing something out of fear or worry, then this may be a good time to take a step back and tell the person no.
For example, if a friend asks you to go to a party with her and you do not want to go, but you are afraid that she might reject you if you don’t do it, then you would be acting out of fear of rejection if you agree to go.
 Judging yourself harshly can also cause you to be overly accommodating to other people.Think about how often you are critical of yourself and how that may be affecting your behavior.


For example, do you tend to think you are less intelligent than other people or less important? If so, then you may be giving in to other people’s requests out of a sense of inferiority.
Try to identify these thoughts and challenge them as they occur. For example, you could reframe a thought like, “I am not very capable” to something like, “I have accomplished many things and I can do whatever I set my mind to do.”

, Even if you are giving in to other people and doing nice things for them all of the time, you may not always have positive feelings towards them.You might feel resent towards people for taking up your time and energy. However, you might not be expressing these feelings and they may be building up in the form of resentments, or pent up anger towards other people.


Try to express these feelings to help you see when you have been too accommodating to someone. For example, you might say something like, “I wish I had not given up my evening plans to watch my sister’s children. I really needed that time to relax and I feel angry at her for asking me to give that up.”
The next time someone asks you to do something that you don’t really want to do, consider whether it might lead to resentment. If the answer is yes, then you might want to say no.

