 Marriage is a creation of state law, not federal law. For this reason, requirements will differ according to what jurisdiction you need to file in. Generally, you may file for an annulment in the county where you live or in the county where you married.


Some jurisdictions have a minimum residency requirement. Check with the court clerk or an attorney if you have moved within the past year.
The residency requirement can vary. In New York, for example, parties must have been a resident of the state for at least one year. In Mississippi, however, the requirement is six months. ;
, There are two separate legal categories for an annulment:


Reasons that automatically void the marriage, such as incest or bigamy. What qualifies as incest will vary from state to state. For example, in California and New York, first cousins may marry. In Washington and Texas, they may not.Reasons that may invalidate a marriage: inability to consent to the marriage, either because of intoxication or mental illness, duress or force; fraud (e.g., marrying only for a green card); being underage (one party was a minor),and the inability of having sexual intercourse, which must not have been known at the time of the wedding. An annulment does not depend on length of marriage. Nor are “irreconcilable differences” a legitimate ground for seeking an annulment., States impose time limits on when you can file for an annulment, and the time limits vary by state. It is important that you don’t wait to initiate your annulment.


These time limitations often depend on the reason claimed for the annulment. For example, if you claim that you lacked consent, then in Illinois you have 90 days from the time you learned of the problem to file. In California, by contrast, you have four years from the date of marriage to get an annulment for physical incapacity. , Not all annulments are simple. Sometimes you will have questions about where you need to file or what the consequences of the annulment will be. Court personnel can answer simple questions, but they cannot give legal advice.


Seek legal assistance especially where children are involved.
 Ask friends or relatives who have gone through divorce if they would recommend their attorney. Collect names and look at attorney websites.


Other sources of referrals can be employers, other attorneys, and bar associations. An experienced divorce lawyer can be expensive. In a large city like Chicago, an experienced family law attorney will charge $350-600 an hour.In smaller cities or towns, a comparable attorney may charge around $200 an hour.
 If costs are a concern, then you should meet with several lawyers and ask about their rates. Most lawyers today offer free consultations.


Meeting for a consultation does not mean that the lawyer represents you. However, the lawyer can provide an initial case assessment and discuss fees. Be sure to bring your necessary documents so that the attorney has sufficient information about your case. If you’re unsure of what to bring, call ahead and ask.
 If money is tight but you need expert advice, ask about paying legal fees on an installment plan or with a credit card. Many attorneys will be happy to work with you.
 New attorneys will often charge less. Though they don’t have as much experience as more established attorneys, they are ethically obligated to seek out the assistance of other attorneys when dealing with novel issues.
 If an attorney is beyond your reach, seek out free legal assistance. Many states maintain a website of legal material and contact information. Send them an email or stop in to ask for help.
 Initiating an annulment differs according to state. Most likely, you will have to file a petition in court. You should ask the county clerk for the necessary petition.


Some states may have packets of forms available for you to pick up. You can also get these from the clerk.
Making it even easier, some states have put their forms online. Delaware has; you can download their packet from the state court website. , You will need certain records to proceed with an annulment, such as a certified marriage certificate, social security numbers, and financial records. Get copies of these early so that you are not scrambling right before a deadline.
 And keep them in a secure space. Better yet, keep two copies, one of which is stored in a safe deposit box.
 Follow the guidelines in the packet or on the legal form to the letter. You will not receive leniency for missing deadlines or omitting information because you are proceeding without an attorney.


Also, courts do not care about the annulment process in other states. Saying, “My sister got an annulment in Florida without needing to give a reason” will not help you if you are filing in Wisconsin. You have to follow the process in your state.
 If you file a petition in court, you will need to serve your spouse with a copy of the petition. The county Sheriff or a process server will serve the forms for a fee.


You can find a process server online. As with all businesses, process servers often have reviews on Yelp or Google. Read them to find a dependable process server.
If your spouse cannot be located, seek the assistance of an attorney.
 Your spouse has the option of responding to the annulment petition and contesting it.


If your spouse contests the annulment, he or she most likely will attack the factual allegations. For example, he or she may claim that you were not actually under duress when you married, or that you have not been defrauded.
Your spouse may also argue that he or she is a “putative” spouse; that is, that your spouse entered into the marriage with a good faith belief that the marriage was valid. A putative spouse may have certain rights to property even if the annulment is granted.
 You must appear before a judge to discuss the petition. As the person petitioning the court for an annulment, you must schedule the hearing.Contact the Court clerk for information on how to do this.
 At the hearing, you or your lawyer must explain why an annulment is appropriate. Your spouse may oppose the motion, arguing that the marriage was legally created and that an annulment is inappropriate.


Prepare for the hearing by gathering all of your documentation or other evidence that supports your contentions. If you married because you felt threatened, gather evidence of the threat: emails, letters, summaries of conversations.
Answer the judge’s questions truthfully and without apology. Some people may feel uncomfortable talking about sexual matters. But if they are the basis of your annulment petition, then be prepared to discuss them.
 Once the judge rules, the losing party may appeal the decision.


If you did not have an attorney for the annulment hearing, you should seek one for the appeal. The appellate process has its own specialized rules. The ability to make convincing legal arguments is paramount in appellate court.
Grounds for appeal are that the judge misinterpreted the law or misapplied the law to the facts. You are generally not allowed to present new evidence at the appellate stage.
 In some states, an annulment will erase the presumption that you are the parent to the children you had with your former spouse.You must then ask the judge who granted the annulment to establish paternity.


Establishing paternity is a necessary first step to setting a visitation schedule as well as child support.

