 Before you embark on a search for a bail bondsman, you should be familiar with the bail bond process. Bail is a sum of money that must be deposited by the accused to secure a temporary release from jail. The bail amount is set by the magistrate in court and is designed to ensure the accused returns to court at a later date. However, many defendants cannot post the entire bail amount, on their own or with the help of family and friends, and must turn to a bail bondsman to help them post bail.A bail bond is like a contract between the government and the person who posts the bond. When you hire a bail bondsman to post bond, the bail bondsman is in essence giving the government a guarantee that the defendant will appear in court at a later date. The bail bondsman will then charge the defendant a nonrefundable fee in exchange for posting bond with the government. If the defendant fails to show up in court, the bondsman is required to pay the full amount of the bail to the government. In other words, the bail bondsman is investing in the defendant by posting bail for them.;
, Bail bond fees are regulated through the Department of Insurance, and most bail bond fees are 10% of the defendant’s total bail amount. However, you should be clear about the exact amount of the bail bond fee for the defendant before you hire a bail bondsman.


If a defendant’s bail is set at $10,000, for example, the bail bondsman will charge the defendant a nonrefundable fee of $1,000 to post a bail of $10,000. If the defendant fails to show up in court at a later date, the bondsman will be out $9,000 ($10,000 to the court minus the $1,000 received from the defendant). The person who hires the bail bondsman and signs the bail bond contract will then need to pay the bondsman back the outstanding amount.
 Many bail bondsman can be found online through a bail bondsman database by searching for bail bondsman in a specific area or city. For example: http://www.bailbond.com/ and http://bailbondsnetwork.com/. Contact the bondsman with details on the required bail bond and the defendant’s charges.You should then vet the bondsman to ensure they have the necessary credentials and background. It is important that you ensure the bondsman has a solid reputation and is trustworthy, as you are depending on them to provide the required funds for the bail bond.
 You can also ask the defendant’s lawyer for a referral for a reputable bail bondsman. Many lawyers have to interact with bail bondsman on a daily basis, as many of their clients likely cannot post bail on their own.The defendant’s lawyer will be familiar with the details of the defendant’s case and may be able to recommend a bail bondsman who has been reliable in the past for a similar case or a similar bail bond amount.
 Better Bail Bureau is an association that seeks to connect individuals with honest bail bondsman. The association maintains a list of bail bondsman and bail bond agencies with grades from a high “A” to a low “F”, which can be found here:http://www.betterbailbureau.org/registered-bail-agents/. Before you hire a bail bondsman, look on the Better Bail Bureau for their grade to ensure they have a good reputation and have them confirm their grade to show they are willing to be honest and upfront with you.You should also ask the bail bondsman how long they have been in the bail bonds business. Generally, the longer the bail bondsman or agency has been in business, the better their track record of satisfied clients and successful bail postings. Many reputable bail bond companies are family owned and have been in the bail bonds business for generations. This means they have successfully helped many clients and have an incentive to maintain a good reputation.
 Ask the bondsman to show you their current bail license and inquire if their license has ever been suspended or revoked. Some bail agents or companies have a restricted license due to legal action against them by a client or due to misconduct. A trustworthy bail bondsman will be upfront about this information and will provide clear reasons why their license was revoked or suspended in the past, if necessary.The State Department of Insurance can also provide information on the bail license for the bondsman and/or the bail bond company. You can access contact information for State Departments of Insurance in the United States here: http://naic.org/state_web_map.htm/.
In addition, you should also ask the bondsman if they have been sued by a client in the last year. Some bail agents are sued by clients due to unreturned collateral in the form of money or other assets. You can confirm if the bondsman is not wrapped up in any lawsuits due to poor service by searching the court records in the county where the bail bondsman operates. Look at the civil court records for cases naming the bondsman as a defendant for the last five years to check that the bondsman has a clean record.
 A reputable bail bondsman will be upfront about the total fees for their services. Make sure the charges on the bail bond contract includes the upfront premium for the bail bond, usually 10% of the total bail bond set by the court, and any additional fees. Some bail bondsman will try to charge you an annual bail bond premium for as long as the bail bond for the defendant is in effect. Avoid bondsman who try to do this as this is clearly just a way to turn a profit, rather than secure the defendant out on bail.Some bail bondsman may require other conditions around the bail bond besides the bail bond fee to ensure they will not lose their investment in the defendant. This could include drug treatment, maintaining employment or schooling, or reporting to the bail bondsman on a regular basis. Make sure the defendant understands the conditions of the bail bond and agrees to follow them to ensure there are no conflicts or issues with the bail bonds contract. These conditions should be specified in writing in the bail bonds contract and clear to all parties signing the contract.
 If you and the bail bondsman have agreed on partial payment of their fee, followed by monthly payments, make sure this appears in writing in the bail bond contract. Any interest charged by the bail bondsman should also be noted in the contract.As well, if the bail bondsman asks for real estate, such as your home, to be pledged as collateral for the bail bond, ask them how long they will wait before foreclosing on your home in the event you cannot pay off the bail bond. Most reputable bail bondsman give 90 days on a debt and 30 days on a forfeiture. This time frame should be clearly stated in the contract so you are aware of where you will stand financially if the collateral needs to be collected for the bail bond.
Make sure the bail bondsman agrees to give you invoices for all charges relating to the bail bond and a receipt for all payments you complete on the bail bond. This information will be useful in the event you need to dispute charges relating to the bail bond in court.

