 Contests may also be posted around libraries or schools. Take note of the details such as deadlines, topics, and prizes.
 Pay particular attention to topics you know a lot about or feel passionate towards. If you are trying to fake it, someone who is genuinely enthusiastic about the topic will beat you. Consider the deadlines for the contests - if you find one due in a few days, don't bother. Don't forget to account for delays in the mail service, if applicable.
 You must consider your audience - if you are writing for the National Rifle Association, for example, you don't want to write about how great gun control is - but you must also submit some new and stimulating ideas.
 University libraries have lots of helpful material. Contacting professionals in the field will pad up your bibliography nicely.
 It is absolutely critical that you conform to any style requirements of the contest. Be conscious of formatting, word count, and citation styles.
 If you must send the essay by mail, think about how long it will take to get to the judges. Send it express if you must. If you can e-mail it, use a standard format like PDF. Don't assume the judges use Word or WordPerfect.
 In the meantime you can start on other contests.
 If includes a certain prompt, such as a question(s) you need to answer, then consider how it's affected you in your life. For example - if the prompt is to write about a good deed that has changed you, flip through old photo albums, scrapbooks, and anything related to your past that could help you think of a good deed you once did that impacted your life. Avoid cliches and try to come up with something that's unique to you and doesn't apply to many people. Also, avoid controversial topics that may affect how judges view your essay.;
, When writing an essay that isn't fact-based, incorporating words to entail things from your life is key. Judges, published authors, and anyone very involved in the writing field will most likely pay more attention to entries that display that the author has a very broad vocabulary.
 Remember to use the majority of your detail on the most significant aspects of your essay. Don't describe a barely-relevant character in heavy detail, for example. If you're just mentioning them to help the reader understand something, then the reader won't care about anything else about the character. However, let's say you're writing an essay on a bullying experience. Describing the bully in heavy detail will help the reader visualize the bully much better for the remainder of the essay.
 You want your voice to come through in the essay without sacrificing professionalism, which can be difficult. Watch out for slang words and casual expressions, as well as common cliches (as mentioned above).
 There's nothing more that judges hate than flawed grammar. Writing your heart out means nothing if you don't know how to structure a sentence properly or don't know grammatical rules. Many people prefer having others read their essay for them so a second set of eyes can point out mistakes that the author accidentally breezed by.
 If you've truly written to the best of your ability, take pride in the effort you put into it and hope for the best!

