 The amount of money you are able to spend will determine whether you hire a website consultant, use staff members and volunteers or look for templates online.;
, If you have a large organization with IT support, you likely have a network that can support your website. Your computer staff can make recommendations.


Look for companies that specialize in hosting nonprofit websites. For example, Red Rooster Group, Cozality and Charity Advantage offer to host and design websites for nonprofit prices.
 Take a look at other nonprofit websites to get an idea of what you like. Use that inspiration for your own site.


Check out the organizations and sites that have gained international attention. These include Invisible Children, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, The Nature Conservancy and One.
 Your nonprofit website's homepage should include an introduction to who you are and what you do.



Share success stories about how your organization has helped people and communities.
Promote the work you do. Advertise upcoming events, highlight employees who make a difference and honor volunteers and board members who have made a difference.
Keep your design work attractive and appealing, but remember that content is more important. What you write about your work and your purpose is more important that fancy graphics.
Make your website interactive and engaging. Include links to your Twitter, Facebook and other social networking sites. Link to a blog or other websites that support your partners.
 Your logo and terminology must be consistent with your business cards, brochures and other print materials. You want a consistent and recognizable brand for your nonprofit organization.
 Set up your nonprofit's website so that it is appealing to all the people who will visit it.


Design a site that is appealing to donors. Make sure there is a "Donate Now" button that makes contributing easy and efficient. Collect information from your donors so you can stay in touch with them.
Make sure your site is available to the media. Getting publicity and press from journalists and bloggers can really help your organization get some visibility. Create a "news" section that includes press releases and a media kit. Include contact information for any media inquiries.
Set up a website that is inviting to volunteers. Nonprofits thrive on the work of volunteers, and your website should be the place where potential volunteers go to learn about you and what you do. Be sure to provide information on how to volunteer and who to contact.
Keep your website accessible to the people you serve. For example, if your organization works with people who have disabilities, make sure the font on the site is large enough to read for people with vision issues.

