 This condition is called folliculitis. Folliculitis starts when hair follicles get damaged for whatever reason, becoming infected. Luckily, this irritating condition can be avoided and treated.


Wear clothing that isn't too tight in the armpit area. Rubbing can cause irritation.
Wear clothing that allows your skin to breathe, especially if you live in a warm climate.
Be sure that you aren't sensitive or allergic to any certain type of material, such as wool.
Wash your clothes in non-irritating detergent. Refrain from using any fabric softeners.;
, Shaving can cause hair follicles to become ingrown and even infected. Try waxing or use a depilatory (hair removal agent) instead until the condition has cleared up.
 Deodorants often contain aluminum, fragrances, alcohol and parabens — all of which can trigger a rash.This is one of the easiest causes of itching or redness to eliminate.


Experiment with hygiene products by trial and error. Try switching to a fragrance-free deodorant first. If this doesn't heal the rash, switch to different, preferably fragrance-free, soap. If the problem persists, see a doctor.
Some non-irritating deodorants to consider if you think your deodorant or antiperspirant might be the culprit:

Potassium Alum: Potassium Alum is a mineral that has astringent and antiseptic qualities. While it does not prevent perspiration, it is effective in inhibiting the growth of the bacteria responsible for body odor. It is commonly found in stone-form and is very cheap.

Baking soda: Mix an eighth of a teaspoon of baking soda with a little bit of water — don't dissolve it — and rub it under your arms. If you wish, you can also dust a little bit of baking soda and cornstarch under your arms for a drier feel.

Lemon: The citric acid in lemon juice also kills the bacteria underneath your arms. Take a slice of lemon and swipe it under your pits for a nice natural deodorant. Just be sure not to use lemon juice immediately after you shave.

Rubbing alcohol: Fill a spray bottle with isopropyl alcohol and simply mist underneath your arms. For a nice fragrance, add a few drops of an essential oil like lavender or mint, though its safer to avoid the fragrance altogether.
 The underarm area is a perfect breeding ground for bacteria and fungus because it is dark and moist. Armpit rash can be attributable to poor hygiene, but it's far more likely that the rash is a direct result of heat, friction or contact with allergens., These may include allergies to food and medication, poison ivy or poison oak, insect bites, or an autoimmune disorder such as psoriasis. Viruses such as flu or chicken pox can also cause rashes. Consult your physician if you suspect any of these as reasons for underarm inflammation.
 If you've developed armpit rash and started some of the regimens listed above, it's time to help soothe the rash, first and foremost. Follow these steps to help soothe the rash.


Wash under your arms with mild, fragrance-free soap. Allow the area to dry thoroughly.
Wear loose fitting clothing made of natural materials such as cotton, jute and linen. These materials will help your skin breathe easier, cutting down on the chance of folliculitis.
Drink hydrating fluids that allow your body to optimally regulate its temperature. Water and green tea are best. Energy drinks, coffee, and other diuretics are best avoided because they can dehydrate.
Use an over-the-counter anti-fungal cream or lotion. These are the same products used for fungal infections in other areas of the body such as the feet and groin.
 The moist compress should help promote drainage.Once washcloth has been used, substitute it for another clean compress the next time you apply it.
 An oil containing vitamin E may help, although topical vitamin E may irritate the skin of some people.Other oils you may consider are aloe vera, tea tree and emu.


A mild hydrocortisone creams applied to the irritated area to help your armpit rash to heal while preventing irritation and itching.Calamine lotion is also a popular anti-itch cream used on rashes.
Take an oatmeal bath. Try a colloidal store-bought product, or make your own oatmeal bath by wrapping 1 cup of oatmeal in a cotton cloth or sock and boiling as you would to cook it. Let it cool down a little bit, and use the oatmeal poultice as a sponge to bathe in., Skin abrasions caused by scratching can lead to fungal or bacterial infection. Use a topical ointment, such as hydrocortisone, if the itching becomes unbearable.
 He/She may need to prescribe a stronger medication. In the meantime, it's okay to take ibuprofen or aspirin to ease pain and inflammation.

