 Knowing the meaning actually makes the practice much easier and cuts through a lot of confusion. Vipassana is a Pali word (Pali is the name given to an ancient Indian dialect) which means "clear vision" (passati as the main root verb = to see). It doesn't entirely mean clear awareness, as in mindfulness, which the Pali term used is sampajana.


Its role in the noble eightfold path is an area of debate, but seems to be more aligned with samma ditthi "right view", rather than samma samadhi, "right meditation", the latter of which is very clearly defined.
Properly speaking, the early Buddhist texts do not have a technique or method of vipassana per se. In the context of the early Buddhist texts that scholars have shown to be from the time of the Buddha, it is always used in conjunction, and more often as a result of samatha or stillness meditations and particularly dhyana / jhana. In the early texts it's often presented as a dual word - samatha-vipassana, which one may translate as "the insight of stillness" (if used as a genitive tappurisa compound).
After the Buddha it started to develop into a wide range of schools, particularly in Myanmar. The well known Vipassana movements of today generally date no earlier than the late 19th century to current time.;
, Out of all the various vipassana techniques, mindfulness type meditations are the most common forms that are practiced. Such examples include mental body scanning of the bodily internals such as the skeletal structure, organs and so on; observing physical sensations; observing emotions, thoughts and other mental activities; general awareness of mindfulness and mental noting; observing a specific object, such as the breath, a flower or a candle flame all of which gradually reveal their true characteristics of impermanence, non-ownership and suffering.
 This may take some time to experiment, and ideally you should give each style a good two week trial, but generally the right kind of meditation for you feels right, almost like a coming home. Try different teachers until you find one that feels right for you, but there are three important things to bear in mind so you can get the best results:


Firstly, practice as closely as it is taught. A general rule is that meditation styles that work, bear quick results, but styles that don't work, will never work. Being faithful to the method can ensure results, but also bear in mind some people are more receptive to meditation practices than others.
Read suttas and manuals carefully. There is a great deal written about Buddhist Vipassana meditation and a lot can be confusing or contradictory, particularly modern texts. A good teacher is able to show you how to navigate the various ideas of the late and modern Buddhist texts.
Fundamental to Vipassana, according to the early Buddhist texts, is a letting go, a relinquishing of everything in order to lead into stillness and deep understanding. Trivia, politics, dogmas and guru or personality cults are certainly common in all schools and religions worldwide, yet are obstacles to insight in the present and certainly in the future. They are a powerful firewall that the Buddha recommends to practice of wise abandoning, kindness, compassion and generosity as tools to break through.

