 If you don't know how, basically, you need 10 Hellstone bars and a Handgun, which is found in the Dungeon. The Phoenix Blaster will help if the Wall of Flesh is accidentally or purposely summoned.;
, To get it, you need to combine the Muramasa, Light's Bane, Blood Butcherer, Blade of Grass, and the Fiery Greatsword together at a Demon/Crimson Altar. To get those swords:


Muramasa; Dungeon Chests
Light's Bane; 20 Demonite Bars
Blood Butcherer; 10 Crimstane Bars
Blade of Grass; 15 stingers, 12 Jungle Spores. Spores are found in the Underground Jungle, Stingers are dropped by Spiked Jungle Slimes, Dragon Hornets, and Hornets, all found in the Jungle.
Fiery Greatsword; 10 Hellstone Bars

, Molten Armor is the best, but you have to get Hellstone, which is found in the Underworld, to craft it. Just get Iron or Silver Armor.
 The is crafted from 10 Hellstone bars and an Enchanted Boomerang, which is typical Forest chest loot.
 You can get the Strong Spear, but we highly recommend a Dark Lance.
 You have a variety of choices of items that will get you high ground:


Wings (Hardmode only)
Spectre Boots
Frost spark Boots
Rocket Boots
Fart in a Jar
Cloud in a Bottle
Sandstorm in a Bottle
Blizzard in a Bottle
Shiny Red Balloon
Cloud in a Balloon
Sandstorm in a Balloon
Fart in a Balloon
Blizzard in a Balloon
Lucky Horseshoe
Frog Legs
Honey Balloon
Magic Carpet
Hoverboard (Hardmode only)
Lightning Boots

, These will dramatically increase your chance of survival. Craft them from Obsidian Water Walking Boots (Water Walking Boots+Obsidian Skull), and a Lava Charm, found in Gold Chests in the Cavern.
 This will allow you open Shadow Chests in Ruined Houses, where you can find useful items.
 This will allow you to quickly traverse the Underworld. Combine these with the Lightning Boots for maximum speed.
 This will prevent you from being burned by Hellstone. It is crafted from 20 Obsidian.
 This will allow you to collect Hellstone.
 This sounds obvious, but the Lava can kill you quickly, and so can enemies. Lesser Healing Potions do the job, but Healing Potions and Greater Healing Potions (if you're in Hardmode) are much better.
 This allows you to control gravity. You'll have to be very careful, as it can be easy to fall in Lava.
 This helps you see Hellstone better, as it can blend in with other things. It also allows you to see locked Shadow Chests.
 This helps in the battle against the Wall of Flesh.
 This gives you Lava immunity for three minutes, which can make a big difference.

