 When things aren’t going your way, it’s easy to get caught up in the negativity. Ground yourself by pausing and practicing deep breathing. Deep, abdominal breathing activates the body’s natural relaxation response to help you fend off stress and reconnect with yourself.


Sit or stand (bare earth is great). Use your mind’s eye to follow your breath as it moves through your body. Inhale through your nose, letting your breath expand into your lungs, ribs, and abdomen. Exhale deeply from your mouth. As you do this, envision roots extending from the soles of your feet and anchoring you to the earth. Repeat this for as long as needed.;
, The body scan is a grounding meditation exercise that helps you become aware of your body. It pulls your attention away from distressing thoughts to what’s happening in your body, helping you notice different sensations associated with stress. When you are more aware of where tension lies in your body, you can take measures to relieve it.


Lie comfortably on your back on the floor or bed. Relax your arms at your sides. Take a few deep breaths. Turn your attention to your feet. Going slow, pay attention to any sensations in your feet.
Are they tense? Achy? If they are uncomfortable, take deep breaths, imagining the discomfort melting away with each exhale. Move up to your ankles. Then, go to your calves, knees, and so on until you have scanned your entire body., You may feel off-center because you constantly move from activity to activity with little awareness. Eating is no better—you might eat while driving, talking, or working to save time. Mindful eating is a great way to slow down and ground yourself in the present moment.Before taking a bite, express silent appreciation for the hands that prepared your meal. Admire the many colors, smells, and textures. Now, pick up your fork and take a modest bite of food. Return your fork to your plate. Fully engage your senses as you chew at least 20 times per bite. Pick up your fork and take another bite, repeating the process.
Avoid talking or any sort of entertainment while eating. Ground yourself completely in the act of eating.

