 I.E Social media influencers, Financial News, Boise Residents, Families, etc. Once you have your demographics established, you're ready to set up your Twitter account;
, Create a username that sounds genuine and is interesting. I.E. Bad username: "FrankyWood3423" (this appears both robotic and boring) Good username:"FinancialFranky."


Write your description that contains keywords & #'s but does not sound robotic. Ex:"#Financial planner in the Boise area. Numbers man, fan of #hockey, a good T-Bone steak, and my beautiful wife." By doing this, your increasing your changes to show up in the search results.
Also be sure to add a link to your website or blog, and to add your location so you show up for local search results. Upload your avatar that is of you, that is friendly and inviting.
Choose a background that is easy on the eyes and fits with your brand. If you are already in the process any sort of email marketing programs or software, send out an email blast informing your already established network that you are on Twitter. This is a great to generate initial followers and extend your reach.



Things to check are how often are they tweeting, when was the last time they tweeted, where are they from, how many accounts are following them, how many are they following, what kind of content are they sharing, are they talking with people, or are they talking at them, are they sharing other people's content?

, By creating lists, it will make it much easier to manage and follow different demographics and be a huge time savor when engaging with specific demographics.


Follow relevant news and informational accounts that share content that relates to both your interests and the interests of those you wish to engage. By doing so, you will have opportunities to know what's happening in your areas of interest, you will find content to share that your followers will find interesting, and identify areas of opportunity.
, By doing so, you are getting their attention since they will both get a notification for the follow and for the list addition.
 These are a great way to engage with your demographics and it will save you time and energy since these lists are already created and contain exactly who you would like to be engaging with.


Once you are following a handful of relevant lists based on your demographics, go through these lists and identify opportunities to engage. Share another person's tweet and add your spin or insight on it. Ex: "Unplugging electronics for the win. RT @DetroitMom List of 15 ways to save money during xmas www.moneynews.com/xmasfunds." Favorite a person's tweet.
Respond to a person's tweet and ask a question about it. To the accounts you are following, simply tweet at them and identify who you are and why you followed them.
Dedicate specific times each day to read your Twitter feed and engage with your network (followers, following, lists).



Focus your time and energy in talking with people and not at them. It's all about building meaningful relationships with your demographics.
Save the sales talk for another time. If you were at a party and you met someone and all they did was talk about them self, how quickly would you walk away?
Take that same approach to social media, you're just socializing online.
 By using these tools and tips, it will ensure your Twitter profile is off to a successful start, with nothing but a bright future ahead.
 Twitter is where the original hashtag was born. Most of the tweets published today use one or more hashtags. You can search hashtags relevant to your business in Twitter’s search menu at the top. From there, you can find relevant content to share as well as find others who are in your industry. Customers can also use hashtags to tweet to or about your business. This is a great way to interact with your customers., Many people are facing the pain points that your product solves. You can search Twitter for people who are tweeting about those problems. You can then tweet back at them to tell them about your product. For example, if you are an insurance company, search the phrase ‘insurance rates’ to find people who are looking for a better deal., As a successful business, you probably know who your competitors are. In order to reach more of your customer base, go to your competitors’ Twitter accounts and begin following people who are following them. Some of those people will begin following your company too. They will then be able to see your company’s tweets. If anything, they will be excited to see another company in the same industry took the time to follow them.