 The type of hardware you're dealing with will depend on what you're painting. Items like walls, furniture, and doors will likely have hardware that you have to remove.


Remove the hinges from doors and cabinets before painting. Use a screwdriver to remove the screws attaching the hinges, and then take the doors or cabinets down.
Remove handles, knockers, mail boxes, and other attached accessories from doors, cabinets, furniture, and other items.
For walls, take everything off the walls and remove vents, switch plate covers, outlet covers, and other items.;
, This is particularly important for stationary objects like walls and counters. For walls and counters, protect the floor underneath by laying down a drop sheet. Tape the drop sheet in place with painter’s tape. Protect adjacent areas by taping them with painter’s tape. This includes ceilings, walls, sinks, fixtures, and other areas touching the surface you'll be painting.For mobile objects like furniture, cabinetry, hardware, and doors, move the object to a well-ventilated space, such as a garage. Place the item on a drop sheet to protect the floor underneath.
 It’s a good idea to use a degreasing cleaner to clean any surface before painting. This will remove all traces of oil, grease, grime, and dirt, and give the paint a clean surface to stick to.Dip a scrubbing pad or sponge into a degreasing cleaner and wipe the entire surface. Rinse the area with a damp sponge, pat it dry with a rag, and let the surface dry for 30 minutes.


Denatured alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, and ammonia-based household cleaners are all good degreasing cleaners.
You can also use ½ cup (4 ounces) of trisodium phosphate mixed with 2 quarts (1.8 L) of water as a powerful degreasing cleanser.
 Sanding before painting is important no matter what kind of surface you're working with, because it cleans and roughs up the surface so the paint can stick. Using an orbital sander will make the job go much faster, but you can sand smaller surfaces by hand with a sanding sponge.For countertops and wood furniture, use 150-grit sandpaper
For doors and metal, use 220-grit sandpaper
For walls, use 120-grit sandpaper
For cabinets, use 100-grit sandpaper

, After sanding, vacuum the surface and the surrounding area to remove excess dust. Then, go over the entire surface with a clean, damp sponge to remove any remaining dust and dirt. Soak and wring out the sponge often to make sure you aren't just pushing dust around.


Once clean, let the surface dry for another 30 minutes.
 Priming any surface before painting will give the paint an even surface to stick to, will cover imperfections, and will help reduce color variations in the final paint job. Choose a primer color that will complement your paint project, and use a primer suitable for the surface you're working with.Apply the primer with a roller, and use a brush to get into corners and awkward spaces and joints.
Allow the primer to dry according to the manufacturer’s instructions. This usually takes at least 24 hours.
 To create a faux bois, or fake wood, look on any surface, you'll need paint in your color of choice, a few basic painting supplies, and one specialized tool. You can use any color paint you like, but make sure it’s suitable for the surface you're working with. For this project, you'll need:


Paint
Glaze (for latex paint) or paint thinner (for oil paint)
Paint tray
Roller
Wood grainer (can be purchased at paint, home, and hardware stores)
Whisk broom
Brush

, To create a faux bois finish, you have to paint the surface first and then use a wood grainer to mark a wood pattern into the paint. Thinning out the paint prevents the paint from drying too quickly, and makes it easier to press in the pattern.


If you're using a latex paint, mix it in the paint tray with equal parts glaze and water.
For oil paint, mix the paint with one part paint thinner., Saturate your roller in paint. Roll the roller over the paint tray a few times to remove excess. Working in a small area, apply a thin but even coat of paint to your surface.If necessary, use a brush to access corners, joints, recesses, and awkward areas.


To stop the paint from drying too quickly, work in sections that are no bigger than 4-feet squared (1.2-meters squared). Once you’ve painted and imprinted a section, you can move on to the next.
 After you’ve painted your first small area, use the wood grainer to imprint the paint with the wood pattern. Place the grainer at the top of the section, press the grainer into the paint with gentle but even pressure, and drag the grainer down a strip of paint in a straight line.When you’ve finished the first strip, go back to the top of the section, align the grainer immediately beside the first strip, and drag the grainer down the second strip.
Repeat until you’ve imprinted the entire section with the wood grainer.
 When you’ve dragged the grainer over the entire painted surface to create the wood pattern, allow the section to dry for about 10 minutes, or until the paint starts to feel dry to the touch. Then, use the whisk broom and gently brush the surface of the paint in vertical swipes. This will create a subtle grain effect.When you’ve finished with this first section, move on to the next. Follow the same painting, wood graining, and brushing steps until the entire surface is complete.
 Let your first coat of paint dry completely, according to the manufacturer’s directions. Normally paint is ready for a second coat within a few hours. When the paint is dry, use the roller to apply a second coat of paint, working in small sections like before.


Make sure the coat is very thin, because you don’t want to completely cover the wood grain pattern you created.
The purpose of the second coat is to create a sealing layer over the first, and also to make the wood pattern a little subtler.
 When you’ve finished the first section of the second coat, use a wide brush to gently brush over the entire area to remove roller marks. This will also create a more pronounced grain effect.Continue painting and brushing in sections until the entire second coat is complete.
Following the manufacturer’s directions, allow the paint to dry completely. This normally takes at least 24 hours.
 Aged or antique paint finishes are a great way to give walls, furniture, and other items character. Crackle painting is the most common aging finish, and it involves applying a top layer of paint that breaks and cracks the way old paint does after many years.


There are a couple ways you can create an aged crackle effect. One is with glue, and the other is with a special crackle paint.
 Color washing is a very popular paint finish for walls. It’s another way to achieve an aged and textured look, and it’s quite simple to execute. You can achieve a color washing look with a rag, a sponge, or a combination thereof.
 Granite is a very popular stone to use for counters and other home accents. However, granite can be quite expensive, and replicating the look of it with a granite paint finish is much more affordable.


The easiest way to create a faux granite finish is with a spray painting kit. You can buy these at most home, hardware, and paint stores.
 This is a great finish for walls and furniture when you want to transform the look of a room without having to spend too much money.


As with all paint projects, the key to a successful faux leather look is giving the paint time to dry properly between coats.
 A faux marble finish is a popular painting project for people who find real marble too expensive. Like other stones, faux marble is popular for:


Kitchen and bathroom counters
Fireplaces and hearths
Flooring
Desk and tabletops

