 Your genuine interest in another person is the most attractive and meaningful message you could possibly send. Don’t play games by being intentionally vague. Read all of your texts to yourself before sending them. Ask yourself if it’d be a text you’d be happy to receive.


If the person knows you’re interested, and they’ve reciprocated their interest in you as well, you don’t have to say much to get them smiling. Try, “Thinking of you.”
If you’re feeling more direct, go with “Wish you were here.” This is more forward, as it explicitly indicates your desire to be in someone’s company. It also adds an element of intrigue if the recipient doesn’t know what you’re up to, so you’ll get their imagination whirring.Know that we’re all in this together. That includes whomever you’re texting. Just relax and be yourself - be simple, be honest, be true.;
, It’s always best to shoot for a smile, and even better if you can get your crush laughing. Be casual. Don’t overthink it. Remember, we’re talking about texting.


Be a cheeseball. Quote something ridiculously melodramatic or throw a ridiculously cheesy pick up line out there.There’s nothing like a bit of Shakespeare or Thoreau. Emerson once declared, “Thou art to me a delicious torment.” Steal lines like this (and credit them to the appropriate authors for added drama).
There are some officially bad pick-up lines that will almost should never work, and that’s the point – which means they somehow work. Making light of your affection for someone can be a great way to convey interest casually. There are some classics, but you probably already have a go-to in mind.
 Don’t abbreviate everything. It can be misleading, confusing, and may even seem a bit childish. You can get away with “lol” – it’s practically a part of the English language – but don’t send acronyms or abbreviations your recipient might not familiar with it. If you’re interested in them, the least you can do is thumb out complete words. Relatedly, be aware that emoticons should not completely take the place of words.


Cap your emoji-use. There is definitely, definitely such a thing as too many emoticons. Personal preference is a legitimate argument here, but don’t forget to occasionally mention that you’re interested in having a genuine conversation if they would too.Comedy is the only realm in which it is appropriate to overuse emoticons. In particular, feel free to indulge in storytelling with emoticons. If you can wind together a solid, ideally humorous narrative using only tiny 2D images, by all means, emoji-away.
Even emoticons are getting raunchy these days. Hold off on the emoji innuendos until you have an appropriate relationship with someone who might appreciate your smiley face based sultriness.

