 While it may sound like a good idea to keep the children guessing, it will actually make them even more bored because there's nothing for them to look forward too. Instead, explain to them where you're going, how far away it is and what you're going to do there. This should give them an idea of how much fun you will have once you arrive. You can explain that if they do not behave on the way, they will not be allowed to do certain things. Be sure to stick to your word though or they will take advantage of your kindness.;
, If you're going to a hotel or campsite, suitcases are a must. If you're just going sightseeing, a large backpack or messenger bag should be large enough to hold some essentials. If you arrive at your destination and you're missing one of these items, you could find yourself in a spot of trouble. These items include:


Food.
Drinks.
Nappies/diapers.
Baby milk.
First aid kit.
A bag to vomit in.
Small cushions to sleep on.
Spare batteries for toys.
 Now that they know where you're going and how long it will take to get there, they probably want to bring their favourite toys and games along with them. Don't tell them to leave everything at home, let them bring at least two toys so they can have fun along the way. If you're OK with it, let them have a backpack full of their own things. Keep the backpack small enough to fit in the car and help them choose toys that'll fit in the backpack. If they want to bring a 6 feet (1.8 m) action figure, try to convince them to bring a book instead.
 If two of your children fight a lot, try to sit them apart from each other. This can be done by sitting the oldest child in the front and the youngest child in the back, sitting an adult in between the two or sitting another sibling in between them. This will, hopefully, avoid any fights between the two siblings and keep everyone happy. Alternatively, you can try to get the two siblings on talking terms before the big journey by getting them to play games together or taking them for a smaller drive once in a while so they get used to sitting next to each other.
 Nothing is more fun than playing I-spy on a long car journey. It can help pass some time and keep everybody happy at the same time. Who knows, the kids might end up playing one game for the whole journey. Simply because you have a headache, don't discourage them from playing their favourite games with their siblings or friends. You can maybe ask them to keep it down a little while explaining that you have a headache but still allow them to continue playing. Also, make sure the game they're playing does not require too much movement (like tag, for example) as this can distract the driver and sometimes get a little bit violent.
 When everybody is tired, hungry and sweaty, their moods can start to go south. You can't really blame them, but you can take breaks. Find somewhere to park up, eat a sandwich and refill your car's petrol. Sometimes just some fresh air can make everybody happy again, especially if the scenery is pretty to look at or interesting. Keep the kids together at all time. If there is a picnic area with some benches, make sure that everyone stays seated until you've finished eating. You don't want to be running after your child so they can finish their food. You can, however, allow them to play a game like tag while you relax. Make sure they know how far they're allowed to go and what areas are out of bounds.
 If your kids are tired, there's no reason to force them to stay awake. When they start yawning, give them a cushion or a pillow each and let them fall asleep. This will also give you some peace and quiet and will make the time pass quickly for the children. If one child is not tired, don't force them to sleep. They will probably fall asleep after everybody else has dozed off and there is nobody to play with anymore. If you get tired from driving, feel free to swap with another adult and do the same. You should have brought a pillow for everyone so everyone can sleep at once. If you forgot to bring enough pillows, something soft like a scrunched up jumper can be a nice alternative.

