 America's police are far more violent than police in other countries.Activists and the UN Human Rights Council have voiced serious concerns about the issue.Danger isn't an issue—police work is now safer than ever., You can love your local officers and police in general while still acknowledging that...


Committing a crime, or being a suspect, is not punishable by death without trial.
Some police officers do bad things, and it's important that the good officers stop them, so they cannot speak for police as a whole.
Some people are very tired of getting hassled by police,and they may live in fear that they or their children will be killed for putting their hands in their pockets or wearing a hoodie.People of color, disabled people, and other minorities also have lives that matter.
 Unjust police killings do happen, and don't let your support of police prevent you from being compassionate to everyone.


Avoid wearing the "I CAN breathe" shirts—a play on the words of a dead manis not a laughing matter.
Be respectful of the families of dead men, women, and children, just as you respect the families of fallen officers.
 Unfortunately, you will have to deal with people who think that there is nothing wrong with assaulting or killing unarmed people of color. If someone does something racist, quietly take them aside and let them know that they are being cruel.
 Some of the tragedies in the news could be prevented by better training. Training programs can help police feel confident, make the right decisions, and be better supported by their community. When people say they are upset with the current police system, suggest...


Encouraging police to respond with minimal violence
Training for interacting with disabled people (since their actions may seem confusing to police)
Training so the good police know how to stand up when something goes wrong
Having days for police to come interact in schools with children of color or disabled children, so they can get to know and trust each other