 There are certain traits you want to convey during your interview, and one of those is organization. After you sit down, bring out your resume, portfolio, or anything else you may want to show, and keep it in front of you.Bring several copies of your resume to hand out to anyone who may take part in interviewing you. This will show you are prepared.
 An interview is your chance to share all of your best attributes to your interviewer, and convince that person why you are the best candidate to hire. Be sure to plan exactly what features about yourself you want to convey during your interview and how you will express them.Decide what your best trait is, and have a supporting example ready for your interview. Chances are, your interviewer will ask you about it.
Reflect on your best workplace, or life achievement, and be ready to share it during your interview. If possible, bring in proof to reinforce your story, such as an award, or certificate.
 Companies hire on vacant positions only. In other words, when a company feels they cannot work efficiently with their current staff, they announce positions they feel they need to fill. In this way, you are the need of the business as well as the interviewer. Let him feel as you are the person he needs to get the job done.


Explain your qualifying experience. If you have any past experience on solving problems similar to ones your prospective company is facing, mention this during the interview.
 Don’t complain about your past work to the interviewer, or give them any blame. That type of behavior comes across as immature and useless. Instead, speak of the future. Talk about what you have learned from your past employers and how excited you are to begin new endeavors. This will show you are a positive person., Flexibility is a major selling point to employers. Your interviewer will love hearing how you are eager to learn new skills and evolve with the company.


If your interviewer asks you about a technology or procedure during the interview you are not familiar with, don't get nervous. Instead, admit that you are unfamiliar, but that you would love to learn more about it.
 Interviewers are looking for more than simple word descriptions of why you are great. They are listening for you to share a great example from your experiences.For instance, don't just say you are a great team player. Instead, give an example of a time you were required to collaborate on a project with coworkers and how you dealt with that.Not all of your examples need to come from the workplace. Give an example of a personal struggle you have endured and how you overcame it.
 It can be easy to get nervous during an interview and give quick, expressionless answers that show your employer you are crumbling under pressure. Here are some tips to try to keep your interviewer engaged:


Pause occasionally before you answer a question.
Use your hands to gesture as you talk.
Change the volume of your voice throughout your responses.
Smile frequently.

