 Using paper is a simple, but fun way to makeover your file cabinets.


Shelf paper or contact paper is usually made of vinyl and not paper.
Be sure to choose vinyl if you come across both types as it is more durable and is easier to clean.
The surfaces to which you will apply the contact paper should be dent-free, or the finished project will not look good. The exterior hardware MUST be removed in order for the paper to apply smoothly.
 With the drawer sitting face up, measure the width and height of the drawer face.


Most contact paper has a “criss-cross” grid on the back side.
This helps you cut straight lines. They are usually ½” or 1” squares.
 Cut a piece of contact paper about one inch larger than each measurement.


Peel back about one inch of the backing paper to expose the adhesive on the paper.
Do this along the “long” edge of the paper.
 Carefully align the exposed edge along the corresponding edge of the drawer face with about a half-inch overhang.


Carefully run your finger over the paper to stick it down to the drawer. Make sure the paper does not wrinkle while you do this.
Slowly peel back about ½” of backing paper at a time as you carefully stick the paper to the drawer surface.
Do this in very small segments to reduce the risk of bubbles and wrinkles.
Continue this process until the entire surface is covered.
It is recommended that you “prime” a vinyl surface with a solid white contact paper. Otherwise, the wood-grain pattern will show through if you are using a light-colored pattern.
 Use a razor blade or sharp utility knife to trim off the excess. You can use the outer edges of the drawer as a natural straight-edge to get a clean, straight cut.


If you get a wrinkle, be very careful if you peel the paper off the drawer. Vinyl stretches and it may not re-apply correctly.
If this happens, you can cut away the bad piece and replace it with a new one. Use a straight-edge to make your cut so it will be straight.
If you get air bubbles or pockets under the paper, use the sharp corner of a razor blade or the sharp tip of a utility knife to pierce the bubble and release the air. It should then flatten out nicely.
Repeat this method for all surfaces. Do one surface at a time on the cabinet and do not try to completely wrap the cabinet with one piece.
 Cut out decorative shapes with a contrasting color of contact paper and apply it to the newly covered surfaces.


You may also get pre-cut letters and shapes to personalize your cabinet.

