 Before giving serious consideration to bringing home a venomous snake, go online and see what state and local laws are in effect in your area. Follow all laws regarding the possession of these animals.In some states, only certain species of venomous snakes may be kept.
In some states, venomous snakes may not be kept by private citizens.
Some states allow keeping venomous snakes, but place restrictions on how they can be obtained.
If you have trouble finding or understanding the laws in your area, contact your local Department of Natural Resources or Department of Fish and Game, or an attorney.;
, Before deciding to bring home a venomous animal, discuss this with anyone else you live with. Be certain they are in full understanding of the risks and dangers, and agree to having a hot snake live in the home.It's also a good idea to alert friends who come to the home regularly, and nearby neighbors who could be at risk if the snake should escape.
 Next, spend some time learning about different varieties of snakes that are permitted in your area to decide which species you might be interested in bringing home.Be aware that different species of snakes have different requirements in terms of care and feeding, space, temperature, light, and so forth.Pick a species of snake that you are going to be able to care for adequately.
Different types of snakes also have different dispositions, with some being more aggressive, others more reclusive, and so on. Spend some time online or visit your local library or bookstore and pick up a book on snakes to learn more.
 It is irresponsible to own a venomous snake without having the proper insurance. Accidents are common and can cost a lot of money. If you can't afford insurance, you can't afford to keep one of these snakes.You and everyone in your home should have adequate health insurance. Medical treatment for a snake bite can cost thousands of dollars.
You should also have liability insurance. If your snake bites someone else, you will be legally responsible for any costs that result, including medical bills and the possibility of lawsuits resulting from injury or death.
 Before bringing a snake home, collect emergency contact information for hospitals in the area that keep anti-venom on hand that would counteract the venom of your snake. Keep the information in multiple places.Keep this list by your snake's cage, in your phone, and in other prominent places around the home. Be sure your family or housemates know where this information is.
 Before purchasing a snake, prepare an adequate and secure home for it. The size requirements will vary depending on the variety. The cage or tank must be sturdy and secure.Purchase a snake tank (like reinforced fish tank) or make a cage from plywood, at least a half inch thick.
Do not use any cage with mesh sides.
Any opening large enough for a snake to stick its snout in up to its eyes is a big enough opening for it to escape.
The tank must have a secured lid. Ideally, it should lock., Find a reputable vendor to buy a snake from and purchase your snake. Then bring it home and release it into the cage.


To find a reputable vendor, read some online reviews, or better yet, talk to others within the snake community to get a recommendation.Ask the vendor questions such as who he or she uses as a vet, how long the business has existed, and where the snakes come from. A reputable vendor should have clear, straightforward answers to all these questions. It is also a good idea to ask for references.If you live somewhere where venomous snakes live in the wild, you may be tempted to try to catch one yourself. Before undertaking such a task, be aware that this is very dangerous if you don't know what you are doing, and is also illegal in some states.