 VENMO offers both online and mobile transfers, and is strongly social-media based. You can send money, with or without the mobile app, using either bank accounts or credit cards.Sending money from your linked bank account is free, while sending money from your linked credit card incurs a 3% fee per transaction.Non-VENMO users will receive a request to sign up for an account before they can receive your money.
VENMO has a $299.99 weekly limit for sending for personal accounts until you have verified your information. Your sending limit will then increase to $2999.99., First, create an account using either your Facebook login or your email address. VENMO uses your Facebook friends list to generate a contact list for money transfers. You can also link your email contact list.Enter name, address, email, and phone and password
Click “Complete Sign Up”

, The site will send a code as a text message to verify your identity and phone number. Enter the number you received as a text and then click the button to “Verify Phone.”Click the link to use on the web, if you don’t have an iPhone or Android phone.
You will receive an additional text message with a link to download the app if you have a mobile device.
 The selected button will remain depressed, so check it to make sure you have the correct one selected., If you enter a name, the VENMO search engine will search for matching users in your contact list or VENMO account holders..Be sure to check the image thumbnail, if you enter a name, to be certain it’s the person to whom you want to send money.
You can also add friends, using the option on the right-hand navigation, so those names appear first.
 You can include a note describing the purpose of the payment, so that you and your recipient can keep accurate records of payments..You can “Share” the payment on Facebook, if you’ve connected your FB account, by selecting the “Share a note on Facebook” box.Add your Facebook friends to your VENMO account to speed up future payments.
 You can either share your transaction in your VENMO news feed with all VENMO users or just your friends, or you can keep it private.Select “public” to allow your transaction to appear on the main news feed for all VENMO users.
Choose “Friends” to only show the transaction on your VENMO friends’ feeds.
Choose “Private” to hide the transaction from view.
 This option securely sends your friend cash with no fees. You can also enter different bank account information, using the link at the bottom of the pop-up window.Add a bank account to use ACH withdrawal, also for free.
You can use a credit card to send money, but you’ll incur a 3% transaction fee., The funds are sent instantly to VENMO account holders, although non-users will be asked to create an account first.Make sure, before sending a payment, that all of the recipient information and amounts are correct. VENMO cannot cancel payments once sent.
If you realize your mistake after you've sent the money, send your payee a request that he or she return you the money. Include a note explaining your request.
VENMO can only reverse charges with permission from both parties involved.