 Crunches are similar to situps, except only your shoulders and upper back come up off the floor. This compresses your spine less and doesn't require the use of your hip muscles. To do a crunch, lie on your back on the floor with your knees bent and your arms crossed on your chest (or fingers laced behind your head). Slowly curl upwards until your upper back is off the floor. Pretend a string attached to your shoulders is pulling you up towards the sky (not towards your knees). Keep your abs tight and lower yourself back down slowly; you work your muscles just as much on the way down as on the way up.;
, You can keep the same starting position as you used for the traditional crunch, except you should lace your fingers behind your head if you haven't already. Then, lift your legs so that your knees are bent together and touching your chest. Contracting your abs, sit up slightly and inhale. As you exhale, straighten your right leg and try to touch the outside of your right arm to the outside of your left thigh. Straighten your core and bring your knee back to your chest on the inhale. Then, repeat for the opposite side.
 Long arm crunches engage all of the muscles in your abdomen to ensure a thorough workout. To begin, stay in the same starting position as you have for the last two exercises. However, instead of crossing your arms across your chest, extend them straight back on the floor (as if you're reaching up above your head). Then, contract your abs to lift your arms, head, and shoulders off the floor (Remember not to lead with your arms! They should stay next to your head the entire time). Stop when you reach a 30˚ angle. Hold for a couple seconds, then lower yourself back down in a slow, controlled manner.
 Bend your knees so that your thighs are perpendicular to the floor and your lower legs are parallel to the floor. Put your arms to your side, palms down. As you inhale, roll your pelvis backwards to pull your legs up towards your torso. Your hips should be lifted off the floor and your knees should touch your chest at the end of the exercise. Then, slowly release and return to the starting position.
 Prop your legs up on an exercise ball so that your knees are bent at a 90˚ angle. Place your hands behind your head (don't lace your fingers) and tighten your abs. Gently lift your upper body off the floor be contracting your abs. Don't tuck your chin into your chest. Slowly lower yourself back down to the floor as you inhale.