 Though we often think of inspiration as something that just strikes us, a certain level of discipline is also necessary to create polished song lyrics. Having a set place to focus and be creative can motivate you to keep up a regular practice of songwriting.


Something as simple as a desk can be a great place to write. You can even put tools, such as pen, paper, a dictionary and also decorate the space with some of your favorite musical inspirations to keep you going.
Studies have shown that the color blue can enhance performance on a creative task.Try repainting your space blue or have blue decorations in your space to keep you going.
 Some people feel most inspired and excited to write first thing in the morning while other people find the evening time to be best for their creativity. Figure out what time of the day works for you (bearing in mind other responsibilities, such as your job and schoolwork) and decide on a writing routine accordingly.You can even schedule this time into a calendar or planner if you use one. After a few weeks of consciously doing this, it’ll eventually become second nature and you’ll have a steady flow of written material for your songs.
 It’s all too easy to get distracted by social media, chores, and all the other daily aspects of life that demand our attention. However, having a specific time and place to do your writing will carve out some space that takes you away from all of that.


If you use your computer to write, make a commitment to not use the Internet until you get a set amount of work done. If you find yourself constantly itching to look things up, turn off the wifi and write notes in your work of what to research once you are done with the rough draft., Think about who in your life is also engaged in artistic pursuits and ask them if they would be willing to collaborate with you. Collaborating can be as easy as giving each other feedback on each other’s work or even starting a new project together. Not only will you motivate each other to produce work, but you’ll also get great feedback and a fresh outlook that will make you a better songwriter.Your collaborators don’t necessarily have to be musicians. In fact, working with an actor or writer may be even better as you’ll get a totally different perspective.
Be proactive about receiving constructive criticism. After all, you want new, good ideas and so don’t take criticism personally but instead see them as an opportunity to improve.
 If you’re having trouble being disciplined about your writing, consider joining a writing group! Writing groups are generally open to all different forms of writing and knowing that you have an audience that is going to read your work and give you feedback can motivate you to just sit down and get that song onto paper.


Oftentimes you can find local writing groups that meet once a month or so to do writing workshops. Look for ads in cafes or other community spaces. You can also browse websites like Craigslist.
If you feel uncomfortable talking about your work in person, you can also find online writing groups.
 You never know when inspiration will strike so you’ll always want to be able to have these important tools handy.Writing notes down on your phone is a good alternative if you aren’t the type to carry a bag around.

