 Psychics believe that all people are surrounded by electromagnetic fields that they use to pass energy on at a psychic level. You can use these energies better if you understand what they are.


Auras and chakras are two aspects of your personal energy field. If you understand what they are, you can better control the flow of energy into and out of your body. It can take many years to hone your telepathic abilities. You should try to practice these skills on a daily basis, if possible. Auras are energy fields that surround the body; chakras are the places that energy flows into and out of the body.
You can try to perceive other people’s personal energy fields, and, thus, increase your ability to read the thoughts of other people. Have people draw pictures on cards, and then try to figure out what the person drew without being shown cards.
 Within the body are seven major chakras. These are openings in which energy flows in and out of the body. The top two chakras are mental centers, the four on the front deal with emotions and the four on the back of the body focus on will. The root chakra relates to physical.


If a chakra is blocked, energy doesn’t flow. This can cause illness and suppression of emotion. If chakras are too open, this can lead to overreaction and emotional problems.Imagine that you are opening and closing the third eye, which is the chakra just above and between your actual eyes. Shut your actual eyes, and imagine the third eye opening more., Auras are the energy field emitted by all human beings. They vary in color and intensity. If you learn how to sense a person’s aura, you can better perceive their thoughts.Energy is everywhere, including radiating from the body. Stand about 10 feet away from another person. Have them stand against a plain white or black background.
Look at their nose with relaxed gaze, and use your peripheral vision. The aura will look like a slight fog first. Keep your gaze at the fog. Once you see it, hold the gaze and you should be able to see it. When you blink the aura will probably disappear.
 In order to become sensitive to other people’s feelings and experiences, you need to operate at a higher level energy frequency with your own energy.


Negativity and unhappiness are energy that will cloud your psychic abilities. Think positively as much as you can. Start by grounding yourself. This will help you learn how to control your energy. Stand with your feet apart, and your arms hanging loosely. Bend your knees slightly, and sink your feet into the ground. Mentally move your energy to your feet. Visualize roots extending deep into the ground out of your feet.
 You will want to get out of the clutter of modern life with all of its distractions to perceive energy better.


Keeping away from the rowdiness and activities of noisy distractions can help the mind think more clearly, in terms of developing inner mental accuracy and focus. Drink in the beauty of natural sounds, like the chirping of birds, the babbling of water from a brook, waterfall, etc.
These natural echos are known to enhance intuition and psychic abilities. Remove the distractions of electronic devices - cell phones, television, and even electric lighting can be a barrier to psychic abilities.

