 The first thing people see when they look at you is often your face! This makes skin care a very important factor in replicating River Song's look. River has clear skin in a lighter shade, but even if your skin is a different shade it's still possible to make your skin color work.

Keep your skin clean and healthy! River Song's complexion is always clear and without blemishes. Wash your face every day, use sunscreen and moisturizer, and avoid excessively touching your face; it leaves dirt and bacteria that cause pimples. For more skin tips, try How to Get Clear, Smooth Skin or How to Have an Acne Free Face.
If you want to make your skin color darker or lighter to match River Song's skin, you can do so with makeup; however, this is a tricky feat that requires time and practice to get down perfectly, as changing your skin color can make you look oddly unnatural sometimes. As intense and time-consuming as this step is, try saving it just for days when you want to do a full-out River Song cosplay.;
, Most of the time it's very natural-looking, and very basic, with some slight variations depending on what she's wearing.

For the base, apply a tinted moisturizer or foundation that matches your skin shade, starting in areas the need more coverage, like under the eyes. Then blend the moisturizer/foundation evenly over the rest of your face, going down your chin onto your neck. Dust just a little loose or pressed powder evenly over the foundation. The idea is to have a smooth, simple, natural look.
Add some simple eyeliner and a tinted lip gloss to finish your easy look.
If you want to dress the look up a little, like River does when she goes out for a night on the town with the Doctor, go for a skin color or soft taupe on the lid, with brown or black liner (depending on how natural you want to go). Use whatever coverage foundation or BB cream you prefer, and a berry or pink lip color with a slight gloss.



 


Another thing to try is to go with red lipstick and a smokier eye color.






Look around at some pictures of River Song from the different episodes she's in, and pay attention to her lipstick and eye color. Try recreating her different makeup looks, and see which ones you like best.
 River Song's hair is one of her most well-known physical features, so getting this step down is key! The main idea is a wild mop of corkscrew blonde curls.

If you already have naturally wild, curly hair, good for you! Just add some light product to add volume and make your hair shine, and you are done!
If you have long, straight or wavy hair, there are a variety of methods you can use to get tighter curls. Try looking at some articles like how to Use a Curling Wand, Use Hair Rollers (smaller rollers make tighter curls), Create Pin Curls, or Curl Hair with Rags. If none of these options work, you could try going to your hairdresser and getting a perm (a.k.a. permanent or permanent wave). This option is far more, well, permanent than the others, so think carefully and make sure it's what you really want.






If you do decide to go with your natural hair, but it's not the right color, you can temporarily or permanently dye it. River Song's hair has darker roots, and lightens up in the middle and at the ends. Look for boxed/bottled dyes at your local stores, or go to a hairdresser and have them do it. Either way, be sure to print out several pictures of River Song for reference so you get the right shades of blonde.
If your hair is too short to curl, or you don't want to mess with all the styling, you can always buy a wig. Any wig that is blonde, fairly short, and very curly will work just fine.
 Out of all the characters in the 'New Who', River's apparel is possibly the most difficult to replicate, since she rarely ever wears the same outfit twice. Not to mention that Doctor Who is very science fiction-looking, so River sometimes wears some very interesting articles of clothing.

If you want to take a modern look, you could adapt River's denim outfit from The Impossible Astronaut episode. This outfit includes a pair of jeans, a matching denim jacket, a simple white button-up blouse with a collar, and some brown cowboy boots. Be sure to fold the shirt collar over the jacket collar, and wear the jeans over the boots instead of tucked in.
Another fairly easy option would be the army outfit from Flesh and Stone. Simply find matching brown camouflage pants and a shirt (in your size!), tie your hair back into a ponytail, and viola!
A classier idea would be the dress from Time of the Angels. Any black dress with a 'v' neckline, empire waist, and long sheer sleeves would suffice nicely. Pair this with red high heels and lipstick. Or try the green dress from Day of the Moon; long, empire waist, 'v' neckline, olive green, with wider shoulder straps and no sleeves. Wrap your hair up in a messy bun to complete this style.
If you're feeling very ambitious, you could buy or recreate River's gray dress from Day of the Moon. This outfit is probably one of River's most well-known, but due to the strange style, is hard to get. You could browse online for a pattern, or alter a pair of loose gray harem pants sewed to a matching gray tank top. This look goes with a wide black belt and tall black boots.
Don't forget the accessories! River always carries around a blue journal that looks like the TARDIS; you can find replicas on ThinkGeek and Etsy. She also occasionally has a time vortex manipulator, her own sonic screwdriver (both found on ThinkGeek or Amazon), and her trusty sonic blaster (you'll have to be creative and make your own version, as no replica of this has yet been made).
You can always make your own outfit as well. Just remember, whatever River wears, she wears proudly and with poise, no matter how beautiful or ridiculous it is. Carry that attitude over and strut your stuff!

, River Song always adds an air of glamor to whatever she's doing. Even though you can't necessarily 'wear' glamor, your posture is a physical feature, and good posture adds a lot to the glamor factor.

Straighten your spine and pull back those shoulders! River hardly ever slouches. Slouching informs people that you are uninterested, or don't care, and River is just about the opposite of those ideals! For more information on correct posture, check out How to Improve Your Posture.
Be graceful. Although River doesn't always walk like a model, she's nimble and light on her feet. Whether she's running through the TARDIS console room, wielding her sonic blaster at some Silence, or walking in high heels through New York City, you can bet she's as smooth as silk. For tips on being graceful, check out How to Be Graceful and How to Walk Like a Diva.

