 Look at what you do have, and the features you like the most about yourself. By focusing on the positives about yourself, you'll be reminded of your beauty and you'll begin to change your self-image, or the way you view yourself. Intentionally focusing on your positive qualities will help develop a confident attitude and an appreciation of your own worth.Consider what you think is your best physical feature. Your eyes? Your figure? Your hair? Identify what your best features are, and try to be excited about those instead of upset about what you don't have.;
, Think about qualities you like about yourself that are not visible. Qualities that are part of who you are, part of your personality have the potential to show more beauty than your outward appearance.Show the world the beauty in you that they cannot see. Here are some incredibly beautiful qualities to possess:


Intelligence
Sense of humor
Kindness
Courage
Elegance
Honesty

, You will have flaws or imperfections, everyone does, it is part of being human. Know; however, that something you consider a flaw, someone else may consider their favorite feature of yours!Begin to learn to love your imperfections. They are what make you, you!

, Most often the central factor in the idea of beauty is focused on your outward appearance. It is not surprising, then, to find a dissatisfaction with the body occurring in about 80% if women ages 18 to 40 years old.Often times, this dissatisfaction can lead to a desire to makeover their physical appearance. The problem, however may be more than skin-deep. Work on doing an inner-makeover first and change the way you view yourself from the inside out.


Replace any negative or critical self-thinking with positive thoughts about the different ways you attract people. Instead of thinking, “My nose is too large” maybe think, “People tell me how beautiful my eyes are all the time.”, Think of yourself as a friend who is feeling the same way. What would you say to her if she told you she didn't feel beautiful? How would you help show her the parts of her you thought were amazing? You deserve to treat yourself as well as you treat your friends.If you are struggling, try repeating affirmations or mantras to yourself, such as:

"I radiate beauty, charm, and grace.""I am strong, I am beautiful, I am enough.""My body is healthy; my mind is brilliant; my soul is tranquil.", Realize that every one has something unique to only them. It's true, one girl may be tall and blond, but she can never be just like you. Maybe you're petite and brunette, that's something she could never be. Celebrate your uniqueness by picking out the qualities you possess that help you stand out in a crowd., It is important to have people in your life who encourage and support you.Anyone who makes you feel you are not unique, awesome, and gorgeous; is not worth your time. It's possible they just don't know you, or maybe they are struggling with their own self image, but you deserve to be around people that are good for you and good to you. Try to portray the attractive person you are on the inside to the outside world.You will naturally attract those that lift you up and make you feel more beautiful!

