 Fasten it around the horse's neck if you prefer or loop the bridle reins around the neck to keep them off the ground.
 The throatlatch, noseband, and flash should be unfastened with the straps hanging neatly to the outside of the cheekpieces and bit.
 Before you start fastening the buckles, view the horse from the front and make sure the bridle pieces and bit lay straight and even on both sides of the face:


The browband should be between the base of the horse's ears and the top of the horns (the bony protrusion above each eye). It should be level and large enough not to pull the cheekpieces too close to the eye.
The buckles of the cheekpiece and strap to the noseband should be very close to each other for a good fit and neat look.
The throatlatch should fit basically like a necklace (four fingers' width).
The cavesson (noseband) should fit like a bracelet (two fingers' width).
The flash should fit like more like ring and needs to be BELOW the bit. This way the flash won't interfere with the bit's movement or pinch the corners of the mouth when you pick up on the reins.
 You should be able to fit four fingers under it; it should fit like a necklace with ample room for your horse to breathe when the neck is flexed.
 This should fit like a bracelet; you should be able to fit two fingers under it but can be adjusted to your horse's preference. Make sure the cheekpiece (that attaches to the bit) moves freely and that the noseband is under it.
 The buckle should lay on a fleshy, non-bony area of the horse's nose. It should be somewhat between the bridge of the nose and the line of the lips. Adjust the tightness of the flash to your horse's comfort level, start loose at first and tighten only enough to prevent gaping of the mouth but not so much that your horse feels trapped, the jaws must move to maintain softness and relaxation while maintaining connection through the reins to the riders hands.(see image).
 Everything should be symmetrical and fitted.
 Hang the crown and the loop of the reins together on a hook. The reins should hang with the right side of the leather facing up. Now circle each strap (cavesson, throatlatch, flash) around the bridle and secure. Do not buckle the straps – just push the strap's end through the leather keepers. This will help the bridle keep the correct shape, and also ensure that you don't lose any straps off the headstall.

