 Using essential oils will not cure your insomnia or the root cause of it.However, essential oils can help you calm down and relax before bedtime and may help you fall and stay asleep.Essential oils are distilled from the leaves, stems, flowers, bark, or roots of a specific plant. They are highly concentrated and you won’t need to use much to reap their benefits.If you have insomnia for a longer period of time, see your doctor to rule out a more serious condition.;
, Each essential oil has a different effect on the body and mind. Learning about the different essential oils will help you identify which ones may help you sleep.


Chamomile essential oil is a powerful calming agent. It can also help lift mood and aid depression.Lavender essential oil is an excellent choice to relieve stress, but can also be used as an anti-depressant, and sedative.Marjoram essential oil can help ease anxiety and stress, fight fatigue.Valerian essential oil can help relax and calm you, and may aid occasional insomnia.Vetiver essential oil can help relax and calm you, and may help you fall and stay asleep., Once you’ve identified the essential oils that may help you sleep, buy one that you like and a carrier oil. You can buy essential and carrier oils at many stores and online retailers.


Consider buying several different essential oils to aid your sleep. That way, you can choose a scent you like best on any given day.
Because essential oils are so concentrated, you’ll need to dilute it with a carrier oil to best use it. Some examples of carrier oils are: sweet almond oil, apricot kernel oil, avocado oil, olive oil, and sesame oil.You can buy essential oils and carrier oils at most health food or nutritional supplements retailers either online or in the store.
 Because each essential oil has different properties and may not be ideal for all users, it’s important to read the label of any essential oil before you use it. It’s also a good idea to do a skin patch test before using an oil.


You can find out about the oil’s contra-indications by reading the label. For example, you wouldn’t want to use valerian if you are pregnant or breast feeding.Before you use the essential oil in a bath or for a massage, do a skin patch test. Add 1-2 drops of diluted essential oil to the inside of your elbow. If no irritation occurs after 24 hours, then you can safely use it on your skin.