 Furthermore, it's always good to obtain the best weapons and armor. Some materia you will need include: Mime, Final Attack, the Phoenix summon, and x2 Attack. Ensure everyone has their final limit breaks too, especially Cloud's Omnislash, probably the most powerful of them all.;
, This phase takes a lot of time and patience. It's best to get the Apocalypse Sword for Cloud in that jungle area with the frogs as it boasts triple exp for any materia equipped in it. You need to max out all the materia listed above not only to have them at full power, but so they duplicate and can be used by other characters. Just grind until all the material you choose is maxed, duplicated, and maxed again. The more the better.
 Ensure every character's Limit gauge is full before encountering Emerald. Make sure Cloud and another party member has the Mime materia equipped as well as someone else in your party. Also, equip the Final Attack materia in a linked slot with the Phoenix summon; with this combination, the death of that character will trigger Phoenix, resurrecting your entire party. This is key for when Emerald weapon does his random evil 'kill everyone' attack.
 Don't use any limit breaks until this is done--when finished, use Cloud's Omnislash limit. Don't allow the other party members to use their own limits; instead, pass their turns until Cloud's comes up, and have him use the Mime ability. Repeat this as many times as possible before you die. Omni slash hits 15 times, if your maxed out doing 9999 every hit, that almost 15000 damage.
 Some favour the summon Knights of the Round, but if you don't have a Gold Chocobo and the materia for breathing underwater, the fight has a strict 20-minute timer. Extreme damage in a short time is essential, and the long animation of Knights of the Round works against your time limit.
 That is, you can use a mega-elixir to fully heal your party then mime the item to use it again.
 If he/she has none upon their death, they cannot resurrect the party and your efforts will have been wasted. Remember Emerald Weapon's MP draining attacks and use appropriate items.
 Emerald will KO your characters many times over the course of the battle, and your turns will be better spent attacking/buffing than resurrecting. Wait for the Final Attack > Phoenix combo to take effect.
 Emerald Weapon is an unrelenting and powerful boss and won't always let you use one last item. You might have to take him on a number of times before seeing some degree of success. A little luck goes a long way.
 Burst damage is the key. Emerald Weapon's attacks are strong, so your Limit Gauges will fill up quickly. It's better to be at full strength when your limits are ready rather than being forced to spend one more turn healing your party.

