 Modelling should include the exact words and phrases which the child can understand, pick up and reproduce. This helps them learn how to phrase the things they want to say.


For example: you already know that the child dislikes playing with a certain toy, but in order to teach them to express it verbally, you can offer the toy and then keep using phrases or words such as "no thank you," or "I don't want to."
When the child uses the desired phrase, give the desired outcome. For example, if the child successfully says "I want more please," then give them more.
If you repeat the phrase several times and the child does not respond, do the desired action. The child will start associating the phrase with the action. Then try again later. In time, the child will start using the phrase., If you intend to give your child a snack or if it is time for the child to drink the milk, then you could model by saying “I want to drink ____ (point to the milk and say “milk”). Or say, “I would like a ____” (point to the snack and say “snack”). In time, the child will fill in the blank by themselves., It is best to avoid questions such as “Do you want this?” or “Do you want help?” because they will repeat the questions. Instead, say what they should say.


For example: if you see them trying to reach something, instead of asking “Do you want me to help you?” try saying, “Help me reach my toy, please,” or “Please lift me up so I can reach my book.” Encourage them to repeat the phrase. Then, whether the child repeats it or not, help them., The child will start repeating it after you and it won’t make sense. When saying “Hi!” or “Goodnight!” simply say the word and don’t say their name after it. Or, you can say their name first and then pause and say what you intend to say last.


When the child needs to be commended for a job well done, then instead of using the name of the child, use the congratulatory word alone. Instead of “Great job Alex!” just say “Great job!” or show it through actions in the form of kisses, a pat on the back, or a hug., Choose a time when you are both relaxed, and be willing to make it silly or turn it into a game. This will help the child look forward to learning, and it will give the two of you an opportunity to connect and have fun.


Teaching should not be painful, nor should it involve a battle of the wills. If one or both of you are getting too frustrated, stop and try again later.

