 Some creative writing workshops are designed for writers of all ages, while other writers' workshops are intended for only young writers (children and teenagers) or for senior citizens. Some workshops are intended only for women writers, while others are intended for writers of both genders.;
, Creative writing workshops are available that specialize in screenwriting, poetry, comic books, or in fiction genres such as science fiction, fantasy, horror, and mysteries. Being surrounded by other writers who share your writing interests will be more beneficial than enrolling in a workshop where few of the other writers enjoy the kind of writing you do.
 Some creative writing workshops are geared toward writers who have only an idea for a story, while others are geared toward helping writers shape the manuscripts they are currently working on.


Workshops geared toward helping writers shape their existing manuscripts may require participants to send 1 or more copies of their manuscripts in advance of the program. This is particularly true of writers' workshops lasting a day or less that are connected with an event such as a science fiction convention.
 The smaller the workshop, or the smaller the groups the attendees break into at a larger workshop, the more likely you will be to receive personalized attention and specific critiques on your work. For a larger workshop to give you this attention, the workshop leaders should be assisted by a sufficiently large staff of tutors and facilitators.
 Creative writing workshops may last anywhere from a few hours to a day to several weeks. (Workshops at community colleges may consist of several weekly sessions each lasting 1 to 2 hours.) Shorter workshops may be more intensive and focused, while longer workshops may have a more laid-back feel to them.


Be aware that some writers' workshops that bill themselves as week-long sessions actually run only 5 days.
 Creative writing workshops held in conjunction with a university or community college are usually held on campus. Writers' workshops associated with conferences, conventions, or festivals are usually held in the same facility holding the main event, which may be a hotel, bed and breakfast, convention or retreat center, church social hall, or other facility.


The facility holding the event often determines the availability of on-site meals and beverages and other amenities, such as room service, Internet and library access, phone, television, and air conditioning. For workshops where meals on-site are not available, consider the distance to nearby restaurants for meals or the ability to prepare your own meals.
 Creative writing workshops may be led by professional writers who may have little to no prior teaching experience or experienced writing teachers (community college instructors or college professors) who may have relatively few professional writing credits. Check the resumes of the workshop leaders both in the workshop brochure and on the authors' own websites or other Internet sources, and, if possible, read some of their works to get an idea of their writing styles.


Also look at written testimonials the workshop leader has received. Note the number of testimonials, the credentials of the people giving the testimonials, and also pay attention to the words used to praise the leader. Testimonials that give details about the workshop as well as its leader will give you a better idea of what to expect from the course
Assuming credentials are equal, you may prefer to study with writers whom you admire instead of writers you are unfamiliar with, but you may run the risk of only imitating that writer's style and not finding your own.
 The most obvious measure of how successful a writers' workshop is, is in how many of the participants get their work published. Look for the names of specific past participants and the titles and publishers of their published works, instead of general statements stating that a given percentage of past participants have gone on to be published authors.
 The total cost of a creative writing workshop depends on its length, the level of the talent leading it, and the place where it's held. You'll also have to figure in the cost of travel to and from the workshop site, as well as for any amenities not included (such as food) and for incidental expenses. If you can't afford a particular writer's workshop, you may want to consider a less-expensive workshop closer to home that offers fewer frills but will provide you needed feedback on your writing.

