 Teens can build self-esteem by pursuing hobbies and interests. Encourage your teen to try new things. Just the act of getting out of their comfort zone by trying a new activity can help boost your teen’s self-esteem by making them feel more confident and secure in new situations.If your teen has talked about wanting to try something, help them be able to try that. You may want to hold off on spending a lot of money on something, like equipment and lessons, until your teen decides they are serious about the activity and it’s not a passing idea.
Look at community events that offer classes in painting, music, or crafts. Get a membership to the Y and let your teen try a variety of sports.
 A good way for your teen to build self-esteem is to find an activity they are good at. This can be anything from school to sports to the arts. Everyone has a talent, and when your teen discovers that talent, support them and help them find ways to get better and share that talent.Just because you may not understand the activity or think it’s pointless doesn’t mean your teen does. Accept your child’s talent no matter what it is, even if you don’t like it.
If you teen loves working on cars, consider encouraging them to get a part time job so they can buy an old car to fix up. If your teen loves to write, encourage them to create stories and poetry and submit them to teen literary magazines.
 Another way teens can build self-esteem is through service to their community. Volunteer work can help provide your teen with a feeling of accomplishment and purpose. Feeling like they have a place in the community and have done something to make it a better place can improve their self-worth.Your teen may be able to find volunteer opportunities through school. Many school organizations participate in service for the community.
Your teen can volunteer at organizations, such as food pantries and animal shelters.
Religious institutions may provide volunteer opportunities.
 Learning responsibility and making their own money can lead to stronger self-esteem and feelings of worth. When your teen gets a job, they learn practical skills and are held accountable. When they succeed, this can make them feel good about themselves. Encourage that your child get an afterschool job.Many places hire people 16 and older, and some places will hire a 15 with parental permission and a work permit.
If your child is too young to get a job at a restaurant, suggest that they try babysitting, tutoring, yard work, or dog walking.

