 In order to create moments in which you can spend quality time with your boyfriend or girlfriend, you need to plan activities. The best activities are ones that either you or your partner enjoys. If you’re doing the planning, pick something the other person would want to do.


If at least one person enjoys an activity, they will feel like you are paying attention to them, which is key for spending quality time together., Even if you are having a conflict with your boyfriend or girlfriend, a fun activity can keep you from getting so mad that you walk away.If you plan together, you’ll both have a voice about where you go, making each other feel important.
 In order to sustain a weekly dating routine, you should pick activities that are not expensive. There are many things you can do that are free, from walking in the park to attending street festivals to just window shopping at the mall.
 Every community has (or is a short drive away from) walking trails, parks, and other forms of beautiful scenery. Taking this in with your boyfriend or girlfriend is an inexpensive and memorable way to spend time together.
 Your city will often put on free festivals, outdoor concerts, or other activities throughout the year. This is a great way to spend quality time together.


If there is an admission fee, many times it may be waived if you offer to volunteer at the event. You may have to go to the event coordinators and ask about volunteering., Doing physical activity together helps you to laugh and have fun, which is important for any relationship. Laughing together helps you to see the world as less serious, and difficult situations as less daunting., Setting a fitness goal together and then pursuing it side by side will actually help you stay together. Studies show that working out as a couple has many benefits to the relationship.Couples who work out in tandem experience something called “nonverbal mimicry” if they exercise side by side, which creates a closer bond and more emotional intimacy.Working out together enhances physical attraction, improving your physical relationship., Find a homeless shelter, animal shelter, or even go online and look at a volunteer agency in your community. Volunteering together improves the connection between couples., Cooking together can be one of the most intimate and rewarding activities a couple can experience.You can even make a dish with aphrodisiac properties to help enhance your physical relationship.Such foods include honey, chocolate, saffron, avocado, and almonds.