

This hairstyle is ideal for women with fine, straight hair. For those ladies, it's a wash-and-go cut. But the modern bob is surprisingly versatile, working with almost every hair texture.



 


While Katie Holmes, Victoria Beckham and Paris Hilton have very different hair types, they have very similar styles.






Unless your hair is very curly, you should be able to pull off this look.





;
, Paris Hilton's hair is a grown-up, polished look; it is a chin-length bob revamped with a steep angle that frames the face.
 Clean lines are the key to this cut. Your stylist should start by cutting a foundation layer at the base of your neck, then bring the hair layer by layer down to that point.


When the cut is complete, the stylist uses a razor to provide texture. This gives the cut a softer, modern edge.
 Paris Hilton keeps her hair like her credit cards - platinum. Her blonde base color and blonde highlights are relatively high maintenance. To achieve this baby blonde color, it's best if your hair is blonde to light brown. If your hair is medium to dark brown, you'll be in the salon every three to four weeks for touch-ups. Consider using a French highlighting technique called balayage, for natural, sun-kissed highlights. But if your stylist is not experienced with balayage, foil highlighting will work as well.


To achieve a sleek, sophisticated blow-dry like Paris Hilton, you'll need a paddle brush with thick bristles. Look for a brush that combines natural boar bristles and synthetic bristles to pull the hair straight.







Add volume as needed. If your hair is fine, use a volumizing mousse. Then towel dry your hair to remove excess moisture. If it's wavy or thick, skip the mousse and start blow-drying right away, using your brush.
 Do not bend the hair with the brush or pull the hair under; unless you want to look like a news anchor. Simply pull the hair straight with your brush while holding the blow dryer at an angle.
 Because your hair hangs differently when dry, a good stylist will always perfect a cut after the blow-dry. Ask your stylist to look for any stray hairs and check the line a final time.


While the razor works wonders on wet hair, it should never be used on dry hair. In the finish, a stylist will snip with scissors only.






If you have any wavy pieces, quickly run a flat iron through them. Use a comb with the flat iron to remove any knots and minimize hair damage.
 For that sleek and sexy, side-swept bob, you'll need some pomade. Rub a bit of pomade into your hands and then work it through the ends of your hair. Keep it off the roots to avoid it looking greasy.
 It can take some getting used to having shorter hair but the benefits are a lighter feel, a new sense of style and sharing a hairstyle with a number of celebrities!

