 Use a water-based paint system as far as possible to ensure good breath-ability and for preventing vapor pressure build up. For the window frames and glass joints, use a good quality sealant.


Use a flexible silicone sealant in your kitchen and bathrooms, too, to seal the edges of your back-splashes and showers/tubs.;
, Seal them accordingly. Do the same for any leaky pipes or appliances.
 Obviously, this is only doable if you're building from scratch! But an impermeable layer, like plastic sheeting, will help keep rising damp at bay, if put underneath concrete floors and other floor coverings., Give sufficient slope to the terrace and ensure that the balconies where flower pots are kept have an away slope.
 Having good air flow throughout your house will help water evaporate and escape. Avoid the urge to seal everything as tight as can be to keep in heat. Coating all walls with impermeable layers can actually backfire, Before you start treating a damp wall, the first thing you must do is determine the source of leakage. You need to identify what kind of source is creating problems on your wall and gauge its severity. It helps you immediately resolve the issue and avoid future damage.
 Opening a window can help, but also consider using vents and extractor fans (especially for kitchens and bathrooms). You might want to buy a dehumidifier, too., Special damp-proof substances can be injected into your walls to stop damp from rising.Such a treatment is subject to regulations and has to be carried out by a reputable company specializing in damp problems.
 In areas like cellars and basements with little sunlight, you can use a radiator or small heater on a low setting to help keep the air drier.A dehumidifier may also help.
 Keep an eye out for water dripping from pipes or appliances, or in your bathrooms. Get a plumber as needed to deal with any problems.
 Identify the problem and resolve it early before severity increases to avoid unnecessary expenses later on.
 You can have a damp-proof treatment done through an expert waterproofing engineer, or do it yourself by treating the area with crystalline technology based damp block made especially for waterproofing.


Add a second layer to ensure maximum water protection.

