 Depending on the age of your children, you should encourage them to help with chores that they may consider fun, like walking or exercising the dog. These activities teach your children responsibility while allowing them to engage in the more positive aspects of pet ownership. If your children only do the boring chores and fail to enjoy to fun things about having a dog, they will not be interested in the pet for very long.Besides walking or playing with the dog, fun activities can include washing the dog or brushing its hair.
Children under 6 should not be allowed to walk the dog. In addition, children between 6 and 10 years old should not be allowed to walk the dog without an adult nearby.;
, Finding new training activities for your dog is another way to keep your kids engaged with caring for their pet. This can include simple commands like “sit” and “stay” or more complex things like clicker training. As long as you let the children participate, training can be a great way to keep your children invested in dog care., If your children’s interest in caring for the dog is waning, you might perk their interest by providing an incentive. This might be particularly useful for older children and teenagers. Consider giving them a monetary incentive or reward them with a “fun” dog-related activity every time they complete a “less fun” dog chore. You can also attach perks to completing certain tasks, like allowing your child to stay up a little longer or letting them stay out with their friends later.For example, if your older kids refuse to pick up dog poo when they walk the dog, ask them to take a picture of the poo in a bag and then pay them for it when they show it to you.If your child cleans the dog’s crate, you might reward them with extra time playing with the dog.
 Try to make chores seem less stale and boring by incorporating elements of play. Incorporate a points system for completing chores or attach the tasks to fun activities. Finding a way to enliven pet care with a little play will help keep your kids involved in caring for your dog.For example, when you groom your dog, you could encourage your children to leave the brushed out dog hair for birds to make nests. After you brush its hair, put the clumps of dog hair in a bag and then let your children put the clumps on trees and bushes around your home. Eventually, birds will come along and use the hair to make their nests.