 The most direct way to purchase postage online is through the United States Postal Service (USPS) at usps.com. On the site, you can buy stamps or shipping labels for larger packages.You can also schedule a pick-up for items that you’re mailing, so you don’t have to go to your local post office at all.If you’re not ready to buy postage at the moment, the USPS website can still help you calculate the price for mailing the item so you’re prepared.
The USPS website also allows you to locate post office branches, look up zip codes, change your address, or put a hold on your mail.;
, In order to buy postage on the USPS site, you need to create an account. Find the Register/Sign-In tab in the bar at the top right hand corner of the website. If you don’t have an account, click the Sign Up Now link to open an account.If you already have an account with the USPS, enter your username and password in the appropriate boxes and hit the “Sign In” button. If you’ve forgotten your password, there is a link that allows you to recover or reset it.
 The first step in setting up your USPS account is ensuring that it is secure. You must choose a username and create a password. In addition, you’ll need to choose two security questions and provide answers that will be used to verify your identify if you ever forget your password.The user name for your account must be at least 6 letters. You are allowed to use your email address if that’s easier for you to remember.
The password must be at least 8 characters and include at least 1 uppercase letter, 1 lowercase letter, and 1 number. Passwords are also case-sensitive, and can’t include more than two consecutive identical characters, such as “aaa,” or your username.
 On the USPS site, you can choose between two types of accounts. Create a personal account if you plan to use the site for services for your home, such as buying stamps and other postage, scheduling a delivery, or managing a P.O. Box. If you are using the account for postage services for your small, medium, or large business, select an a business account.If you have a home-based business, you should select a business account, not a personal account.
 The final step in setting up your account is providing your contact information. You will need to add your email address, mailing address, and a telephone number. Once the USPS has verified that your address is correct, hit the “Create Account” button to complete the process.You’ll receive an email from the USPS afterward to confirm that your account has been activated.

