 A seller needs to know that you are serious and can afford to purchase their home. Meet with a lender to get pre-approved for a loan. The lender will consider the following factors:Your income.
Credit score.
Existing debt.
Previous loan history.
Savings account.;
, There are multiple ways to find a FSBO home. Do your own research before you visit a real estate office. Here are some sources you can check out:Regional Multiple Listing Service (MLS) systems websites.
FSBO websites.
Classified ads in your local newspaper.
Online classified ads.
Drive around neighborhoods you are interested in.
 If you are a first time home buyer or uncertain about the process of buying a home, you may want to work with a buyer’s agent. A buyer’s agent can guide you through the process. A buyer’s agent works on your behalf to guide you through the closing process and does not represent the interests of the seller.The agent's fee will likely be an add-on to the agreed-upon price of the house or paid by the buyer since the purpose of most FSBO owners is to avoid real estate commissions.
The commission is typically 2.5-3% of the sale price.
Working with a buyer’s agent is not necessary. You can shop and make an offer on a home without one.
Your agent should be an Accredited Buyer Representative. Visit the National Association of Realtors' websiteor the National Association of Exclusive Buyer Agents' website.to find an accredited agent.
Speak to your agent before hiring them. It is important that you get along with them and develop a rapport as you search for homes.
Ask to for the contact information of your agent's three most recent clients. If they are satisfied and have good things to say, you probably found a good agent.It's a bad sign if the agent refuses to give you references.
 Call or email the owner to express your interest and set up a time to view the home. Ask the owner as many questions as you need to. Questions you should ask include:Why are you selling?
How long has the house been on the market?
Any issues with the neighborhood or your neighbors?
What is included in the sale? For example, ask about appliances (fridge, washer, dryer, microwave, etc.), decorations (drapes, rugs, etc.), and furniture.
Does the house have any problems?
Have there been any major renovations or repairs?
How old are the house, appliances, roof, heating and cooling system, plumbing systems, and electrical systems?
What do you enjoy about living in this home?
For rural homes, ask about how utilities (electricity, water, gas, etc.) are supplied, whether mineral rights are included, and if easements exist on the property.
 Investigate the surrounding area. Ask your agent or research school locations, nearby amenities like shopping or groceries, and transportation options. Ask about the homeowner's association and any associated fees or other restrictions. Research flood plain/flooding risk, crime statistics, and other risks associated with the area. Talk to the agent to get a sense of the demographics of the neighborhood and any developments occurring there (gentrification, transition from old to young homeowners or vice versa, etc.).
 C.L.U.E. stands for Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange. This report will give you a 5 year history of all the insurance claims that have been filed for the home you are interested in. You must ask the seller for permission before you run the report. It will cost you $20 or less.The report will identify any problems that the house is likely to have and give you an idea of the insurance rates for the home.
Insurance companies typically use past claims to calculate insurance rates.
Only the owner if a property can access the CLUE report.Ask the seller to request a report. The seller can call 1-866-312-8076 or visit the LexisNexis website to make an online request., Ask your agent or the current homeowner for information regarding property taxes. There may be taxes assessed by the city, county, and/or local school districts. Ask for information regarding tax rates. What is the usual tax liability for the home? Does it stay consistent between years or vary unexpectedly? Try to get a sense of how much property tax you would pay in your first few years in the house.
 The homeowner may not tell you about all of the problems in their home, or they may not know some of the problems. A home inspector will thoroughly check the property and give you all the information you need to make a decision. The home inspector should check:Electrical wiring
Moisture levels
Carbon monoxide levels
Asbestos
Lead electromagnetic fields
Radon
Inspections usually do not happen until you make an offer, but you can always ask the seller to let you have one earlier in the process. Be present during the inspection so you can ask questions and see things firsthand.
Visit the American Society of Home Inspectors' website or call 1-800-743-2744 to find an accredited inspector.Before hiring an inspector, ask the how much it will cost and if you can be there. If the inspector does not want you to be at the inspection, choose a different inspector., The seller’s asking price should only be used as a starting point. Realtors usually help sellers set a price, but your seller is not working with a realtor. Find the property value of the neighboring homes to give you an idea of what the home is actually worth.Also check the recent sale prices of homes that are similar to the home you are interested in.
You can get appraisals from websites such as Zillow, Real Estate ABC, and Electronic Appraiser. The Electronic Appraiser website offers the most accurate report and costs $29.95., Base your offer price on the asking price, the market value of the home, the value of the neighboring homes, and the current housing market. If the housing market is strong in your area, you may need to make an offer that is above the asking price. If the market is not strong, you may be able to offer below or right at the asking price.For example, if the asking price is $200,000, and the estimated home value was $170,000, you may start with an offer of $153,000 (90% of the market value). This offer would be acceptable in a market that is not very strong.
If the market was strong, you may start with the appraised value of the home: $170,000.
If you bid too low, the seller may immediately reject your offer. Work with your attorney to set your offer.
You should also determine your own maximum offer price, which will be based on how much you can afford and how much you are willing to pay for the home.
Knowing a maximum offer price will allow you to guide negotiations lower than your limit or know when to move on and drop negotiations.
 A sales contract and closing process are complicated. A real estate attorney can help you navigate this process and ensure that you have a way out of your contract if there problems with the home inspection or with the seller.Your attorney can also help you negotiate who will pay the title transfer fee and taxes.
Bring your real estate attorney in early on.
Choose a local attorney that is familiar with the neighborhood that you are buying in.An attorney usually charges a flat fee or requires you to pay by the hour. If you are paying by the hour, show up as prepared as you can to reduce the amount of time you are paying for.
 Paying the seller for an option to buy the house takes the house off the market, provides more time before closing, and gives you options for disposal (sale or moving in). The option price should be covered in the final sales price if closed or recovered if conditions of the option are not met by seller. However, understand that the option price may be lost if the home isn't purchased.
 The offer will include contingencies designed to protect you from unforeseen flaws with the home. The contingencies often allow you to inspect the home further and/or proceed through the closing process and get out of your offer if certain issues arise. For example, contingencies might be the house being appraised at the agreed-upon sale price or higher, your ability to find acceptable (in your opinion) financing, the title passing free and clear, the amount of the deposit, and/or return of any deposits if sale doesn't close.
 Contact the seller or work through your agent to submit your offer. Be sure to submit it complete with your requested contingencies and specific offer price. You may wish to have your attorney review the offer one more time before you send it.
 The seller may not accept and then counter your offer. The seller may hope that you split the difference or the counteroffer may be firm and non-negotiable. The seller may also outright reject your offer.If the seller is hoping for a split, find an amount that is in between the counter offer and your original offer. For example, if you offered $153,000 and the seller countered with $193,000, you may offer $173,000.
If the seller counteroffers and says they are not willing to negotiate any further, you can either accept the offer or tell the seller to let you know if they have a change of heart.
If you can afford to wait, the seller may change their mind and be willing to negotiate.
 There may be additional contingencies applied to the offer as the closing process moves forward. Contingencies might include the seller providing financing (which would be beneficial to older people without a home mortgage with a lower rate of interest for buyer), a second mortgage by seller to reduce the buyer's out-of-pocket cash, a delayed move, or the completed sale of buyer's existing home, among other possibilities.
 Get a confirmation from the buyer on your offer price and contingencies as specific in your offer. Have them sign the offer and finalize the sale price so that you can begin the closing process. After this agreement, the buyer and seller enter into an escrow period, typically ranging from 2 weeks to a month, during which time conditions of the offer are being met.
 Your lender will choose an appraiser to see if the house is actually worth what you offered to pay. If the appraisal is lower than your offer, the seller will need to lower the price.


Be sure to request an appraiser that is familiar with the neighborhood that your home is in.
If you have to find an appraiser, visit the American Society of Appraisers' websiteor the Appraisal Institute website to find an accredited appraiser in your area. Ask how much they will charge.
If you do not agree with the first appraisal, you can request a second appraisal.
A contingency on the offer should be the house being appraised at or above offer price.
 If you were not able to have a home inspection earlier, you can have one now. Again, find an accredited home inspector. If there are any problems with the home, you can ask the seller to fix them or you can withdraw your offer. There should be contingency in your offer for disclosed and undisclosed problems, who pays for repairs, any limits, and other rules regarding the inspection results.If your offer was low, the seller is less likely to pay for the repairs. If you made a higher offer, the seller may pay for the repairs.
Your lender may also request that repairs be made before escrow closes.
 Sit with your attorney and go over the sales contract again. You should also do a final inspection at this time. You want to make sure that any negotiated repairs have been made and that the house has not been damaged during escrow.


If the seller is leaving some appliances, make sure that they are there.
Do not sign any papers until you are comfortable with the terms of the contract, and you have a clear understanding of everything.
 Go through your agreed-upon offer to see that your negotiated contingency conditions have been met. Address any unresolved contingency issues. Have your attorney help you through this examination.
 A title company will do a title search and will assist with the closing process. Ask your attorney for recommendations. You can also find a title company by contacting the American Land Title Association. Your attorney and title company will work together., Once all of your forms are filled out and both you and the seller are happy, it is time to sign the papers and get your keys. You may or may not meet with the seller on closing day.If you are working with a buyer's agent, you will sign at their office.
If you are handling this on your own, you will sign at the escrow office or title insurance company.

