 Combine one tablespoon of raw honey, one egg white, one teaspoon of lemon juice or witch hazel, and ½ teaspoon of peppermint, spearmint, lavender, calendula, or thyme essential oil. Stir until thoroughly mixed.


Raw honey has natural antibacterial and astringent properties.
Egg white thickens the mixture and also acts as an astringent.
Lemon juice is an astringent and also a whitening agent.. Witch hazel is an astringent but does not have a whitening effect.The recommended essential oils have antibacterial or antiseptic properties and can help kill bacteria on your skin.
 Use your fingertips to gently spread the mask over your face, neck, or other problem areas. You can also use a cotton-tipped swab to apply the mask to problem spots and blemishes.


Allow the mask to dry for 15 minutes.
 Make sure to rinse your skin thoroughly. Leaving any mask on your skin could clog pores.


Pat your skin dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 The starch in oatmeal is known to remove oil, while at the same time moisturizing the skin. Oatmeal is also anti-inflammatory, which can help soothe irritated skin and inflamed pores.Combine one cup of rolled oats with 2/3 cup of boiling hot water. Mix well and then allow the oatmeal to cool.
Add ¼ cup of raw honey to the cooled oatmeal and combine. The honey will act as an antibacterial and moisturizing agent.
 Use your fingers to gently spread the mask over your face, neck, or other problem areas.


Allow it to dry for up to 20 minutes.
Rinse well with mild soap and warm water.
Pat your skin dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 Use a product containing 5% tea tree oil. Saturate a cotton ball with the oil and dab it on your acne once a day for three months. Tea tree oil takes a little longer to work than benzoyl peroxide, a commonly used topical treatment for acne, but it also has fewer side effects such as dryness, itching, or irritation.Do not ingest tea tree oil, as it is toxic when consumed. If you have eczema, rosacea, or another skin condition, tea tree oil may further irritate your skin. Consult with a dermatologist before using it.For slightly faster results, apply tea tree oil to your skin twice a day, for 20 minutes each time. Wash off with a gentle cleanser such as Cetaphil. Follow this treatment schedule for 45 days.