 If your plan is to make small lifestyle changes instead of going on a diet, you may not lose as much weight or may lose weight more slowly compared to others that are counting calories or are following a diet.


Set small weight loss goals for yourself each week or month. Weight loss might be easier to tackle if you have small goals to meet more often instead of one large, long-term goal.
Goals that are too hefty can result in failure to stay on the program. Setting smaller, realistic goals is crucial to success.
Although it's not likely you'll lose large amounts of weight loss each week without dieting, it's not safe to try to lose more than 1–2 pounds weekly.Losing more than that may mean you're not eating enough, which could lead to nutrient deficiencies as you're most likely not eating enough food to provide you with all the essential nutrients you need.;
, Although weight loss doesn't require you to go on a "diet" or count calories or restrict your food intake, it may require you to make a few lifestyle changes. These are small changes you can make in a variety of areas your life to help you achieve your goals. They can be made slowly, at the pace that is comfortable for you.Lifestyle changes should be something you feel comfortable changing or altering long-term. Reverting back to old habits may cause you to gain weight back.Ideas for some small changes to begin with include: taking the stairs instead of the elevator, drinking less or giving up soda, going to the gym 2–3 times a week, or eating more fruits and vegetables.
Note that lifestyle changes should not feel like a "diet." If they do, they might not be sustainable long-term or be something you enjoy doing.
 Even without following a specific diet, writing up a personalized meal plan may help you lose weight. You can design your own plan, whether you want to count calories, monitor carbs, or focus on protein. Use your meal plan to design your own easy-to-follow and enjoyable eating pattern.


Ideally, consult a Dietitian for a customized meal plan that takes into account all of your medical history and preferences.
Plan for a few days or an entire week of meals. Make sure to include breakfast, lunch, dinner and any snacks.
You can also use your meal plan to write up a corresponding grocery list. This will help make your trip to the store more efficient.
If you're not planning on following any specific diet plan, it's still essential to aim for a healthy, well-balanced diet. Include all five food groups most days in your meal plan.

