 Do this by tapping on the white shopping bag with the play icon on it. The icon can be found on the device’s Apps drawer or directly on the home screen.;
, Tap on a category you wish to open to see a list of contents you can download from that category. You should see a few categories on the top portion of the screen: Apps, Games, Movies, Books.


After tapping on a category, you can swipe to the right to view the general categories such as Top Paid, Top Free, Top Grossing, Trending, etc.
As you scroll down, you will see the contents classified according to their popularity, genre, some featured content, and so forth.
 You can tap the search button on the upper right corner to search for something in particular.


When the search bar comes up, simply type the name of the app/movie/book/game you want to download.
When you type on the search bar, the Play Store will give you live results below it. Tap on the app you want to see its description page.
 You will be taken to the description page for that particular app. This page contains a summary of the app, as well as user-made reviews for you to check out before buying or downloading.
 The description position will display the first few lines of the summary, which you can expand by tapping on “Read More” at the bottom of the summary.
 You will see five stars below your name and profile picture. This is the overall rating that users have given to the app. You can tap on the stars to give your rating.


Apps are rated at the average rating people have made for it. The rating portion is great for helping you make a decision on whether or not to buy that particular content.
 For convenience, three reviews will be shown by default, but you can tap on the “All Reviews” button below them to see all the reviews users have made. Below their names, you can also see how much the reviewers rated the content for.
 You’ll find these at the bottom of the app description page. These categories can range from more apps made by the current app’s developer to apps that are similar in genre.
 Scroll to the top-most portion of the app description page, and see the buttons below the title and picture of the content. Depending on whether the content is free or paid, the button you press to download the content will vary.


For books, free ones will say “Add to Library” while movies will have the “Rent” and “Buy” buttons.
Games and Apps will have the “Install and Buy” button, which will display the total price for that app or game. Tap on the “Buy/Install” button below the app.
 Games and Apps require permissions from you to be able to access aspects of your device that they need to use to deliver their advertised functionality. Once you have read and are satisfied with the permissions, tap on “Accept.”

, If your desired app is paid, the next box will take you to where you can pay for it. If you haven’t set up your Google Wallet account, you can do so here.


Tap on the “Buy” button on the lower right corner of the purchase box, then the “Add Card” button on the drop down menu below the name of the app in the box.
Google Play will then ask your information about your credit/debit card. Simply key in the info they require (Card number, Cardholder name, Address, etc.)

, Once you finish entering the info, you can tap “Accept and Buy” to begin downloading and installing the app.
 Once the download and install is complete, the “Install” button will turn into an “Open”/”Read”/”Watch” button. You can then tap this to open the game/app/book/movie that you just downloaded or bought.

