 Make sure you document every incident involving your complaint. Write down the date, time, and nature of the complaint. For example, noise or disturbances, unkempt property etc.
If it is a constant problem you are more likely to get help from your landlord, neighborhood association, or the police.
Document any attempts to clear this up with the neighbors. Save any returned calls, emails, or letters that they use to respond to your request.
Simply letting your troublesome neighbor know you are making note of their annoying behavior can act as a deterrent from further violations.
 There might be rules in it regarding noise, property maintenance, visitors, or pets.


If you find your neighbor's behavior is violating terms of the lease in your building, then you can let them know politely they are breaking the lease.
If they are breaking established rules set out in a lease, this can give you some leverage if you make a complaint with your landlord.
If they aren't violating the lease, you can still try to complain to the landlord.
 Give them documentation about the incident with the offending neighbors and any attempts to get the neighbors to clean up their act.


The landlord might not want to hear about minor complaints such as small amounts of noise or things beyond your control, like a crying infant.
It your complaint regards a larger issue such as property damage or illegal activity, the landlord or management company will likely want to step in quickly.
Make sure you give them evidence you have resolved the issue yourself. Landlords will not want to deal with someone who is a constant complainer.
 There may be local laws regarding noise and disturbance, property maintenance, and pet control.


See if your neighbors are violating any of these.
If they are, consider making a complaint to a condo association or neighborhood organization.
You can also call the police if any of these violations get out of hand.
 If you feel threatened in any way, you should call the police. The police will respond to complaints about noise or domestic disturbance.
You may even save someone's life if you call about a domestic disturbance at a neighbor's property.
The police can visit the property to determine if a violation is taking place. For example, if they are violating a noise level ordinance the police can assess that and write a citation.
The police can keep your identity anonymous so the neighbors won't know who made the complaint.
Make a complaint to your local precinct for less immediate concerns. Use these wisely, as too many complaints will be a nuisance to police and may be a distraction from their job.
The police are unlikely to be able to help about something like a dangerous tree limb or overgrown property, so keep your complaints to noise, disturbances, or troublesome behavior. 