 Hip-opening yoga poses are those that specifically focus on stretching tight hip muscles. Technically, all yoga poses can be considered hip-opening poses because yoga in general is designed to help your hip muscles. But there are some very specific poses that target this area and also help improve your range of motion, blood circulation and reduce back pain. Exercises focused specifically on the hip muscles will probably make them sore and stiff, these yoga poses will help release that stiffness.The following poses are recommended to help stretch your hip muscles:

The happy baby pose.The reclining bound angle pose.The frog pose.The ‘thread the needle’ pose.The half pigeon and double pigeon poses.The camel pose.The hero pose., You hip joint is a very stable joint with lots of muscles and a large range of motion. Activities where you aren’t using your hips muscles in the way they were designed to be used (i.e. sitting at a desk all day) can cause them to tighten up and be painful. Stretching your hip muscles is a great way to loosen up this whole area, maintain good posture, and keep your spine aligned properly.There are several hip stretches you can perform to help loosen the whole area:

The hip flexor stretch.
The hip rotator stretch.
The hip adductor stretch.
The hip extensor stretch.
The standing hamstring stretch.
The iliotibial band stretch.
 Ideally, your hips will become bigger via an increase in the muscles in that area. The muscles will increase because of the exercises you’ll do to target that area. To get the energy to keep up your exercise routine, and to keep exercising long-term, you need to consume carbs. You also need to consume protein that will help build that muscle.The average person should eat a decent meal 1-2 hours before they exercise, and have another decent meal 1-2 hours after they exercise. As long as the meals are balanced and nutritious, they will provide the carbs and protein you need to have energy and build muscle.An example of a pre or post workout meal for a women might be: a small handful of almonds, a deck of cards size of meat, a handful of vegetables, and a handful of rice or other grain. An example of a man’s meal would generally be larger, depending on his weight and height, but up to double what is recommended for women.
You should also be sure to consume water throughout and after your workout in order to stay properly hydrated.
 If you’re really serious about increasing your hip size, and you have sufficient funds, you may want to consider hiring a personal trainer.


Most personal trainers will have been certified by one of many certifying bodies (such as the American Council on Exercise (ACE), the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM), the International Sports Sciences Association (ISSA), and others).Most personal trainers work through health centres and local gyms, which means you will also require a membership to whatever place your personal trainer works from.Many cities offer personal training options through their city-wide recreational programs and centres.