 Once you’ve recognized constructive criticism, learn how to grow from it. The first step is to hear the person out. You may need to practice this, as your first reaction is often to become defensive. Listen to them before you do anything.Try to remain objective or outside yourself when getting constructive feedback. Remind yourself, “They aren’t attacking me. This isn’t about me personally.”
Try active listening techniques during the conversation, like paraphrasing. If you are getting written feedback, read and re-read the comments to make sure that you understand.
 Be careful not to misinterpret criticism. If you have the chance, follow up with questions and ask for clarification on points that you do not understand. Asking questions will help you to better grasp what is being said, internalize the criticism, and find a solution.


For example, “Can you please clarify what you meant when you said that my thesis statement was “fuzzy?”

, It is easy to get defensive when faced with criticism. Tell yourself over and again that constructive criticism is not personal. Resist the feeling and try to be open. Whether it is a peer, a boss, a teacher, or a loved one, remind yourself that they are, after all, probably just trying to help.Take a deep breath if you feel overwhelmed or angry. Think: is it the criticism that bothers you or the way in which the criticism was delivered? If the criticism is constructive, overlook the delivery.
 Resist the urge to dismiss criticism out of hand. Take some time to think it over. Is it accurate? Is it fair? Try to be as neutral as you can. You may risk missing an important truth if you ignore criticism.


Consider asking a friend, mentor, or family member about criticism – make sure that it is someone whom you trust but who will give you the truth.
For example, “Sam, my teacher said she thinks I’m working below my ability. I trust you and want to know your opinion.”

, If you’ve faced constructive criticism, listened and assessed it, and decided that it is accurate, the next step is to make a change. At this stage, you can probably see clearly what the problem is and have gotten beyond your frustration or anger. Implement a plan to address the problem.


Self-reflection is a sign of maturity. Responding to criticism will not only help you, but also shows others that you are willing to face up to your weaknesses, address them, and improve.

