 You can make the circle using a compass or a small plate. You can also use a CD instead. The circle should be between 4.75 and 5 inches (12.1 and 12.7 centimeters) wide.


Use a thin, but stiff, cardboard, such as mounting board or illustration board.
The color does not matter; however, if you plan on using a light-colored ribbon, you may want to choose a light color for your cardboard.
 The circle should be about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) smaller than the first one, and placed right in the center. You will end up with a 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) thick ring.


For a more delicate-looking tieback, make the circle 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) smaller, so that you end up with a ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) thick ring.
 Cut the larger circle out first, then cut the smaller one. Save the ring, and discard the small circle.
 You will be winding the ribbon around the ring, so glue the ribbon at a slight angle. Choose a ribbon that is between ½ and 1-inch (1.27 and 2.54 centimeters) wide. The ribbon an be either satin or grosgrain; avoid sheer or lace ribbons.


Pick a color that contrasts with your curtains. If your curtains have a pattern on them, match the color either to the background or to the pattern.
For a rustic theme, use jute twine.
 Overlap the ribbon with each turn, so that you don't get any gaps., Once you are back where you started, cut off the excess ribbon with a pair of scissors, then glue the end down to the back of the ring.
 Your ring will have a top, bottom, left, and right side. You can only decorate the top and bottom. If you decorate the left and right sides, you won't be able to slide the pin through it. Use hot glue or fabric glue to attach your decorations. Pearl beads, silk flowers, and ribbon flowers are great choices! Make sure that the decorations match the color of your ring or the color/theme of your curtain.


For a rustic theme, use flat-backed seashells, sand dollars, and starfish.
Use different sizes for a more interesting design. Place the larger flowers/beads towards the middle, and the smaller ones towards the edges.
Don't get carried away; less is more!

, Place a dot of glue at one end of the chopstick, and press the end of your ribbon into it. Start wrapping the ribbon around the chopstick, overlapping it with each turn. When you reach the other end, cut off the excess ribbon, and glue the end down.Choose a color that is the same color as your ring, or a contrasting one.
Try to cover both ends of the chopstick with ribbon as well to conceal any raw wood.
 Choose smaller versions of the decorations you used on your ring, and glue them to the top of the pin using hot glue or fabric glue. You don't need to decorate all the way around the pin; just the front will be enough. Don't decorate more than 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters), or the pin won't be able to go through the curtain.


If you weren't able to cover both ends of the chopstick with ribbon, you can hide the raw wood with a dab or paint or nail polish. Choose a color that matches your ribbon, then let it dry.
 This tieback works in a similar fashion to those ring-shaped brooches. Here is how you use it:


Position the ring in front of the curtain panel.
Gather the curtain in your hand, and push a small part of it through the ring.
Place tip of chopstick pin in front of the ring.
Slide the pin behind the gathered curtain, and out the other side. Make sure that the tip of the pin is in front of the ring.

