 Try to dress professionally. If you know you will have to do a lot of running and fighting, then you can wear jerseys or other baggy and comfortable clothes. Glasses is optional, and you can wear your hair down or in two low ponytails.;
, Yankumi can kick anyone's butt. She is such a great fighter that she can even take down a huge gang by herself. She can run for miles and barely get tired. Work on your cardio and strength by running on the treadmill doing squats, push-ups and pull-ups, lifting weights, and jumping rope. Try to learn a defensive martial art, and work on improving your instincts and responses.
 This step is optional, but it would help you get into character. It can be any age group, and good or bad. You can volunteer or be a teacher. Don't give up on any student, and if you have to, tutor them after school. Be dedicated to your job, and do your best to make sure everyone passes.
 "Fight-Oh!" is Yankumi's favorite phrase. No matter what, she fights on. Her motivation and positivism rubs off on her students. If you have a goal in mind, never stray from it, no matter how impossible it may seem. Everyday is a new start, so don't drag the past with you.
 Yankumi's students may seem like rebels and delinquents, but inside, when you get to know them, they are good people. Society, however, will always judge on outer appearance and may blame them just because they look like someone who would do it. Believe those who are judged unless there is evidence on them. Fight for them and stand by their side. Try to prove their innocence. This will also earn you a lot of respect, and you may inspire them. Be sure to argue back when someone offend them.
 Yankumi would go into a deep, piercing, and personal speech when the time calls for it. Be sure you have wisdom about the topic, and speak with passion. Always keep morals and virtues high. Never accept anything that is wrong or does not make sense and call people out on it.
 No other teacher would enter a gang's garage to defend their students. Although you may never end up in that situation, you must be willing to do anything and go anywhere for the people you love or are responsible of. You are allowed to have your fears, but do not be a coward and run away if someone needs you. Do not allow anything wrong or immoral to continue in front of you.
 Yankumi knows her ability, and does not need to prove herself to anyone. Even if people make fun of you, ignore them and carry on. Don't cry or fight back. This will show your inner strength, and they may stop when they realize they don't faze you.
 Don't be serious all the time. Have fun and get involved in activities and games if you can. Pout when your sad, smile when you are happy, don't always hide your emotions. Don't be afraid to pitch ideas or games. Go out and play!

, Yankumi can feel others pain, and this helps her connect with others. When someone tells you about their problem, try to help them with it. If someone ask you for help, help! Yankumi once babysat her co-workers child because she had another commitment, and she never complained. Be willing to sacrifice your time for others.
 Don't be dark/closed mysterious, but have a few secrets of your own. Yankumi worked hard to be mysterious and keep her father's company a secret so she would not be fired. However, the way she acts and talks sometimes gives hints about her true nature. If you have a big secret, don't brag or showoff and be sure to cover your trails and slip-ups. If you want, you can have different looks for your different realities.
