 Having a hobby is good, unless it's something you spend so much time on, that you forget to do other things. A healthy hobby is something you do when you have the time, when you are not doing anything else.


There's many ways to express yourself with a hobby - painting, singing, playing music, knitting, creating games online, writing articles, baking. The options are infinite, you just need to find something you can enjoy doing.
This will keep you productive and happy, even when you are bored.;
, Love yourself, be happy with who you are - if you spend your time being unsatisfied with something you can't change about yourself, you will be wasting time that you could have spent happy. And it's spent on nothing!


Learn how to love every single detail on you - and if you are really unhappy about something, do what you can to improve it! Be inspired by your life, do thing that seem unachievable, be a great person, be the best at something, this will make you think that you are great and invincible!

, You spend almost every day on your job. It has to be someplace that you like, because the job is something that is most likely to pull you down. And if you don't like your job, you will be wasting time doing what you don't enjoy. Nothing makes that worth it.


Search your options on a new job, if it's impossible, do what you can to begin liking your job!
Take a talk with your boss, if he/she's your problem.






If the problem is colleagues, then do something to bring you closer together! You could bring donuts or cupcakes to work every week, or have a party, or celebrate someones birthday when that chance comes by.
 Learn to be grateful for your family - they are there for you, they are close to you, they love you and they want your best. If not, they wouldn't be there. You have to do something for those you love - you partner; give her/him new, exciting experiences, your kids; make them know you love them, by spending time with them, your parents; send them a mail, just letting them know you are okay and that you miss them.


Do what you can, to give everyone their attention and part of your heart, they will feel special and it will pay back in a good way for you. And you will feel good that you are doing something for the better in your life.
 Socializing is important, since human beings are social creatures. Call a long-time-no-see friend, ask them to come for dinner or for a cup of tea, a beer or a piece of cake. Re-create bonds that you have lost with time, introduce your friends to each other and to your family. You will be starting a network of friendly bonds, and this will take a great deal of your time that you maybe used to spend alone or doing something that you felt bored about.


Remember not to create conflict, make sure everyone is feeling good about each other, without hard feelings of jealousy, envy or any other bad feeling. If such thing occurs, talk to your friends, and do what you can to make it good again.
 Learning keeps our brain exercised, and healthy and more prone to think over thing in daily life. You don't have to spend a lot of time doing this, just rent/buy a book about something that you don't know much about, such as history, biology, or about something like cars, or horses, or how to dance or sing.


This will eventually give you many new skills that you can enjoy, and spend time with, when you are alone or bored.

