 One way to pull customers in if you're selling artwork, crafts, or jewelry is to actually work on your craft while you're there. People are interested in seeing how art is done, so they'll come into your booth just to see what you're doing., If someone slows down at your booth or steps in, be sure to offer the customer a greeting. A simple greeting will do, such as "How are you doing today?" However, if you notice the person eying a particular item, consider telling them the story behind it to get them intrigued.Also, a big smile is always a plus. Seeing other people smile makes people happy, so they associate you and your booth with happiness.
 You may be surprised by what sells the most at your festival. When something suddenly becomes popular, try to emphasize the product even more. For instance, give it a prominent place in your booth, or place signs to emphasize that you have it. That way, even more people will be drawn to it., When thinking about the event, consider selling small side items targeted at the event. For example, if you're somewhere hot, think about selling cold bottles of water or cheap hats. Another good option for a show with a lot of product booths is selling reusable bags, which people will buy to carry all the stuff they buy.
 You may think that not marking your prices makes your product seem more upscale. However, many customers will leave if they can't see a price, as they may feel it's out of their price range. Having prices visible gives customers an idea of what they can afford, and it keeps them from asking you every two minutes what something costs., If someone seems interested in your product but they don't have the money to buy, make sure you offer a way for them to find you later. A business card with your contact information, website, and social media sites is a great way to help a customer find you later.Another way to encourage follow-up business is to hand out discount codes for your website shop. You could offer 10% off to anyone who enters your shop or to anyone who makes a purchase.

