 If you haven’t already, you need to create a shop on Etsy so that you have a place to list your products. You can do that by logging into your Etsy account, clicking “Sell” on the top left corner, and clicking “Open an Etsy Shop.” Follow the onscreen instructions to create a shop, and check out How to Open an Etsy Store for more detailed instructions.;
,, Make sure this is all very accurate. You are required to submit information such as who made the product and when, and using the right category and sub-category will help people search for your item. Make sure to mark whether or not your product is a physical item or a digital file.
 You do not want to make multiple listings for the same item in various colors or sizes; those listing fees will add up. By adding variations onto your listing, you can keep your shop looking neat and organized, while still offering all sorts of customizable options.
 This step is very crucial! No matter how beautiful your product is, bad picture quality or low lighting could make it look awful. Take high-quality pictures with plenty of light; if your pictures look good, your sales will increase.


Use your best, most captivating image as your first image. This will be the first picture that people see, as well as the thumbnail for when your product shows up in search results. You can click and drag the thumbnails of your images to rearrange them.
You’re allowed to upload up to five photos. Use all five! Take pictures from different angles, in different lighting, or in different settings. For example, if you’re selling a dress, take pictures from different angles, or on mannequins and people. Buyers will not purchase your item unless they have a really good idea of what it will look like.
In the same vein, if you have variations in color, make sure they’re pictured. If you’re offering several different options, make one of your pictures a collage of all of the offered variations.
 Titles can be up to 140 characters, and should give your buyers a pretty good idea of what you’re selling even without pictures. Include as many relevant keywords as possible in the title, so customers will have an easier time searching for and finding your product. “Vintage 1950’s Green Polka Dot A-Line Halter Dress w/ Tulle” is much more descriptive and helpful than “Vintage Green Dress.”

, Be detailed! You want customers to be able to find any information they could possibly need about the item in your description. Include size specs, materials used, who made it, and (if vintage) whether or not it is used. These are just some guidelines; feel free to add whatever information you think is relevant!

, This is where you can add relevant search terms. Tags can be multiple words (i.e. “iPhone case”) or single keywords (“iPhone” and “case”), and can be either abstract or concrete (“sexy” or “skirt”). List as many as you can think of, but don’t use irrelevant or unhelpful tags.
 Remember that items on Etsy are often cheaper than what you’d find in stores. that being said, you can charge fair price for the fruits of your labor. If it’s worth $40, charge $40—just not $80.
 Your customers may not be in the same country as you, so set shipping prices that are specific to domestic and international customers.
 You don’t want to promise that your product will be finished in two days if it’ll realistically take four or five. Also, know what kind of mail carrier and shipping speed you will be using ahead of time, so that you can set a realistic, informed shipping time. Enter the country where you will be shipping the item from, so your customers will also have an idea of where the product is coming from.
 Go over it in full and make sure it looks exactly how you want it to. Eliminate typos or other errors, as they look unprofessional and careless. Click “Adjust Photo” to crop your thumbnail.
 Your item is now on sale!

