 He wrote the book for one reason alone: I am writing my life to laugh at myself, and I'm succeeding. His book Is over 4,000 pages of outrageously fun stories about a single man's adventures conquering the world through his charm.;
, Actually listening to somebody is the single most important rule you'll ever learn about people -especially women. Listen to what they have to say. All people have dreams, fears, hopes and thoughts. Listening to them will be the greatest gift you can give to anybody, great or small, wise or ignorant, and if you can do that for them, they'll love you in return.
 The only reason to lead a life of adventure is to enjoy it. Power, money, pleasure and excitement will come all in due time but they will be just spices on the main dish. Even the charm and charisma which you'll learn are mere accessories to the ultimate goal of enjoying your freedom to do what you love. Don't be too serious about life. This will project you as more cool and confident person, which are qualities of a Casanova.
,, This may seem like terrible advice, but you'll never be as creative, as fast and as brave than when losing is not an option.
 Always have the die hard attitude to achieve goals in life which you have desired to have in life and develop abilities to achieve them.
, Nothing worth remembering has ever came from being afraid. If you get fired from your job, well, you probably didn't like it anyway. If your girl leaves you, there still plenty of fish in the sea. If you get shot in the leg, well, you had it coming anyway.
 A thousand women may fall in love with your dreams, none will love you for your reason.
 Most of them have a way of telling you that the life of a Casanova is full of sin, moral perversion and deviousness. For the most part this is true. But the world needs dreamers too. They may never understand you, but they won't have as much fun either. Trust yourself. Trusting your heart will take you to places that nothing else can. You will make mistakes, of course, but it is not about being right or wrong, it's about living.
 At least once, mostly twice. This means forgetting prejudice, shutting your mouth and actually doing things. If you've always talked about buying a van and driving cross the continent there's no reason to keep putting it off, vans are cheap, food is everywhere; go for it!

, "Being a nice person" and "being honest" doesn't quite cut it. Your principles should stand for something beyond that, something in the line of "Freedom, Beauty, Truth & Love" will do.
 Being a free man doesn't mean you can do anything you want, regard your own principles higher than the actual law, let them be your guide.
 No matter what you achieve, how great your life seems to be, or how tired you become, there's always a new adventure waiting around the corner for the man who is ready to undertake it.

