 You might be anxious about going to the bathroom at work or at school because of the fear that someone might walk in. Remind yourself that everyone, even your boss, teacher, and coworkers, have been exactly where you are now.;
, This can be a scary thing to consider, but once you let yourself imagine beyond the initial embarrassment, you’ll realize that its not really the end of the world at all., Anxiety about anything can affect the body in many ways. Be sure to take deep breathes and relax your muscles. If you are too anxious and tight, you’ll have more trouble going and ultimately be in the bathroom even longer. , Ask yourself, what’s worse, holding it in and risking an accident, or taking charge and relieving yourself of discomfort?, The only excuse you need is a simple, "Excuse me." You don't have to make up an excuse; everyone uses the bathroom.
 This is nothing to be embarrassed about either. Everyone uses the bathroom.
 This might involve a little searching, and if you don't think you have time, obviously go for the first one you see. If you are at a friend's house you might use the upstairs bathroom. In a mall, you might choose the restroom furthest from the major departments stores., Before you even sit down in a stall, or any bathroom for that matter, check to make sure there is toilet paper.If there isn't any ask the manager of the restaurant or the homeowner to bring you some.
If you are in an office building you may need ask at reception or locate a member of the janitorial staff.
 Either the stall or the door to the bathroom itself should have a lock on it. Locking the door will help relieve some of the anxiety you might have and will ensure your privacy.
 If you can, put your feet up on a small trash bin. Squatting will allow you to pass your waste more quickly and with less effort, minimizing the amount of time you spend in the bathroom., Sometimes thinking about it too much can make defecating even more stressful. If you have a cell phone, playing a game or doing a little reading on the internet can help you relax.


When defecating in public you’ll want to get in and out as quickly as you can. Be wary of spending so much time on your phone that it distracts you from the task at hand., Once you are in the bathroom, don't forget to continue to take deep breathes. This will help your body relax.
 If you are still having trouble going, place your hand on your abdomen and lightly push down. You might want to slightly lean forward while you do this., If possible, try flushing immediately after each release. This will cut down on the odor. , If there are stains or skid marks visible in the bowl, try flushing again. You can also try putting a few sheets of toilet paper in the water, letting them soak for a minute and then flushing them down. They should help remove any remaining waste., Many people leave air fresheners on the backs of their toilets or under the sink. Some restaurants with one person bathrooms (as opposed to ones with several stalls) will have air fresheners out as well. Don’t be afraid to use them., If you have room in your bag, it can be helpful to carry things like matches, small air fresheners,wet wipes toilet paper, hand sanitizer etc. 