 While it’s preheating, go ahead and line your cupcake tins with paper cups. This recipe is for 30 regular-sized cupcakes. It will take you 15 to 20 minutes to prepare the muffins. The cook time is an additional 20 to 25 minutes.
 Chop off both ends of the squash. Use a potato peeler to remove the skin. Cut the squash in half right where the neck meets the body. Cut the neck part into rings, then cubes. Cut the body of the squash in half length-wise. Scrape out the seeds and the surrounding stringy pulp with a spoon. Cut the halves into strips and then cube the strips., Place the cubes into the food processor. Pulse until the butternut squash is finely pureed. You may need to stop once or twice to scrape the squash down the sides of the processor with a spatula., Measure out the butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Put them into the bowl and cream the ingredients together using the standing mixer. Keep pulsing the mixer until the mixture looks fluffy and light., Crack the eggs into the mixer bowl. Pour the squash puree in carefully. Add the butter rum flavoring and mix it all together until fully combined., Measure out the flour, spices, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Mix them together well., Add 1/3 of the flour mixture to the mixer bowl with the squash mixture. Pulse the mixer until the ingredients combine. Add 1/3 of the buttermilk. Pulse again. Repeat until you’ve added all of the flour mixture and all of the buttermilk. Mix well.

You will probably need to stop mixing several times to scrape down the sides of the bowl.
Lastly, add the nuts. Pulse the mixture until the batter is well-mixed.
 Carefully fill each paper cup about ¾ of the way up with the cupcake batter. There should be enough batter for 30 muffins, so you will use all of the batter. If you end up with extra batter, add a little more to each paper cup., Place the cupcake tin in the preheated oven. At the 20 minute mark, check on the cupcakes. You will know they’re ready to take out when you can insert a toothpick or knife into the center of one and it comes out clean.

If your toothpick/knife comes out sticky, put the cupcakes back in for another 5 minutes.
Once they’re done, remove them from the oven and let them cool on a wire rack.
 Whisk heavy cream in a standing mixer on medium speed until stiff peaks form. Do not over-mix, which can lead to grainy icing. Stir the mascarpone, cinnamon, and confectioners' sugar together in a small bowl until smooth. Carefully fold the whipped cream into mascarpone mixture. Mix well., Allow the cupcakes to cool completely, then use a spatula to frost each cupcake. You can also use a cake decorating bag to apply the icing, if preferred. Once frosted, either serve immediately or place in the refrigerator until you’re ready to serve them.