 Many gamblers end up spending far more money than they originally intended to. Avoid having this happen to you by set a hard, inflexible budget for your gambling session. Set aside a certain amount of money that you can stand to lose as your bankroll for the day. Use your bankroll - and only your bankroll - to finance your craps games. Use your money wisely, making conservative bets, rather than risking it all on one roll of the dice. Doing so helps ensure that you'll have more money throughout the day and won't need to withdraw more to keep playing.


It can be easier to budget smartly if you have a healthy attitude towards gambling in general. Think of your gambling session as a form of entertainment, rather than a way to make money. This way, you'll be satisfied even if you lose money, while any money you win will be a "pleasant surprise."

, Knowing when to stop gambling is crucial. No matter how much you may win, if you play forever, you'll eventually lose all of your money to the house. To prevent this sort of over-reach, set hard, inflexible cash limits that, if passed, will end your gambling for the day. For instance, you might decide to stop as soon as you win or lose 50% of your starting bankroll. This way, if you hit your upper limit, you're prevented from losing any payout you receive by gambling for too long. Conversely, if you hit your lower limit, you'll still have money reserved for your next session.
 As mentioned above, if you play for long enough, the casino will take your money. Because of this, it's a smart idea to cash out when you're ahead. Resist the perennial gambler's temptation to boost your winnings further by playing just "one more roll", as innumerable payouts have been squandered this way.
 Above all, the best tool a craps player can have is a cool, rational head. It's easy to get swept away by the rush of excitement that comes with a winning roll, but try not to. If you're at a rowdy table, making a few great rolls can make you feel like a celebrity, but your present odds will always be the same regardless of your past luck. Stick to your betting plan and your budget at all times.


Other than this, enjoy yourself. Craps can be one of the funnest, most exciting games in the casino - especially if you win!

