 By far the easiest and most effective way to create a poster is with your computer and a graphics application such as Photoshop, which we'll use for our first example. If you don't have Photoshop, there are a number of other alternatives, including GIMP and Pixlr, both of which are free. While the steps here are specific to Photoshop, most graphics applications will have the same, or similar functionality.
 When it's fully loaded, create a new document, and use the following specifications:


Width: 8 inches (20.3 cm)
Height: 10.5 inches (26.6)
Resolution: 300pixels/inch
Color Mode: CMYK
Background Contents: White
What we've set up is a page the size of a standard letter-sized piece of paper, at 300dpi (pixels per inch) so that it will be nice and crisp when it's printed. We chose CMYK for the Color Mode, because printers are designed to use those ink colors, whereas monitors are designed to use RGB. If your graphics app does not support CMYK, don't worry—the colors you print out will not be exactly the same as on screen, but they'll still look great.
Note that if you have access to a large-format printer, like the kind you can find at most print shops like Kinkos, you don't have to stop at normal paper size. Give the print shop a call and ask them what is the maximum paper size they can print, and size your document accordingly.
 Make it bright and eye-catching, but not so bright that it will overwhelm the message. Don't worry if it doesn't work—you can always change it later. If the poster is for a particular event, you can use a color scheme to match. For example, your school colors might be maroon and gold, and gold would make a nice, bright background.
 If you're not confident of your drawing or illustrating skills, look online for images in the public domain that you can use or alter for your work.
 Place this message in large lettering that will attract attention. More detailed information can also be added in smaller lettering.


Make the poster easy to read. Consider your font color and size, and whatever you do, do not mix more than 2 or 3 different fonts together.
 Now that you're got their attention, it's time for the "fine print," as they say. If there's a secondary message, make that as strong as the headline. It may be a longer phrase, so you may have to shrink the font a bit. But keep it concise. The fewer things your poster tries to convey, the stronger the message!


Notice as the text got smaller, there were fewer embellishments. At top, there is a strong yellow border. In the "Wear a Tie Week" section, the font is smaller, and the border is much thinner. Finally, the dates have no border or shadow at all.
Also not the spacing of the fonts: everything is centered left to right, and within their sections top to bottom. It's important to keep things aligned for a smooth, professional appearance. Of course, if that's not your goal—go crazy!

, Have your information checked by a fresh set of eyes, such as a friend or teacher. (If it’s a professional poster, find someone with expertise in the subject. It might be someone who works or volunteers in a non-government organization or public office, for example.) Be sure to spell-check the information as well.


Include an address or other contact information. If the poster is directing people to an event, be sure to include the event address. If it’s meant to be informational, include contact details (such as a phone number or an e-mail address) so that people can learn more.
 Try to find locations where lots of people will pass by but where they will not get lost in the crowd.

