 New Zealand rabbits are medium size, and they need plenty of room to hop and play. Make sure that you provide your New Zealand rabbit with a cage that is at least 30 inches (76.2 cm) long by 24 inches wide by 18 inches (45.7 cm) high.Do not get a wire bottom cage because these types of cages can hurt your rabbit’s feet. Choose a cage that has a solid metal bottom instead.Puppy playpens also work well as rabbit enclosures. A puppy playpen will give your New Zealand rabbit lots of space to hop around.
You may also consider getting a special rabbit condo enclosure.These types of enclosures have lots of hiding places and tunnels for rabbits to explore and enjoy.
 Rabbits like to hide now and then to feel more secure. Try adding a cardboard box or a wooden nest box to your rabbit’s cage so that she can retreat if she feels nervous or frightened.A cardboard box provides a nice hiding spot for your New Zealand rabbit and your rabbit can also move the box around and chew on it.
 If you don’t want you New Zealand rabbit urinating and defecating all over the cage, then you can place a small litter box in the corner of your rabbit’s cage. Line the litter box with a few sheets of newspaper and then lay some hay over the newspaper. Dump out the contents of the box once per day and refill with new materials.If your New Zealand rabbit is not using her litter box, then try moving the litter box to the corner that she is using as a toilet spot.
Try placing a few litter boxes around your house so that your rabbit can use them as needed.
Never use cedar or pine shavings in your rabbit’s litter box. These materials may cause your rabbit to develop respiratory and liver problems., If you keep your rabbit outside, then she will be at risk of premature death for a variety of reasons. Rabbits do not do well outside because they are prone to overheating and hypothermia, they frighten easily, and they require companionship. Even if predators cannot gain access to your rabbit in her cage, she may have a heart attack from fear.
A pet rabbit kept outside may develop antisocial behavior issues, such as aggression, so keeping a rabbit outside will make it into a poor pet.

