 Since the fundraiser involves putting flamingos on people's yards (usually in the night!) it is a good idea to let the officials in the community know what the fundraiser is about ahead of time and get approval.;
, The more flamingos to be sent to someone's yard, the higher the price should be. For example, you might charge $10 for 10 flamingos and $15 for 20 flamingos.
 Keep in mind the time it will take to order or buy flamingos.
 You will need a "Flock Your Friends" form and a "Flamingo Insurance" form.


The "Flock Your Friends" form will be used for individuals in your area to order flamingos to be placed (or to flock) a friend's yard. It should include the individual's name and contact information, the address and name of the person whom they wish to flock, how many flamingos they wish to order, and a space for any special requests. It should also list prices, the dates the fundraiser will run, and an email or building address to send in forms if they can't be delivered in person.
The "Flamingo Insurance" form will be used for individuals who wish to protect their homes from being flocked. This insurance can be priced as you wish. It should have a place for the buyer's name and address. It should also list the price, the dates the fundraiser will run, and an email or building address to send in forms if they can't be delivered in person.
 Talk up the fundraiser and hand out flyers whenever you can. Great places to do this are at school functions when allowed, at town events such as fairs, or just outside of well visited places such as grocery stores. If there is little or no interest, consider whether money will be saved by canceling the event. As disappointing as it is, not all fundraisers work out in every area!

, This should be based on the level of interest and orders you already have and also how long you wish the flamingos to stay at each residence. You will be able to do a lot more orders with less flamingos if the flamingos are stay at each residence for two days rather than a week.
 Keep in mind that you will need cars to move the flamingos and people available and willing to work when it's dark out to place flamingos on people's lawns.
 This should be based on availability of volunteers, how long you wish the flamingos to remain at each residence, and how many flamingos you have.
 Make sure to leave a note somewhere (perhaps in a folder tied to one of the flamingos) explaining what the fundraiser is, asking that the flamingos not be taken or damaged because they will be removed from the property to go to the next people's house, and also showing the person who flocked them.


Consider leaving one flamingo with a sign on it (or creating a sign) so that passer-bys know what the fundraiser is for and where they can go to flock they're friends!
Also consider leaving a "Flock Your Friends" form and a "Flamingo Insurance form" so that anyone who gets flocked, can flock their friends back!

,