 Open your crafting table and place a chunk of redstone in the center. Place a redstone torch on either side, then three stone blocks on the lowest row. Repeat this recipe to make a second block.


Look for red-flecked redstone ore deep underground (at least 47 blocks below sea level.) Mine it with an iron or diamond pick.You'll need several extra chunks of redstone as well.
To make a redstone torch, craft one chunk of redstone above a stick.
 Place a single iron door wherever you need your entrance. Place a pressure plate on the external side of the door, but not near enough to activate it. Keep a second pressure plate in your inventory for now.


Craft an iron door with a tall 2 x 3 pattern of iron ingots.
Craft a pressure plate with two stone or wooden blocks side by side.
 Place a redstone chunk directly on any solid, opaque block next to the pressure plate. Make a line of redstone from the pressure plate to a redstone repeater, then another line from the repeater to the door.


Make sure the line on the repeater connects the lines of redstone.
You can hide the redstone underground to make the entrance look nicer, but you might want to practice with everything out in the open first.
 Normally, pressure plates can be used by any player or monster who walks over them. You'll need to block the redstone connection to lock the door. The first step is placing a lever near the interior side of your door, but not right next to it.


Craft a lever by placing a stick over a block of stone.
 Turn 90 degrees and place a second redstone repeater next to the first. The line of torches visible on one repeater should be at right angles to the line on the second.When this second repeater is activated, it will block the first repeater, breaking the connection between the pressure plate and the door.
 Use another line of redstone to connect the lever to the second repeater. As before, make sure the line of redstone meets the line visible on the repeater.
 From outside, walk over the pressure plate and through the door. Wait for the door to close, then use the lever to push it to the "on" position. This will lock the door in its current state (closed), preventing the pressure plate outside from functioning.
 Place your second pressure plate on the interior of the door, right in front of it. This one is not connected to the redstone, so you can use it to leave the room at any time. Careful — if the lever is in the locked position, you will lock yourself out.

