 Whether you're new to writing or have been doing it for years, you'll need to choose a medium to work with. This largely boils down to a matter of taste and comfort. Some people prefer working with a computer, while others prefer the tactile experience of writing on a notebook page.;
, If you've chosen to write with a pen and paper, you may want to equip yourself with quality materials. While you don't need a fancy writing instrument to write, having a nice pen that you like may help you stay motivated and enjoy the writing process. There are many places to purchase a pen. You can start at your local art supply store, or search online for quality writing instruments.


Choose a fine-point pen if you have small, compact handwriting, or a medium- to broad-point pen if your handwriting tends to be bigger and made with quicker strokes.Consider the price when purchasing a nice pen. Some fountain pens can cost hundreds or even thousands of dollars, while cheaper alternatives can usually be found online or in other stores., If you're trying to begin a practice of writing for relaxation and you're intent on using a pen and paper, you may want to start with a clean, unused notebook. This gives you greater freedom over what you write, how you write, and where you write it.


A portable pocket notebook can make it easy to write on the go. However, if you carry a purse or backpack with you most places, any size notebook should fit in there.
Consider investing in a high-quality notebook. Much like a nice pen, a good notebook can help cement writing as a regular ritual.
 You can write from home if you're comfortable doing so. However, many writers find themselves feeling trapped or uninspired at home. For this reason, you may want to consider finding a regular writing location, whether it's inside your home or out around town.


If you feel comfortable and productive writing at home, then you may prefer staying in (many writers do). Find what makes you comfortable and productive, then make it part of your routine.Libraries and coffee shops are common places for writers to work. Libraries offer inspiration, while coffee shops keep you caffeinated and engaged.A location with a view may be inspiring, although windows that look out onto a street may end up being a distraction.
 You probably didn't meditate in school before a writing assignment, but meditation and art go hand-in-hand. Meditating before you begin to write can help you calm your mind, clarify your thoughts, and focus your attention on the task at hand.Sit in your chair with your arms on your legs, palms up. Close your eyes and focus on your breath.
Identify the place or places where you carry your tension. These sites are often plagued by pain, stiffness, or "knots" in the muscle.
Visualize the tension leaving your body, either melting off your skin or being ejected with your exhaled breath.
Do this for as long as you need before you get started. If you're short on time, limit your meditation to just a few moments.
 An easy way to get started at writing for relaxation is to make a simple list. If you're experiencing anxiety or a panic attack, you may have a jumble of thoughts bouncing around inside your head. Listing those thoughts on paper can help you make sense of what you're feeling and may help assuage some of your anxiety.Start with whatever thought is most clear in your mind. Then continue listing thoughts as they arise and become clear to you.
If you're too anxious or upset to have clear, coherent thoughts, you can simply list whatever emotions you're feeling. If those are also unclear, try listing things in your immediate environment until you're able to process your feelings or thoughts.
 Freewriting is a common strategy in writing, usually used by writers to get ideas flowing. However, another great way to utilize freewriting is to write continuously about anything that happens to be on your mind. This can help you gain some clarity on what you're feeling and why you feel that way.Start by writing a topic at the top of your page. For example, if you're feeling anxious, you might write "Why I'm feeling anxious right now" at the top of the page.
Set a timer for a set amount of time. If you're new to freewriting it may be easier to start with 5 minutes, but if you're comfortable with the process aim for 10 or 15 minutes.
Write continuously until the timer goes off. Do not stop to collect your thoughts, rephrase, or revise anything - your pen (or your fingers on the keyboard) should be moving nonstop.
Try to keep your writing focused on the topic you gave yourself (for example, feeling anxious). However, if you run out of things to say and the timer hasn't gone off, write whatever words come to mind until you get back on track.
Don't censor anything you write and don't criticize your work. The goal is to simply write nonstop without evaluating anything you produce.
 If freewriting is too unstructured for you, you might have better luck writing within a specific framework. One structured way to write for relaxation is to write about your specific fears, concerns, and sources of stress.Start by identifying the absolute worst-case scenario you can imagine your fears or problems leading to.
Write in great detail about the problem as you're currently encountering it, then work your way to graphically describing the worst possible outcome(s) you identified earlier.
Make sure your writing is vivid and full of imagery. This will help bring your writing to life.
Spend about 30 minutes writing about your fears, then try to choose a natural ending point (perhaps the end result of your fears coming true).
As you continue your practice, try to move past simply writing about the stress/fear you're experiencing. Dig deeper and try to find some clarity on your fear and anxiety by analyzing your thoughts and feelings on the page.
 Another method of writing for relaxation involves a call-and-response style of composition. In this method, you will write out whatever is on your mind that's causing you stress or anxiety, then collect your thoughts and write a positive, supportive response to yourself.Write out the thoughts or feelings that are most vividly on your mind. These may be fears, concerns, things happening in your environment, or your impression of yourself at a given moment.
Try to be as specific and clear as possible in your writing. For example, instead of writing "I'm a loser and a failure," narrow it down to something like, "I feel like a failure when I don't meet my weekly goals at work."
Set your notebook aside and meditate for a few moments. You may even want to set your notebook aside for a longer period of time if you're having a hard time disengaging from your anxiety.
When you're ready, write a response to your previous entry or entries, challenging yourself to say something positive about yourself or your situation.
For example, if you wrote about not meeting your weekly goals at work, a good response might be, "I'm trying hard and the workload has been increasing. I may struggle to meet my goals, but I know I'm trying my best and doing as well as my coworkers."

, There's a chance that you won't experience any uncomfortable emotions while you write. However, you may end up feeling some degree of anxiety or discomfort while writing. This is normal, and ultimately it will pass. The point is to confront your fears by unraveling the worst possible scenarios that are causing your tension and/or anxiety.It's normal to feel an emotional reaction while writing about something that upsets you. Keep going and know that you're on the right track.
 Writing for relaxation can be done as a one-time event. However, you'll get more out of the practice and make greater progress working through your doubts and anxieties if you're able to practice every day.Aim to spend about 30 minutes each day for two weeks writing about your fears and anxiety. You should begin to see a reduction in your anxiety and stress levels.
Review your writing on a regular basis. You can do this every day before you begin, or on a weekly basis.
Look for patterns in your writing, your situation, your environment, and your thoughts/feelings.
 The benefit of writing every day is that you have a greater collection of logged emotions and experiences to review. This can help you track your stress, fear, or anxiety over time. It can also help you see how effective your writing practice has been.Record the date and time that you begin each writing session.
Next to the time, rate your level of stress, tension, or anxiety on a scale from 1 to 10, with 1 being completely carefree and 10 being the most anxious you've ever been.
When you're finished, be sure you complete the log by marking the time you ended your writing session and your level of stress/tension/anxiety at that time.
 Over time, you will begin to gain some clarity and insight on your fears and anxieties. This may come from an individual breakthrough while writing, or it may be the result of revisiting your writing over a period of weeks or months. If you think you're approaching some type of breakthrough on your problems, keep at it and try to dig even deeper.Don't be afraid to write with greater detail and focus on the thing or things that cause you the most trouble.
If possible, try to confront the things that upset you. This doesn't necessarily mean confronting people, but just exposing yourself in small increments to the places or things that cause you stress.
Conversely, depending on your personality and your feelings, you may want to avoid those stressors altogether. Understanding what triggers your anxiety can help you avoid those places or situations in the future.

