 The amount you need will determine where you should shop for citric acid. Smaller quantities can generally be purchased at the grocery store, while larger quantities may need be purchased at a bulk store or online.


Consult the instructions for your activity or recipe to see how much citric acid they indicate you need to use for your project.
Increase the amount of citric acid if you plan to make multiple batches of a recipe or want to have an ample amount for repeating the activity. For example, if you plan to use citric acid for cheese-making, and you want to make your own cheese on a regular basis, you will want to buy enough citric acid for multiple uses.;
, Food grade citric acid is normally available in a powder form. Typically, it is best to buy citric acid at a grocery store when you need a small amount, for example, a bottle with 3 to 5 ounces (85 g to 142 g).


Check for citric acid in the canning section. It is often located near the pectin and other canning ingredients and materials.Look for citric acid under the name sour salt in the kosher section or in the spice aisle., Health food stores often carry citric acid and may have a greater range of sizes available than standard grocery stores. Call the store before stopping by to make sure they have the amount you need in stock.
 Restaurant supply stores, especially baking or candy-making supply stores, are likely to carry citric acid. These types of stores will likely have quantities available in bulk as well. If you need a large amount, check here first.


Plan to purchase at least 1 pound (.45 kg) of citric acid. Smaller quantities may not be available.
 Home brewers often use citric acid, for example to adjust to acid level in fruit wines.A store that caters to home brewers may also have knowledgeable staff that can provide detailed information on how to use citric acid for your particular project.
 Online retailers sell small to large containers of citric acid and many online stores sell it by the pound. You can skip the shopping and have the citric acid delivered right to your door. If you are using the citric acid in something that will be consumed, remember to order food grade citric acid.


Take into account that shipping costs may make it more expensive to buy citric acid online than at a local restaurant supply or warehouse store. However, online prices are generally more competitive than supermarket prices per ounce.

