 Make sure you know why you are asking questions in the survey. Having a firm grasp of this will help you make better questions. Without knowing your objective, your questions may seem aimless.Try to answer the questions: who, what, where, when and why for yourself. This may help you define your objective.
The objective is different from the topic. It answers: “What do I want to find out?”
For example: your topic might be a specific service, such as "pizza delivery", and your objective might be to find out what impacts tipping behaviors the most.;
, Make sure you research before you make your survey questions. This will help you to build insightful questions that are appropriate to your aims.If your survey questions are not well thought out, it may be more difficult for people to take your survey seriously.Look online and at your local library to see if people have researched and studied your topic in the past.
Think about what your concerns might be if you were taking your survey.
Talk to others beforehand to help you get an outside perspective.
 If you ask questions that are difficult to understand, your answers may be difficult to understand as well. Go to extra lengths to make sure your questions are easy to understand. Get help if you are unsure. Omit overly complicated language.


Cut out unnecessary words.
Shorten sentences.
Use basic vocabulary, avoiding overly technical language.Avoid leading questions, questions that prompt an answer, such as "Wouldn't you agree that slow pizza delivery is tragic?" These kinds of questions skew survey results.
 When you know to whom you're addressing your survey, it is easy to ask focused questions. What aspects of your topic will your audience be able to best respond to? Ask yourself relevant questions about your audience's concerns.


Research your demographic.
Avoid demographics that are least likely to give you good feedback. Adults without children are not good subjects for surveys on a child's enjoyment of a toy.
Avoid stereotyping.

