 Shoes have a tendency to fray, especially satin shoes. To prevent shoes from fraying, avoid getting your shoes wet. Make sure your kids do not walk around in their shoes while it's raining. Avoid leaving your shoes anywhere they may accidentally get wet, such as near the front door., Only allow your kids to wear their dance shoes during practice. Preventing stains in general, not just wet shoes, can cut back on fraying as it reduces the frequency you need to clean the shoes., While higher quality satins may be pricier, they are less prone to fraying than other brands and will therefore need replacing less often. When selecting footwear for your kids, go for pricier shoes made from higher quality materials.


It can help to ask a dance coach or another parent for recommendations for high quality shoes.
 Heel protectors are placed on the tip of a shoe's heel. They protect heels from damage such as scuffing. You can buy them online and in most stores that sell dance equipment. Heel protectors are highly recommended, as they can protect dance shoes from a lot of damage.Some competitions actually require heel protectors to protect the floor from scuffing during dancing.
 Invest in a quality shoe brush. You can buy one online or in stores that sell dance supplies. Brushing the shoes on a regular basis will help remove dirt and debris and prevent the material on the soles from wearing down. This prevents shoes from sliding around on the floor while your kids are dancing.The precise frequency of brushing depends on how often shoes are used. Shoes that are used frequently will need to be brushed more often.
 Dance shoes should be cleaned promptly if they get dirt or debris stuck to them. Melamine foam, or a similar substance, can be used to blot stains out of dance shoes. Always look for a cleaner specifically designed to clean your shoe's material. For example, use a stain cleaner on satin shoes.Always do a spot test of any new cleaner on a small portion of the shoe first. Dab on the cleaner and check later to see if it's caused any damage or discoloration. If it has not, the cleaner is safe to use on the whole shoe., Dance shoes should never be placed in a dryer for washing. This can cause them to wear out easily and damage delicate fabrics like satin. If you wash dance shoes, always allow them to air dry.