 Feeling bored? Give your computer a makeover. Computer savvy people call it a desktop theme. You can begin by clicking on My Computer and then Control Panel on a PC, or selecting System Preferences on a Mac. In making over your computer alone, there are loads of things to do:


The appearance and colors of your computer
The sounds on your computer
Your mouse icon
Your display settings

, Surf Google Images or proper wallpaper sites, and get an awesome-looking wallpaper for your computer. Sharks wearing birthday hats? Sweet. Be creative - get a pretty shot of your favorite celebrity, a cool pattern, or a nice picture of your favorite magazine or brand.
 Scroll through your pictures and pick a new screensaver, or download one. You could always go with a slideshow of all your pictures (meh) or one that makes it look like the Matrix (sweet).
 On a PC and Mac hit the combination CTRL-ALT-DOWN.
 Have fun on the computer by listening to music and digging around your playlists. Make a fresh playlist or mix of songs that would be fun to dance to, to meditate to, or do work out to, and spend way too much time organizing it. Turn your iTunes on random to shuffle all your songs into a strange order and try to guess what's being played. Turn on the iTunes or Windows Media Player visualizer function to give yourself something to stare at while you zone out. Or, you know, just listen to the good stuff.
 If you've got a webcam installed, mess around taking selfies, setting up weird still-life pictures in front of your computer, or just goofing with the picture filters on your computer. Make yourself look like a bent-up alien with a weird nose, or mess with the colors until you look seasick.
 If you've got Photoshop installed, cut up pictures and make weird meme-worthy new ones. Your grandmother's face on Stallone's body? Good start.
 Back in the dark ages (like the 1970s), people used to actually keep things called diaries, in which they wrote about their life, eloquently and with detailed writing. Shocker, right? It's actually a great way of spending a couple hours on your computer, especially if you can't get online. Open up a word-processing file and just start writing about your day. Keep a running log. Who knows, you might like it so much that you could transition it into making a blog somewhere down the road.
 Most newer models of computers have built-in internal microphones and software installed that will allow you to record a song (or sounds at least) onto your computer and start manipulating it in minutes. You don't have to be super-talented, or even have an instrument on hand to record music. Just record yourself humming, then turn up the distortion on the settings and listen to the wild sounds you can make. Layer yourself reading random passages from the Bible, then another track of your dog snoring. Avant-garde masterpiece.


Record a podcast of yourself like an old school DJ, talking about your favorite songs in between each track in the playlist. Pick songs with a theme and make a playlist, then record a vocal track of chatting in between. Do it with a friend for extra fun.
Edit other songs together, changing the settings on a Bob Dylan track to make it sound like death metal, or messing around with death metal to make it sound like ambient drone music. Slowing down tracks by 700% even became a meme recently, from dial-up sounds to Nickelback songs.