 The first step is to think about exactly how much money you want to spend, and how much money should go to each type of item or part of the room. This will help keep you from over spending, or over spending on an area that is less important. It's easy to lose track of money when decorating a room!;
, You should ask your child what they want their room to look like...they probably have a few ideas! But you'll want to keep in mind how the design can change over time. Remember, just because your little girl likes Princesses right now doesn't mean she won't grow out of it in a few years and decide she hates her room. Try to choose decorations that are easy to change, so that you don't have to spend a lot of money later.


This is also true with teens. They have their own style, but think about what you're going to do with the room once they move out.
 You can of course just go with a few colors that look nice and standard decorations, but choosing a theme can make your life a lot easier. A theme gives you a preset color palette or series of color palettes to work with, as well as a guide for furniture, toys, and decorations to buy.
 Whether you're going with a theme or not, you'll want to choose a color palette to help the room look unified and organized. If you're absolutely terrible with colors, use tools like the room palettes provided by paint companies or even free online tools like Adobe Kuler.
 Always talk to your child throughout the design process and every time you go to buy a new item. You don't want to end up with something that they hate and then both of you are upset! Giving them the feeling of choice is also important, as this helps them to grow and mature.
 Think about how your kid plays, how old they are, and how they could realistically use the space. It's easy to design a room that you'd like for yourself but remember that kids have very different needs than adults. Their personality will also play a big part in how they enjoy the room and what they'll need to get the most from their room.


For example, a bench at the foot of the bed is useful for you to get ready in the morning, but your child wouldn't use one.
For example, are they more bookish? If so It's probably more important to have a reading area with a comfy place to sit than a larger play area that they'll never use. But it depends on them!

, Kids benefit from open floor space in a way that adults do not, so try to find ways to give them as much space as possible. A good way to do this is to make some spaces do double duty. A loft bed, for example, is not only fun for your child but allows you to tuck away items like a dresser and a desk, so that your child has the rest of the room to play in.
 When arranging furniture in a room, it's a good idea to try to group the furniture items by function. For example, put the dresser and bed next to each other because those are the functional items of the room, and have another area that's for play and contains bookshelves and toys.


You can even use furniture to divide a room into smaller sections. Make a secret bed cove by placing the bed against the back wall and then placing big book shelves across in front of it. Your child will love their secret hide out!

, Remember: you don't want big furniture in a small room if you can help it. If your child's bedroom is small, don't take up all the space to move around with big beds and dressers that they don't really need. You should also remember that kids are small...a big bed that they have to jump to get in to isn't going to help them a lot, for example.
 Kids make messes: we all know it. So if you want to keep your child's room looking nice, it's important for any room makeover to include lots of storage. A great way to do this is to add under-bed storage. Get some boxes that fit under the bed and can slide out easily to store toys and winter coats and blankets. Better yet, invest in a captain's bed and save even more space.
 Even if your child is too young to read now, you should have lots of books that you can read to them and room for books to go in the future. Bookshelves are also useful for storing other items, like stuffed animals, dolls, or personal items. Although one thing about this is what type of book it also depends on them so you need to be careful here!

, A toy organizer, which is usually a series of colorful tubs on a shelf, is a great way to help create more space on the floor for your child to play. As they get older, it can be moved from organizing toys to organizing school papers or even clothes.
 Put some laundry baskets in your child's room and encourage them to use the baskets. This will help keep clothes off the floor, giving them more space to play and lounge around.
 Your child should have a space that's dedicated to working on homework. This will help remove temptations and distractions so that they can focus on what's most important. By having a dedicated study space, you'll help them build good habits and know that they have to focus when they're in that space.


For most kids this would mean having a desk in their room, but your child might do better with squishy floor seating like a bean bag chair and a lap desk.
 Their study area should be as distraction free as possible. This means it should not have toys or too many decorations too close by, and avoid putting it near major hallways or facing windows. It will also need to be well organized, with storage and places to keep everything they need.
 Make the desk area that you set aside for them as comfortable as possible. Having a sore bum can really make you not want to do homework anymore! Get a good chair and a desk at an adjustable height, if possible, so that they don't outgrow it.
 It's better, especially when your kids are young, to pay attention to what your child does on the internet, so keep their computer in a family area. Having a computer where they do paper assignments can also be very distracting. It is a good idea to have a big enough desk to put a computer on when they're older, otherwise it will become precarious and you might have to buy a new one or let them work somewhere else.
 Choose colors that are classic and bright for a theme that will last your child into their teens and beyond. Teal, bright green, white, and red make a good color palette that works for any gender child and will still appeal to a teen.
 A dark blue room with hints of silver throughout is a great basis for a room. Space is a fun theme for a kid that will still be "cool" when they're 16, if you do it right. Get items like a moon lamp, bedding with stars, icicle lights around the top of the room, and other details that draw the room together.
 And under-the-water look will appeal to lots of kids and it's easy to help it grow up with them. Use colors like light and dark teal, seafoam, and a few hints of green. This room works particularly well if you have beige carpets already installed. A couple of stuffed fish friends and something like a jellyfish lamp can further draw the room together.
 Excite your child's sense of adventure by giving them a room that any explorer would love. Paint the room with the muted colors of maps (off-white, light green, beige, and maybe some hints of red), and decorate with globes, vintage suitcase storage, airplane mobiles, and train maps.
 Some greens and browns, with a few hints of blues can create the basis of a room that your child can enjoy for years to come. This is a great room for a kid that loves stuffed animals, as they'll fit right in! Get a unique look by creating a wall tree out of paper, and a circular blue rug makes a great "pond" at the center of the room.
 If your little girl longs to be a princess, avoid painting the whole room pink by going with a fairy tale castle theme instead. Grassy green on the lower part of the walls and sky blue on the upper parts will create the look of rolling hills, some tall gray bookshelves can be painted to look like towers, and a stuffed dragon in the corner can complete the look.

