 The idea is to make you look sun-kissed and natural, letting your makeup accentuate your natural beauty instead of draw attention away from it.


Start with a tinted moisturizer or some loose bronze mineral powder. Apply as necessary.
Sweep your favorite blush over the apples of your cheeks up to your temples, remembering to blend.;
,


Sweep a tiny bit of sheer bronze or gold eyeshadow across your eyelids, up to your eyebrows. Use less product the higher up you get.
Hydrate and protect your lips with a tinted balm, brush on a fresh coat of waterproof mascara and you're good to go!

, Lobster-skin is neither flattering nor healthy. Avoid tanning beds, too, as they can cause cancer. Soaking up the sun is good for you, but remember to wear sunscreen with an SPF of 15-30. (If you burn easily, up the SPF.) You'll still get that sun-kissed glow, but you'll also stave off skin cancer and any irritating redness.
 Skip the flat iron and the curlers for a natural look that's sure to impress. Contrary to what you might think, your natural hair texture can always be stylish. Embrace your natural assets instead of working to change them.


For the ever-popular beach waves, fill a spray bottle with water and a tablespoon of salt. Wet your hair, either in the shower or manually, but do not brush it. When your hair is nearly dry, spritz it with your salt solution and tousle it with your fingers. This works best if you flip your hair is upside down. Let it dry naturally.
Other great styles include the super-high ballerina bun, the messy pony, loose braids, or hair with twists at the sides. The look you're going for is effortlessly beautiful.
 Wear them often; your legs will thank you for it. Steer clear of booty shorts, as they might give the impression you're trying too hard. Don't be afraid to go for some sweet skirts, too. While denim skirts are a little 1990s, cotton skirts with body and maxi skirts in a fun print are both comfortable and fashionable.


Khaki, navy blue or army green are classic colors for shorts.
If you want to shoot for trendy, try neon colors (really stylish this summer) or bright corals.
If you feel uncomfortable in shorts, try bermudas or petal pushers. Only wear what you feel comfortable in.
 Anything goes, as long as it's tasteful. Some fashionable top styles this summer are loose racer-back tanks, burnt-out shirts, crop tops, lacy/frilly camis and tees. Empire waist shirts are especially flattering, but opt for cuts that you feel comfortable in above all else. Again, try bright colors and prints. Floral and tribal prints are in style right now.
 Dresses range from the little white dress to the printed maxi-dress; the possibilities here are quite literally endless.


Because it's summer, look for light fabrics in bright colors and patterns.
Add extra splash and detail with ruffles, embroidery or even metal studs.
Make sure your decolletage and derriere aren't hanging out, unless you plan on courting some unwanted attention from guys.
 Gold is a great summer color because it catches and deflects sunlight, but use it sparingly. (A little goes a long way.) Natural textures such as wood, hemp, pleather and suede are all great choices.
 The possibilities are practically endless. Try out simple tennis shoes or tie-up sandals. And don't forget about the quintessential flip-flop.


Some shoe-ins this summer are espadrilles (flat or heeled), Keds-type sneakers, gladiators, and Birkenstocks. Make sure you can walk around in your shoes of choice—you'll be wearing them all summer!

, Summer is all about letting loose and enjoying yourself. Let your clothing reflect that.

