 As you're offered a quick cup of coffee, your 12-year-old granddaughter walks in wearing ripped up jeans and a black and red zebra tube top (the tops with no straps) that's only a few inches long. Also in her ensemble is some black eyeshadow, red lipstick, blush, mascara, several coats of eyeliner and more other "gunk" that you've never worn in your life. You see her whole midriff. Her hair's in some 'do you've never seen before and she's wearing enormous sunglasses. Completing the look is a pair of red stilettos. She turns around and your eye catches something...a whale tail! The back of a thong sticking up from her jeans. While we as teens wouldn't see any issues, you might. Relax! When she walks in showing off an article of clothing-or a part of anatomy-you don't like, you might be tempted to scream something like, "Why on Earth are you wearing that? You look like a hooker!" Don't. She won't pay any attention when you say that, especially in front of people. Instead, try to look shocked. She'll probably say: "Grandma, it's just a tube top. RELAX!" You can say, "No comment." Later, when you have more privacy, you can casually bring it up again, but NOT after 20 minutes of staring. Just say: "Is that how teenagers dress today?" When she answers that it is, just tell her, "Oh." Her next move will probably be to ask, "What's wrong with it?" Just tell her the truth. If she doesn't seem annoyed, make a quick statement: "Just asking." Your dilemma should be somewhat fixed.;
, When she struts in, she's on her cell phone. She nods to you, then yells to some boy down the block: "What the F---!" and she's off on a string of words and references you don't approve of. You're shocked. When she's finished talking on her cell phone, tell her: "I don't like profanity, and you need to learn to watch your language."

, At dinner, she again gets out her cell phone and begins frantically texting someone. She just won't put the phone down! Why are teens so obsessed with technology? You need to remind her: "This is not the time to use your cell phone. It's time to eat your dinner." Hopefully, she'll listen.
 Your first impression might be to go over to her, grab her hand and shove it down by her side, bring her into a corner and yell at her relentlessly. DON'T! Go over and say, "Excuse me! That was disrespectful!" Hopefully, she'll understand and stop.
, As the passenger in the front seat, She's got complete control of the stereo. What are you to do when she hooks up to the iPod ready vehicle and scrolls through her playlists until, some song comes on from the top of the charts. You heard it on the radio the other night, and shook your head disapprovingly as the "family-friendly" edit was played because it was obvious what was missing. You still hope she's been listening to the edit anyway. Although you're best advised to bring earplugs, you can still say: "Come on, you have to have another song on that thing! I'd rather listen to something else!"

, Just say, "I can't believe you're watching that! I'd rather not. Is there anything else?"

, They're much different than they were years ago.
 Don't be surprised if she likes magazines you don't like.
