 They can help you deal with the homophobic bullying by making the bully stop, protecting you, and giving you advice. If the bullying involves any type of physical contact or threats of harm or violence, you should immediately tell an adult like your parents, teachers, coach, or religious leader.You could say, “I need to talk to you about something that’s been going on. Someone has been bullying me because I’m a lesbian.”
Give them details like when it started, how long it’s been going on, who is doing, and exactly what they are doing.
You can still tell an adult, even if you haven’t come out yet.You can tell them, “I’m a victim of bullying” without confirming or denying your sexual orientation.
 You shouldn’t have to go through this alone and you don’t have to. Tell someone close to you what’s going on. They can help you deal with the homophobic bullying and the effects it may be having on you.Talk to your friends about how you feel about the bullying. Don’t be afraid to tell them when you are feeling depressed, anxious, or scared. That’s what friends are for.
Your friends can help figure out ways to deal with the bullying and even help stand up for you.
Don’t be embarrassed to tell your friends that you are being bullied because of your sexual orientation, even if you haven’t come out to them.
If they know don’t know about your sexuality, you might just say, “Hey, guys, there’s a group of kids that harass me after-school.”
You can tell your friend, “I want to talk to you about someone bothering me” if you don’t want to out yourself to your friend yet.
 This will help you deal with what’s going on because bullies usually wait until you’re alone to bother you. Not only can hanging around people that care about you help you feel good about yourself, but they can also help keep you safe from the bully, if necessary.Avoid being around the bully by yourself. Ask a friend (or three) to go with you when you’re going places that the bully will be.
Spend time with friends doing things that make you feel good about yourself like volunteering or taking a class.
 Sometimes the effects of homophobic bullying can be extremely bad. You may experience depression, anxiety, or even suicidal thoughts. Talking to a professional like a therapist, counselor, doctor, psychologist, or religious leader can help you deal with the bullying and it’s effects on you.A therapist or counselor can teach you effective coping methods and relaxation techniques to help with the stress of being bullied.
They can also help you deal with any negative feelings or lowered self-esteem you are experiencing. This is especially important if you haven’t come out yet.
They will not try to make you be straight (or gay), but they can help you with any feelings or difficulties you are having about your sexuality.
You can ask your physician, school counselor, human resource department at work, or a trusted friend for a referral to a good counselor, therapist, etc.

