 Find a time when your mom is not busy or distracted, and ask her if you can have a serious conversation with her to get some advice. When you start this conversation, you should both express your gratitude to her for being your mother while asserting your own desire to be a good mother yourself.


You can say something like, “Mom, I was hoping we could talk about the types of expectations and rules that are placed on me. I want to be a good mother, but I find that difficult when I am still being treated like a child. What do you think we could do to improve the situation?”

, Let your mother know what the problem is so that you can both work towards finding a solution. In doing this, avoid blaming your mother, but do emphasize your need for more space and freedom within the home.


If you do not want your mother interfering with your parenting as often, you can say, “I know you raised children yourself and that you are giving me advice, but I need to be able to parent my own child in my own way.”
Emphasize to her how much you have matured since having a child. You can say, “I know I’m young, but I’ve had to grow up quite a bit. I need more space if I’m going to grow any more as a person.”
You can also emphasize how important it is for you to protect your child and do right by them. This may help her to feel more comfortable and let go of control because she will know that your child is safe.
If you are 18 or older, you can say, “I am a legal adult now, and I’m a parent. It is not reasonable to confine me to the house or to micromanage my day.”

, “I” statements are sentences that express your situation by using “I” instead of “you.” These allow you to state how a problem makes you feel without blaming the other person. These statements can help you have a serious conversation with your mother without her becoming defensive.Start sentences with phrases like "I feel," "I think," or "I believe" to avoid starting conflict.
For example, instead of saying, “you’re controlling my life and making me do everything,” you can say, “Right now, I am expected to cook, clean, and run errands while finishing my education, working at a job, and taking care of a young child. I feel stressed constantly, and I can't balance everything. Can you help me figure this out?”

, Your mother may try to exert control over you by establishing how she contributes financially to your life or how much she helps out with the baby. You should make it clear that while you appreciate her doing these things, you need space and freedom.


Thank her for what she does, but assert that her assistance does not give her control over your life. For example, you can say, “I am very grateful for your help, but I still need to make my own decisions in life.”
Let her know that you are happy to continue doing major things like going to school, but more minor things should be left up to your discretion.
 Try to find common goals and actions that both you and your mother agree on before working out a plan that both of you can achieve together. You may need to compromise on some points.Both you and your mother probably agree that your child needs to be raised in a loving, harmonious home. You might want to start with this point, and see how you both can work towards creating a peaceful environment for your child.
If you feel as though you cannot handle your responsibilities around the house, see if you and your mother can agree on a new set of responsibilities. For example, perhaps you will only be responsible for washing the laundry for you and your child instead of the entire household’s.
You may want to ask for an hour or two a day that you cannot be bothered. For example, you might state that you need at least an hour after school to finish your homework. During this time, your mom may not disturb you.
 Such conversations can quickly become heated. Yelling, blaming, and insulting your mother will not achieve anything; it may only worsen your relationship. As you speak to your mother, use a calm, even tone. Take pauses if you’re worried that you will start to get upset.Try taking a deep breath before you respond to your mother to help you calm yourself down. You can also count to five or ten to give yourself a little more time.
Bring a stress ball to the conversation, which you can discreetly squeeze as you talk. This can may help you divert your anxious energy.
You may also want to rehearse or even write down what you want to say ahead of time to help you if you start to get nervous.

