 Your internal monologue informs how you think about yourself. If you’re constantly telling yourself that you’re weak, you’ll feel badly about yourself. If you learn to tell yourself that you’re a tough and worthwhile person, pretty soon you’ll start to feel that way.Notice your internal monologue. If you start feeling sad or weak, listen to the thoughts going through your head.
If the thoughts are negative, for example, “I’m such a loser,” interrupt those thoughts and substitute positive self-talk. For example, replace “I’m such a loser” with “I’ve dealt with hard things before and I know I can deal with this, because I’m tough.”;
, Tough people don’t need others to tell them what to do. Learning to say no—whether it’s to bullies or to activities that you don’t want to engage in—will let others know that you’re tough and self-assured.Start by saying no when people hassle you. If someone bullies you, don’t laugh it off and pretend you don’t care. Instead, make it clear that you don’t like being bullied and you won’t tolerate it. If someone pushes you, say, “Did I say you could touch me?”
Don’t give into peer pressure. If you want to look tough, you need to stand up for yourself when you don’t agree with your friends. If your friends are going to a party but you don’t feel up to it, say, “I hope you guys have fun but I’m going to stay in tonight. I’ll come next time.”

, Part of acting tough is not letting others know that they’re getting to you. If you present a tough exterior people even when you’re afraid, people will come to respect you.


Presenting a tough exterior doesn’t mean you should ignore your feelings. It’s important to have a friend, family member, of counselor with whom you can express yourself freely.
 If people see you standing up for others, they’ll know you’re not afraid to stand your ground. Standing up for others shows that you have a strong sense of right and wrong and won’t take abuse.If you see someone getting bullied or teased, step in and tell the bullies to stop. If the bullies says it’s none of your business, say, “I’m making it my business.”

