 Most casinos always "stand" on 17 and greater. Some will "hit" a "soft 17" (any 6 and an ace). Some casinos (though rarely) require an "ante" like in poker (play in those casinos favors the house as much as 20%). You'll quickly gather your casino's rules when you sit down to play.









Casinos have varying rules on insurance, splitting, and doubling down when it comes to how and when you can do it. Your dealer will surely let you know it if comes to this. For example, some casinos won't let you split a third Ace; for surrendering, some abide by early or late surrender only., All of the extra actions favor the house when used incorrectly -- it wouldn't be a casino game if the opposite were true!









When making an insurance bet, you are betting that the dealer's hole card is a 10, Jack, Queen or King. There are 13 potential ranks of cards in the deck. You have less than a 1 and 3 chance of it paying. The best time to make an insurance bet is when the count is (whatever you found it to be.) If the dealer turns out to have a blackjack, you will have a "push" (tie) with the dealer; your insurance bet will pay 2-1 which pays better than the original bet of 3-2!
When doubling down, you only get one card. You may not like the hand you end up with. In fact, that is what the casino is counting on! Never double down if the dealer is an ace or a face card (unless you have 11).
Splitting can turn an excellent hand into a terrible one, and vice versa. Here are some rules of thumb: Never split 5's -- your total is 10; you are likely to end strong. Always split 8's and Aces. Splitting 8's will change probable losers to probable winners. Splitting Aces is advantageous, but understand this: You are only allowed to split Aces once (sometimes), and you can only take one card for each new hand (sometimes.) Some casinos did this because splitting Aces, without any restriction, is a great advantage.
Once you have "surrendered" your hand, the dealer's actions are unimportant (to you). If the dealer's hand goes sour, you have already given up.
 You're not literally counting the value of all the cards. What some players do (when they're really good) is count the "value" of the deck, or, more specifically, how many aces and tens are left to be played (or this and that.) If lots are still to be seen, they up their bets, knowing the likelihood of them getting a good hand is better.









Casinos have caught onto this however, and most now use multiple decks in the shoe or cut the deck or both. With six decks in play and more cards taken out, it's not likely with low penetration to track the number of good cards in the deck.

Because of this, card counting will not be outlined here. Refer to wikiHow's card counting page if you're interested in the details.



