 To help your husband relieve any stress or tension, offer to give your husband a nice, relaxing massage. Use soothing body oil or lotion and work on any tight spots on his back or other parts of his body. This will allow you to spend quality time together and help make his day better.


If you know your husband tends to hold tension in certain areas of his body, like his neck or lower back, you should try to really massage them out using warm body oil and a good grip. You may want to watch massage instruction videos online to perfect your technique.
Alternatively, you could also surprise your husband with a couples massage date or a solo massage from a professional masseuse just for him. This will give him a chance to relax and de stress in the hands of a professional.
 To really make your husband’s day, plan a surprise date at his favorite restaurant or locale, or present him with a gift you know he will love. This could be a small gift you know he has been wanting for himself or a bigger gift that you have been saving months for.Planning a surprise date with just the two of you will allow you both to spend quality time together and create new memories together. This will also ensure you are an active participant in making your husband’s day better and happier.
You can also give him a small surprise like bringing him his favorite lunch on his lunch break or a treat he loves to give him energy for the rest of the day. Even a small surprise can brighten his day and let him know you are thinking of him.
 Sometimes, your partner just needs alone time to focus on a favorite activity, hobby, or passion. Encourage him to embrace at least an hour of alone time a day where he can watch his favorite sports team, do some wood work, or read a book. Though you will not be doing something together, giving him the support he needs to do his own thing will show you want him to be happy and respect his desire to focus on a personal project or passion.It can also help if you both take an hour of alone time to focus on your own needs. You may both work in different rooms or areas or sit side by side and do a hobby or passion separately. Do this will show you can both coexist well together and are comfortable working apart in the same space.
 If your husband seems overwhelmed or stressed, offer to lend a hand so he has less on his plate or one less item on his to-do list. He will likely be very appreciative of your offer and thrilled to have someone he can lean on in a time of need.This may be a household chore like mowing the lawn or taking out the trash. If your husband has to work late or work overtime, you can offer to do these chores for him so he can come home and relax.
If you have children who are old enough and able to help with chores, enlist their help and support and tackle several of your husband’s to-do items together. You will likely get more done if it is a group effort.
 Show your husband you care about his needs by letting him spend quality time with his friends. Let him host a weekly poker night at home or suggest he go out with friends to watch the game at a bar. This will show you are supportive of his interests and are okay with him spending time with friends.Avoid nagging or hassling him about his time spent with friends, especially if he tends to spend lots of time with you at home. Encouraging him to socialize with others, without you, will show that you trust him and want him to have a well rounded social life.

