 With nearly '1 billion' subscribers to Facebook, your chances of finding somebody who is still with us is pretty good—and a little harder than going the Google route.


Start by searching for their name. This time, let's search for John Smith. In the search field, type in John Smith, and immediately a menu will populate with the top results.

Facebook is clever enough to highlight people in your location, and whether or not you friends in common. But we know John Smith doesn't live here, so we need to expand our search a bit. Either click on the magnifying glass on the right of the search field, or at the bottom of the menu, select "See more results for John Smith." This takes you to a more comprehensive search page.
 If the generic search didn't do it, dig a little deeper. From here on our quest for John, we can narrow things down considerably using the sites tools on the left side of the screen. Clicking on the Pages filter, we find the John Smith we're looking for — it appears he has a band and lives in England.
 On occasion, the person you are searching for will be unlisted. In this case, you can go to a public records information site, and pay for the information you want. A good example is Intelius.Professional sites will usually offer one-time fees for either simple contact information or a background report—ideal if you are searching for history on a potential employee or business associate.
The price and quality of people search services can vary greatly. U.S. Search and Intellius are the top rated services, but as with any online services, your experience may vary depending on what and who you are looking for. Check the tips for ways to narrow down the choices.
 You know that one book that used to come to your doorstep or that you could get at the supermarket that was white and yellow and full of really tiny type? The one with all the information on your neighbors and local shops? That's a phone book. Now it can be found online!


Whitepages.comhas a plethora of search tools. You can do reverse phone and reverse address searches, too. If you fill in the most basic of information, they'll give you everything they know.

