 If you break your jaw, get medical care as soon as you can. It is best to have your jaw examined at a large hospital so you have access to surgeons and specialists. The doctor will conduct a physical exam and possibly order X-rays.Your doctor will want to rule out other injuries as well, such as damage to the cervical spine.Because your jaw is broken, your tongue has lost support and you may have trouble breathing. If you are having any trouble breathing, call 911 immediately.
Take along a plastic cup while you are in transit. This will be what you can spit saliva or blood into while you are on your way to see a professional.
The doctor may also order a CT scan to evaluate your jaw.
 A broken jaw may heal on its own or it may require surgery. If you have surgery, a doctor will wire your jaw to hold the jaw in place and allow the bones to heal. In some cases, screws and plates will be placed in your bones to heal your jaw.If you have surgery, it may take one or two months to heal.
 If your fracture is less severe, you will not need surgery. Your doctor may recommend eating a soft diet for 3 weeks and prescribe you pain medicine.These fractures will heal on their own.If your jaw was dislocated, the doctor will place it back into the correct position and bandage your jaw to stabilize it. You should avoid opening your mouth widely for at least 6 weeks if the doctor had to reset your jaw.
If you feel pain when you yawn or sneeze, support your jaw with your hands.
 If your doctor thinks there is a high risk for an infection, antibiotics will be prescribed.Follow your doctor's instructions for taking your antibiotics. Even if you feel better, continue to take the full course of your medicine.Let your doctor know of any other medications you are taking. This can prevent any adverse drug reactions.
 Your doctor may give you a prescription pain medicine or advise you to take an over-the-counter pain medicine. Take the pain medicine as directed. If your do not get any relief from your pain medicine, contact your doctor. There may be an underlying issue that needs to be addressed.Increased pain or swelling may indicate that you have an infection.

