 Birth control pills may cause lupus to flare up as well as raise the risk of developing lupus.Talk with your doctor about birth control alternatives if you are sexually active.
 Over time, you may come to recognize that a certain symptom, such as unusual fatigue or a rash, is associated with flares in your case. Once you recognize the signals of a coming flare, you can act beforehand to reduce its severity. For instance, if your signal of a flare is fatigue, make sure to get extra rest as soon as you begin to feel tired, as this may lessen the flare.
 If you have an infection of any sort, your chances of having a lupus flare increase. This is because viral or bacterial infections attack the immune system; this attack can trigger the flare.


Maintain your personal hygiene.
Wash your hands frequently in order to prevent the spread of microorganisms that could potentially cause infection. You should make sure to use water and soap when you wash your hands. If no water or soap is available, antibacterial gel such as hand sanitizer will do in a pinch.
Maintain a clean environment. While keeping yourself clean is important, keeping your environment bacteria free is also important to keep your immune system from being triggered. Clean all of the surfaces of your house with antibacterial cleaning supplies, vacuum or air carpets often, and wash your sheets and towels regularly.
Stay up to date on flu and pneumonia vaccines., Following a healthy diet may help to prevent future flare ups. Eat lots of whole foods, such as fruits, vegetables, and lean protein. Try to minimize salt, fat, and animal protein. Avoid milk, dairy products, and red meat as well. Also stay away from caffeine, citrus fruits, paprika, salt, tobacco, and sugar as well.
 Physical stress from overworking and lack of rest can worsen the symptoms of lupus and cause a flare. Regular moderate exercise, however, can help reduce flare-ups and symptoms. Try to keep your activity levels and resting time balanced., Emotional stress is often caused by being confronted with a situation that you don’t necessarily know how to remedy, including long-term illnesses like lupus. Since avoiding stress is one way to reduce lupus flares, finding emotional support is important.Talk to a trusted family member or friend. Expressing how you are feeling can help to alleviate stress you feel. Your confidant may also be able to give you valuable insight.
Talk to a therapist who can give you professional tips on how to work through the situation that is causing you stress.
Ask your physician for information about support groups made of other people with lupus.
 Always talk to your doctor before starting or stopping a medication, including herbal medicines and supplements. Talk to a lupus specialist about the drugs that may cause your condition to get worse. Drugs that are commonly known to cause lupus flares include:


Antibiotics that contain sulfonamides
Some herbal drugs like echinacea
High-dose birth control pills
Penicillin

