 Like humans, cats can get a variety of upper respiratory infections that cause symptoms like wheezing, coughing, and a runny nose. Rest, a good diet, and plenty of fluids are generally recommended as treatment. A vet can also examine your cat to determine if any medications will help your cat recover.If your cat is suffering from cat flu or an upper respiratory infection, you can wipe away any discharge from its nose or eyes using warm salt water (a teaspoon of salt mixed into a pint of clean water)., Cats can suffer from multiple types of diabetes. Depending upon the severity of the condition at the time of diagnosis, your cat may need to be hospitalized. Oral medications and insulin treatment are commonly recommended to care for a cat with diabetes. Glucose tests may also be required, and a vet can show you how to administer these at home.Talk to a vet about testing your cat for feline diabetes if it has a noticeable change in appetite (it eats more or less than previously), drinks lots of water, urinates frequently, has breath that smells sweet, or is lethargic.
 Ringworm is a fungus that can cause hair loss and red rings on a cat’s skin. If you see or suspect these symptoms, contact a vet immediately. Medications, bathing, and special shampoos can help your cat recover. Take care when handling a cat with ringworm, since the infection can pass to humans.
 The heartworm parasite is transmitted by mosquitos. Once a cat is infected, symptoms such as coughing, wheezing, and loss of appetite can occur. There are no approved medications in the US for treating feline heartworm infection, although there are some that can prevent it. If your cat develops a heartworm infection, it may be able to fight it off on its own, but a vet can prescribe medications to treat symptoms like coughing and vomiting.Though some cats can beat a heartworm infection on their own, others can suffer heart and lung problems, kidney or liver damage, and even sudden death.
 Various roundworms, hookworms, tapeworms, and other parasites can infect cats, particularly those that spend time outside. They can cause a variety of symptoms and problems, including trouble breathing, anemia, and weight loss. Take your cat to a vet if you see unusual symptoms or suspect that it has a parasite. He or she can prescribe the appropriate medication or treatment.Some worms or parts of them may be visible on or near your cat’s anus.
Keep your yard and home clear of cat feces, since many worms are transmitted by contact with it.
Wear gloves and take care when handling a cat that you suspect has a parasite (or the cat’s feces), since it can pass to humans in some cases.
Only give your cat deworming medication that is approved by your vet. The wrong medication (or one intended for dogs or other animals) may harm your cat.
 FIV is a viral infection that a cat may have for some time before the problem is diagnosed. The virus can cause a variety of symptoms. There is currently no specific treatment for FIV, but a vet can prescribe medications to treat symptoms or secondary infections, as well as make dietary recommendations to improve your cat’s quality of life.Common signs of FIV include: weight loss, diarrhea, loss of appetite, inflamed eyes, poor coat quality (patches of missing hair, reddened skin, etc.), sneezing, or discharge from the eyes or nose.
FIV can be transmitted from cat to cat, but not from a cat to a human.
 FeLV can cause problems with your cat’s immune system, as well as a variety of symptoms. There is no cure for FeLV, but a vet can make recommendations regarding the best diet for your cat. Diets for cats should be free of raw meat, eggs, unpasteurized dairy products, and other foods that could cause infections. Rest and quiet can also make your cat more comfortable.Some cats infected with FeLV may show no symptoms. Others may have symptoms including a poor appetite, diarrhea, vomiting, gum problems, and respiratory issues.
Like FIV, FeLV is contagious only between cats, not between cats and humans. Keeping your cat away from other felines can help reduce the spread of the disease.
 Cancer can have a variety of causes in cats, as in humans. Your cat’s vet can talk with you about treatment plans, which may involve chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. In some cases, pain relief (palliative care) is chosen for the sake of the cat’s quality of life., Rabies is typically caused by a bite from an infected animal, and cause aggressive or erratic behavior, seizures, and paralysis. Unfortunately, rabies is almost always fatal. If you suspect that your cat is infected with rabies, contact a vet immediately. Use extreme care when handling the animal, since the disease can pass to humans as well.If your cat is up-to-date on its rabies vaccinations, it can be given a booster immediately and closely monitored to determine if it will recover.

