 Your core muscles are designed to support and stabilize your spine. Keeping your core active while you go about your daily activities will improve your posture and can help decrease back pain.Focus on breathing deeply, from the bottom of your belly, and keep your abdomen open. Remember that the muscles engaged in deep breathing are part of your deep core.
Many people over-arch their back, which can lead to back pain and other problems.Weak abdominal muscles can lead to this kind of posture problem. Keeping the abs toned is one of the best ways to help combat this issue.
When you allow your abs to control your posture, you may have less back pain and your abs are being engaged every minute you're awake.
 Walking is a good, low-impact exercise that can also decrease your belly fat – essential if you eventually want to build those washboard abs. Walk with good posture, keeping your back neutral and engaging your core.If you're just starting a walking regimen, start slow with shorter, 10-minute walks and work your way up gradually to 30 minutes a day.
Use varying intensity to pace yourself for optimal fat-burning and to work out your core. For the first few minutes and the last few minutes of your walk, you want to walk more slowly to warm up and cool down – generally at a pace slow and light enough that you could sing.
For the bulk of your walk, you need to be at a brisk or moderate pace. You should just be able to carry on a conversation at this pace.
You also want to include at least one interval of power walking – a pace at which you're still capable of talking, but it's more difficult than at your brisk pace.
For example, you might walk at a slower pace for five minutes, then at a brisk pace for 10 minutes, then power walk for five minutes, then walk at a brisk pace ten minutes, then cool down with a slower pace for five minutes. That would be a 35-minute walk.
 Particularly during the brisk portions of your walk, you can add arm movements that intensify your workout as well as target your abs. When you move both your upper and lower body, your core has to do a lot more work maintaining balance.Most of these movements are extremely simple. For example, you can reach your arms out in front of you at shoulder level as though you're punching. Alternate arms in opposition to your legs. You can do the same motion by raising your arms over your head as though you are punching the sky.
You also can make movements that mimic bicep curls or weight presses.
 There are a number of cardio ab exercises that you can do with a hope or ring. Buy or make a hoop or ring (you can even use a square shape) that you can use as a target for your jumps.Put your ring or square on the ground and stand to the left of it. Step your right foot into the ring, raising your knee high up to your chest. Follow with your left foot inside the ring, also raising your knee high.
Continue the same motion to step out of the ring on the other side, and then step back into the ring with your left foot, then your right, continuing to press your knees high up to your chest.
Try to do this exercise as fast as you can while still maintaining accuracy and good form. Keep your back neutral and avoid bending over. Do the exercise for 30 seconds, then rest for 10 seconds. You may want to continue doing it for several minutes following this rotation.

