 The contract should start out by naming the non-profit organization and the people or group of people being sponsored.


This section also should explain the relationship of the people in charge of the project, if there is a group. For example, if they are a group affiliated with a particular professional association, the contract should state this up front.
Typically fiscal sponsorship agreements are made between an established, well-known non-profit organization and a small, grassroots project of limited duration.
Make sure that the sponsor's tax status is identified up-front, if appropriate. For example, if the sponsor has 501(c)(3) status and is exempt from federal taxation, this should be mentioned prominently at the beginning of the agreement.
 Both the non-profit and the project's organizers should have a common understanding of what the project is trying to achieve, how these goals align with the non-profit's overall mission, and how the non-profit's sponsorship will assist the project in achieving its goals.


If the sponsor is willing to receive tax-deductible donations on behalf of the project, this should also be mentioned in the agreement. Spell out specifically the means by which the sponsor will accept and hold those funds.
Typically the sponsor is reimbursed for its costs through donations made to the project. This should be stated in the contract, along with the agreed-upon percentage of donations that will be used to meet those costs.
 Typically, fiscal sponsors provide administrative support for a smaller project and its organizers.


The accounts the sponsor is required to maintain should be listed specifically, along with any other activities or accounts the sponsor is expected to supervise.
If the project is to be deemed a project of the sponsor for the duration of the agreement, state this explicitly. List any other rights the sponsor has as a result of this role, such as the right to open new accounts or hire employees to work on the project.
Carefully delineate whether the sponsor or the project organizers have final responsibility for the accounting of the project, and which party must keep records.
Because some large organizations basically will take over your project, if you are a project organizer you must ensure you still have some measure of control over the project's basic operations.
 In this portion of the agreement, you want to spell out specifically whether the organizers can continue to fundraise or add new events to the project, and how those activities will be processed and accounted for.


If the project's organizers are responsible for any administrative tasks related to the project, list them specifically as exempted from the sponsor's responsibility.
 If the project's organizers have the right to use the non-profit's name and logos, that use should be defined specifically in the contract.


If necessary, attach images or examples of the logo as exhibits.
 Warrant the services provided within the context of the sponsorship relationship, and indemnify against any losses or claims that arise as a result of your actions. These clauses should go both ways.If the sponsor agrees to provide any liability or indemnity insurance for the project, include a clause to that effect that describes the limits of that insurance.
 Miscellaneous clauses, also known as "boilerplate," are provisions that are needed in nearly every contract, but aren't necessarily specific to the contract at hand.
 Representatives from both the non-profit organization and the business must sign the agreement before it is legally binding.

