 This bean bag looks a little more finished than the no sew sock bean bag, but it also requires a little more equipment. The key here is hot glue and felt, which, when stuffed properly, can look professionally made. For this project, you'll need:


Felt
Hot glue gun (and glue)
Plastic baggie(s) (re-sealable)
Scissors
Stuffing (like beans, rice, popcorn kernels, etc.)
Tape, For most medium sized plastic baggies you can expect ½ cup of stuffing per baggie to be sufficient. Each baggie with stuffing will form a core around which you'll glue your felt. After you add your stuffing, seal your plastic baggie and:


Fold the baggie so it is in the shape of a square. The square should be moderately sized, so the beans aren't too far spread out, but aren't packed close together either.
Use tape to fasten loose flaps of your baggie until it holds the shape of a square. To prevent leaks, you might also want to reinforce the seal with tape.
More or less filling can be added to the baggie to create different sized bean bags., Now that your cores are made, you can use these to measure and cut your felt. Each core should have at least two pieces of felt that are an inch longer than it in all directions.


Don't worry if you don't cut your felt perfectly. Once the felt is glued together and dried, you can trim edges to even them up.
Depending on the amount of filling, you may need more than an inch of felt in all directions, though in most cases, an inch should be enough., Plug in your hot glue gun and insert a stick of glue. Allow the glue to warm for a few minutes, then use it to join each pair of felt at three seams, leaving one side open.


In most cases you can create a firm bond by gluing your felt together ½" (1.27 cm) from its outside edges., Take your bean bag core and slide it into the felt pocket created by your two felt pieces glued together at three seams. Once the core is inside the felt, use the hot glue gun to glue the final seam closed.


Much like the other seams, gluing your felt together ½" (1.27 cm) from its outside edges will create a sturdy bean bag.
Continue in this fashion until you either run out of bean bag making supplies or stockpile an adequate amount of bean bags.