 Measure the available space, as well as the preferred space. This will let you know how much wiggle room you have if you find a table that you love, but is outside of your preferred dimensions. Having measurements beforehand will also help you avoid the frustration of having to return an item.To play around with sizing and shapes, place painter’s tape in various configurations and decide which ones you like best.;
, A good rule of thumb is to align your coffee table with the height of the couches or chairs surrounding it to avoid awkward bumping or falling. Although this rule is not hard and fast, it is a good basis to work from.Some people have found that a coffee table surface 2 inches lower than the top of the couch or chair is better for placing food and drinks on.
 Determine whether or not your room has a specific color scheme that a coffee table will need to fall into. If you have all natural colors, for instance, a bubblegum-pink table may be too jarring for the space.Although playing with color is certainly allowed, make sure you do not create a room with no cohesive color scheme, as this can make the room feel disjointed and chaotic.
 If you have a coffee table you are replacing, take a glance at what it is currently housing. Is it used to store books? Is it used as a second dining table, perhaps? Is it a catch-all for junk? Whatever the case may be, identifying what you use (or will use) your table for and how much traffic it receives on a daily basis will help you choose the correct one., If you have an existing table, identify any of its problems, and write them down. This way, when you are searching for a replacement, you’ll know what traits to avoid. If you are getting a table, not replacing one, identify what the space needs, whether that is a piece to tie the room together, or a footrest for your seating area.If your current tabletop is perpetually covered in items, you might want to invest in a coffee table with storage space.
Use your table for a few days and make a note of any irritating things you discover, such as the table being too far away to comfortably place drinks, or being low enough for children to climb on top.
 Some coffee tables come with built-in storage, such as drawers, shelves, baskets, or storage underneath the tabletop. Determine what type of storage you require, if any, and make your selection based on those needs.Storage-filled coffee tables are often great for families, as they can house art supplies and toys, keeping a room neat and tidy.
 Some materials are more high-maintenance than others. If you clean your home on a daily basis, a glass coffee table might work out well for you. If you are more of a once-monthly kind of cleaner, a sturdier material such as wood might be a better bet. If you abhor cleaning, an upholstered coffee table may be the one for you., If you have children or a lot of pets (particularly cats), you’re going to want to get a durable table made with solid wood or metal, possibly in a curved shape to avoid dangerous edges. Other materials may become broken or marred easily. Conversely, if you live alone or live with only a partner, you can shell out for more complex or delicate tables.Although you can purchase a table that does not typically suit your lifestyle, you may need to clean, repair, or replace it often.
 What colors, shapes, and lines are you usually drawn to? If you like smooth, clean lines, a simple rectangle will likely do the job best. If you are a fan of more natural edges, a slab of unfinished wood atop some simple metal feet may complete your space. Draw inspiration from the furnishings immediately surrounding the table.Don’t be afraid to play with color and texture. Although a single item of differently-colored furniture might look odd, you can find ways to tie pieces of furniture together to make them fit the room well.

