 Social isolation is often a symptom of late-life anxiety. However, taking measures to ensure that an elderly person is engaged in social activities can counter anxiety and increase their life satisfaction. Retiring from work, losing loved ones to death, and having family members move away all reduce an elderly person’s social connectedness. Increase your loved one's social capital by:


Encouraging them to talk to a trusted friend or loved one. Confiding in a close friend, sibling, counselor, or spiritual advisor can increase an elderly person’s sense of connection and serve as an outlet for stress and anxiety.
Suggesting a move to a community for seniors.Living nearby to others who are aging and in a community where elders have assistance and support can lead to greater life satisfaction.
Helping them find a place to volunteer. Whether it’s reading to kids at a local daycare or planting a community garden, volunteering can produce a host of positive benefits.Helping them join a club or organization dedicated to a hobby. Doing something that they love and improve fulfillment in elderly populations. Doing it in a group setting increases connection and contentment.
Recommending a class. It’s never too late to learn something new. Learning a new skill in a group setting, such as pottery, can help an elderly person feel purposeful and lead to friendships.
 Making an effort to preserve health in later years can reduce anxiety indicators and improve well-being. Even if an elderly person already has a chronic medical condition, it is still essential that they follow the basic principles of healthy living. Your loved one should maintain a healthy diet, get regular exercise, strive for 7 to 9 hours (or more) of sleep each night, and take supplements and medications as prescribed by a doctor.Ensure that your loved one consumes a diet of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Encourage them to drink plenty of water. They should also take medications on time and take any supplements that may help with their medical conditions.
Suggest that the whole family get active. Go with your loved one to a group fitness class at the gym. Go for a swim. Strive to include your loved one in any physical activities that match their physical abilities.
Help your loved one create a healthy sleep routine. This should allow them to go to sleep and rise at the same times each day. Suggest winding-down activities to help them go to sleep like taking a warm bath, reading a book, knitting, or listening to music.
 If an elderly person is smoking or consuming alcohol, now is the time to stop. Not only do these habits increase risk of cancer, organ damage, or disease, but they also may exacerbate anxiety. It is never too late to quit these unhealthy habits, and potentially enrich an elderly person’s later years.


Quitting smoking lowers risk of heart attack and improves lung function in older adults—as soon as 2 week to 3 months after cessation.Drinking alcohol with certain medications can increase risk of stomach or intestinal bleeding as well as living damage. What’s more, drinking alcohol with anxiety or anti-depressant medications, sleeping pills, or pain pills can be life-threatening.
 Counteract the desire to smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol by developing a personal self-care plan. Create a multi-faceted toolbox of strategies an elderly person can use to fight stress and relieve anxiety and worry. Self-care strategies can lead to greater physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health and well-being.Practices to consider may be taking medicines and supplements, eating fruits and vegetables, walking around the neighborhood, meditating, going shopping, reading a good book, or watching a funny movie. Sit down with your elderly loved one and come up with a list of strategies he or she can turn to regularly to minimize anxiety.

