 If you are being abused, then seek help right away. Talk to a teacher, your doctor, a counselor, or call the police or children’s services and ask for help. Chronic abuse gets harder to recover from the longer it goes on. Don’t allow abusive people, even family, to cause you permanent physical or emotional damage. Get away from them as soon as possible.


Call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at (800) 799-SAFE to talk about your situation and options.
Don't hesitate to dial 911 if you think you or another family member is in immediate danger.You aren’t going to get in trouble for reporting that someone else is breaking the law!

, If you are able to break ties with your abusive parent, do so. It is hard to give up on anyone you care about, especially family, but your primary responsibility is to take care of yourself. Don’t feel guilty for severing contact with your parent(s) if you feel it’s the best thing for you.


If you are not sure cutting off all contact is necessary, consider the amount of pain they cause you vs. the amount of happiness. Dysfunctional parents may show love sometimes, typically when it serves their own interests, but a little love now and then isn’t enough to justify staying in a bad relationship with anyone., You might think avoiding relationships altogether will prevent you from getting hurt any more or by anyone else, but human beings need social relationships to thrive. Children who grow up without a loving parent or an alternative parental figure are less successful, less happy, and physically sicker as adults.Keep talking to your friends and other family members regularly, go spend time with them whenever possible, and be open to meeting new friends and trustworthy adults.


Not every adult or loved one will end up treating you like your parent does. Don’t be afraid to give others a chance to love you.
Long-term loneliness can have serious health effects, worsening or even maybe causing diseases like diabetes, heart disease, and neurological disorders. It may even cause cancer to spread faster., If your dysfunctional parents aren’t teaching you how to make it on your own after high school, ask another adult you trust how to prepare for the "real world."


Learn this like how to create a budget, how to do laundry, how to turn on the water heater in your first apartment.
Estimate the costs of independent living and what you will need to get started. Get a job and save up money for a security deposit on your first apartment and some furniture.
Maintain good grades despite trouble at home so you have the option of going to college. Ask your school counselor to help you find scholarships to pay for it.

