 LA is a huge city. Especially in a city as large as Los Angeles, your apartment’s proximity to your work or school needs to be taken into consideration. Assessing the amount of time you will regularly sit in traffic on your daily commute to and from work or school (or wherever you plan to go regularly) should be calculated. A good way of determining if a location is good for you is by doing a “trial run”, by simulating your commute. Drive from your prospective apartment to work as you would as if you had already moved in.


Make sure to simulate the situation as realistically as possible; driving at 8:45 AM is a completely different scenario than driving two hours later. This test-drive will give you a realistic idea of what your daily commute will be like, and how bearable or unbearable it will be. Everyone puts a different value on their time.
For some, it may make more sense to live closer to work, at the expense of higher monthly rent. For others, it is sensible to have a long commute and spend less money on rent every month. Paying more money for closer proximity to work, in order to avoid traffic is a clear illustration of the popular saying that “real estate is based on three things: location, location, location.”;
, Look at the common areas of the apartment building, such as the laundry area and the parking garage, and see how the apartment community members take care of their surroundings. This will show you not only about the building that you will be moving into, but also it will show you how the tenants (potentially your future neighbors) treat their homes.
 Look at your surrounding areas that are in comfortable walking distance. Check out the nearby restaurants and shops, as well as the parks and community centers in the area, to determine if you will enjoy the people and the environment in your new surrounding.
 Amenities may include gyms, pools, coffee shops, or various other service facilities. Note that amenities available to tenants are not necessarily free of charge.
 Who lives in the building? How many units are there in the complex? Do the neighboring people seem like the type you will get along with? Will their lifestyles interfere with yours? Are they child friendly? Are they pet friendly? Are they safe people to live next to? Remember that the people that you see when you look at an apartment are strangers today, but may become best friends or business partners in the future.
 You do not want to lease an apartment that has problems that your management team will not take care of.
 If you have children, choosing an area to live that is within the parameters of a good school is imperative. Consider the fact that your child will be going to school with other children in your school district.
 It is unreasonable to expect an old building to be as fit as a brand new building.
 Note that California Code of Regulations Title 25, Article 5, Section 42, dictates that if a residential building has 16 units or more, there must be an on-site manager. If the owner of the property violates this code, it speaks volumes for their respect for the law and to their tenants, which may foreshadow further violations that the owner may make in the future.
 If you have pets, you need to ensure that the apartment complex you are interested in allows your pet. Some apartment communities boast pet-friendly environments, while others do not allow pets at all. Some policies allow for only cats or dogs of certain sizes or breeds. Therefore, do not sign a lease without verifying that you are allowed to have your furry friend live with you.

