 Local advocacy organizations like the National Alliance on Mental Illness, or NAMI, provide an outlet for people with mental illness and their families to spread awareness. You can participate in community service events with the organization and even receive specialized training to lead peer support groups.Research other mental health advocacy groups in your area to find out how you can contribute.
In these organizations, you can build relationships with peers and professionals who understand your circumstances.
 If you were moved by the story of someone who battled mental illness, then you have the power to do the same. Once your symptoms are stable, it might feel empowering and cathartic to share your journey on a personal blog or by speaking to select groups locally.

Consult with your therapist about this first to ensure you are at a good point in your treatment. Your therapist may also be interested in reading or observing your testimony to examine your progress.
The more people who share their stories, the more stigma is reduced. Be brave and share yours with your family or the people in your community.
 Even if it’s not for a mental health organization, volunteering can help you feel more connected to others in your area and help you use your time and energy to serve a great cause. At the same time, doing some good for the local community can help further reduce any stigma associate with mental illness.Find a place in need that could use your services. Try local animal shelters, homeless shelters, retirement or assisted living facilities, hospitals, parks, and schools.
 A great way to lower the veil on mental illness is to be an active educator about your condition. There are tons of information out there about mental health conditions, but many people still believe age-old tales that have little if any accuracy. When you hear someone wrongly describe a condition, correct them.For instance, someone in your community takes their own life. You overhear someone claiming, “Only crazy people commit suicide.” You might respond, “Actually that’s not true. Most people who commit suicide are suffering from severe depression. They are not crazy; they just wrongly believe that suicide is the only way to stop their pain.”
Note that you may not always feel like divulging sensitive information to others. Judge how important it is for the person to have the right information first. Is it a friend, coworker, classmate, or family member who has the misconception? You might be better to start with these connections.

