 As a college student, having access to quick cash is extremely helpful. Look for part-time job opportunities that will allow you to walk away with cash in hand at the end of your shift.


Serving or tending bar in restaurants, working as a hotel or restaurant valet, delivering food (which usually requires you to have your own car and insurance), or doing street performance are good options., Hit the pavement and check out the local businesses around your area. You may be able to find part-time work that fits around your school schedule.


While you should check the classifieds regularly for posted job ads, understand that not all businesses use these, and you may have better luck if you inquire in person about possible job openings.
Be prepared with a copy of your resume and look presentable when you first go to the shop. Don't pop in on your way home from the gym! That won't leave a good impression!

, The process of finding an available job can be simplified by enlisting the help of a temp agency. They can sort through all the ads for you, and already have established relationships with local businesses.While the agency will take a portion of your wages, temp jobs tend to pay fairly well, and you can be clear about what your availability is around your class schedule.
Another advantage of working through an agency is that you can turn down work if you are having a particularly busy week or month at school.
 If you are responsible and good with children, you can often find steady work as a baby-sitter or nanny.


Research the going rates in your area; as a college student, you may be able to demand a higher rate, particularly if you are an education major (or psychology, pre-med or nursing student, have certification in CPR and/or first-aid, etc.). In some cities, you may be able to make up to $15 an hour., These businesses screen and run back-ground checks on their sitters. Many parents are more comfortable placing their children in the care of sitters who have been vetted through this process.
 You may also consider offering your services to your professors. If you are their current student, they may not feel comfortable (or be allowed to) hire you, but they may be able to recommend you to other of their friends and colleagues.
 If you are already spending time in a home taking care of children, you may be able to make some extra cash by going above and beyond.


For example, you can offer to do laundry and wash dishes for an extra fee (perhaps $10 more) on top of your regular baby-sitting rate., If baby-sitting isn't your thing, you may find fulfilling and lucrative work by tutoring or coaching elementary or high school students.


Contact the local schools to see if they have children who might benefit from your services or to see if they have part-time coaching positions available.
You may also be able to find these sorts of jobs by going to local organizations like the YMCA or YWCA.
 If you connect better with animals than people, then you may be able to find work that puts you in contact with our non-human friends, which will be good for both your mental and your financial health.


Advertise your services as a dog walker or pet sitter. You can place fliers (dog-parks and local veterinarians are great places to start) or advertise on-line, but don't overlook the importance of networking with people you know.
You may even want to think about opening a pooper-scooper business. Cleaning up Fido's business is no one's favorite chore, but armed with gloves and the proper tools, it's an easy enough job. You'll also be provided with steady work!, If you're young and strong and like to be outside, then starting a business in which you do yard work or landscaping could be right up your alley.


Be able to switch up your services as the seasons change: have access to a lawn-mower and weed-whacker in the warmer months, and switch out to warm clothes and a shovel once the cold hits.
If it snows a lot where you live, buying a snow-blower could be a solid investment. If you're an early bird, you may be able to make money by offering to scrape the ice off cars in the early hours before people have to go to work. You may be able to find several clients in your own neighborhood or at a single apartment complex.
 If you own your own car, are insured, and have a good driving record, then there are various ways you can put your car to work for you.


You may be able to find work delivering papers, driving fellow students (to the airport, to run errands or go to appointments off-campus), or you can even open up your own delivery service. For example, you can get paid to grocery shopping for those who are home-bound while you stock up for your own pantry.
If you have a truck, you probably already know that you (or rather, it) is in high demand, especially come moving in/out day on campus: offer your services as a mover—for a fee, of course!

, Do you know anyone who is planning to take a long vacation, or has your professor mentioned their plans to travel overseas on their sabbatical? If so, you may be the perfect candidate to house-sit.


This is a particularly great gig: you usually won't be asked to do much more than watch over the home, collect mail, water the plants, perform yard work as necessary, and perhaps care for pets. Beyond that, though, you'll get to live in a home that's probably far nicer than yours for a few days or even weeks.
 Let your family, friends, and professors know about your availability to house-sit. It's usually best to try to find a friend-of-a-friend (or a coworker or boss of a friend or parent, etc.)


Your immediate friends and family members may expect you to help out for free and be insulted at your request for payment., Why not perform a valuable service for others while getting paid at the same time? Depending upon whether you are giving blood or plasma, you can usually make in the range of $20-45 per “donation”.


You will need to meet certain eligibility requirements before you'll be allowed to donate, though, and there are limits to how often you can donate.
Read up on the American Red Cross's donation guidelines before you commit, or check in with the hospital or clinic where you'll be donating.