 The truth is, this isn't your battle to fight — if the person is not willing to recognize his behavior and take steps to change it, there is little you can do. It may be particularly difficult for an emotionally immature person to realize he needs to change, as a hallmark of emotional immaturity is blaming other people or circumstances for one's bad behavior.The only thing you can control is your behavior — how you react to the person, and how much time you spend with him.
 Depending on the severity of the person's immaturity and her willingness to change, you may need to cut her out of your life. If the immature person is your significant other, you may need to end the relationship if she is not willing to change. If the person is someone you can't remove from your life, such as a boss, coworker, or family member, then try to limit your contact as much as possible.


Keep your interactions as brief as possible. Excuse yourself from conversations firmly but politely, saying something like, "I'm sorry to cut this short, but I'm in the middle of a huge project and I really need to get back to it."
In a social setting, do your best to simply avoid her, talking to your other friends or relatives.
 An emotionally immature person can be manipulative and self-centered, so if you must communicate with him, try to do so clearly and assertively. Assertive does not mean aggressive — it means being clear, respectful, and stating what you need, while at the same time being respectful of other people's needs, feelings, and wants.In short, you state what you need, and let go of the outcome.


Understand that even if you maturely communicate your needs, the immature person may not respond maturely.
Learn more about being assertive by reading this wikiHow article: How To Be Assertive.
 If you think the person is open to hearing feedback, and she is someone you want to keep in your life, then you may want to try and talk to her about her behavior. Prepare yourself for her to become defensive,which may interfere with getting your message across. You might even suggest she talk to a counselor or someone who can help her learn how to communicate maturely.


Name the behavior that is immature and what effects it has on you. For instance, "I feel overwhelmed when you don't take on more responsibility in the house. Would you please help me out every week?" Then give the person specific things she can do every day to help out.
You might remind her that change can be extremely difficult, but you want to be there with her and help her grow and mature, if she's willing.

