 Damp-off or damping-off is a fungal disease that attacks seedlings. The disease attacks at the soil level of the seedling, causing it to collapse. The reality of glasshouse growing is that an almost perfect environment is created for this fungus, especially when the glasshouse is damp and seedlings are overcrowded. To reduce the chances of damp-off, ensure that the glasshouse is well ventilated and kept at a constant temperature. Water carefully, only when needed and keep away from other plants that might need more watering. Look at your soil also; you might need to replace old soil with fresh soil, or even with sterilised soil until the problem passes. It is a good idea to thin out seedlings as soon as possible, transplanting some to new trays to make enough room for all.;
, Botrytis is nice for the grapes that make sweet dessert wine but it's a killer fungal disease that can attack a wide variety of plants in a glasshouse. It looks like grey mould and turns leaves, stems and fruits black. Botrytis likes cool and damp temperatures so it is important to maintain a temperature over 13ºC in your glasshouse, as well as ensuring good ventilation. It is also important not to cram plants too closely together - allow for space between pots to ensure adequate air circulation. In order to prevent further infection, it is essential to destroy plants that have been attacked by botrytis.
 Rust usually appears on blooming plants in the form of orange-brown spots on the leaves. The rust continues to develop into brown capsules of dust-like material. In the context of a glasshouse, keep an eye out for rust on chrysanthemums, carnations and gerberas (rust is white on gerberas).
 Viral diseases in plants are as many and varied as they are in human beings. Given the many possibilities, the term "viral disease" covers a wide range of possible diseases that do not have bacterial or fungal origins. Symptoms of viral disease in glasshouse plants include blotches, yellowish mottling, streaks and distorted shapes. Plants suffering from viral attack will often be stunted. Viruses tend to be transferred from one plant to another via sap-sucking insects and poorly cleaned gardening equipment, such as pruning tools. Plants that are attacked by viral disease must be completely removed from the glasshouse environment and destroyed by burning. Clean all of your gardening tools in hot, soapy water and dry hygienically. Always keep tools cleaned between use. It is also important to attend to any insects that might be spreading the disease.
 This disease occurs in glasshouse tomatoes. Look for such symptoms as a leathery scar or rot on the blossom end of tomato fruits. The cause for this is usually a sudden change in the temperature of the soil moisture and impacts rapidly growing plants hit by high, dry temperatures the most; another cause is a lack of calcium. Remove infected fruits.
 Mildew is a very commonplace plant problem affecting both glasshouse and indoor plants. Mildew arises from a group of fungal diseases and thrives in stagnant air. You will see grey or white fuzzy patches on plants if you have a mildew problem. To improve things, increase the ventilation to get the air circulating more freely and increase the temperature inside the glasshouse. Remove affected plants for recovery; discard if recovery does not seem possible.
 This fungal disease is probably the most common glasshouse disease invader but it can be a little deceptive in its symptoms. Leaves turn black rather than fuzzy as with mildew. Sooty mould usually only forms on plants that have been attacked by sap-sucking insects (aphids, scale, white fly) because the mould grows on the honey-dew they leave behind. Remove the sap-sucking insects using an organic spray.

