 The oven should be preheated to 350ºF/180ºC. Find a 9"x9" baking pan, and spray the pan with non-stick spray. Set the pan aside for now. If you don't have non-stick spray, grease the pan with oil or butter and then dust it with a little flour.;
, Place the flour and cocoa powder in a sifter. Sift them together into a large mixing bowl. Make sure to get rid of any clumps.
 Place baking soda, sugar, and salt in the mixing bowl. Use a whisk, spatula, or fork to mix well. Make sure no clumps remain in the mixture. If there are clumps, run all the ingredients through a sifter again.


Try using cane sugar instead of granulated sugar. They can be substituted exactly for white sugar in recipes., Carefully add the oil, vinegar, vanilla extract, and water to the dry flour mixture. Mix the wet and dry ingredients with a hand blender until there are no more lumps.If you want to use an alternative to vegetable oil, try coconut oil or sunflower oil.For a variation, substitute coffee instead of water. Or try adding 1/4 tsp of coffee granules to the wet ingredients., Pour the batter into a pre-greased 9" x 9" (525 cm2) baking pan, 2" (5 cm) deep. Bake the cake at 350ºF (180ºC).


If you have not done so before this step, grease the pan with non-stick spray. You can also line the bottom of the pan with parchment paper to keep the cake from sticking.
Keep an eye on the cake as it bakes. Insert a toothpick or fork into the center to check the cake's progress. If it comes out clean, the cake is ready.
The time may vary for each oven or for each pan. Adjust your baking time accordingly.
 When the cake is complete, remove the pan from the oven. Let the cake cool for about 5 minutes. After the cake has cooled, remove the cake from the pan and place on a wire cooling rack.


To ensure that the cake comes easily from the pan, use a butter knife to lightly run along the edges of the cake. Make sure that the edges are all loose before you flip it.
If you are afraid you might drop the cake while flipping, place the serving plate over the top of the baking pan before you flip. Gently remove the cake from the pan after you have flipped it over.
If the pan is still hot when you flip it, make sure to use oven mitts so you don't burn your hands.
If you want to apply frosting, let the cake cool completely. Otherwise, serve with a dollop of non-dairy whipped cream or chocolate sauce. Or eat it without icing!

, Gather 2 cups of dark chocolate chips and 1 cup of whipping cream. Make sure the chocolate is broken into smaller pieces. Place the ingredients in a microwave safe bowl.Microwave for 1 minute. After 30 seconds, stop the microwave, remove the bowl, and stir. Start the microwave again. When the minute is up, remove the bowl and stir.
Keep microwaving in 15-30 second increments until the chocolate is completely blended, smooth, and completely free of lumps.
 This icing contains no milk products. Gather 1 cup of powdered sugar, 1/4 cup of cocoa powder, and 1/3 cup of water.Begin by sifting the powdered sugar into a bowl to rid it of any lumps. Make sure the powdered sugar is completely smooth before continuing.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the ingredients together. Add the water to the mixture slowly to thicken. Too much water can make it thin; if the icing is too thick, just add water until it is to your desired consistency.
 For this icing recipe, gather 1/3 cup of unsalted butter, 2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder, 1 cup of powdered sugar, and 1-2 tablespoons of milk.The butter should be softened before making the frosting. To soften the butter, remove the butter from the refrigerator 30-60 minutes before you begin. This should allow it enough time to reach room temperature and soften. If it starts to melt, place it back in the refrigerator.Sift the powdered sugar before starting. Pour the sugar into a sifter and sift into a large bowl.
Place softened butter in a large bowl and stir until it is a smooth consistency. Sift the cocoa powder onto the butter, then fold until combined. To fold, start at the back of the bowl and place the spatula into the batter until it hits the bottom of the bowl. Lift the batter over the top of the top ingredient. Then, turn the bowl slightly and repeat. This method will gently mix the ingredients together.Sift in half the powdered sugar. Fold the batter until completely mixed. Then add the rest of the sugar and fold until the batter is blended and smooth.
You can change the consistency of the icing by adding milk. When you are finished with the icing, it should spread easily on the cake.
 After you have made one of the frosting recipes, spread the frosting over the cake. Make sure the cake has fully cooled before icing. If you try to ice the cake before it is cooled, you could end up breaking the cake apart.

