 The impact of violent parents can be more severe and long-lasting than you might think.Seeking help from a mental health professional will help you deal with the affects of violent parents as well as help you plan for a healthier future. It is especially important to seek mental health care if your parents physically harm you, but is helpful for emotional and mental harm as well. Talking to a mental health professional can help with the following.


Trauma
Low self-esteem
Anxiety
Depression
Developing coping skills

, If you are a child or are trying to help a child, you might run into some barriers because psychologists can only talk to children with the parents' permission. If you are a minor or are trying to get help for a minor, though, you do have some options:


Call a child hotline, such as the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline (1-800-4-A-CHILD). If you are not in the US, look online to find a child abuse hotline in your country.
Call 911 or the police. If you are a child in immediate physical danger, call 911. Talk to the responders yourself and explain what is happening. You can also call the police if you are not in immediate physical danger but would like to speak with law enforcement.
Tell a teacher, nurse, or counselor at school. If you tell one of your teachers or guidance counselors at school, they will be able to help you and direct you to even more resources.
Tell an adult you trust. You can do this in person, on the phone, or in a letter. If you have a friend whose parent you like and trust, for example, tell them about this abuse so that they can help you. You can talk to any adult that you trust, including your friends' siblings and grandparents., Determine the level of contact you wish to have with your parents going forward. If you are a minor this may be a more delicate situation, but an equally important one. If you are an adult, you can make the decision to not let your violent parent be a part of your life for your own mental and emotional health.Deciding the level of contact with your parents has to be an informed decision that ultimately you make for yourself. Some options include:


Going no contact. No contact would be ceasing all contact with your parents. This includes stopping yourself from reading text messages and emails or listening to voicemail messages. Maintaining low contact. Low contact might include limiting phone contact with them to once a week or whatever you are comfortable with. It may also be reducing the physical time you spend with your parents to holidays or special occasions.Having limited contact. Limited contact might include being in contact with your parents only when it is necessary.
 In addition to setting up and enacting a contact plan, you should also have a plan for what you would do should your parents become violent again in the future. Your action plan or safety plan should be specific to you and your circumstances.Your plan ideally should at least include plans for where you will sleep, who will be willing to help you, and what you will say or do should your parents become violent.


If your parents are physically violent with you and you are worried about your safety, you may want to include an emergency bag in your plan as well. An emergency bag will include anything you may need if you have to leave your home in a hurry., There may be a long-lasting feeling or desire that your parents treat you with the loving care you deserve. With violent or toxic parents, gaining that relationship with them is not always possible. It is important that you surround yourself with a strong support system of other family and friends that provide you with the love you are lacking from your parents. Build a support network to include anyone that you trust and feel comfortable talking to about your parents. It should also include individuals who are in your action plan or who can help you.

