 If you just have 1 day off, that's perfectly fine too.;
, Some things to do are: stop fiddling with stuff, like pencils or hair, don't blink as often (but still blink! Don't ruin your eyes! Blink slowly, blinks at least 5-10 seconds apart), make it look like you are not breathing (but still breath!), and staring at people! Do not be a creep. Only stare for about 6-10 seconds. But stare intensely. When "transforming" pretend to get "major headaches" or "your teeth hurting". This adds to the effect.
 Congrats! Okay, so now you get into eating. Eat a big breakfast, and do not eat a big lunch. Maybe a salad, or small sandwich. If your school allows it, eat in an area that no one else is eating. If you can't eat a small lunch like stated above.
 Drink what's in the thermos more frequently than you eat. Kind of guard what you are drinking ("blood") and if someone asks what's in it, just say, "Oh, nothing." Also when drinking it, sigh deeply, like you are relieved.
 but I can hang out until before dark." Vampires usually get more active after dark. This is optional, but adds to the effect.
 Have a few close friends, and keep them close. Stick by their side and if danger comes, defend them.
 Or you could go for rock bands like Paramore, Evanescence, Flyleaf, Nightwish, Shinedown, Black Veil Brides, Metallica, etc. Your choice applies. 

, Vampires don't get tired! Choose to avoid light. You're going for the modern, I-can-go-out-in-sunlight vampire, not the oldest, I-turn-to-dust-in-sunlight vampire. When in the sun, wear big, dark shades. If it is really sunny, pretend that the sun bothers you a bit and move away. If you are in class and sitting near a window that is sunny, put on a sweatshirt. Don't get too hot though. Try to stay in the shade when outside.
 Then take a sip out of your thermos. The person will probably question this, just say that you were a little uncomfortable, and thirsty.
 Goth, punk, emo, scene, prep, normal, nerdy, dressy: it's up to you!! Wear a bit of natural makeup, and cover up zits, pimples, bruises, cuts, etc. with a concealer or something. Vampires heal quickly!

, NOT the glowy, fake ones you get for 99 cents at the pharmacy. You want real looking ones. Google it!

, If someone finds it, they may believe.

