 Instead, always switch the focus back to the other person by asking them questions about themselves and getting them to reveal more about their life and interests. Show a great deal of interest and listen avidly.


If asked open-ended questions aimed at eliciting more information about you, be polite and offer a little information – but not too much. Treat it very much as your interaction being all about the other person and not about you. If you're good at this, your attention to them will flatter them and it won't be until after the conversation that they've realized they didn't learn so much about you.

If you do this too well, the other person will never realize they don't know much about you. People love talking about themselves so much; it could go unnoticed entirely. However, avoid coming off as getting wrapped up in what they're saying -- you'll come off as clingy and submissive instead of as a good listener.
 When people ask questions, probe, or suggest their own answers, sometimes it is a good idea to just let their own ideas run free. Ask them questions like: "Well, what do you think?", or "Is that what you really feel about my presentation?", etc. but don't guide them too much. Of course, do set people straight about any disreputable assumptions they may hold about you!


If a lover asks you about past loves, there's no need to get into detail. Simply say that you don't remember because it was never that important to you. Another good approach is to say that once you decide to move on, you really do, and you don't remember the things about the past that no longer inform your current life. That's actually quite reassuring because it suggests that you don't hold grudges, a flame for someone long gone, or want to compare current people to people in your past.

Being vague about your past lovers will pique the interest of some people, but it soon passes when they realize that you simply won't budge on the point; however, if they keep harping on about it, consider that their ongoing insecurities might just be a sign for you that this relationship isn't worth pursuing.
 Make it clear that you can maintain eye contact when needed but withdraw eye contact when you're not ready to reveal something deep and meaningful within a relationship. This is not the same as lying, rather it is about deflecting; it should be used only when the touchy subject in question is raised. The other person will sense your unwillingness to contribute and should, if they're trying to stay in your good graces, back off.


Rather than looking furtive and worried, combine this tactic with appearing nonchalant, distant, and unconcerned by the situation you're in. Reward the other person with dedicated eye contact when the subject changes.
Look at people directly in their eyes when talking to them with a piercing or relaxed gaze, but don't stare. This will make you a dominant person and cause people to respect you. A powerful and confident gaze creates a magnetic effect.
 If someone asks you what's wrong, or what's up, instead of taking this as a cue to let it all out, simply say very lightly, "Oh, I was just thinking," or "I was just wondering about something," or "I've just been reflecting over some things that I need to get to the bottom of." And don't offer any further explanation. If you're probed, simply say, "Oh there's nothing I can formulate out loud just now; it's all still in my thoughts."


Be very careful not to come off as emo. You don't want to get viewed as sad. If you're "contemplative," it's important not to downcast your eyes, to walk confidently, and to seem alert. If you're wrapped up in thoughts and too much black eyeliner, you may just be pegged as the misunderstood wallflower.
 Humor is a good means for masking feelings, allowing you to make things more mysterious by fending off questioning, and replacing any probing with deflective quips, one-liners, and general reduction of the situation to one that should only be laughed about.


If someone asks you a question, feel free to answer it literally. "What are you doing?" can be followed by, "Talking to you" or "sitting on a chair." You don't have to play into certain social norms if you don't want to. As long as you find it funny, you'll be able to pull it off.
 There is not a lot left to be mysterious about after a drug- or alcohol-infused state causes a person to reveal all. Since you have little or no control about what you tell once the alcohol or drugs impact you, you may exaggerate, tell too much, embellish beyond acceptability, and say things that leave you feeling vulnerable and exposed. To be mysterious, stay in control from the outset by watching your drinks and by avoiding taking drugs that disorient and take over your personality.


Drunken conversations often lead to tell-alls about exes, former people you've known, and people you can't stand. This is all information that is best kept in your head, so just don't let this happen to you and avoid getting sloshed. It's best for your brain cells, too.
 Keep your sense of respect and compassion for others; being mysterious is not about being more superior than others. It's more about leaving things not said, and showing others that you value your privacy and space.


There will be people that don't like this side of you. So what? If they're not comfortable with it, it's their problem. But if most people don't like it, you may want to consider how you're coming off.

