 Concrete may be necessary if you are installing a fence in sandy soil, or in very soft, muddy soil. It's also a good idea when installing gate posts to provide extra stability. The main downside to concrete is its ability to trap water around the post. This can reduce the lifespan of the post by many years. The installation described here avoids this problem with a gravel base and an open-bottomed concrete sleeve.
 All fence posts should be made from durable lumber labeled for ground contact. For more information on selecting and prepping your fence posts, see the method above.
 A typical 4x4 fence post requires a concrete sleeve about 12 inches (30cm) across.Plan to bury ⅓ of the post, then allow a few inches (several cm) for the base beneath it. A large post hole digger or post driver will make this job much easier.









Power tools can be dangerous if the soil is rocky. You may need to use a clamshell digger instead, plus a long digging bar to lever out rocks.
The width of the hole should be consistent the whole way down, not cone shaped.
 A base of gravel or crushed stone will greatly improve drainage. Pour 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15cm) into the hole and tamp it level.
 Position the post in the center of the hole, using a level to guide you to a vertical position. To hold the post in place, drop two stakes into the soil near two adjacent sides of the post. Nail or screw scrap lumber between the stake and the post. Don't pound the nails or screw the screws all the way into the post, so you can easily remove them later.
 Dig every post hole and brace each post so you can pour the concrete all at once. Use a string between corner posts to ensure that all fence posts are in line with each other.
 Another layer of tamped gravel will further improve drainage.
 Put on safety glasses and waterproof gloves.Pour a full bag of concrete mix (or as much as you can transport) into your wheelbarrow and mix in about 90% of the recommended water according to the label. Mix for a few minutes to check the final consistency, then slowly add more water until the concrete feels like paste.








To save effort, you can rent a portable concrete mixer or the services of a concrete truck.
To save money, make your own concrete mix: 1 part Portland cement, 2 parts sand, and 3 parts coarse gravel, by volume.Some fast-setting concrete mixes can be poured in dry, then mixed with water in the hole. These mixes tend to be weaker and more expensive, so speed comes at a high price.Be careful not to make the concrete too runny. Add the water in small increments until the concrete comes off of the shovel easily.
 Shovel concrete into the hole up to soil level. Work quickly enough to use each batch of concrete before it hardens. Take care not to splash cement onto the post.
 Smoothly cap off the top of the cement with a trowel, grading it outwards from the post. Aim for a slope roughly ½ inch (1.25cm) above ground level, dropping to about 1 inch (2.5cm) below ground level. This pitch will allow the water to flow off the post, preventing pools of water that promote decay.
 Give the concrete some time to dry and harden before building the fence or putting any weight on the post.
 Once the initial curing is complete, seal the gap around the base of the fence post. This gap will widen with natural expansion and frost, allowing water to pool here and cause rot. Seal it with a sealant that bonds to concrete and wood, such as some silicone sealants or exterior acrylic latex caulk.







