;
, Let your creative juices flow and there will be endless opportunities to position your espalier.
 Ensure the maiden tree is attached to a support stake. Also, you will need to ensure that there are a series of horizontal climbing wires positioned at different heights perpendicular to the maiden tree's support stake. In time, you will manipulate the tree to grow alone these wires.
 Cut back leaving three healthy buds exposed near the top of the pruned single stem.
 Come mid to late summer these three healthy buds will have grown into shoots. You need to delicately (albeit firmly) tie the top shoot to the vertical support stake. Also, tie the other two shoots to side support sticks which are positioned at an angle to each other of approximately 45 degrees. The side support sticks must be tied firmly to the first tier horizontal climbing wire. Come the next winter it is time to again prune the apple tree and hopefully the top shoot has grown vertically passed the second tier climbing wire. Prune this shoot just at the point at which it passes the second tier climbing wire. Next, remove the support sticks from the other two shoots and strongly prune the length of these shoots ensuring that there is one healthy bud left exposed on each shoot. Tie these pruned shoots to the first tier horizontal climbing wire.
 In the following summer, the new side shoots which have sprung from the original top shoot are to be tied to support sticks and fastened to the second tier climbing wire. Then prune off any shoots that may have grown between the first and second tier wires. Remember to sharply prune any side shoots that you fastened to the first tier climbing wire so that the shoots are only 3 to 4 leaves in length.
 In the coming winters form more tiers in the same manner as described above. Always prune strongly so the leading shoot is cut below the new tier reached in the presiding summer. Cut tips of all shoots on lower tiers.
 Where the side shoots fill the climbing wires remove the ends of these shoots and trim sublateral side shoots to one leaf long.
