 Long-haired guinea pigs require daily brushings to prevent their hair from getting tangled and developing knots. If you do come across any knots, a comb may be handy to remove them. For short-haired guinea pigs, you only need to brush and comb their hair once a month.You can buy guinea pig specific brushes and combs at most pet stores.
If you do not brush your guinea pig regularly, its hair may become so knotted that your only solution is to cut it off.;
, A long-haired guinea pig’s hair grows about an inch a month and will require regular cutting. Once its hair begins to touch the ground, trim the hair so that it does not drag. You may also want to cut your long-haired guinea pig's hair to a comfortable length in the summer. This will keep it from overheating.Keeping your guinea pig’s hair off of the ground will prevent it from becoming wet with urine and feces that may be on the ground in its cage. Regular trimming can prevent health issues, such as urinary tract infections, associated with bacteria.
When giving your guinea pig a trim, consider using round tipped scissors with guide combs to avoid cutting its hair too short.
If you and your guinea pig live somewhere that is not climate controlled in the summer, you will want to keep your pet comfortable by cutting its hair. Long-haired guinea pigs are susceptible to overheating.
 Some long-haired guinea pigs are prone to urinary tract infections because the hair on their backside collects bacteria. This can be the result of it coming into contact with the ground and being soiled with urine and feces. Because of this, it is important that you do not neglect to trim your animal’s backside., Guinea pigs rarely need baths. In fact, some never need to be washed. However, your guinea pig may become stinky and need a bath. Place your guinea pig in a small bowl of warm water and gently scrub them with a shampoo for small animals. Be sure to quickly dry the animal with a towel to avoid it getting too cold and becoming sick.If you want to kill two birds with one stone, try cutting your guinea pig's hair while it’s still wet from the bath. Wet hair is easier to cut than dry hair.If your guinea pig has dandruff, is itchy, or sheds more than normal, it may have a parasite or fungal infection on its skin. Take your animal to the veterinarian and do not shampoo it unless the vet gives you a medicated shampoo. Washing it may dry out its skin more and make the condition worse.

