 Are you feeling deflated because your handmade gift missed the mark this year? Why not suggest to your friends and family to host a "Yankee Swap" or "White Elephant" exchange next year? These gift-giving games are light-hearted ways to get rid of undesirable gifts in a fun and relaxed environment.


These games involve re-gifting tacky or off-the-mark gifts or selecting a price range to purchase new gifts. All the gifts are placed in a pile and every attendee gets a number. The first person goes to the pile and selects a gift, and so on until everyone has a gift. The fun part is, at the end, you can choose to exchange with someone if you'd prefer their gift. This is an exciting way to go about gift-giving, without all the pressure.
 So you got a nifty new sewing machine and have been making clothes for everyone you know. Although you might enjoy the act itself, you can’t expect others to necessarily like what you make. A lot of personalization and creativity goes into handmade gifts, and they won’t mean the same for everyone.


Next time around, read your loved ones to determine which people are better sports for handmade gifts. Do some people express creativity or make homemade gifts already? They may be better candidates for your heartfelt gifts than someone who generally buys everything they own from high-end boutiques or stores., Your gesture could have fallen flat because you were more intent on it being a surprise rather than seeking any involvement from the other person. When a gift requires a lot of time, energy, or money to make, get the intended receiver’s opinion to verify you’re headed in the right direction.


For instance, you might ask the person’s favorite color, scent, or fabric to guide your designs without giving away what you’re making. Or, you might be straightforward like, “Hey, Randy, I wanted to demonstrate my pottery skills and design you a vase. Do you have any preferences on colors or shapes?”, As hard as it is to accept, your gift may not have been well-received because it wasn’t very well-crafted. While you may have put your best foot forward, the end result may have fallen short. If your handmade gift was one of few in the early stages of learning a craft, it may be best to hold off on gifting these items until you have increased your mastery.

