 There are a lot of cheap unicycles that make learning to ride difficult, the seats are poorly designed, and will they break quickly.;
, You will almost surely start with a 20" or a 24" wheel.
 The seat height is critical: you should be able to reach the bottom pedal, with just a small crook in your knee. Get an extension on the post if needed. The post itself should be easily adjustable. Make sure the pedals are rubber (and not metal). It's hard enough to learn, without doing it on a cheap, poorly-setup unicycle!

, Heavy duty hand pads are a must! Knee pads are an option, but, you don’t want to restrict your movements either. Very well padded shorts are highly recommended: you are going to land on the pavement a lot at first! Depending on your athleticism, you may want to consider a helmet.
 Someplace you can hold on to, but, won’t get hurt (and won’t hurt someone else). Tennis nets, a wall, or a smooth fence, are good: you want a barrier where you can ride along and hold on to something safely. Holding on to a friend or a post, is a very poor substitute, and not recommended (unless the friend enjoys getting his shins hit with your pedals).
 There’s little point in practicing for hours on end immediately: your body seems to learn between your work-outs.
 Step on that pedal with the foot of your weaker leg. Then, throw your leg over the seat, and sit on the uni. Then, step on the other pedal (pulling yourself up while holding onto something for support).
 Rotate the wheels ½ turn forward and backward. All your weight should be, on the floor of your pelvis (and not on your thighs or calves). Trust me, you’re not going to ride off anywhere immediately! Just concentrate on getting the feel of your vehicle.
 Expect that you will fall off. At first, you will hardly go a full revolution of the wheel, actually. But, with practice, will come perfection (or at least, a few revolutions!)

, You will advance from, a few revolutions, to, riding off into the sunset, quite quickly. One day, it will just…suddenly happen! You'll be riding a unicycle!,