 Playing with a variety of materials of different textures will help make your outfit look more visually appealing. You can try wearing a smooth satin or silk blouse with a plain white jean or a ribbed sweater with a smoother polyester-blend slack.


If your top is the exact same material as your white pants, then you'll need to make sure that the colors contrast a bit, or that you're wearing a belt, jacket, or other accessories to break up the monochromatic look.





;
, You can think of a pair of white pants as a blank canvas -- you can put almost anything on it and make it work as long as you have some forethought. When you consider a color scheme for your white pants, you can think of the following options:


Go with all white. Create the ultimate clean, crisp appearance by pairing a simple white blouse with your white pants.






Add some contrasting neutrals, such as black, gray, tan, or brown. Wearing other neutrals can give your style a sophisticated edge.
Give your outfit a boost of color. Bright colors will give you a bolder and more fun look, while paler shades will create a softer, more feminine appearance.
 There are a variety of colors that fall under the category of "white," though most shades can either be considered a bright white or an off-white. Bright white is more like a piece of paper, and off-white is a softer, less bright color. Here are some things you can try as you think about the shade of your white pants:


Match bright, “pure” white pants with cooler tones. For neutrals, go with black, gray, and silver. For colors, choose blues, purples, and blue-tinted greens like turquoise.
Match cream or off-white pants with warmer tones. Tan, brown, and gold make the best options for neutrals. For colors, go with reds, oranges, yellow-tinted greens, and red-tinted purples like magenta.
 Even if your pants are made of a thicker material, you still run the risk of having your underwear show through. Wear flesh-toned undergarments. Avoid black and bright colors and be cautious about white since white can still be visible under white.If you're wearing a thong, take a look to make sure you're really covered up before you step out of the house. Avoiding panty lines is important, but so is covering your assets.

