 Social support is one of the most helpful resources when dealing with depression.Support can assist you in feeling that you are valued, loved, and that there are individuals who are willing to help and care for you.


Depression is a hereditary mental health issue. Look around your biological family. Are there other depressed people? Watch them and see what they do that seems to work.
If some individuals in your family are more supportive than others, seek help from those individuals first. If you don't feel comfortable seeking support from any close family member (parent, sibling), look outside your nuclear family for support from grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins. If you still find a lack of support, venture outside of your family to close friends.
If your therapist is the only person you can currently count on for support, that's okay. Your therapist may be able to connect you with group therapy, which can provide social support if you don't have friends or family you can count on.
 Emotional support is a common coping resource for dealing with depression.This is because it helps to release your emotions in the company of others instead of bottling them up, which can lead to an outburst or a breakdown.


Talk to your friends. If you feel even worse than usual, having a friend to listen and support you, even by just being there, can save your life. Sometimes it is hard to get started when you are depressed and there is no shame in having a friend get the ball rolling.
Crying with a friend or family member can be emotionally cathartic.
If you are ready to be cheered up, ask your friends to do something fun with you.
 Studies have found that the quality of your relationships with partners, families, and friends is a significant risk factor in major depression.People in unhealthy relationships or lacking support have more than double the risk of depression than those with healthy relationships. Identifying and eliminating unhealthy relationships may help with your depression.Healthy relationships are respectful, trusting, collaborative, and accepting. They involve physical affection, open communication and fairness.Unhealthy relationships are typically intimidating, humiliating, threatening, dominating, judging, and blaming. They are also associated with abuse (verbal, physical, sexual) and possessiveness.
Take an inventory of your current friendships and relationships. Are there individuals who bring you down or criticize you? Perhaps these individuals do more harm than good. Consider if you need to create distance in unhealthy relationships, or build new ones.