 There are three regions, Asia, Europe, and North America. For example, if you like muscle cars, go for NA. If you want tunes (supras, skylines) go for Asia and etc. Each has a long list of cars available for purchase and each has different attributes which make them an enjoyable place to represent.;
, There are four major difficulty settings, but once selected you can go back and change any specific setting later. You earn extra money for having more difficult settings (up to 50% extra) but it also makes controlling the car harder.


The suggested brake line is helpful as it lets you know the optimal time to brake and gives you a good line around the corner.
ABS gives you anti-lock brakes, but you lose 10% of the money with it enabled, It really depends on how you brake, all it really does is keep your wheels from locking up and not letting you turn while braking.
TCS allows you to stomp on the gas with less fear of spinning out. It regulates your throttle so your tires don't spin.
STM also reduces the risk of spinning out; it controls the 'attitude' of the car by applying brakes to individual tires as you get sideways in a corner.
Tire wear and gas should be set to simulation as these do not become a problem until you get to endurance races, but by then you should be familiar enough to have your car setup well.
Damage difficulty allows your vehicle to get beat up (or not). Simulation means if you run into enough things you can make it so your car will hardly run. Limited allows your components to only be damaged to 50%. You can also disable damage all together.
AI difficulty should be raised or lowered depending on how well you do in races. Higher difficulty means you get more money, but you better have very good vehicle control or a lot better car.
 There are five important parts to a corner:


Braking point: this is the part of the straight before corner where you have a set location to start braking. This will vary depending on the vehicle you are using and speed you are traveling, but after a couple laps on a track, you should have this location nailed down. Without ABS, you should practice stopping your car in the shortest distance which is surprisingly close to real life.
Braking: just as in real life you need to separate your braking from your cornering. Even with ABS, braking in the corner will reduce how tightly the car can make the corner. Also, be sure to roll on the brake, as it will allow the weight transfer to reduce the stopping distance. Be sure you brake enough to slow down before you get to your turn in point.
Turn in point: this is the location that you start your turn. You want to start the turn in on the outside of the corner. At this point you want to roll off the brake (just letting go will disrupt your vehicle's balance), and roll the steering wheel into the corner (all the way).
Corner: You want to find the correct speed and turn in point to be able to apex the corner (the apex in a simple corner is the half-way mark on the inner side of the corner). The exterior-apex-exterior corner allows for the greatest speed to be carried through the corner, thus less braking, less accelerating, and ultimately faster lap times. In the corner, you want to give the vehicle enough gas to maintain the same speed, any speeding up, or slowing down will reduce the maximum available traction.
Accelerate out of the corner. Depending on how powerful your car is and whether or not you have TCS and/or STM enabled you will want to wait until you are aimed in a straight line before you stomp on the gas. If giving it gas on the exit of the corner, you want to roll on the gas smoothly to not rob any turning traction from your car.
 While you try to get a perfect corner in, it is very difficult to do.


As you enter the corner, if you see you are going too fast, you should tap the brakes early in the corner. This will temporarily reduce some under steer in the corner and reduce your speed which will allow you to take a tighter corner.
Use the throttle to steer. This takes a lot of practice and is hard to explain, but it is extremely important especially in long corners and sweepers. Turn in to the corner with the stick (steering wheel) all the way in. Use the amount of gas to adjust where you are in the corner. Less gas (less speed) will allow your vehicle to take the corner tighter, while more gas will do quite the opposite. Feathering the throttle in or out will keep you on the track, but remember that the reaction is somewhat delayed, so keep on top of your speed in the corners!

, Based on the amount of money you are getting in races, you should upgrade your car to help beat a circuit.


Don't buy any cars unless you have plenty of money. Especially early in the game, you will be able to race in a few circuits, and the cars you win in those circuits you can use in other circuits. The longer, more advanced races will give you more money, but will also require much more specific cars. This is when you should buy cars specifically for a race.
Upgrades can be taken off or sold if need be. A lot of the later races require a specific class of car, or specific horsepower. You many need to remove upgrades to fit into a lower class. For the horsepower-limited races, be sure to have as many maneuverability upgrades as possible to make the race easier.
 Be amazed but follow the top bit of this article and see how to take corners easily, this should make a difference to your corners.

