 To run a good business around motorcycles, you need to know everything about them. Read up about all makes and models of bikes, their problems, how they differ from each other, and how to repair them. You have to convince business investors and customers that you know motorcycles.


Get an old bike and take care of it. Learn the parts and perform maintenance to teach yourself more about it.
Take automotive classes online or at a local school. Make sure the curriculum includes motorcycles.
Spend time in a motorcycle shop or dealership. Work small jobs if you have to before they let you handle the motorcycles.;
, It’s not enough to know about your product. The other part of a dealership is maintaining a business. Investors and brand manufacturers look for people who display leadership and business management capabilities. Read up on the aspects of running your business, such as how to manage workers and please customers.Use online courses and local schools to learn basic business skills including sales and marketing.
Spend time observing the workings of a motorcycle shop or dealership. Pay attention to how they operate, dealing with issues ranging from proper business licensing to charging properly for parts.
 In order to appeal to investors for financing and run a successful business, it’s important for you to know the area where you’ll set up shop and how to make your dealership successful in it. Judge how in-demand a motorcycle dealer will be and where to put your shop. Stay far enough away from competitors while also staying in an area where business will be strong.


If you are going to carry a brand line, it’s important to know how present the brand is in your market and how people respond to it. If the brand isn’t established there, come up with ways you can sell the brand or carry limited amounts of the brand.
 Your business plan will outline your company. The plan basically gathers all of your important business information for potential investors. Focus on the goals of your company and how it’s going to achieve them. Include your company’s management structure and why you are a good candidate to open a dealership. Explain how much money you need to start the dealership and how you’ll make it profitable.Business plans often include a company overview section including products, target market, sales plans, a management team section, and a financial plan section.
Keep the plan clear and concise. Investors like to see that you have a very clear path to success in mind.
Keep your plan dynamic. Refer back to it as you operate your business and use and add to it to keep your goals clear and your business on track.

