 Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) causes relatively high and constant levels of hormones, rather than the fluctuating levels seen in the normal menstrual cycle.PCOS can cause missed or irregular periods, and can lead to infertility. Other symptoms of PCOS include too much hair on the face, chin, or parts of the body where men usually have hair (“hirsutism”); thinning hair or hair loss on the scalp (male-pattern baldness); weight gain or difficulty losing weight; inability to get pregnant; and darkening of the skin along creases like the groin and underneath breasts.This is a medical issue that requires treatment.
 A number of uterine issues can cause missed, heavy, or irregular periods. These include fibroids, cysts, polyps, scarring, infection, and endometriosis.Have a pelvic exam and uterine ultrasound to rule out these causes, or identify them and help you get treatment.


If infection is a concern, your doctor will prescribe antibiotics., Estrogen, progesterone and testosterone are hormones that all affect the menstrual cycle, and checking their levels can show whether they’re out of balance for some reason.Hormone replacement is the most common treatment for hormone deficiencies or imbalance.Your doctor might prescribe birth control pills to normalize your cycle or stop it all together if you have very heavy periods or periods that last longer than average.An intrauterine device (IUD) called Mirena can also help control excessive or unpredictable bleeding.You can also talk to your doctor about a non-contraceptive option, such as progesterone. This may be a good option if you are trying to conceive or just don’t need contraceptive. You can use progesterone for 10 days per month to induce a menstrual cycle and this won't prevent you from becoming pregnant.
 An overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) or underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) is another common cause of menstrual irregularities.Thyroid levels can be checked with a simple blood test. Your doctor can also do a “complete blood count” to check for anemia.Thyroid hormone can also be taken as a medicine, and iron supplements will help with anemia.
 Some medications can stop periods, including some types of antipsychotics, antidepressants, blood pressure drugs, allergy medications, and cancer chemotherapy.Your healthcare provider can answer your questions about any side effects of your medications.

