 To avoid falling for a scam, you should stick to reputable websites devoted to at home jobs. Although some of them charge, many of these websites also screen job listings to verify that they are legitimate. Consider:


Flex JobsRemote Working
Work at Home
Remote OK
Skip the Drive
Working Nomads
Authentic Jobs
We Work Remotely
Virtual Vocations;
, Remote jobs are in high demand, so you might need to make your own job. Talk to local businesses and ask around for people who need help. Market yourself as being able to perform tasks that can be done remotely, like writing, editing, sales, web design, translation, medical transcription, and customer service.Consider initially offering your services for free, or nearly free, to prove that you can work remotely. Once you have a client, it will be easier to connect and develop more business relations.
Pitch the advantages of doing your work remotely. Your employer will not need to pay for office space. Because you don’t need to commute, you are willing to work for less than competitors. If you are hired as a contractor, it will reduce their tax obligations.
 Reach out to friends, family, and people who you have worked for or with. Ask them about job opportunities and see if they can put in a good word for you. Use the web to promote your services.


Develop a website advertising your services and accomplishments.
Advertise in local newspapers and online media., Review Flex Job’s list of the 100 companies most likely to hire remote workers.Use Linkedin to see if you have any connections to that company that you can contact for assistance finding a job. If you do not, email the personnel department your resume and make a pitch for why they should consider hiring you., The sector that employees the most at home workers is technology, specifically web design. Some software programming jobs can also be performed from home.


For website design, you will need to be able to design custom websites that advertise the company’s product. Alternatively, you might also need to maintain existing websites by checking usability and fixing flawed code., Service sector skills can be useful for remote working, especially if you can demonstrate that you are able to communicate effectively on the telephone. For these jobs you will also need to prove that you know how to interact with customers in a way that is polite and helpful.



Virtual Assistants work for a third party that sells their services to companies that need a short term worker. These assignments could involve all sorts of work, but typically require administrative, technical and social services somewhat similar to those offered by a secretary.
Call center representative and tech support specialist are growing employment opportunities that are frequently being contracted to people working from home. For these jobs, you will need to demonstrate your ability to effectively help customers with product issues and keep them happy. There are a growing number of travel agents working from home. For this, you will need good interpersonal skills, the ability to manage money, and organizational skills. It helps to know a foreign language and have some knowledge of travel destinations., Medical transcribers are in high demand and the work can often be performed from home. You will need to listen to recordings of doctors and accurately translate what they say into medical code. It requires good typing skills, attention to accuracy, and knowledge of medical coding.


Medical transcriptionists typically need specialized training from schools devoted to teaching medical transcription., Editing and writing can often be performed at home, as can translation. You can blog independently or for a company. You can also proofread, write, or translate for a business that is trying to advertise its product or interact with clients in a foreign language. , There are websites like etsy and fiverr that allow you to sell goods, or even services, online. In order to be successful in these markets, you need to find a distinctive thing that you can produce or do for others.


Use pictures, examples of your work, and your resume to stand out in the crowd. Many other people are selling items on these websites and you need to market yourself.
Be certain to provide high quality service; consumers will grade their purchases. Good evaluations can help you get more business in the future.
 There are 60 fake at home job lists for every real remote job listing. Be sure to carefully screen the jobs your apply for or else you might fall victim to a scam.The best way to do this is to stick to websites that screen their job listings.
 Do not reply to ads that do not list the name of the business. It is preferable if you recognize the name of the company and can find evidence that it is real. There should be a human resources department that can answer your questions., Just because the business is looking for a remote worker, does not mean that they would abandon all of their normal hiring procedures. They should ask for references and an interview. Conversely, the listing should also include information about the job expectations, salary, vacation, and benefits.


If you receive an instant email indicating that you have received the job without going through a hiring process, then it is fake.