 Put your feet up as often as you can during the day and stretch your legs. You should flex your feet, rotate your feet, and wiggle your toes. These stretches and gentle walking can all pump blood back into your feet to prevent swelling. Try to avoid long periods of sitting or standing. If you do, take a five minute walk every hour to keep your blood flowing.If you have to sit for long periods of time, raise your legs for 10 to 15 minutes. Try to elevate your feet above your heart (by sitting in a recliner) and avoid crossing your legs or ankles as you sit.;
, Since pressure on your veins can cause swollen feet, ease pressure on the veins that return blood from your legs. To do this, try sleeping on your left side. Sleeping on the left side can also support kidney function. Don't worry if you wake up and you're on your back or right side. Just roll onto your left side and try to go back to sleep., Don't wear tight clothing like socks or stockings with elastic at the top that can restrict blood flow, especially to your feet or ankles. Instead, wear all-elastic support hose that are made for pregnancy. These can reduce swelling in your feet and will allow for your growing abdomen.You can also find pregnancy support knee-highs and thigh-highs that apply pressure all along the legs. These can encourage the flow of blood to your heart and prevent swelling.
 By the end of your pregnancy, the ligaments in your body are loosening to prepare for delivery. This may make your regular shoes feel too small since your feet may actually get larger. Choose shoes that don't pinch and give your feet some room to grow. Consider wearing shoes made of breathable material (like cloth or leather) that can stretch.Your shoes shouldn't have more than a one-inch heel. Any higher and you could be more prone to falls. High heels also put more pressure on your feet which can make swelling worse.
 It's important for pregnant women to drink more water than they did when they were not pregnant. Aim to drink 12 to 13 eight-ounce glasses of water a day. Water helps flush out your tissues to prevent swelling. Drinking plenty of water can also prevent constipation, hemorrhoids, urinary tract infections, and fatigue.If you're tired of drinking water, remember that milk and juices can count towards your daily fluid intake. Just avoid caffeine and limit your soda intake.
 Your doctor may have already talked to you about watching your salt intake, but you may want to cut back a bit more if you notice swelling. Eat foods that are already low in salt (sodium) and avoid adding salt to your meals. Sodium can cause you to retain fluids, making swelling worse.Instead of flavoring with salt, try seasoning your meals with fresh herbs.
 On hotter days (when your feet are more likely to swell), try cooling your feet and ankles by soaking them in cool water. Run a cool foot back and add 1/2 cup of Epsom salts. You may even want to add a few drops of lavender essential oil to help you relax. You could also drape cold washcloths over your ankles to prevent swelling.Try to stay cool in hot weather since the heat will make you swell more. If you can, go for a quick swim or soak in a tub full of cool water.

