 Boil water in a small saucepan. Once boiling, set the heat to medium-low, add your potato, cover the pan, and cook it for 15 to 20 minutes. Drain all but 1 cup (237 ml) of the liquid, mash the potato, then drizzle it with oil.

Allow your potatoes and water to cool until they are lukewarm. The time this takes will vary, but in most cases it will take about 10 to 15 minutes.;
, To make the most of your time, prepare your work area while your potato boils. To do so, lightly sprinkle flour on a clean work surface for kneading the dough later. Also coat the inside of a large bowl lightly with olive oil., Stir sugar into 2 tbsp (30 ml) of lukewarm water in a large mixing bowl until it dissolves. Add the yeast, and continue to stir this until the mixture is foamy (about 5 minutes). Then:

Add your mashed potatoes and the 1 cup (237 ml) of water you saved when making the mashed potatoes.
Beat whole wheat flour into the mixture for about a minute.
Add rosemary, thyme, sage, and salt and stir until well distributed.
Beat enough all-purpose flour into the mixture until it is too stiff to beat., Remove the dough from the bowl and place it on your clean, lightly floured work surface. Knead the dough until it is smooth and has an elastic quality. Do this for about 10 minutes.

Add flour little by little to your surface, your kitchen tools, or to the dough ball itself when kneading to prevent it from sticking.
For the quickest results and to save yourself some effort, you can use a stand-up mixer with a dough hook to prepare the dough., Transfer your dough from the work surface to the lightly oiled bowl you prepared earlier. Turn the dough to completely coat it in the oil. Then use a thin layer of plastic wrap to close off the top of the bowl.

After closing the top of the bowl, you'll have to wait 1½ hours for the dough to rise. When the dough has risen, it will be about double its starting size.
Slightly before your dough has finished rising, coat a large baking sheet with cooking spray and sprinkle it with cornmeal., When the dough is done rising, transfer it again to your lightly floured work surface and punch it down. Knead the dough several times, then divide it into two halves and fashion each half into a ball.You may need to sprinkle more flour on your work surface before transferring the dough to it to prevent sticking.
 Place the halves several inches apart on the sprayed, cornmeal sprinkled baking sheet. Cover the baking sheet and the halves on it completely with plastic wrap. Allow the dough to rise for one more hour.

Half an hour before the dough finishes rising, put your baking stone or an inverted baking sheet on the middle rack of your oven. On the row beneath this, add a small baking pan. Preheat the oven to 450°F (232°C)., Add 1 cup (237 ml) of water to the baking pan on the lower rack of your oven. Take your baking sheet with the dough on it and place it on the baking stone or inverted baking sheet in the oven. Then:

Allow the loaves to bake for 20 minutes. Then decrease the temperature to 400°F (204°C).
 Continue baking the dough for another 10 to 15 minutes after decreasing the oven temperature. When finished, the bread will look golden brown. The bottoms should sound hollow if you tap them.

Cool the bread on a wire rack. When the bread is cool or slightly warm to the touch, it is ready to be eaten.