 A child who is three years of age or older can usually understand if you explain why she needs to take medication. If your child is still having a hard time taking her medication, be honest and explain in terms that she can understand. It’s important to be honest with your child and not lie to make things better. You may find that appealing to your toddler’s sense of reasoning can help her take the medication.Tell your child you know the medicine tastes bad and that the bad taste will go away quickly if she takes it quickly and in a way you suggested.
Explain why medication will help your toddler. Asking your toddler why the medication is necessary can help start a simple conversation that may help her take the meds.
Remember to reassure your child and be honest. Say, “I know this medication tastes bad, but taking it will make you feel better.” You may want to bolster this statement by adding something tempting like, “You’ll be able to go back to the playground soon if you take your medication.”

, If your child is having difficulty taking one form of medication, see if others are available. Many companies offer their medications in liquid, capsule, and chewable options to appeal to a variety of patients. Get in contact with your doctor to see if he can prescribe a different delivery method for your child’s medication.Consider asking your doctor if you can get the medication in a higher concentration, which may mean a smaller dose.Make sure to let your child know if you change the delivery method. For example, you can say, “No more yucky pills. I got you a medicine you can drink that is purple and tastes like strawberries!”

, If your child is being especially uncooperative, enlist the help of a friend or loved one. This may not be pleasant for any of you, but it can help get the process over quickly. You should only use this method if your child is taking liquid medication to prevent choking.Have one adult hold the child sitting on her lap. This adult can use her hands to keep the toddler's hands and head from moving. With one hand, open your child’s mouth by pushing on his chin or running your fingers inside his cheek and pushing down on his lower jaw. With the other hand, insert a pre-filled syringe between your child’s teeth and drip it onto the back of the tongue. Keep your child’s mouth closed until he swallows.
Tell your child following the dose, “I’m very sorry we had to give you medicine this way. If you help out next time, we won’t have to hold you.” You may want to give your child a hug or some other type of positive reinforcement in addition to this.
 In some cases, your child may spit out or vomit her medication. If this happens, contact your health care provider and explain what happened. He can let you know the best way to proceed for you and your child.Avoid repeating a dose unless you’ve spoken to your doctor. Some medications can be given again without a problem, but even a little bit of others may be harmful.
 If all else fails, speak to your child’s doctor. She may have alternative suggestions about how to give your child the medication. The doctor may also prescribe something new that looks or tastes better or comes in a different form.Avoid forcing your child to take capsules or chewable tabs. While you can force a child to take liquid medication, capsules and chewable tabs are another story. There is a very real danger of choking and aspirating the drug into the lungs, which is a serious medical emergency.Consult with your health professional for ideas on how to give your child medicine without forcing him, which is a better idea than forcing medication on a resistant child.

