 There may be a number of reasons why you feel you want or need to talk your ex. And there are multiple perspectives to consider. Are you trying to talk to your ex because up until now you haven’t remained in touch? Or have you tried to remain friends, and now you want to talk to them about getting more distance? Do you have to talk to your ex because children are involved? Think about your reasons for a little while to ensure it is truly what you want to do., While the relationship may have ended, there must have been something good about it at some point. Continuing to bring up wounds and complaints will not help solve problems, and it does not help the relationship between you if you’re trying to remain friends.If you have children with your ex, consider the effect of complaining on them, as well. You don’t want to make your children feel like their parent is a terrible person by constantly complaining.
 Don’t beat around the bush. If there is something important you want or need to say to your ex, try not to be too subtle about it. Don’t use hints or passive remarks, be clear and honest. Explain any potential boundaries you need (e.g., texting/no texting, emails/no emails, etc.)., Are you possibly looking for a casual relationship only involving sex? While your ex could potentially be a good candidate, there is also a possibility that they still harbor romantic feelings for you. Attempting to start a new type of relationship with your ex, without setting up very clear expectations, may only lead to additional heartbreak., It’s easy to rely on the familiar when you’re having a moment of loneliness or despair. You may think your ex might be the best way to make you feel better. However, you must be careful to avoid relying on your ex as an emotional crutch. Reach out to other friends and sources of support too., Regardless of what your decision ends up being (to talk to, or not to talk to, your ex) remember there was a reason you broke up in the first place. If you’re thinking there might be a way to make things work, be realistic. One more date isn’t suddenly going to make your ex a new person. And promises from either side to change are most likely empty.