 Medical school is a huge financial obligation in addition to being an intensive educational commitment. For the 2013-2014 school year, annual tuition and fees at public medical schools averaged around $31,783 for state residents and $55,294 for non-residents. For private schools, tuition and fees averaged around $52,093 for residents and $50,476 for non-resident students.These figures do not include health insurance, housing, or living expenses.;
, The Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) has compiled a wide range of resources and tools collectively called FIRST.Here you can find a medical school financial aid toolkit, webinars regarding medical school loan debt, a loan organizer and calculator, and much more., The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the standard application when seeking government-based financial aid for undergraduates all the way up to those in medical school. Via the FAFSA, the office of Federal Student Aid provides over $150 billion each year to students through grants, loans, and work-study programs.This office can provide both need-based aid with no obligation to pay back the funds (for qualifying applicants) or access to government-subsidized loans, which the applicant doesn’t need to begin repaying until finishing medical school.You can print a FAFSA or file the form online. Expect to enter your personal information such as your name, address, and social security number, as well as all of your financial information, including all sources of income for the office of Federal Student Aid to determine the type of aid for which you qualify., A subsidized Stafford Loan is the type of need-based, low-interest loan for which you may qualify.Medical school students must be U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens.Stafford Loans do not accrue interest until you graduate or leave school.The amount in Stafford Loans for which you qualify will automatically come in the award letter you receive after filing a FAFSA.Unsubsidized Stafford Loans are also available for students who do not qualify for loans based on financial need. Unsubsidized Stafford Loans still require you to fill out a FAFSA; however, interest accrues on these loans even while you are still in school., Perkins Loans are another type of low-interest federal loan for students who demonstrate financial need. Your school must participate in the Federal Perkins Loan Program for you to apply for a Perkins Loan. Contact the financial aid office at your institution to find out if they participate and how to apply.These low-interest loans do not accrue while your are still in school, and the interest rate is 5% once you do leave school or graduate., Outside of federal funding, a wide array of other grants, awards, and scholarships exist specifically for medical students. The American Medical Association has a complete list of aid they provide. They’ve also compiled a list of non-AMA resources for medical students.
 The financial aid office at your institution will be a great resource for helping match you with scholarships and grants for which to apply. They will also have information of local scholarships offered specifically through your medical school.
 The MSTP is offered by the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, which is a branch of the NIH. The MSTP pays for tuition and provides a stipend plus money for equipment and supplies for candidates who wish to pursue a joint M.D. and Ph.D. degree in a variety of scientific and medical fields.For more information, including application information, you can find contact info for the MSTP here.


Privately funded Non-MSTP programs also exist in the United States that pay all (or a portion) of tuition for D.O./Ph.D. and M.D./Ph.D. students as well.
For those interested in other M.D./Ph.D. programs, a list of such programs listed by state is available here. Many of these programs offer stipends or full funding due to the rigorous course of study.
 Once you have secured funding for your program, ensure that you keep an accurate budget so as not to overextend yourself. The AAMC offers a calculator for the specific purpose of helping track and budget for medical school loans and debt. Budgeting before, during, and after medical school are important steps to ensuring the success of your schooling. Worrying about paying your rent is the last thing you need heaped on top of the stress of your program.


For more information on budgeting, check How to Budget Your Money.

