 Thinking positive thoughts is a direct way to restore your mind. To help yourself have the ability think positively, do things like accepting your own limitations, letting go of guilt, and telling yourself that you are doing a good job.

If you find your thoughts constantly turning negative, start putting up sticky notes in your office or around your house as reminders.
Put inspiring notes on them, such as this quote by Louisa May Alcott, author of Little Women: “I am not afraid of storms, for I am learning how to sail my ship.”
Remove negative influences from your surroundings, like bad news on TV or music that repeats offensive messages.
 If you have a stressful job and feel weary after a long day, jumping into an activity you see as a pleasure can help you feel refreshed. Do something like read a book, go see a movie, or listen to music to change your mindset and have fun.You can also pick up a new hobby like sewing, drawing or painting, making something with your hands like jewelry—the possibilities are nearly limitless.
 Laughing is good for you, no matter how you look at it. It has a positive effect on your heart, activates muscles, ups your oxygen, and promotes relaxation. If you are feeling harried, find a good comedy video on your smartphone or make a date with a friend who makes you laugh.

Laughing also takes away stress hormones and increases the release of endorphins (which make you feel good).If you know of a funny movie that is out on video, rent it to take home so you can laugh with your family.
 Get out of your routine now and then by going on an outing to a place you know is fun, or try a new place that sounds fun. Nothing makes you feel more refreshed than a new pleasure experience. Feeling refreshed means that your strength is restored, and the new perspective that comes from visiting a new place does just that.Try visiting a local eatery you’ve been wanting to test out, or go to the nearest amusement park.
Other destination ideas include local events like the farmers’ market or local festivals, wandering around a local park, taking in a play, and many more.
 Staying in contact with the outside world is important for your mental health as well as a key to feeling refreshed. In fact, studies show that people in chronic isolation have higher blood pressure and a greater aptitude for developing dementia and Alzheimer’s disease.Talking to other people about their issues rather than your own is a good way to forget your worries and get strength.
Friends can encourage you, which is part of the definition of refreshment—feeling your strength restored., Getting outside of your comfort zone can remind you that others are not as fortunate as you, which changes your routine and breaths refreshment into your routine. You can offer to help a friend with a difficult task, or you can serve up food at the local soup kitchen.
 Treat yourself for stress or depression by eliminating the stressors you have control over. For example, you may not be able to quit a stressful job, but you can get that squeaky belt on your car fixed, or mow the grass so that your shoes don’t get wet on the way to your car in the morning.


Reduce symptoms of depression by talking to someone about the way you feel.
 Organize your money so that stacked up bills don’t weigh on your mind. If you are having a hard time making bill payments, ask friends and family to help you make a plan to positively impact your finances. You can also hire a financial advisor to give you advice.


For example, make a budget and move to a cash system where you allocate a specified amount of each paycheck toward the different parts of your monthly obligations, and spend no more than that.

