 Anytime you're in the sun, you expose your body to ultraviolet (UV) rays. In addition to increasing your risk of skin cancer, UV rays cause the skin to look older and more worn out.If you must be in the sun, be sure to cover up your skin with long sleeves/pants and a brimmed hat whenever possible. It's also important to choose a sunscreen that will protect you from UV radiation.Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen that protects against both UVA and UVB rays. Be sure your sunscreen has an SPF rating of at least 30,and reapply sunscreen at least once every two hours.Try to avoid being in direct sunlight between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM. That four hour window is when the sun's UV rays are strongest.Choose protective clothing that offers UV protection. You can also buy a laundry additive that will coat your clothing with a layer of UV protection. Check online or ask your local retailer about UV protective clothing and laundry additives.;
, Smoking is one of the biggest causes of premature aging of the skin.That's because daily exposure to cigarette smoke constricts the blood vessels in your skin's outer layers, decreasing blood, oxygen, and nutrient supplies to your skin. Smoking also reduces your skin's elasticity by reducing your body's collagen and elastin, and pursing the lips or squinting the eyes while smoking can cause premature wrinkles over time.Daily exposure to smoke and the facial expressions associated with smoking cigarettes can, over time, cause the skin to appear leathery and wrinkled.The best way to protect your skin from the effects of cigarette smoke is to quit or avoid starting altogether.Talk to your doctor about a treatment plan that can help you kick your habit.
 For many people, shaving is an important component of a daily hygiene plan. But depending on how you shave, you could be causing stress and irritation to your skin. Some simple, everyday practices to help protect your skin during shaving include:


using warm or cool water, rather than hotusing shaving cream or lotion, rather than using soap or attempting a "dry shave"changing your razor blades frequently so you always use a clean and sharp razorThe ingredients in many soaps can quickly clog razors and dull the blades.
shaving in the direction hair grows, rather than against the grainpatting your skin dry to prevent excess moisture after shaving, Keeping your skin moisturized is an important part of maintaining a healthy appearance. That's because dried out skin cells shrivel and constrict, causing wrinkles, fine lines, and potentially reducing blood and oxygen flow to your skin.Moisturizing your skin won't prevent wrinkles forever, but it will help your skin look healthier and maintain elasticity., Another way to look healthier and improve your skin is by using skin care products like anti-wrinkle cream. These products won't instantly fix wrinkles or sun-damaged skin, but they may help improve elasticity and reduce wrinkles over time as part of a larger skin-care regimen.If you have dry or sensitive skin, be cautious when using these products. Some common ingredients in wrinkle creams include:


retinol, a vitamin A compound that helps neutralize free radicals and prevent skin cells from breaking down prematurelyvitamin C, which may help protect the skin from damage caused by the sun's UV rayshydroxy acids (alpha-, beta-, and poly-hydroxy acids) are exfoliants that help remove dead skin cells and allow new, smoother skin cells to growcoenzyme Q10 can help reduce wrinkles, especially around the eyes, and may reduce or prevent damage caused by the suntea extracts contain antioxidants, and may have anti-inflammatory properties that can soothe irritated or damaged skingrape seed extracts also have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and may help wounds heal fasterniacinamide is related to vitamin B3 and can help prevent the skin from drying out, which improves the skin's elasticity and appearance