 You may say it is something as general as a vacation or a business trip, but it is good to actually specify what you want. You may be traveling for a business trip yes, but you also may want to relax, or explore the country you are going to. You may want a vacation, but do you want try something adventurous, or you just want a spa? Deciding on these things will help you plan where to stay, and this could probably save you time and money too since you can choose the right accommodation that can cater to all your needs.;
, Knowing or setting the length of your stay can lead you to adjust your accommodation as well.A long trip will cost more if you stay in a hotel rather than a hostel, but a short trip and a slightly more expensive hotel near the area where you want can save you transportation costs as well. So know your time, and add some leeway of a day in case of emergencies.
 Draw up a budget table with possible projections on how high you would want to spend for you accommodation. Think of the services you want to avail and extra transportation costs if necessary.
 Now that you have your criteria for your accommodation, you have plenty of options regarding accommodation. Besides hotels, there are other types of accommodation that you may want to try to fit your needs. Look at your budget, the duration of your stay, and your objectives. Then look at the options that are available to you.
The various options are:

Hotels – Hotels are the most common accommodation that you will find. They are usually well advertised and are located in decent areas of interest at a certain tourist location or city. Most of them can be a little more expensive than most, but they pay that back with additional services. This is perfect for the business trip, or that indulgent vacation you've been planning. Most Hotels have their own websites already if you want to book online. Otherwise try going to websites like www.bookhotels.com or www.hotels.com to find a hotel.
Hostels – Hostels are famous for their cheapness. They are affordable because they have less services than a hotel, and sometimes a bit further away from important tourist sites. However, hostels have a culture unto their own as the less expensive rates invite a younger and more diverse crowd. There are in fact Youth Hostels that have age limits on people who want to stay. Hostels are perfect for the backpacker adventurer on a budget. It is also a nice option for those who want to stretch their budget and explore more. Some hostels do have a website where you can book a room. Otherwise, listing sites like www.hostels.com and www.hostelworld.com can help you find the hostel you want.
Rental Apartments/Villas – There is such a thing as renting a vacation apartment or villa. These are places, like an apartment, house or villa which you can rent for a long time for your vacation or business trip. This is perfect for those who want a private home away from home to themselves. Usually the rates on these apartments can save you money from hotels especially of you are staying for a significant amount of time. Some hotel services though may be lacking depending on the apartment being rented, but most offer standard even luxurious amenities. Some apartments may advertise online directly, but there are also directory websites that list the apartments for rent in a particular country. Websites like www.vacation-apartments.com or www.110apartments.com do this. Apartments are perfect for a couple or group of people who want their privacy, or a whole family that is staying for a long trip in a foreign country.
Bread and Breakfasts/Inns - Bread and breakfasts are similar to hotels, but at a smaller scale. More likely they are found across the country side of a country. They offer accommodation for a night and some breakfast (hence the term). But nowadays some “B&B's” operate almost at the level of a small hotel. B&B's are good for that quick overnight stay at a location. Most are cheaper than a full fledged hotel but offer some of the services that the hotels have.. Not all bed and breakfasts are listed online. Try searching for forums if there are “B&B's” in the place you are going to.
Camping Areas - By far the cheapest accommodation you can pay for is a camp site. Of course you need your own tent. Once you have it, you can search for listings of campsites that you can use in your target country. Sites like www.eurocampings.co.uk can let you locate the various campsites that are available and the price for pitching your tent. Most officially camping areas provide bathroom services to those who stay. Camping areas are of course for those who have a fair experience in backpacking and the outdoors.
 One of the many great uses of the Internet is that you can gather a lot of opinions. There are plenty of forums out there like Travel.com Travel.org and other travel related sites that exchange tips, opinions and suggestions about travel and accommodations. While reading and researching you should slowly form a good picture of the accommodation that you have decided upon. Also look into furnished apartments.
 Lastly, compare you research with the criteria you formed earlier. Look if the accommodation you chose matches or at least covers most of the things you want. Afterward, Book it!

, Once you get to your destination, take note of all your experiences in that accommodation. If you can SHARE the experience be it bad or good so that you can offer your wisdom somewhere else. Share it in the Internet.

