 domain account, you need the following information:


Domain status: Locked or Active
Administrative contact for registered domain
Authorization or EPP code (.com, .net, .org, .biz, .us and .info TLDS only)
If you do not have that information on hand, you can obtain it from Yahoo. The domain transfer can only succeed if the domain is unlocked, the administrative email address is valid and the correct authorization code is provided.;
,):


Log in to your Business Control PanelClick the Domain Control Panel hyperlink for the domain you want to unlock.
Click Edit Domain Locking
Click Unlock Domain

, The administrative contacts is one of the four contacts listed in Yahoo! 24 hours should elapse before the administrative contact responds to the transfer approval email message, as it can take up to 24 hours before new registrar system recognizes changes to the domain's Whois information.


Any attempt to respond to the transfer approval message before the status change has been completed will result in transfer failure. You will receive an instant email notification of the failed transfer.

Click the Domain Control Panel hyperlink for the domain you want to access.
Click View/Edit Your Domain Registration hyperlink.
On the Domain Registration Information page, click Edit
Edit your administrative contact.
 To transfer a .com, .net, .org, .biz, .us and .info domain you will need an authorization code. An authorization code is a unique code assigned by registrars to .com, .net, .org, .biz, .us and .info domain names at the time of domain registration.


Log in to your Business Control Panel.
Click the Domain Control Panel hyperlink for the domain you want to access.
Click "View Authorization Code" link. You will then see a page of steps. Scroll to the bottom of the page to see your authorization code. Like passwords, these code should not be shared with anyone who does not need to know.
 Assuming that the above issues are in order, the domain transfer process thus:


To transfer a domain to new registrar:

Advise the domain's administrative contact that the domain name is being transferred.
Yahoo will e-mail the administrative contact by the next business day with instructions on how to approve the domain transfer.
Once the administrative contact has approved the domain transfer, new registrar will send a transfer request to the registry. If the domain's administrative contact does not have access to the account from which the domain transfer request was purchased, the recipient of the email request must forward the Transaction ID and Security Code to someone who does. These code must be entered on the Pending Domain Transfer screen in your account in order to approve the transfer. Once the Transaction ID and Security Code are successfully entered, new registrar will request the transfer at the registry. The registrar of record does not deny the transfer, the transfer is automatically approved.
The registry will contact Yahoo! via email.
Yahoo! will send an acceptance or rejection notice to the registry. If the registrar fails to deny the transfer within 5 days, the registry will move the domain registration to this registrar.
The registry will notify us of the acceptance or rejection.
The new registrar will inform you via e-mail that the transfer is complete.
Should the domain transfer fail, The new registrar will notify you via email. You will resubmit your transfer request if the transfer fails. However, to ensure that the information listed in your transfer request remains valid, you will have 30 days from the time of your purchase to complete the domain transfer.



