 This will significantly increase your chances of surviving.;
, The more you fool around with grenades, C4, or mines, the more likely you will kill yourself. Also, you may not have enough time to switch your weapon if the enemy is near.
 The enemy will see you and sneak up on you and/or snipe you. If you are camping within your own spawn, then it is okay, but camping is frowned upon in most First Person Shooters.
 Chances are that an enemy is not too far behind you and is ready to kill you.
 Sometimes you will be separated from your teammates. Don't let this happen too much. Stick with your teammates and cover them. Of course, don't follow so closely that you cannot maneuver. Otherwise, if you're with several of your teammates, a single grenade and a few bullets can take all of you out at once.
 Sometimes, users will fire to test if their gun is working correctly. This will give away the position of your teammates, and you.
 Or if you're really talking. Or if it is a team effort. Otherwise, talking such as LMAO or LOL will get you killed because every second matters in an FPS.
 Whether it is to buy a better gun, or to lend a gun for a longer time.
 If you have one shot, and you are about to go into combat, that is no good! Reload before you go into combat to allow more firing. The bullets recycle anyway, so you're not losing anything.
 It will knock your gun off balance because of the recoil. It would be better if you shoot by firing your gun a little at a time, unless you have a lot of ammo to spare. It would also help if you tilt your mouse down to stop the recoil. If you can't help but to hold the fire button, aim towards the abdomen and the recoil will most likely drift up into a head shot.
 If you sprint into an enemy, it will take some time to pick your gun back up causing a few delays that could get you killed.
 Just because you lose one round, doesn't mean you have to get frustrated. Frustration reduces your gameplay.
 Allowing you to run and fire at the same time.

