 Choose granulated white sugar, if you have it. Alternately, you can use coconut sugar, brown sugar or cane sugar.Use only a cup of sugar at a time.Refined white sugar, when ground, has the closest texture to icing sugar.
Breaking down more than a cup at a time won’t produce results as even in consistency.;
, Combine cornstarch with granulated sugar if you’re going to store the sugar. Cornstarch helps prevent clumps so your sugar maintains a powdered consistency.If you plan to use the sugar right away, cornstarch isn’t necessary.
If you’re low on cornstarch, one teaspoon (six grams) will work.
 Pour the sugar into a glass blender or food processor. Add cornstarch, if desired.Pulse it for about two minutes.Alternately, you can use a spice grinder or coffee grinder, but be aware these may absorb flavor from previously-used spices or coffee.
You may want to avoid using a plastic blender. It’s unlikely – but possible – that sugar crystals may cause scratches to a plastic appliance.
If you’re using a blender or food processor with multiple settings, choose “pulse” or “blend.”

, Wipe the spatula along the inside of the blender. Mix the sugar well so that it will blend and break down evenly., Turn off and unplug the appliance, if applicable. Pick up a bit of sugar in your fingers and feel the texture. Resume grinding the sugar if it feels gritty, until its texture is powdery.The sugar is done when it looks fine-grained and fluffy like confectioners’ sugar., Stir the sugar with a fork. Place a mesh strainer over a bowl. Spoon the sugar into the strainer. Tap the side of the sieve repeatedly to sift the sugar into the bowl.Sifting aerates the sugar so that it’s lighter, fluffier and clump-free.
If you don’t have a sifter, you can use a tea strainer or colander. Alternately, you can aerate the sugar by mixing it with a wire whisk., Use your newly ground sugar in place of confectioners’ sugar in your favorite icing recipe. Make cake icing, such as buttercream or cream cheese icing. Frost cupcakes with peanut butter or berry icing. Or hold a gingerbread house together with royal icing!

For a simple icing, combine a cup (220 g) of powdered sugar with a tablespoon (15 ml) of milk and 1/4 teaspoon (1 ml) of flavoring, such as vanilla extract, rum or lemon juice.

