 "My grandmother told me that leopard will never go out of style. It's a classic."(Khloe). She loves leopard-print shoes, and she's not afraid to wear a leopard-print dress.;
, Be unique and daring in your style. The Kardashians are so loved for their style. When Kim stepped out in an all-white outfit after Labor Day, it was talked about... in a good way. Khloe takes even more chances. Be bold, be unique in your style.
 She owns 235 pairs of shoes (71 of them Louboutins). They're all EXTREMELY high high high, and tons of them are leopard-print. She's got so many leopord-print heels in different shapes, or a different shade, some with hints of black on the back, etc. In her closet she arranges each pair of shoes so she sees the front of one of the shoes, and the back of the other. Khloe is a no-flat girl; she's rockin' heels. "When I have babies, I'll probably wear heels to the delivery room." (-Khloe)

, They're like the every-day throw on sort of thing for her. She has her closet made specially to suit them. Invest in lots of maxi dresses. "I'm a connoisseur of long flowy dresses. I throw them on when I'm running around and don't have time to think about what to wear." (-Khloe)

, She's spunky but CHIC; she makes it work. She's not a biker-chick. "I think skulls can be spooky, unless they are covered in rhinestones." (-Khloe) She wears black in a classy way.
 They're stylish AND comfortable. She sometimes plays up a black jumpsuit by adding high detailed heels. You could wear a solid coloured one and play it up with accessories. "A jumpsuit is so easy to wear! Throw it on and you're good to go." (-Khloe)

, Make it YOUR OWN twist, not necessarily Khloe's. Khloe is all about being unique and changing the trends, so do that. Add your own spin to a unique outfit!

, You can dress like them for something much more affordable. Check it out.
 It's pricy but they carry some of their favorite designers there. You can save up money for some stuff from there or take inspiration.
 She loves Missoni, Dolce and Gabanna (D&B), and Michelle Mason. They do carry Michelle Mason in DASH. Don't try to copy it or find a look-a-like. The point of inspiration is to use it to make your own outfit- it's what Khloe does, makes it her own.
 You can't pass a bold outfit if you don't own it. Khloe is a little plus-size, but she owns what she's wearing and does it so confidently, she has that glow that makes her look beautiful. Wear figure-flattering clothes!

