 Studies have shown that organic milk is much healthier than regular milk. Some benefits of organic milk is the fact that organic milk is from cows that haven't been given growth hormones, it is wholesome, produced without harmful pesticides, etc.


Organic milk isn't produced with antibiotics. Overuse of antibiotics is a serious health problem. Today, of all the main places that antibiotics is overused is in agriculture. Organic milk comes from cows that were not given antibiotics, so it doesn't contribute to the growing problem of bacterial resistance.
Organic milk is very high in conjugated linoleic acids (CLA). CLAs are important healthy fats that has been proven to have been linked to reduced heart disease and diabetes. As a matter of fact, in the May 9th issue of the Archives of Internal Medicine, researchers from Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard School of Public Health reported that dairy products that are low in fat, including milk, is shown to lower the risk of type 2 diabetes (in men).
Another big advantage of organic milk over regular milk is its ability to go for a long time without turning sour: organic milk is heated to around 280ʡF (138ʡC), so it would take up to two months for it to turn sour. Because of the fact that regular, pasteurized milk is heated to 145ʡF (63ʡC), it doesn't have the same life. So if you are worried about milk turning sour fairly quickly, then organic milk may actually allow you to save money. Understand that it's the right thing to do. Organic cows must be able to access open air, unlike factory cows. Cows that produce organic milk, or organic cows from many dairy farms are allowed to graze freely in organic pasture. This type of farming is considerate to animals, and isn't cruel, is very supportive of wildlife, good for many rural communities, respectful of air, water and soil, and is healthy for people.;
, Rather than putting milk in your tea, try putting in honey instead. Also, try to put milk inside coffee rather than tea, as milk doesn't affect coffee.


Protein: A good source of energy: builds and repairs your muscle tissue; good after work-outs.

Potassium: Helps you keep a good blood pressure.

Phosphorus: Helps strengthen your bones and gives you energy.

Vitamin D: Helps your body maintain your bones.

Vitamin B12: Helps maintain healthy red blood cells and helps maintain nerve tissue.

Vitamin A: Helps maintain the immune system; helps maintain normal vision and good skin.

Niacin: Improves your metabolism; have a glass before doing aerobics. , The USDA has shown drinking milk to prevent osteoporosis, because of its nutrients: calcium and vitamin D. Other evidence shows the intake of milk and milk products is linked to improved bone health and the reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and Type 2 diabetes. , Pasteurization kills bacteria and other harmful microorganisms that are found in raw milk, and it is dangerous to drink raw milk.


Be sure to read the label. Safe milk, meaning pasteurized milk, will have the word "pasteurized" on the label. If the word "pasteurized" is not found on the label of a product, it may contain raw milk.
Do not be afraid to ask your grocer or store clerk whether milk or dairy products have been pasteurized, especially milk or milk products sold in refrigerated cases. Do not buy milk or milk products at farm stands or farmers' markets unless you can confirm that it has been pasteurized. , Heartburn is caused a lot of the time by acidity, so logically milk naturally relieves heartburn.
 For thousands of years, milk has been known to keep skin clear. The lactic acid found in milk aids in removing dead skin cells, and therefore keeps your skin clear and rejuvenated., Milk has been shown to protect the enamel against acidic foods. Also, the calcium and vitamin D found in milk keeps bones strong, although teeth are not considered bones. , Many dieters do not consume dairy, because they think that milk will not help them lose weight. Recent studies performed by the Ben-Gurion University has shown that including more calcium in your diet may lead to continuous weight-loss. Drinking 12 ounces (580 g) of milk every day assists the loss of more than 12 lbs on average, while people who only consume a cup of milk a day lose on average 7 lbs.

