 Whether it's a day planner you carry in your backpack, a calendar on your wall at home, a to-do list you make at the end of every day, or an online calendar, it can help you keep track of when assignments are due and stay organized. At the beginning of the term, when you get your planner, note down every test, quiz, and assignment due date. Do this for each class.


Every day when you get home from school, check your calendar and see what needs to be done before tomorrow, as well as what's on the horizon for the next few days. Check off what you have already done.;
, Organizing whatever you use every day helps your mind feel clutter-free. It may sound silly, but when your visual environment is simple and orderly, your mind can concentrate on the more important stuff. Once a week, clean out your locker or backpack and organize your desk. It only takes a couple minutes.

You won't lose things when you automatically put them where they belong. Having a backpack, desk, or locker that's full of loose papers just gets confusing and frustrating.
 You have a calendar for the week or month, but you need a weekly study schedule, too. Map out your week to see when your studying can and should get done. That way you know just how much time you can devote to each class and when it makes the most sense to study for each one.Make sure that you abide by the plans that you make.


Use your common sense when it comes to allotting time to specific classes. For example, Badminton needs a lot less time than Principals of Celestial Mechanics.
Make sure you have an agenda so that you can write down all of your tests, when you have to study, and when you have homework due.Be sure that you complete all your homework. It boosts your learning.
 The matter of fact is that certain techniques don't work for certain people. Some of us learn with our hands, some of us with our eyes, and some of us with our ears (and others a combination). If you can't remember a thing your professor said, maybe you're just going about it the wrong way.

Once you find out your learning style, you can zone in on what's best for you. Do you remember best the things you've seen? Then study those notes and make graphs! The things you've heard? Go to class and record those lectures. Things you do with your hands? Turn the concepts into something you can build.
 As much as it is boring and monotonous, it's incredibly useful -- sometimes professors don't even mention the info in class! After reading a paragraph, revise it in your head without looking. Then read it again. It will stay in your mind for a longer time. It is particularly effective when you have less time for studying.

Often the things mentioned in class that are also mentioned in the book are the most important . If you run across some of this while reading, highlight it. You'll want to know where it is to find it later.
Don't write off the benefits of scanning. Concentrating on the main ideas (the highlighted text, italics, etc.) will get your mind going.If you can fill in the blanks, great! If you can't, read deeper.
 For most courses in middle school, high school, and junior/community college, most of what is on the tests and homework will be discussed in the class. If your teacher draws a diagram on the board, copy that down - it can help you remember the information.

Write good, legible notes. Use highlighters if there's something you need to find easily flipping through your notes, but don't highlight too much text or it defeats the purpose. Colored pens are fun to write with if you want to get more creative with your notes, but use them only for sections of your notes that you feel will be on a test or are important.
 Wasting nights pouring over books and emerging feeling like you've gotten nothing out of it is just about the worst. Instead of falling asleep over your textbook, try the following:

Make a study guide and review it. Look in the textbook and put all important ideas and details in your notes. Go over it until you feel like you know the material well. If you've written it, you'll probably remember more of it.
Make someone test you on the study guide. Talking about the information out loud is a lot easier to retain than going over the same stuff in your brain over and over. When you have to explain it to someone else, it forces you to understand it, not just know it.
Invent fun ways to study. Make flash cards, have a friend over, or join an after-school homework club if you can for help from a teacher or friend from the same class. You can make a board game to make studying fun and easy, or you can just type up your notes if it makes it easier to read. Do as much as possible to make sure you know the material.
 You've done your homework, so you're totally prepared to participate in class. Show that you know your stuff! There are a few reasons this is a good idea. The most important one is that participating in class will cement in your head the stuff you learned from doing your homework (before it was more like Jell-O).


The second good reason is that it will cement the information in your brain. Seriously. Talking about it out loud (especially in class, where it's a bit more stressful than when with a friend) uses a different part of your brain than just writing about it. This way, you're covering all your bases.
The third good reason is that your professor will totally appreciate it. No teacher likes a room full of crickets. Get on their good side, and you'll get treated better when grade time comes around or when you ask for extra credit.
 If you're not sure what's required for a good grade or are struggling with the coursework, ask your teacher for help. It doesn't have to be a complex question; your teacher is always happy to help you. Ask after class, during office hours, or in an e-mail for assistance.Often things we're told one-on-one stick with us more than things we're just being lectured about. In addition to the personalized learning session, your teacher will appreciate your efforts and straight up probably like you more. Having a teacher that likes you can come in very, very, very handy.
 If in the end the subject is super hard and you just can't understand it, get a tutor to help you. sometimes a tutor is even more helpful than getting a one-on-one with a teacher because they are closer to your age and can explain things to you in a manner that you can understand better.
 Time management is essential. If you're given an assignment that's due next week, don't procrastinate; get started within a few days of receiving the assignment. The more time you have, the less you'll stress.

If possible, try to get assignments finished at least two or three days before the due date. This is to avoid last minute emergencies, like "the dog eating your paper," a party invitation, the printer running out of ink, illness, family emergency, etc. Most teachers will deduct points for each day your work is late. Some do not accept late papers at all. If it helps you, try handing in your homework a couple days before it's due.
Homework counts for a large portion of your grade. If your teacher has any extra credit assignments, do them! It won't hurt if you try it out. Even if you get some wrong, your teachers will still notice your effort to try to learn more.
 Make sure that if you do your homework when your teacher or friend checks it that after school you go through it. If you do not understand it it will be better if you write down any questions that you need to know and ask your teacher after politely. Join extra classes too it will help you get better grades fast. Get tutor lesson if you can not afford your teacher will help you for free if she or he wants to.
 Set yourself goals and make sure you reach them before you go out and party. Having a social life is important, but your grades can affect a lot of your choices for the future. Schedule time each day to study, just as you would schedule dates or parties.


You can reward yourself for getting your homework done! Once you've completed it, it's TV, food, or party time. If that's not enough, ask if mom or dad can help you get incentivized. They want you to get good grades, too!

, Studying for tests with friends is super beneficial, so why not do homework with friends, too?! Not only will you stay motivated (and possibly stay interested in the class), but you'll be able to combine your levels of awesome and get things done more quickly, effectively, and possibly creatively.


The key here is to choose a friend that will pull his/her weight. You don't want to work with a friend that expects you to do all the work. Nor do you want a friend that wants neither of you to work! Choose a friend that's as goal-oriented as you are.
 The quickest way to get a zero on an assignment is to plagiarize it. Technology is amazing nowadays and your teacher will know if you're plagiarizing. Whether it's Google Translate or a speech by Martin Luther King, Jr., they'll know. So don't risk it.
 There is strength in numbers, even when it comes to studying. Bouncing ideas off each other and combining knowledge is a resource that is invaluable. Just make sure you don't distract each other or spend you whole time chatting with each other about the day!


This takes the information off the page and makes it fun and memorable. When you have to explain something to a friend, your brain has to wrap around it, instead of just taking it in and hoping that it stays. Make flashcards and study guides for each other to cover all the material.
 Things like mnemonic devices can really trigger information that doesn't otherwise want to stick. Odds are you probably know Roy G. Biv for the order of the colors of the rainbow or "My very exhausted mother just slept until noon." for the order of the planets. Why is that? They're effective mnemonic devices that stick in your mind! Associations work, too. If you're trying to remember that India used to be a British colony, picture the queen jogging laps around the Taj Mahal. When the test comes, you may not remember what you actually should remember, but you'll remember enough to jog your memory!

, You need a good, calm place to study. Make sure you have a sweater in case it gets cold, a good, comfy chair, some dark chocolate (brain power!), a bottle of water, and whatever else you may need. That way, you'll have few interruptions.


Research also shows that you should study in more than one place. It sounds a little funny, but your brain makes associations with your environment. So the more associations it has, the more likely you are to retain the information. Locate all the comfy chairs and study in them all!

, Although it's inevitable sometimes, cramming isn't the way to go. In fact, taking breaks is good for your brain and will help you retain more. Try to study in 20-50 minute intervals, taking five or ten minutes in between.And if you're on top of things, it's best to study over a full week. Several sessions will cement the knowledge in your head and by the end you'll be able to notice how much better you know the content, allowing you to relax and be confident.
 Easier said than done? Remember - you have all of the answers in your head already! The only challenge is getting them out! Your first instinct is nearly always correct. Don't go back and change answers. If you are really not sure, skip it and come back later.


Always read the questions given on a test. Skimming over them might tell you the opposite of what you need to do.
If you're uncertain about the wording of a test question, go and ask the teacher what it means. As long as you don't flat out ask for the answer to a question, just what they meant by the question; they will usually answer.
 You need sleep in order to stay focused, and without it, you will have a hard time staying on task and may forget what you just learned. That's part of the reason why cramming is so evil!

Sleep is wonderful. Sleep deprivation can lead to accidents, dumbs you down, and can actually cause health problems.If you have to choose between one last cramming session and sleep, choose sleep.
 In college, though sometimes in high school too, it's tempting to choose classes that look super impressive or are just plain out of your reach. While taking difficult classes is great and you'll learn a lot, limit it to one or two. If all you have is rocket science, you're bound to get overwhelmed. Take Rocket Science 101 and Sand Volleyball. Your brain deserves the break!


Choose the right amount of classes, too. Being absolutely time-swamped won't do you any favors. When will you study? Stick to the normal amount (4 or 5 classes per semester for college) and do well in those. It's better to do well in a few than to do mediocre in many.
 The simplest way to get good grades is just to show up to class in the first place. Not only will you get the credit for attendance (hopefully), but you won't miss any imperative announcements, concepts the professor stresses, or bonus questions the teacher includes in class (sneaky buggers, aren't they?).


If you're ever on the borderline between grades, going to class will help you. Professors often look at attendance to see if the student's grade should be rounded up or down in questionable circumstances. Give yourself the benefit of the doubt and go!

, It is known that if students eat a good and healthy breakfast every morning, they generally get good grades and are able to focus better in school.Even if you're not hungry early in the morning, bring something with you for later.

You want to be not hungry -- not stuffed to the brim and sick. Instead of a six-egg omelette, go for a bowl of cereal and an orange. You'll feel more able to focus on your studies instead of that rock in your stomach.
 Give your brain a workout - try some fun puzzle exercises every day such as crosswords, Sudoku, and other games which are easy enough for anyone to do. This will boost your brainpower and you will be able to memorize more information at school.

Websites like Lumosityand Memriseare great resources! Memrise even lets you input your own information to learn!

, If you are given an hour to complete a 120 question test, that's 30 seconds per question. 30 seconds can be made into a lot of time. Many of the questions will take far less than 30 seconds, so apply the balance to a tougher question. Don't think too deeply on the time, and don't let yourself get distracted by the ticking of the clock.


Time limits are sometimes arbitrary. If you really need an extra 5 minutes, ask. A diligent student that needs a bit more time is a concession most teachers will be willing to make.
 Don't worry if people think you are a perfectionist or an overachiever. Be persistent with your work while everyone else is fooling around in class. In a few years you will more than likely never see these people again, but you will see the A's and B's on your transcript that could have been C's and D's if you hadn't practiced!
, Put your papers in the file so that you always have the correct things at the correct times. If you have a desk put the file in your desk. If you have a locker you can put the file in your book bag for the day but at lunch you can put it your locker or on your free period.

