 Beef cows should be let to graze out on pasture during the times when pasture is available. If pasture is no longer available or you do not have enough area to allow stockpile grazing, then you will need to confine them to a "sacrifice area" where you have to feed them hay regularly, preferably by bales.


Make sure you cut the strings or netting from the bales before they're fed to them.
Beef cows should be fed according to what stage of reproduction they're in, their physiological needs, and their body condition. If cows are lactating with a suckling calf at side, they'll need good quality hay and supplementation if they are losing too much condition on just hay alone. Dry (non-lactating) beef cows that are in good condition do fine on lesser-quality hay. Thin cows need good quality hay and possibly supplementation to put on weight over the winter, but fat cows can do with poor quality forage to lose weight.
With grazing, opt for rotational grazing to keep your pastures healthy and more productive than if you were to allow all of your pasture for grazing.

Annual soil samples and regular harrowing, if you do not have chickens or dung beetles you can rely on to spread the manure around, will also help keep your pasture and paddocks productive.


Always ensure your cows have access to clean water and loose mineral.
 As mentioned above with Dairy cows, keep up-to-date with vaccinations and deworming/de-licing throughout the year. Certain vaccines for your cows may only need to be given once a year, whereas with deworming and de-licing, more applications per year may be necessary. See your vet for best vaccinations and de-worming products that are best for your cows, if you haven't done so already.
 Beef cows are a bit more tougher and less reliant on humans than dairy cows are, so less checking can be done with these girls. Many people who raise beef cattle don't check on them daily or more than once a day, unless they're rotational grazing them; they often only check them once a week or every two weeks to give then fresh mineral or switch pastures.
 This is for those who opt for a defined reproductive cycle of their herd, with a defined breeding, calving and weaning period. However, there's nothing wrong with deciding to have a year-round breeding program if you want to have the option of selling weaned calves throughout the year.
 Though you may have built some good solid fences, it doesn't hurt to check them occasionally to see if one of your herd as attempted escape to freedom, or if you had a call from someone telling you your cows got out. If that happens, then it's very important to check your fences to see where they got out and to fix the break they made.

