 For standard Joomla sites, this is located at www.your-site.com/administrator.;
, This is located at the top of the Administrator page next to the Help menu.
 This will open a new page that allows you to control the extensions installed on your website.
 There will be three different package installation options to choose from. Pick the one that matches where your theme file is located:



Upload Package File – This allows you to upload a zipped package file directly from your computer. The Joomla back-end program will install it automatically. Click “Upload” to find the file on your computer. Once you’ve selected it, click the Upload & Install button to install them template.

Install from Directory – This installs a template that has been uploaded to your webserver already. Templates can be unpacked and copied to their own folder in your webserver. The folder should be inside the Joomla installation folder on your webserver.

Install from URL – This allows you to enter a URL for the template file that you want to install. Simply copy the URL into the field and Joomla will do the rest.
 Once you’ve installed the template, you can verify that it works by clicking the “Manage” menu on the left of the page. Set the filter to “template” and look for your new template in the list.
 From the Template Manager menu, click the checkbox next to the template that you want to enable. Once it’s selected, click the Make Default button that looks like a Star. This will apply the template to your site., You can have more than one template active at a time. This allows you to have a base default template, and then use other templates for specific content on your site.


Open the Template Manager. You should see a list of your installed templates, including your default template.
Click a template that isn’t set as default. This will open the “Edit Style” page. You will see a large list of content types with check marks next to them.
Check the boxes for the elements that you want that template’s style to apply to. Once you are finished click the Save button.