 There may be security information on your lease papers, but questioning them would always provide answers to your specific questions.


Know the security of the main apartment entrance(s). Do you need specific keys, as a tenant, to enter? How many entrances are there? What are the hours at night when the hallway lights go on and turn off? Are there any hours of the amenities (laundromat, pool, weight room, etc)?
Note down whom is responsible of the street lights in and around the property or parking lot. Usually, it's either the property manager or your local electric company. Keep a list of numbers available if a light is broken or needs repairing.
Ask them whom enters the building that does not need a key or badge. Common people may include the mail carrier and apartment maintenance.;
, If there are no deadbolts or peepholes on your doors, request them from your property manager. Decide on getting shades or blinds for all windows that don't reflect inside activity that can be seen from the outside. You can also consider moving your television away from the window view; this would deter on-lookers on the size of the television reflection/motion, as a person can easily calculate how big the screen is. Make sure that all of your windows securely lock properly, even if you don't live on the ground level.
 If you're expecting a package through a company aside from the postal office, jot down the estimated date of arrival. Schedule all appointments, such as cable/internet company, electric, or other necessary needs at a specific date and time. Be sure that you get identification prior to allowing them in, even if it's having them slide a badge under the door if there isn't a peephole available.


Times throughout the year, the property manager is required to check the maintenance of the overall building and your own apartment, such as proper lighting, smoke detectors, and apartment inspections. Usually a note to all tenants will be posted somewhere near the main entrance or mailboxes prior to the intended date. They may also need a secondary person to assist with assignments, so thoroughly read any notices to be aware of the situation.
 When a tenant first moves in, they need to label their individual mail slot. Use only your last name at all times, as this is enough identification to your mail carrier.


If you happen to receive mail that appears as if it belongs to a previous tenant (different name, same apartment number), never manipulate nor destroy the item. Always write "Not at this address" on the envelope and drop/return it at any mail receptacle.
 They are responsible for keeping the buildings(s) secured and maintained, however, if you see any lock tampering or lights that goes out for a period of time, give them a heads up as soon as possible. Weather and seasons also affect maintenance, for example, any ice/dirt build-up or any extremely high wind impact on the doors may not keep them completely shut and locked.
 Never, under any circumstances, leave short notes on your doors for any roommates or others that reside with you. You will never know who is around while you're gone. Always give the intended party a short call or text message letting them know your whereabouts, even if it's a short trip to the store. Always contact nearby family and friends when planning on leaving for a longer time duration, including any out of state departures. Don't allow them to have any keys for the building, but allow them to check on any suspicious behavior in the area.
 Never leave your valuables inside of your car, especially in places where people can take a quick glimpse from the window to see what's inside. Always lock all doors, even if you forgot something inside your apartment. If you're defrosting your car during the winter, stay with it at all times while its running. The best opportunity for a thief is when they see an unattended car with the engine on.
 Even if it's their first names, it'll give you a sense of security of knowing those living around you. Offer a hand to your elderly neighbors, such as carrying groceries from their car. Living in a very small complex may allow tenants to interact with each other in a more secured way than people whom reside in a building with many tenants. Treat their packages left outside like your own and leave it by their doorstep instead of ignoring it as you pass by.

