 The idea here is two-fold: you are distributing healthy, natural oils along the length of your lashesas well as stimulating circulation at the root of your lashes. Combing your lashes will remove any lingering mascara or other product that could be drying out your lashes.


Separating your lashes by combing can also make them appear longer.
 As with brushing, massaging your eyelids will stimulate circulation, increasing the flow of oxygen and nutrients to your hair follicles.Use the pads of your fingers to very gently rub the base of your lash line. Use circular motions and don't tug or pull on the skin.
 A coat of Vaseline will seal the moisture into your eyelashes, preventing them from drying out. Though this doesn't necessarily increase the length of your eyelashes, it can make them thicker and healthier, which can make them look longer.
 Brew yourself a cup of green tea and use a cotton swab to apply the (cooled!) tea to your lashes. The flavonoids and caffeine in green tea are said to stimulate new hair growth., Though they will temporarily make your lashes look long and voluminous, removing them can destroy your eyelashes. When you remove the lashes, you will pull out some of your existing lashes. Plus the glue and the solvent that removes the glue can be harmful to your eyes.If you are constantly pulling out your eyelashes as you remove the false lashes, you can actually cause traction alopecia, which means your lashes will no longer grow., Leaving mascara on your lashes overnight can cause them to dry out, bend, and break.Not only does this cause a sparse lash-line, but a bent eyelash can actually scratch your eye in the night.


Try to avoid waterproof mascara, as it can dry out your eyelashes, which makes them more prone to breaking., Your hair is made of protein, and without it your body won't be able to create new, healthy hair. A healthy diet will give your body all the building blocks to make and nourish your eyelashes.Eat dark greens like broccoli, kale, spinach, and Swiss chard for vitamin A and C. Vitamin deficiencies can actually cause your eyelashes to fall out.Proteins like turkey, chicken, nuts, beans, lentils, eggs, yogurt, and cheese will give your body the building blocks it needs to grow new hair.Bananas, beer, oats, and raisins contain silica, a mineral that may increase hair thickness., Whether it's a nervous habit or a method of mascara removal, pulling on your eyelashes is a major don't. You may pull out or damage your eyelashes and may actually cause trauma to healthy hair follicles, which can make them dormant so they won't grow new hair.If you have stubborn mascara that won't come off (like a long-lasting or waterproof mascara), try an oil-based makeup remover to break it down. Gently rub the oil over your eyelid, then hold a cotton pad against your eyelid for about 30 seconds. Swipe the pad downward and this should remove most of the mascara.
Rubbing itchy eyes can also cause damage to your lashes. Try allergy-fighting eyedrops instead and keep your hands in your lap!

,