 Any time you experience one of the symptoms above, write down what you were doing and what the experience was like. Use this record to identify substances and activities to avoid.


Bring along this record when visiting a doctor, especially an allergy and asthma specialist.
 Inhaled allergens can inflame your airways, causing asthma symptoms. The most common examples include:Dust
Animal fur
Mold
Cockroaches
Pollen (learn how to reduce pollen exposure)


, These substances can trigger an asthma attack in many patients:Smoke, including from tobacco
Car exhaust
Polluted air
Any sprayed chemical product, including hairspray and air freshener
Home décor products, including paint and cleaning products

, Cold air can constrict your airways and trigger an asthma attack. If this happens to you, make a doctor's appointment. In the meantime, take the following precautions in cold weather:Inhale through your nose, not your mouth
Wrap a scarf over your mouth and nose
Avoid exercise in cold locations

, If you have difficulty breathing during exercise, visit a doctor as soon as possible. It may be dangerous to continue exercising before you have asthma medication and medical advice.


Asthma patients can learn to exercise safely, even at the Olympic level! Exercise that involves short bursts of activity is less likely to cause an attack.
 Chemicals in the workplace can irritate your lungs. Don't assume a chemical is safe because you've been using it for years; you may have developed an allergy that triggers asthma. Take precautions to avoid these if your breathing improves during time off. Here are the most common workplace asthma triggers:Hydrochloric acid, ammonia, or sulfur dioxide
Latex gloves
Paint hardener
Powdered medications
Plastics or resin manufacture
Detergent powder manufacture
Insecticides
Flour
Any of the allergens and irritants listed earlier

, Some people react to sulfites, a type of food preservative often found in processed foods. The following foods often contain sulfites, but may be available in sulfite-free preparations:Dried fruits or vegetables
Wine and beer
Shrimp (including fresh shrimp)
Bottle lime or lemon juice
Many processed or pickled foods, especially potato products

