 "Standard" or "mid-range" focal lengths can range from 35mm to around 80mm, and are closer to what the human eye sees. The "telephoto" range is generally considered to be any focal length from around 85mm and higher, and is used to make subjects appear closer. A "prime" lens has only one focal length, such as a 50mm lens. A "zoom" lens covers multiple focal lengths, and is described (for example) as an 18-55mm lens, meaning it covers a range from wide-angle (at 18mm) to mid-range (at 55mm).
 Or, perhaps your current lens's image quality is poor. That will help you figure out which lens to purchase.
 You'll probably use it for 75% of your shooting. Luckily, all DSLR makers offer a "kit" lens in this range, and most discount it heavily if you buy it with the camera. The optical quality is generally very good for the price. It's pretty much a no-brainer -- grab it.
 Commonly used for nature photography, sports, or any time you want to take a "close up" of a distant object.
 WA zooms are fiendishly tricky to make and you'll pay top dollar. A 10-20mm will cost about as much as you paid for the camera, but the results are worth it (assuming you like the exaggerated geometric effects, which tend to make people look just weird). Since not many folks will shell out for a WA zoom, your super-wide pix will really stand out.
 A 35 to 50mm f/1.7 - f/2 lens is great for low light and portraits. For whatever reason the 50mm is generally much cheaper; it will give a somewhat narrower angle of view on consumer (small sensor) DSLRs and work on film and full-frame digital too. It will have excellent image quality.
 Similarly, a lens that zooms from wide-angle to telephoto sacrifices image quality to provide convenience.
 Lightweight and easy to use, most photographers primarily use a lens in this range, referred to as their "walkabout" lens.
 You'll find a number of lenses in each of these ranges, with image quality and prices that vary widely. This will give you coverage from wide-angle through telephoto.
