 Sometimes, you may be unable to find ceiling joists where you want to hang the pot rack. In this case, you can use toggle bolts to secure the pot rack. These are bolts that anchor through dry wall, allowing you to hang the rack without the support of joists. Toggle bolts are a type of anchor recommended for hanging a pot rack as they can support a fair amount of weight and are fairly easy to install. Most hardware stores sell toggle bolts.Check how much weight toggle bolts can support before making a purchase. It should say on the package how much weight a specific type of toggle bolt can hold. Make sure the bolts are strong enough to support your pot rack. Keep the extra weight of pots and pans in mind, going for bolts that can hold more weight than the weight of your rack. For this to be accurate, you will need to also determine the type of ceiling you have. Some ceilings are 1/2 inch thick dry wall, others 5/8 inch, the latter will hold much more weight than the former. Other ceilings may not be suitable for any installation, such as acoustic tile.
 In order to install a toggle bolt, you'll first need to see where the chains on the rack will be hung. To do so, lay your pot rack on a piece of cardboard. Trace the rack, making a template. Mark where the chains fall and use a sharp object, like a pair of scissors or a knife, to cut small holes where the chains fall.


Place your template against the spot on the ceiling where you intend to hang the rack. Use a pencil to draw a small dot where each chain will fall.
 Your pot rack's hooks should come with some kind of bracket or hinges that the hooks or chains attach to. You should be able to stick one end of the toggle bolt into these hinges or brackets. Make sure to do so before installing the toggle nut., The toggle opens and closes, like a pair of scissors. The idea behind a toggle bolt is that you'll push the toggle through the wall when it's closed. Then, it will open on the other side of the dry wall, anchoring itself to the ceiling. You want to drill a hole in the drywall big enough that the toggle can pass through closed. You should refer to the instructions on your toggle bolt package to figure out the precise size hole you'll need. Then, drill a hole of that size into your ceiling., Once you've drilled your hole, pinch the toggle to get it to get it to close. Press the closed toggle all the way through the dry wall., You should hear a faint click when the toggle pushes through the ceiling. This noise indicates that the toggle has opened up above the ceiling. This process is vital as, once the toggle is opened, it can be anchored against the wall., Now, you can pull the bolt out of the wall. Keep pulling until you feel the bolt stop. Once it stops, this means the toggle is pressed against the dry wall., Now, use a screw driver or a pair of pliers to screw the bolt into the toggle nut. Keep screwing until the bolt is pressed tightly against the drywall ceiling. This will secure the toggle to the dry wall, anchoring the bolt to the ceiling., Now that your toggle is safely installed in the ceiling, you can screw your pot rack's hooks onto the toggle bolt. How you screw on the hooks varies from pot rack to pot rack, and depends on the types of brackets or hinges that came with your pot rack. Refer to the instructions that came with your rack.
 Once the hooks are secure, hang the pot rack up on your wall. Toggle bolts are strong enough to hold a lot of weight. If you installed toggle bolts properly, your pot rack should hang securely from your ceiling.

