 This is a doctor who specializes in the male reproductive system. The urologist can take a detailed medical history and perform a physical exam to determine what course of action is best to help you and your partner become pregnant. The urologist can also assess your partner to see if he has any specific fertility problems, other than the vasectomy.
It is advisable for you, as the woman, to also consult your OB/GYN and to make sure you have no fertility problems that could hold the two of you back from becoming pregnant.
 It is a procedure that can be done directly in the doctor's office, with only local freezing (anesthetic) to numb the scrotal area, and it is relatively quick (around 30 minutes).Some men find it helpful to have you there as moral support.
It is also recommended to drive your partner home after the procedure as he will likely be experiencing some pain and discomfort.
 Sperm is produced in the testicles, and it then goes to the epididymis to mature. From the epididymis it travels through the vas deferens and eventually joins the urethra for ejaculation. The initial vasectomy procedure cut through the vas deferens to prevent sperm transport during ejaculation. The vasectomy reversal can be done in two ways. The first way is reattaching the two cut ends of the vas deferens (called a vasovasostomy). This is the more common procedure.The second way is reattaching the vas deferens directly to the epididymis (called a vasoepididymostomy).This is used when a vasovasostomy is not possible., Recovery from this procedure usually does not take more than a few days.The man may have some pain in his scrotal area, and this can be treated with over-the-counter pain medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or an NSAID (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve), or aspirin.
Most men are fine with over-the-counter pain medications and do not need anything stronger; however, it is an option to receive prescription pain medication from the doctor if your partner needs it.
 Sometimes couples will hold off on sex for up to a few weeks after the procedure, as some men experience discomfort (and occasionally some blood) with ejaculation.


If this occurs for your partner, it should resolve on its own with time (within a few weeks).
If the bleeding is severe or the pain and discomfort are not improving, seek additional help from your doctor.
 The urologist will likely ask for follow-up appointments to check your partner's sperm counts, and to assess whether or not the procedure was successful.


Note that success rates of vasectomy reversal are approximately 60%. It partly depends upon the number of years that the man has had the vasectomy for. A shorter duration equates to a greater success rate.
 In other words, when you have sexual intercourse after the vasectomy is reversed, you will have the same chance as any other couple of conceiving a baby.Note that this also means that the man is no longer "sterile" (that is, the vasectomy is no longer functioning as birth control), so the two of you will need to discuss alternate methods for contraception after the pregnancy is over.

