 Your main source of vitamin D occurs when UVB radiation strikes your skin. When this happens, the first steps of vitamin D synthesis in your body is triggered. After this, the next steps occur in the liver and then the kidneys.Because the rest takes place inside the body, once the body is triggered, you no longer need to be exposed to UVB radiation.;
, Since sunlight stimulates vitamin D production, you need to spend time in the sun without protection. You need to let your exposed skin get access to the sun a few times a week. It is recommended that amount of time you should spend in the sun is half the amount of time it takes for your skin to turn pink.Most children and young adults need to spend 20 to 30 minutes outside, two to three times a week with bare arms, legs, and face to synthesize enough Vitamin D to prevent deficiency.Although sun is important, using a tanning bed as a substitute for sun is not recommended. Tanning beds increase the risk of skin cancer.In one study, exposure to afternoon sun long enough to get mildly pink skin (for light-skinned people) was enough to produce 10,000 to 25,000 IU of Vitamin D.Individuals with darker skin need more sun exposure, and need to spend three to six times longer in the afternoon sun to get the same amount of Vitamin D. The reason for this is that darker skin contains higher amounts of melanin, a skin pigment whose function is to protect skin cells from UVB radiation. Older adults need to spend more time in the sun to get the same effects as well.
 There are many factors that should be taken into consideration when getting the right sun. Your location and the season of the year can make a significant difference. In addition to season, skin color, and presence of sunscreen, the amount you get also relies on the amount of cloud cover and pollution in the area.For example, 15 minutes of sun exposure on your hands, arms, and face at around noon in Miami, Florida throughout the year is roughly equivalent to 1000 IU.
In other areas north and south of 40 degrees latitude (which in the United States is around Boston), there isn’t enough UVB radiation to stimulate vitamin D production from November to March. In Canada, this extends from October to mid March. This time period is known as the Vitamin D Winter., Sunscreens, which block UVB radiation, significantly decrease vitamin D production.This means that you need to be in the sun without sunscreen, but only for this limited amount of time. If you think you are going to spend more than 20 to 30 minutes in the sun, then you should wear sunscreen.

