 The pharmaceutical industry spends loads of money to market brand-name drugs. This includes television commercials targeted at people like you, but also outreach to doctors like your GP. Often, the result is pressure to go with a brand-name, even when it is not cost-effective or the best choice.


Don’t insist on a brand-name. Just because you’ve seen it on TV or in a magazine doesn’t make one drug better than another.
Question your doctor about your meds. The drug industry uses “direct-to-physician” marketing to convince doctors to prescribe its products. This can include meetings with comped meals and other give-aways. Some people consider these activities influence-peddling.Do ask your doctor about options. Say something like, “I trust your judgment, doctor, but can you tell me more? Do I have more choices besides X-drug?”;
, Patents for medical drugs last about 20 years. After this, other companies can make “off-patent” or generic versions. Generic drugs have all the same active ingredients as brand-name drugs at a fraction of the price. In other words, they work the same but will cost you between 30% to 80% less.In general, let your doctor know if you need to save costs or can’t afford a certain drug.
Your doctor might assume you can afford brand-names or that your insurance will cover it. However, you may be paying more out of pocket that way.
Be proactive and ask whether there are any generic versions available.
 Did you know that some pills cost nearly the same as those with twice as much dosage? Sometimes, a pill with 80 mg has the same price as a pill with 40 mg of the same drug. You might be able to opt for the higher dosage pills and then split the pills in half to save money.Be aware of the risks. Not all pills split safely and it is sometimes hard to get the right dosage. For this reason, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) doesn’t recommend the practice.Ask your doctor whether a drug is safe to split. Many pills – especially time-release, coated, and capsule pills – are not. You can also consult with a pharmacist.
If splitting the pill is safe, ask your doctor to prescribe you twice the dosage that you need in order to split the pills on your own.
 Are you already on multiple drugs? Have you lost track of what the medications are for? Some doctors overprescribe, pure and simple, so be sure that you need a new script in the first place. Taking too many drugs can be costly but also put a great deal of strain on your body.Be wary if your doctor tends to write you a prescription for every new symptom you report.
Have your doctor explain the medicine’s purpose. Then ask her, “OK, but why do I need it?”
Be sure to ask about reactions with other drugs you’re taking. In certain combinations, drugs can become less effective or even dangerous.
 Home remedies and herbal supplements are not necessarily bad for you and may help with some of your health conditions. But be careful. For one thing, herbal supplements aren’t regulated in the same way that drugs are. You should also NEVER use them as a replacement for your meds or a way to save on drug costs.Ask your doctor about each herbal remedy to see whether it’s safe or not.
Also ask about possible drug interactions. Some herbal remedies can interact with prescription medications and cause adverse, maybe dangerous, reactions.
Again, don’t use herbal remedies in place of prescription drugs to save money.

