 Place your potatoes and carrots in a medium pot and fill it with water. Cook it on high heat and boil them on the stove until they are tender. This should be around 20-30 minutes.


Keep checking the tenderness of the vegetables because you don't want to overcook them.
Do not peel your vegetables before you cook them. Leaving the skins on will help you retain more of the vitamins in the vegetables.Set your vegetables aside to cool.;
, Take your eggs and place them in a large pot in a single layer. Fill the pot with water. Heat the pot on high heat until the water comes to a full rolling boil. Once they have boiled, turn off the heat but keep the pan on the hot burner. Cover the pan and let them sit for 10-12 minutes.


If you want to eggs that are easier to peel once they are cooked, you should buy your eggs 1-2 weeks ahead of the time you know you want to make the salad. Older eggs are easier to peel., Open the can of peas. Pour them into a strainer. To remove excess salt from the peas, run cool water over them.


If you don't have canned peas, you can use frozen peas. Just thaw them before you use them., Once you cool your eggs, you need to peel them. You can also peel the potatoes, carrots, and cucumbers if you don't like the flavor of the skins. You do not have to peel them.


Leaving the skins on the vegetables will add minerals and vitamins to your salad., Once your potatoes and carrots are cooled, cut them into 1/4 an inch cubes. You should also cut the cucumbers, pickles, bologna, and eggs into cubes as well. You should also mince the onion into even smaller pieces.


When you buy your bologna, make sure the pieces are cut in thick slices or in a large chunk. They will be easier to cube this way.
You can also use chicken or ham in this recipe. Just switch out the bologna with 2 cups of boiled chicken or 1 pound of ham if you prefer either to bologna.The cubes don't have to be precise, but they need to be small and easy to eat.
The onion is optional. If you do not like fresh onion, you can omit it. If you just don't like the taste of normal onions, you can use chives or green onions instead.
 Mix all the ingredients together in a large bowl with the mayonnaise. Keep stirring the mixture until all the ingredients are covered in the mayonnaise. Place in the refrigerator for a few hours to chill.


Much like potato salad, this dish is designed to be made ahead of time. It will keep in the fridge for a few days after you make it.