 The first step to breaking in a new pair of high heel shoes is simply to wear them often. The more often you wear your heels, the more of an opportunity your heels have to stretch and conform to your feet.


To avoid the awkwardness and potential danger of wearing new high heel shoes while out and about, start by wearing your shoes at home. You can wear them while watching television or folding laundry. You can wear them while cooking dinner.
You can also take your heels with you to work. If have an office job, wear your shoes at your desk for a couple of hours.
Once you feel comfortable wearing and walking short distances in your heels, take them out. Wear them on a short trip to the grocery store or to your local bank.;
, Although this is considered a fashion faux pas, wearing socks with your new heels will help to break them in. You don’t have to wear them while you’re out and about, unless, of course, you actually like the look of it. You can wear them while you’re hanging out at home, or while you’re sitting at your desk at work.


In order for your socks to stretch your shoes properly, they can’t be too thin (they won’t work) and they can’t be too thick (they’ll stretch your shoes too much and cause your feet to slip out when you are wearing your heels skin-to-shoe). A regular, everyday sock will do just fine.
Do this for a few days and you'll notice that you are blister-free and your shoes are broken in, having molded to the shape of your foot.
 You can work out the stiffness of your new heels by bending and twisting them. Apply slight pressure as you bend the shoes upwards and downwards and twist them side to side. Don’t do either method too hard or too quickly. You don’t want to force the shoe into a position that it shouldn’t be making. Doing so could damage the shoe or weaken it in places that should remain sturdy.
 Carefully warm your heels using a blow dryer or a small heater for about a minute or two. Watch how your heels react to the heat because certain materials don't do so well under heat for long periods of time. You can bend and twist your heels while they’re still warm. Or you can wait until they’ve cooled and put them on with a pair of socks to stretch them.
 Since you don’t want all of your breaking in efforts be in vain, keep them stuffed when you’re not wearing them. You can stuff your shoes with the shoe paper and rod that come with the shoes when you buy them. You can keep them filled with shoe trees, which are inserts molded into the shape of the inside of your high heel shoes. Or you can simply stuff them with rags.
 Those packets contain silica gel which absorb moisture and keep your shoes from shrinking. Hold on to those packets instead of throwing them away and stick them in your shoes when you’re not wearing them. You can ask a shoe store associate for extras, if necessary.

