 A good starting place is either the plot or the hero. Once you have these two things, create more characters. Give your hero a family, friends, and some enemies. Include details. What are your characters' names? How old are they? What are their hobbies? What was their past like?
, Where does the hero live? Where does he/she travel? When does this happen?, Introduce the hero. What is his/her personality? How are they physically? What does he/she look like? Where does he or she live? Is he/she clever, strong, considerate...? Tell as much about him/her as possible. wut

, Has anybody in his/her family died? If so, how? What is their reputation? Do they travel a lot? Are they rich or poor? What does the hero think of his/her family?, They should spend a good chunk of the story trying to reach this goal. The task will usually benefit many people, not just the hero., They should help the hero and be or become his/her friends. They should play an important role in the hero achieving his/her goal., This enemy will usually be the villain of the story. The hero's goal will often be to defeat this enemy or to stop them from doing something bad. MAKE SURE THIS ENEMY WORKS FOR YOUR STORY! If you need someone who is completely evil for your story, go ahead, but if all your story needs is a bully, all you should have is a bully. Don't overdo it., Achieving their goal won't be easy. What do they have to do? Travel long distances? Fight the enemy or his/her supporters? Add as many things as you want to., If somebody they care about dies, think about his/her reaction. They won't get over it in just a few days. Keep this in mind as you write., This usually ends with the villain/enemy being defeated or redeemed, but it's your story, so you can have it end in any way you want, even with the villain/enemy winning., If the hero wins, he/she will usually be respected and admired. If the enemy wins, what happens next? Will there be a sad ending? Will the hero's friends kill the villain/enemy? Or will the enemy/villain win leaving room for a sequel?