 You could use your hands, a large spoon, or some object from a carving kit.;
, It's not that easy. One way to do it is to put the combined seeds and flesh in a strainer and run water through it as you rub the seeds between your fingers, separating them from the flesh.
, water You can choose to discard the pulp if you desire. See Tips for more info.
 The salt water deactivates enzyme inhibitors in the seeds; those enzyme inhibitors can irritate your stomach, and removing them allows the production of more vitamins in the seeds. Many traditional groups like the Aztecs soak pumpkin/squash seeds in salt water before dehydrating them. Many people also find that doing this dramatically improves the flavor of the seeds.Fill a large bowl about 2/3 with water.
Add salt to the water until it is saturated.
Place seeds in the salt-water solution and let soak for 8 to 48 hours.
Dump all of the water out of the bowl.
, This is where you can get as creative as you want. Here are some ideas:

Sprinkle with additional salt

Toss every cup of seeds with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of vegetable, olive or canola oil until the seeds are coated; it will help additional seasonings stick
Substitute melted butter for the oil
Season with old bay/crab seasoning, chili powder, Worcestershire sauce, garlic powder, Cajun seasoning, and/or other strong flavors for a savory snack
Season with sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg for a sweet snack
Toss the seeds in sauce like hot sauce, soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, etc.
Consider other powder seasonings like garlic powder, steak seasoning, pasta spice mix, etc.
 Make sure there is only one layer of seeds.
 There are several ways to do this:



Broil' - Preheat your oven to the "Broil" setting, so only the top element is activated. Place the sheet into the preheated oven. Watch carefully, as different ovens broil at a variety of temperatures. This should usually take no more than 10 minutes. When the top of the seeds has turned brown, you can do one of two things based on your texture preferences: (a) Remove the pan now for a slightly crispy and nutty texture, or (b) remove the pan and flip the seeds over. Replace back in the oven and toast another 10 minutes, or until brown. This yields a very crispy and salty seed.
Bake - Preheat the oven to 163º C or 325º F and leave the pumpkin seeds in there until browned (about 20-25 minutes total), shaking them around every 5-10 minutes to prevent burning.
Microwave - Put the seeds in the microwave for 2 minutes. Take them out, stir, and put them back in for 1 minute. Keep stirring them after every minute in the microwave until they're crispy enough.

Pan - Roast them in a pan, constantly shifting them around so that they roast evenly and don't stick to the pan.
 Hot pumpkin seeds can burn your skin.
