 Cardiac disease can be quite serious and alarming, which is why it is important to monitor your symptoms closely. If you notice any of these symptoms, contact your doctor or emergency medical services immediately (depending on the severity):Chest pain
Shortness of breath (for no apparent reason)
Back pain
Neck pain
Fluttering in your chest
Lightheadedness
Racing or unusually slow heartbeat
Fainting

, Any kind of irregularity in your heart rate or pulse is called an arrhythmia. If your heart rate speeds up for no reason, seems to skip a beat, or beats irregularly, you should contact your doctor to discuss the issue.Even if your heart beats quite fast – for example, at 100 beats per minute on average – this is still fine as long as this is normal for you. What you should be concerned about is any change or irregularity in your heart rate.
Stress, caffeine, alcohol and some medications such as beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors and others can affect your heart rate.
 Continue to monitor your heart rate over a long period of time so that you can begin to understand what is normal for you. Check your heart rate after exercising, while sleeping (with a fitness tracker), and while you are sitting/resting. Understanding how your own pulse typically functions in a variety of circumstances will help you notice anything out of the ordinary in the future.

You may want to consider keeping a heart rate journal so that you can document your heart rate at various times and refer back to it later.
 Your doctor will be able to tell you if there is any problem with your heart. If your doctor is concerned, they may ask you to monitor your heart rate over a period of time and report back to them.Your doctor may also investigate your heart health with a variety of tests like an electrocardiogram (EKG), echocardiogram (echo), or a cardiac computerized tomography (CT) scan.
A doctor may ever prescribe an electronic heart monitor (Holter monitor) for you if they are concerned about your heart rate or some possible irregularities. Usually this is a portable monitor that attaches to your chest with electrodes that you will need to wear for two weeks or so, while your doctor monitors your results.

