 Being a good host is not a skill that comes naturally to everyone. A good host is able to be attentive to the needs of his or her guests without overwhelming them. You want to be able to anticipate your guests’ needs without stepping on their toes too much. You should be friendly, welcoming, and helpful and to make sure that your guests feel literally at home (without crowding you too much, of course!). Here are some things you can do to be a good host:


Take your guests’ coats when they walk in and tell them where to put their shoes.
Carry their luggage.
Give your guests a quick tour so they know where the kitchen, bathroom, and everything else is located.
Be accommodating. Give your guests a place to sleep, pillows, blankets, towels, or anything else they may need to comfortably stay at your home. While you don’t want them to walk all over you, you also have elected to open up your home to them.
 A big aspect of being a good host to guests at your home is to making sure their needs are met. Many guests may be too shy about telling you what they really want and need, and it’s up to you to ask them so that they feel comfortable. While you don’t want to constantly annoy them, you don’t want to be so aloof that they’re afraid of asking, either. Here are some things you can ask your guests to make sure their needs are met:


Offer your guests a glass of water or a beverage. They may be too shy to ask for what they really need.
If an old friend is coming to town and you both like splitting a bottle of wine now and again, then have one ready to go when your guest arrives.
Make sure they don’t go hungry. While you don’t want to be pushy, you also should make sure that your guests are well fed. They may not admit that they are hungry at first, so make sure you have a few food options available for any mealtime.
Keep a plate of snacks, such as trail mix, crackers, fruit, or anything else that isn’t perishable out so your guests have something to munch on.
Ask if they need towels, shampoo, or anything else for showering. Let them know what they can and can not use.
Prepare the right foods in advance. It never hurts to ask your guests what they like for breakfast, if they have any allergies, or if there’s any snack they absolutely love before they stay with you, so you’re prepared with something they like and don’t get stuck running any grocery errands.
 If guests have come out of town to visit you, then you should probably show them around the neighborhood. You may not be a fan of the touristy spots in your hometown, or don’t think there’s much worth seeing, but if your guests came all the way out to visit you, then you should at least make an effort to show them around. Take a minute to think about the top destinations that people should see in your hometown, whether it’s the Statue of Liberty or the famous little jazz café on the other side of town. Make sure your guests see at least a few of these places so you can put your good hosting into practice.


Okay, so if you live in Manhattan and don’t feel like waiting in line for three hours to go up the Empire State Building, then you can at least guide your guests there and wait it out at a Starbucks next door until the deed is done. You don’t want to leave them completely hanging, especially not at first.
The top spots could be famous or quirky restaurants, landmarks, statues, unique stores, ocean views, or really anything your hometown is known for.
Of course, the “go to” spots don’t just have to be tourist traps. Take your guests to your favorite parts of your home, even if you just go to your favorite bar or restaurant. Show them what you love about living where you live.
 Though it’s important to be a good host, to offer up your home, and to ask your guests questions to get a sense of how they’re feeling, it’s also important to give them some space, especially if they are staying with you for a few days. You shouldn’t barge in on their rooms or into the area where they’re sleeping without knocking or announcing yourself, and you shouldn’t plan to be around your guest 24/7, unless that’s really what the other person wants. It can be a little claustrophobic to be a guest in another person’s home, and you should be understanding of the fact that your guest may want to be left alone, at times.


Many people need time to unwind, especially after a long day of travel or a long trip to look at landmarks or tourist sites. You should give your guests some time to decompress, even if you are really excited that they’re with you.
 This goes along with giving your guests their space. You don’t want to be the person who asks a question so many times that the person you’re asking is forced to say yes. If your guest insists that he’s really not hungry more than once, you can leave him alone and say that there’s a lasagna waiting in the fridge if he wants it. You don’t want your guests to feel like they have to say yes when they’re not up for something just to please you.


Your guests may have a certain idea about how they want to spend their visit with you. If you ask them to do something, like going to the pool or a waterpark, and they really don’t seem into it, you shouldn’t push it unless you really think it’s what they do want and that they’re saying no just because it’s too much trouble.
 If you want to entertain your guests, then you should also plan for taking a break from, well, entertaining. Unless your guests expect you to be around 24/7 – provided that’s what you want to do – you should come up with a list of things for them to do while you’re at work, resting, or just doing your own thing. This could include places to grab lunch solo or a list of tourist attractions, such as museums or gardens, if you live in a place that’s full of them.


Being prepared for this in advance would save you from feeling like you have to be there every second of the day. If you can’t come up with anything for your guest to do without you, you may have to hang out with him or her instead of getting some down time.
 It can also help a lot to keep your home full of activities that your guests can do without you so you don’t feel compelled to entertain every waking second. If there are kids involved, you can have some video games, markers and paper for drawing, or action figures available for them. If your guests are adults, you can have some gossip or more highbrow magazines around, a boxed set of a TV show, or an album of photos for your guests to look through. Having something that will do the entertaining for you can help you in a pinch when you need thirty minutes to fold laundry and can’t think of anything for your guests to do.


Having board games or other activities such as Twister or Monopoly around can also help you find something fun to do with your guests.

