 If you want to get your grouch on, pick a category. Most people can't dedicate themselves to being absolutely grouchy about everything, unless your name is the Grinch, or Oscar, but even they have moments of sunshine. Focus on the thing that bugs you more than anything else, and the thing about which you know the most to complain about. Some popular grouch archetypes:



The Political Grouch. Right or left, the political grouch always has a good idea of who's to blame. Crooked politicians, corporations, welfare states–whatever you blame for the ills of society, do as little research as possible and ramp your fiery rhetoric up to 11. The political grouch is usually a talk radio and cable news addict, always opinionated, and rarely silent. You must be heard! Patron Saint: Ted Nugent.

The Pop Culture Grouch can be found stalking the comment streams of YouTube videos, particularly on videos by current pop singers, complaining that music isn't as good as it used to be. This grouch will then typically list bands from 10 years ago and claim that these bands are better. Also applicable to art, books, movies, or television, the cultural grouch is a curmudgeon of the highest order, usually obsessed with the idea the past was better than the current. Patron Saint: Your Uncle Carl.

Environmental Grouches are noble souls. Angry about topics from animal rights to global warming to the plight of the bees, environmental grouches are easy to pick out at most farmer's markets. Dedicated to fermenting small batches of cabbage and growing their own kale to stick it to corporate farming, these grouches are sometimes kind of a bummer at dinner parties, but are serious outdoorsy sorts with a purpose. Patron Saint: Paul Watson and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society.

The Bourgeois Grouch likes to Yelp savage reviews of expensive restaurants, tell "horror stories" about what happened at the airport on the way back from France, and Tweet about how long the line is at the pour-over coffee stand. No amount of luxury makes the bourgeois grouch satisfied, and thus the bourgeois grouch spends lots of time shopping online for clothes with trust fund money. Then blogging about it. Patron Saint: Everyone on whitewine.com.;
, Every grouch needs a soapbox. Eventually, your close friends and loved ones will likely want to kick you to the curb if you can't control your grouching in their presence, so it's important to find a willing audience. Good venues for your grouches, gripes, and complaints include:



YouTube. Start vlogging and recording your epic rants about whatever it is that drives you crazy. It's important that you also actively engage with your comments stream and defend yourself against "trolls." Trolls will be a problem.

Twitter. Can you condense your gripes into 140 characters? Craft haiku-like complaints to channel your rage in the right direction.

Blogger. Blogger is probably the grouchiest blogging platform. Start one around your theme and start unleashing your rants on the Internet.
Analog methods. Forget about the Internet–it's the death of culture, anyway, right?! Write your congressman handwritten screeds and manifestos, and send long critical complaints to the local newspaper. Leave comment cards at restaurants. Slip them into pairs of pants at malls you hate. Leave a long paper trail.
 If you want to be a full-time grouch, you've got to be able to whip yourself into a dark frenzy at a moment's notice. You might be sitting quietly in the park, reading a nice novel, when you need to channel your rage in a second? The whales! The liberals! The Kardashians! Whatever it is that pokes your mad button, conjure it and keep yourself grumpy, however nice the day.


At parties, try your best to find the bad side of everything. Be the downer of the party. If someone mentions a recent trip to Greece, bring up the economic crisis. If someone orders tuna, talk about a video you watched in which dolphins are slaughtered by tuna nets. If someone drives by with a rattling bass in their car speakers, launch into an unsolicited screed on music.
 Being around negative people make other negative people worse. A recent sociological study about how communities divide on ideological lines showed that people with measurably similar attitudes, when placed in a room and instructed to debate a particular issue they all agreed upon, all emerged from the room having pushed their viewpoints more extreme, as a way of making themselves stand out from the others. It's the natural instinct of the grouch to one-up other grouches, pushing themselves farther away from the thing they're grouching against.Compete against other grouches regularly. Grouches are usually competitive and take winning super-seriously. Whether it's a board game, tennis, or your bankbooks, if you want to keep yourself in grouch mode all the time, make a point of regularly competing against others and being a bad winner and a sore loser. A grouch should be grumpy even after winning a hard-won match. Find something to complain about in everything.
 Start to internalize things that may or may not have anything to do with you. If there's a way to make it about you and take personal offense to a comment, snub, or failure, grouches will do it every time. Find hidden motivations in people's language, even if it might not be there.


If someone keeps talking about how annoyingly small the new BMW cup-holders are, they're probably bragging and trying to put you down, if you don't have one of the new models. Even if you do have one, there's probably some hidden message. He's got bigger cups! Always find a way to take it personally.
Michael Jordan, to psych himself up for games, used to tape negative comments opposing players had made about him into his locker. He would just dwell on the negativity. If nobody had made any negative comments, Jordan would invent perceived slights.
 All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. It also makes him a grouch. One good way to be a constant grouch is to never stop working. Work extra hours every week as a way of becoming totally absorbed and obsessed by labor. When you get off work, only talk about work.


It's also a good idea to be a miser, like Ebenezer Scrooge, that classic grouch. Pinch every penny. Give none to anyone, and spend none on yourself. Just enjoy watching it pile up, greedily. Taking the occasional swim in your money pool is an acceptable diversion.
 Nobody ever got to the top by being nice. If you want to climb the ladder of the grouches, find influential grouches that you'll be able to bond with. If you fancy yourself a budding John Oliver, you've got to find your Jon Stewart. If you like to think of yourself as a bourgeois grouch a la Kim Kardashian, find the right field for it. Try to go the way of the Hills and secure an internship at Teen Vogue, then find yourself some upper-crust grouching buddies.
 It is a good idea to grouch with a certain measure of charisma, or nobody's going to want to listen to it. There's a reason that someone like Oliver, a political grouch of the first order, is more than a YouTube comment-streamer. He's got the ability to bring people into his rage and get onboard with his gripes.
 Most grouchy professions involve you finding some kind of way to channel your grouches into production. A grouch needs a stage. Amateur grouches might be satisfied with getting their frustrations out in the comment stream and in letters to the editor, but if you want to go pro, you've got to find a larger way to reach an audience. Fortunately, there are lots of career options available to committed grouches.
 Newspaper, as well as radio, television, and new media like podcasting and web production are ripe fields for grouches. We enjoy watching someone complain, especially if they have a great perspective, a healthy dose of charisma, and some serious rage. Start by writing opinion pieces and editorials to rally the troops and then expand your dubious media empire into a global enterprise. Your journalistic skills are nowhere near as important to your success as your ability to gripe on command. Notable journalist grouches include:


Maureen Dowd
Glenn Beck
Keith Olbermann
Jonah Goldberg
Rush Limbaugh
Rachel Maddow
Ann Coulter
Ariana Huffington

, What are stand-up comedians really, but people who's grouchiness is amusing? If your rage is hilarious, take it to the stage and start performing rehearsed monologues and funny anecdotes related to your chief gripes about the world you live in. Bonus points: you've got to have thick skin and work tough crowds on a regular basis, making it likely that you'll have something to grouch about at the end of the night. Check out grumpy stand-up comedians like:


Jerry Seinfeld
Marc Maron
Bill Hicks
Wanda Sykes
Joan Rivers
Lewis Black
George Carlin
Chelsea Handler

, Picture a classic novelist: sitting at a long oak desk, a glass of scotch and a cigar simmering next to a busted typewriter, stacks of dusty hardbacks lined up behind. Probably there is a painting of a shipwreck on the wall. What's the writer doing? Ripping pages in half angrily and throwing them into the garbage. Committing yourself to the craft of writing is a great way to be a grouch. You can throw the grouching into your masterpieces and grouch about the process afterward. Notable literary grouches include:


Ayn Rand
Fyodor Dostoyevsky
Anne Sexton
Ernest Hemingway
Norman Mailer
Charles Bukowski

, Berating back-line staff, insulting fans, wearing sunglasses indoors, rockstars are the epitome of grouches. We expect rockstars to be jerks, on some level, and that "bad" quality is partially what makes the music seem dangerous and exciting, when done properly. Court some controversy. Write some angsty anthems, scream them into the mic, then smash your guitars and you'll be well on your way. Classic rocker grouches include:


Lou Reed
Axl Rose
Ted Nugent
Courtney Love
Frank Black
Anton Newcombe
Lily Allen
Henry Rollins
MIA

, Anger and grouchiness can have a measurable physical affect on your body. An experience of anger triggers your "fight or flight" response, triggering the release of hormones like cortisol and adrenaline, as well as lowering your metabolism, channeling blow flow to your muscles. Your temperature will rise, your blood pressure will increase, and your breathing will quicken.Over time, this can manifest itself in long-term problems like high blood pressure, migraine headaches, and weight gain from stress-related hormone release. It's even linked to heart disease.It's very important to learn to relax, at least some of the time, to stay healthy.


Try meditating when you feel yourself getting angry. When you feel that familiar grouch impulse coming at your full-force, take a few deep breaths, sit quietly, and clear your mind. Even if you're not feeling angry, try to control your breathing and focus on just sitting a few times a week to calm your mind and keep your stress levels low.
 If you're in an angry situation, it's good to walk away. There's nothing wrong with closing the door on your problem temporarily and letting some air in. Letting anger fester may give you pleasure as a grouch, but if you're risking violent outbursts or emotional turmoil, you need to know when to cool it down.In the short term, get outside and go for a walk. If your coworker is just driving you crazy, get out of the office. If your partner is nagging you to death, head to the store and clear your head. Change the view for 10 or 15 minutes and let yourself calm down some.In the long term, you might need a more significant change of location. If you're filled with nameless rage having to hear about everyone's new jam band line-ups and artisanal vanilla bean carts, maybe it's time to leave Portland and move somewhere a little more down-to-earth.
 The only way to make negativity dissipate is to Try to articulate how you're feeling and communicate it with someone. Whether a close friend, family member, partner, or psychiatrist, you need an ear if you're feeling angry and want some relief. You might not be able to "solve" the problem of your anger, but learning to voice it is the best way to release it.


Shutting down completely and keeping your frustration to yourself is the worst way of coping with anger. Isolating yourself will increase your feelings of frustrating, making it very hard to cope and calm down. It's important to talk with someone, frequently.
A common misconception is that frequent outbursts of emotion are better than "holding it in." Studies show we rarely experience catharsis from short outbursts of anger, making the occasional tantrum no better than the anger-concealing code of silence.In some cultures, women experience a tremendous pressure to mask their anger, staying positive all the time for risk of being labelled a "bitch." Men, on the other hand, are expected to be grumps, and never develop communicative coping skills necessary to process their anger. It's important to understand the cultural dimensions of your relationship with anger, to better approach it in a healthy way.
 Anger can be a tremendous energy-giver. If you're experiencing frustration that you're not where you want to be in your career right now, or that your relationship is going sour, or that you have to live in a dumpy town you'd rather be able to leave, channel that anger into good work. Take solace in creating and in improving your skills. Whether it's a hobby you're cultivating at home, or the work you're doing for a living, use that work to get rid of your extra angry energy.


That's not to say you should take out anger at home on your coworkers, anymore than you should take work frustration out on your family. If you're frustrated because of work, channel that energy into seizing every minute at home to distract yourself from it.
 One of the most efficient and healthy ways of processing anger is to exercise it out. You might not think of jogging or doing Tae-Bo as the most "relaxing" way to spend your time, but a spike in aerobic exercise has been shown to increase GABA neuron transmitters in the brain, which quiet other neurons, keeping them from firing as easily.The result of this? You're much calmer after exercise.


Play a competitive sport like tennis, basketball, or flag-football to keep your finger on the pulse of your competitive grouchiness, but to work of some of your deep anger in the process. You can get worked up about the game, as long as you're working hard.
Try a new high-intensity workout routine when you're angry, like the Spartacus workout, P90x, or CrossFit to work yourself into a healthy frenzy. You'll be so worn out afterward you won't have the energy to be angry.
Try more meditative exercise, like yoga or hiking if you want to center yourself and workout at the same time.
 Grumps often struggle with substance abuse problems, self-harm, violent outbursts, and other risky or self-destructive behaviors, as an attempt to process or mask the anger by anesthetizing it. There's nothing wrong with your feelings of grouchiness or anger, frustrating through they might be, as long as you learn to process them in a healthy way, and not channel that rage into destruction.

