 Search the internet for reputable scholarship and grant opportunities. If you’ve already applied and been accepted to a nursing program, start with its website. Your college program’s site will likely offer helpful links that compile opportunities and offer helpful information about applying.


Check the financial aid resources listed on the website of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN): http://www.aacn.nche.edu/students/financial-aid

Remember, the more scholarship and grant money you can accumulate, the less you have to pay out of pocket and the less debt you have to pay back in the future.;
, With a shortage of nurses in certain sectors of the medical field, there are a number of public and private organizations that provide scholarships for nursing students. Some scholarships are designated for students looking to earn a bachelor's or master's degree in nursing, so read descriptions carefully and only save links to relevant opportunities.Keep in mind that hundreds or thousands of students apply for major national scholarships.
Try applying for local scholarships as well, as they will have smaller applicant pools. Individually, they might be smaller, but you can build a considerable sum of money by winning several of them., Look into state government-funded grants for nursing students. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services sponsors a number of grants to help in-need students pay for nursing school. Other, private grants may require you to have reached a certain level in your education (such as completing one semester of your program),or may require that you agree to work for a specified time in a particular area of nursing. However, you don’t have to repay any of the money you’re awarded out of pocket. That’ll help you graduate from a nursing program as debt-free as possible.Professional nursing organizations may also offer grants.
 Once you’ve researched scholarship and grant opportunities, make a calendar or use a calendar app that specifically lists application deadlines and other important related dates. Once you’ve applied to a few, keep any digital files saved on your computer, or make copies of applications that had to be submitted in writing.


List dates in your calendar in advance of application deadlines, or set reminders to work on an application. Give yourself reminders to begin and complete applications several days before they’re due.
Keeping application info, from basic info to essay responses, will help streamline the process so you can maximize the number of applications you send. 