 To order glasses that fit from an optometrist, you’ll need to have an up-to-date eye examination on file with their office. This usually means an exam that was performed within the last year. If you haven't had an exam in the last 12 months, you’ll need to schedule one.Prepare for an eye exam by scheduling it with your eye doctor.
The professional opticians will measure you for your glasses while you are in the office for your examination.
The eye exam will also include questions about your medical history, measuring your visual activity, measuring pressure in your eyes, and a check regarding the overall health of your eyes — usually involving the use of lights so the doctor can look inside your eyes.;
, Different face shapes work better for different frame shapes. Think about the shape of your face — is it oval, round, square, or heart-shaped? This will help guide you toward the right frame shape for you.For example, oval faces work well with frames that are slightly wider than the widest part of the face or with walnut shaped frames.Square faces work the best with narrow frames that have more width than depth.
A round shaped face looks best with narrow, angular frames that help lengthen the face. Rectangular frames also will provide balance for round faces.
Heart-shaped faces should be paired with wider frames that have detailing on the lower half. Lighter colors are also usually best for frames.
There are tools online that can help you choose frames based on the shape of your face. Try this one from Frames Direct: http://www.framesdirect.com/landing/a/face-shape-guide.html?affiliate=73


, One of the perks of buying glasses from an optometrist rather than online is that you can actually try on the glasses and see how they look on your own face before you purchase them. Spend some time browsing the various shapes and styles in the store.


Another perk is that the optician can accurately measure the distance between your eyes, which is an important measurement to get ideal vision with your glasses.Ask the optician for advice if you are having trouble deciding. They are trained in how glasses should fit and feel (like being able to see at least some of your eyebrows over the tops of the frames).In addition, they can help you to choose a lens, such as transitions or polycarbonate, according to your needs.
 When your glasses arrive at your optometrist’s office, they will call you in to come pick them up. While you are in the office, the opticians will make sure that your new glasses are fitted perfectly for your specific measurements. They are trained professionals and know how to make little tweaks and adjustments to ensure a perfect fit.When considering the fit, you should make sure the glasses don’t slip off of your face when you look down. They also should not press too tightly behind your ears.
If at any time you feel like the fit is wrong, you can return to your optometrist’s office for adjustments. Most optometrists offer free fitting adjustments while the glasses are in their warranty period — usually this lasts for one year.
 If you want to order glasses that fit from an online boutique or manufacturer, you’ll need to know your exact prescription for the lenses. You wouldn’t want to order a pair of glasses that you can’t see out of because you didn’t know your correct prescription.If you haven’t had glasses before, you should go to an optometrist and have a full eye examination so that they can tell you what your prescription is. If you have been to the eye doctor recently, just call them up and ask them for a copy of your prescription.
Specific glasses prescriptions are usually good for about one year. After that, you may want to consider having your eyes re-examined so that you’re able to order glasses with the correct prescription.
 For glasses to fit perfectly, you’ll need to know what your frame size is. You can find these measurements on your existing glasses (if you like the way they fit) or go in and get measured at a store that sells glasses. On your existing glasses, these measurement numbers can be found either on the temple part of the arms of the glasses or on the bridge that runs across the nose piece. The important measurements (in millimeters) include:Lens size. This is a two-digit number ranging from 40 – 62.

Bridge size. This is a two-digit number ranging from 14 – 24.

Temple size. This is a three-digit number ranging from 120 – 150.
 If you don’t have any current glasses to find your frame size, or if you can’t afford to get measured at the optometrist, you can try to guesstimate what size frames you’ll actually need. You can use these measurements as a basis for your estimate. These figures are starting points for total width, which includes the lens width (multiplied by two) added with the bridge width – this equals the full width of the frames across your face:Small/Narrow face: 125mm – 129mm

Medium face: 130mm – 134mm

Large face: 135mm – 139mm

Wide face: 140mm – 145mm

, Find a reputable manufacturer or glasses boutique that you want to order from. Spend some time looking around to choose the frames that you want. To make sure you like the style, you can go to an actual brick-and-mortar store and try on similar styles before you place your online order.
Some online optical providers also offer tools that allow you to upload a photo of yourself which they overlay the glasses on so you can virtually see what they would look like on you.
 Poor eyesight is typically genetic. So if both of your parents wear glasses, it is reasonable to assume you’ll need them eventually too. Keep this in mind as you consider whether or not you need glasses.Ask your family members how old they were when they first started wearing glasses.
 Think about whether or not your vision seems to have changed over the years. Do you have more trouble viewing specific things than you did in the past? This is a sign that you need glasses.Specifically consider whether you have trouble viewing things that are far away or that are up close, as these are the two biggest problems with eyesight that people typically have.
 The ultimate way to determine whether or not you need glasses is to get an official eye examination from a licensed optometrist. They will perform tests on your vision and on your eyes in general to determine if glasses are a necessity for you.An optometrist, in addition to whether or not you need glasses, will also be able to tell you if there are any medical problems with your eyes.

