 The precise amount of water will depend on factors like type of potting material used, humidity level and so on, but as a rule you should make sure your plant remains in moist media at all times. Never allow the potting material to dry out completely – if the topsoil is starting to dry out, it’s time to water your plant. Just like their soil, nepenthes need water that has little to no trace elements in it.


They will tolerate a low level of minerals, but rain, distilled or purified water are the best options. They dislike salt.Tap water is acceptable, but only if it’s under 250 ppm.
In general, lowlanders tend to need more water than highlanders.
 The key to avoiding this is adequate drainage. Select potting material that is porous, well-drained and open enough that air can reach the roots of the plant. Tree fern fiber, chopped fir bark, long fiber sphagnum moss, peat moss and perlite are all good choices. A mix of several of these is typically used for best results.


After watering, always make sure there’s plenty of drainage.
If the potting material starts to break down (which can happen over time), or if you notice that your plant is drying out very quickly, the issue may be too much drainage. The solution is repotting.
 Carnivorous plants like nepenthes eat insects for food. Generally, you’ll never need to feed insects to your plant. Most homes have insects in them, and the plants have adapted over time to survive on very small amounts of nutrients. An adult nepenthes only needs two or three insects every month to thrive.If you choose to feed your plant, it should only eat freshly killed insects. Make sure the insects will fit comfortably into the plant’s pitcher.
Never feed your nepenthes actual meat., After about a year, most potting materials start to break down. Nepenthes like to be repotted annually with new potting material and, if necessary, a bigger planter. Changing the potting material helps to improve soil aeration. You can safely repot your plants at any time of the year.Be sure to water your plant right after you repot it.

