;
, Up at the top are the tabs that you can navigate through. They are also at the bottom.
 Click the button in the mail section that says mail accounts.


, For spam blockers for your email accounts, click on one of the many spam blocking programs. Some of the spam programs cost money and their prices can range from different amounts.
 To do so, click on the auto responder button.


Once inside the auto responder options you can start typing a message that will be sent when someone emails you. Just click add auto responder type your message and choose an email to attack it to.



Once you have entered the mailing list program fill out the required fields and then click "Add Mailing List"

, Click one of the filter buttons. Once there you can decide what kind of messages your email accounts will receive. This helps when you have one of the spam programs.
 Click on the "Import Addresses" button to upload email addresses from other devices into your email contacts. Just click on "Import Addresses" or "MX Entry" and follow the instructions.
 To create some personnel logos or to upload some click on one of the mojo market place buttons like the one called logos and graphics.
 Here you can access all of your files for your site. This program called Site Backup, and it is an additional program you can purchase to help keep your files safe.
 Click on either File Manager, Legacy File Manager, File Count, or FTP Accounts. FTP Unlimited is the same as FTP Accounts except it has more advanced settings and you must have the program Java on your computer.
 When opening one of these you will arrive at a box that gives you options. Select the option called Web Root. Then click "Go".
 This is the security section of your Bluehost account. Here you can change passwords, manage your ssl certificate, and block IP addresses that vandalize your site.
 To block an IP address click on the IP deny manager button.


Once in side the settings type in the IP address you wish to block and click "Add". You can also scroll down and view your currently blocked IP addresses and choose to allow them to view the site again.
 Under security there is also Hotlink Protection. There you can prevent others from copying and pasting links that lead to your site. This stops them from putting links to your website on there website. You can also view and see if links to your site are posted anywhere else. When this program is enabled it stops you also from posting links to your site.
 Here you can pay money for programs to post links or ads of your choice on there website. The yellow page account is free.
 Site statistics is a section that provides programs you can use to see who your latest visitors were or what page of your website is most visited. Some of the programs are free but some cost additional. Their prices range from different amounts depending on what you want.
 In Account Preferences you can read help guides, change your password, change the language, add shortcuts, watch how-to videos, and renew your account.

