 Red rover is a team game, so you will need at least three people on each team to play.The more people you can get to join your game of Red Rover, the more fun you will have.


Since you want a lot of players, Red Rover is an ideal game to play at recess in school when you know lots of potential players will be there to join.
If you want to set up a game outside of school, plan it a day or two in advance so you have more time to get players to join.;
, The team captains can then flip a coin to determine who gets the first pick. The captain that doesn't win the coin toss can take the first turn in the game.
 The captains can take turns picking players until everyone has a team.
 The teams will face each other, standing between six and ten yards apart. The further apart the teams are, the more distance players have to pick up speed before they reach the other team's line. It's a good idea to keep the distance between teams smaller for younger children to lower the chance of injuries.


Use strategy when creating your line. Have stronger players join hands with weaker players to make sure your line holds.
 The team that goes first decides who to "call over" from the other team. Once the team has decided, they sing, "Red Rover, Red Rover, will (name) come over!"


When choosing who to call you will want to use some strategy. Don't call the biggest, strongest person who is likely to get through the line first. Pick the player who you think you can stop.
 The runner should use some strategy when taking their turn. Find the weak link and go for it. Avoid going at the strongest players unless you feel confident you can break the link.
 However, if they break through, they go back to their own team. They can take one of the players whose arms the broke through with them.


Some people play where only the runner goes back to the original team, without taking additional players.
You can also play where the runner selects anyone from the opposing team once the break through the line. If so, break through the weakest spot and take the strongest player., When one team is no longer able to make a chain, the other team wins. If your friends have time and are up for it, you can pick some new teams and start playing all over again.

