 The Battle Rifle is the most powerful weapon in the game if used efficiently, despite what other people say. Mastering the Battle Rifle brings you much closer to become a pro.Four shots, with the fourth ending in a head shot is a kill. in MLG settings damage is at 110%, so you only need 11 out of the 12 bullets in the burst to kill.;
, Even though the Battle Rifle is the best weapon in the game, there are more weapons that you must be decent at to become a pro. Examples are Sniper\Beam Rifle, Mauler, Plasma Pistol, and the Covenant Carbine.
 You have to learn the trajectory, power, and efficiency of both of the grenades. Trying to kill someone with a "frag" grenade at close range will not help you one bit. Chuck grenades into rooms that your enemies are in to lower there health so you will have more of a chance on beating them.
 The Hardest part of being a pro during a match is being double teamed. Throwing at grenade in between the assailants will make them run in different directions because it is highly unlikely if a grenade is throw that they will run in the same direction. The point is to try to scatter the assailants or you might not have much of a chance. Or you could try to put as many shots on them as you can and call them out so your teammates can help you.
 The Plasma Pistol, and the Covenant Carbine are both very good weapons. The Plasma rifle an take out shields very quickly, the Plasma Pistol takes out shields (and overshields) with its charged shot, it also can stop a vehicle completely like a Ghost or a Warthog or even a Mongoose!(Although there are no vehicles in MLG) The Covenant Carbine is more ammo efficient but not quite as strong as the Battle Rifle.
 Look Sensitivity allows you to turn at different speeds, be able to shoot more accurately and comfortably on the setting right for you, and overall be a better player. Try "3", the default to start out with and go up one notch every 5 matches or so. 90% of the pros use 3-5 sensitivity, but some use higher or lower.
 One of the most important and useful functions in Halo would be the melee. You are not becoming a pro any faster by trying to hit someone 2 feet (0.6 m) away from you. An especially good combo to use with the melee is the Plasma Pistol (drains their shields) then punch them out. You can also shoot your opponent two times with the Battle Rifle, then beat them down for the kill.
 This is a very "fun" and deadly tactic to implement into your gaming. One example would be sneaking up on a guy in a confines space and throw a grenade in front of them. Their obvious reaction would be to back away from it and go straight towards you. Another example is to run away from an assailant, turn a corner just to have another guy there to kill him as soon as he walks in.
 This is a very effective strategy, by sticking someone, first, they're going to die no matter what and if your shields are down just stick the attacker.
 Jacking or Skyjacking vehicles is a perfect way to take out large vehicles that are obliterating everyone on the map. if you skyjack a Banshee you have now become a powerful player, you can kill everyone so easily. Using or jacking vehicles is the best way to win a match and rank up!(Although there are NO vehicles in MLG)

,: Of course all the weapons in Halo 3 are deadly, but the most potent thing in a team's arsenal is communication. If a teammate is in trouble, or one teammate notices the whole team bunched together and you are holding a rocket launcher, communication can be very helpful there.
 Using Crosshair Placement is the art of simply learning to aim by looking at where the crosshair is at by the enemy (i.e. You are in a BR Battle with someone and you don't think just shoot. With crosshair placement, you analyze where to put your crosshair and when it should go there.
 Learn strategies for different maps and game types, E.G Construct, King of the Kill. When a bottom hill comes up, you should have one person in Close Purple, Sword, In the Hill and either up Top Gold or Open purple. It is important to remember that there are lots of different strategies for different things, Camo strat, OS Strat etc.
 A common misconception on Halo 3 is how weapons are "dirtied," meaning that their spawns are delayed. I'll first start this by saying that no, standing where they spawn will not delay them, and letting them hit the ground before you pick them up does not mean they will not be delayed.
 The weapons need to stay completely still for 2 seconds in order to prevent them from being delayed. What this means is:

,,,,,, The rockets will also be delayed the rest of the game, therefore the spawn times would be 8:30, 5:28, 2:26, and so on, unless someone dirties them more. Same thing would apply with the sniper.

