 Dog sitters have a set of professional standards set by dog sitting organizations. These standards ensure pet sitters are capable of watching and caring for the animals they are responsible for. A highly-qualified dog sitter will ensure your dog is well-cared for while you’re away.Pet sitter organizations might offer annual conferences or ongoing professional development for members.
For dog sitters, Pet Sitters International and the National Association of Professional Pet Sitters offer ongoing professional development and certification courses.It is rare for pet sitters to have certification or membership, but if they do, all the better.
 Some states require that boarding kennels receive inspections. In states where inspections occur, the boarding kennels are required to meet a high level of care. Contact your state’s animal welfare department for more information.If your state doesn’t require an inspection, you should contact local business agencies to see what sort of reputation the kennel has. Business agencies like the Department of Consumer Protection and the Better Business Bureau will have a list of grievances filed against the kennel.
Find a kennel with few or no complaints against it.
 If contracting with a kennel, ask when feeding time is for the dogs. When contracting with a dog sitter, let your dog sitter know when your dog eats so that it can be fed at its regular mealtime. In either case, let the dog sitter or kennel know how much and how often to feed your dog. If your dog has special mealtime requirements – for instance, perhaps your dog needs to take medication along with its meal, or needs to eat a high-fiber dog food – let the dog sitter or kennel know., Leaving your dog with either a kennel or a dog sitter is a big deal. You’ll need to ensure your pet is cared for adequately, and the best way to do that is to have a contract with whoever is caring for your dog whilst you’re away. Kennels will usually have a care contract ready for you. Professional dog sitters, likewise, should provide you with a contract. When dealing with a nonprofessional dog sitter, however, you might need to draft a dogsitting contract yourself.Ensure any contract has stipulations for when your dog will go out, when it will eat, how much it will eat, when and how often it will be walked, and what steps should be taken if anything should happen to it.
 If your pet senses you’re upset, or that something’s wrong, your pet could become anxious and worried, too. Keep your goodbyes quick and simple when dropping your dog off at the kennel or leaving your dog with the pet sitter. For instance, give your dog a simple pat on the head and say “Good dog” before heading out., If your dog sitter is bonded, it means that your dog sitter is covered by a kind of insurance to guarantee that if anything goes wrong, the will be able to cover the costs you have to incur. For instance, if your dog is accidentally injured while in the custody of the dog sitter, you and/or the dog sitter might need to take your dog to the vet. In this case, a bonded dog sitter will be able to cover the costs of those visits.