 You must plant when there is very little time for the server to restart, say 30 minutes, and in a place where you don't find huge red boosters near you. This ensures that the position where you place your colony is safe from any early wars. Early wars are the worst scenario you can face in Battle Dawn.
 Try to have a minimum of 1K tokens (reds or blues) before the era starts so that you can take an early lead in the game.

If you don't have any tokens on your main account, and no medals earned in earlier eras, disband your account and make a new one. Plant on servers with tick 500+ in both Battle Dawn and Battle Dawn Galaxies to farm 800-1000 blues. Also make use of free bonuses, such as verifying your email.
 Put on a broadcast that you are sleeping and put "JW" after your player name. This should be done because the process to be a top player on Solo worlds will get you rank 1 after tick 30-35, depending on how much you boost. When people see that a player who was rank 50 or 60 at the era start is suddenly rank 1, they will feel you're a professional and will fear you., Build level 1, level 2 and level 3 structures of each - food, metal and oil. Then, build barracks and then a vehicle factory. Assuming you are a blue booster, boost light worker, light metal and light oil. Then, go for building a Beam Weapons factory, Explosive Weapons factory and Damage Units structure. When completed, you will be left with only 100 metal., Don't rush the unit, let it train for 2 ticks. Refresh your client and wait for the ticks to start rolling. Whenever you get any boosts or bonuses, use it mainly for structures. Only use the remainder of a boost for an army., Make sure you are online every 12 ticks to give a boost. Don't always boost oil with metal and workers, only do it when you are low on oil., When finished, with the metal and oil you have, train as many Tanks as possible with Concussive weapons and damage upgrades. Never hurry your units.

After 6 ticks, pack 1 tank in each squad and launch on nearby mines. You will have all the mines near you in no time. After you collect nearby mines, make ops at 6-8 ETA range and move some more Tank spam squads to collect the distant mines.
Use damage units until tick 30. After tick 30, start building your army in the ratio of 7 range tanks : 3 armour tanks. In other words, in 1 tank squad, put 7 range tanks and 3 armor tanks. No damage tanks. Make some level 1 energy structures and upgrade them until level 3.
 Around tick 50, start making allies. Never make a player who is close to you your ally. If you really want to make him your ally, tell him to relocate to a farther spot and let you have the mines in your area., They assure your win by beating the anti-spam squads of your enemy. The structure you should unlock is the Scan (basic and advanced), Spies and Radar structures. Get them to level 3 so that you can build radar posts across the map., Do this on tick 75. Get your radar and gate coverage as far as possible., On tick 125, focus on your resources. Once you have maxed-out the resource structures, continue building armies. Try to figure out your main enemy and know his chassis. Use a single chassis and not a mixed chassis because it dies very easily. When you know his chassis, make 50% of your army anti-soldier/vehicle/tank (depending on what the enemy uses) and the remaining 25% on each of the other two weapon types., Don't make deals to split the map and allow another player's gate and radar coverage close to your hive, unless he is a very trusted player and has spent 3-5 eras allied to you., Seek to make sub-alliances and brother alliances; make sure you know the leader of each one very well and that they are reliable and responsible players. Offer them around 5 mines so they know you care for them. Treat them with respect and make them feel as important as you (main alliance). Make sure that they pick different chassis from yours so that your enemies need to tailor their armies more to combat you., There are some tricks like the Relocate and Lock trick, ETA match, and Tricker for the early game before people have shields; there are also the nuke-firing trick and nuke fields setup trick., When you are moving in an enemy territory with your army to fight him, always keep your own ops at 4-6 ETA range. Never attack your enemy's ops or you will be put on lockdown and virused., Never be in war with more than one top 15 ranked enemy at a time. Make non-aggression pacts with other players who are not allied to you., While you should be active throughout the era, be more active at around tick 500 - 700 because that is the time the relics drop. Scan the relic before attacking. Still send a spam squad and then your army at a delay of 1 tick. This way, you get the battle report of the relic and calculate your losses beforehand through the battle simulator. If the casualties aren't high, go for the relic. When you capture it, immediately make it start moving near your colony if you are far from oceans or at the corner of the oceans. This makes sure the relics are safe.

Capture as many relics as possible. Capture as many relics as you can so you can end the era as fast as possible. When all relics are captured, ask other players if they want to end the era by handing you relics. If not, simply wait until the maximum tick of the server approaches.
 When you win the era, the admin will feed you with a large number of blues and a medal/ribbon. Brag about your medal/ribbon, but not too much. If you're annoying, nobody will want to form alliances with you. Use your blue tokens earned from this era in the next era.