 If the teacher asks a question, don't raise your hand every single time you know the answer – you will look like you are trying to be her pet. Resist the urge to answer about half the time, and give other kids a chance to look like the smart kid.If you see that the kid next to you wants to raise their hand, but isn't feeling confident about it, give them an encouraging smile.
 If the teacher calls for volunteers to clear the white board or to read a passage from a book aloud, don't volunteer every time. This will definitely make you look like you are trying to kiss up to the teacher.If your teacher continually “volunteers” you to do in-class readings, try saying, “I'm sorry, but I have a cold (or allergies) and my throat is a little sore. Can someone else take over today?”

, If you do better on an exam than everyone else, and the grades are posted, don't mention it. Don't be seen discussing the test with your teacher, and don't talk about class grades with the other students.Be especially aware of the “humble brag.” Saying things like, “I forgot to study, and wound up cramming for the test over lunch – but I got an A, anyway” doesn't make you sound smart. It just makes you sound like a jerk.
If you can deflect positive attention onto another student, this is even better. If a student or teacher praises you for a science project, for example, you could say, “A lot of the credit should go to – she was amazing at analyzing the data we collected.”

, Before and after class, talk to the other kids. Unless you have a reason that you actually need to be there, don't be seen visiting your teachers during lunch. Eat lunch with your friends, and speak with your teachers in class. If you hang out at the teacher's desk all the time, you'll look like the teacher's pet.If you need to speak to the teacher before or after class (say, about the results of a test), keep the conversation short and focused on the issue at hand.
Don't linger at the teacher's desk, or change the subject to social topics unrelated to your work.
If other kids can overhear your conversation with a teacher, be sure you're discussing assignments or tests. Don't be seen joking and laughing with the teacher all the time.
 If possible vary where you sit in the classroom each day, so you can talk to different people before class. Don't sit directly in front of the teacher's desk unless you have to – this will definitely make you look like a teacher's pet.
 If one of your classmates asks for your help with an assignment, make time for them. But don't offer to tutor a struggling student who hasn't asked you – they may be offended.

], If you keep up with the lecture and ask questions when you need additional information, your teacher will appreciate it. But if you ask a lot of questions during every single class, the other kids will think you are trying to be the teacher's pet., Few things are more distracting in a classroom than someone who is trying to text someone back without being noticed. Everyone will notice, it's guaranteed. If you make your teacher stop and ask you to turn your phone off, they will not be impressed.
 Make a point to smile as much as possible, without forcing it. Smiling makes other people feel more comfortable around you, and they will feel you are there for them and not for the teacher.
 Greet everyone, and try to be sociable. If you're a little shy, try to make more of an effort to initiate conversations. Sometimes being too quiet can come across as being aloof or snobbish, when that isn't what you intended at all.If you want to strike up a casual conversation before class, ask them about something you've heard them mention in the past. (“Did you catch Game of Thrones last night?” or, “Did you hear there's a new Hunger Games movie coming out?)
In English class, you could strike up a conversation about the reading assignment. “Are you caught up with your reading? I think I'm finally getting into this one...it was slow going, at first.”
It doesn't really matter what you say, as long as it's a neutral topic and you say it with a friendly tone of voice.
If you want an excuse for a quick exchange, ask your neighbor about last night's homework. “Did you get the answer to question 3? That one took me forever.” (Of course, don't do this if your homework is being graded – it will look like you're trying to cheat.)
Unless you know someone very well, avoid topics that might spark an argument, like politics or religion.
 Take the time to figure out who you really are, and have the courage to put your real personality on display. Your real self might be extroverted, confident, and charming. Or you might be introverted and bookish with a subtle, clever sense of humor. When you aren't pretending to be someone else, it's obvious to everyone you meet. Less evolved kids might tease you for being different, but most people will be impressed – teachers included.

