 Always apply a moisturizer before applying any other makeup product. Moisturizing your skin before applying foundation helps prevent dryness. If your skin is dried out, this may make any makeup look caked on.If you don't have a facial moisturizer, you can buy one at most department stores or drug stores.
Make sure to wash your hands before applying a moisturizer to avoid getting unwanted bacteria on your face.;
, You can find a silicone-based primer at most beauty supply stores. A silicone-based primer most effectively covers pores, making your skin look smooth. Apply the primer over your face, paying extra attention to any oily areas.If your skin is very dry, spritz some primer water on your face as well.
 Putting your makeup on all at once contributes to the caked on look, as makeup may develop smears or bumps. After moisturizing and applying your primer, wait a few minutes before proceeding. This gives your primer a chance to set before you apply your foundation., You should always work with damp tools when applying foundation. This is especially important in the winter, when your face is dryer. Whether you're using a sponge or a bush, make sure to get it a little damp before applying your foundation., You don't need to apply foundation all over your face. Focus on what's called your "t-zone." This is the central part of your face concentrated in your forehead, nose, and chin. Use your brush or sponge to blot dots of foundation up the bridge of your nose, on your forehead over your eyebrows, on your cheeks, under your nose, and on your temples.When placing foundation on your cheeks, do about three diagonal strips across each cheek.
 Use gentle, blotting motions to blend the foundation into your skin. Lift your brush or sponge up and down and move throughout your face, gently pressing the foundation into your skin. The pressing motions will prevent your foundation from smearing too much during the application process, which can contribute to a caked on look., Once your foundation is mostly blended, take a makeup sponge. Gently dab the sponge over the places on your face where you applied foundation. The sponge should lift any excess product off your face, preventing a cakey look., Applying makeup too quickly is a major reason foundation may look cakey. Before you proceed any further, let your makeup sit for 10 minutes. This will help it set, preventing it from becoming smeared when you apply your setting powder.While letting your foundation set, you can work on your brows, brush your hair, or complete another part of your beauty routine.
 You can buy a setting powder at any beauty supply store. Applying it after applying foundation helps give your skin a clear, even tone. Use a large brush to swipe your setting powder throughout your face for a clean finish.If you notice uneven or excess foundation you missed earlier, you can wipe this off with your large brush while applying your setting powder.
 Make sure you account for your skin type when selecting foundation. The wrong foundation on the wrong skin can contribute to a cakey look.A semi-matte finish works great for combination skin.
A radiant finish should be used on dry skin.
Oily skin benefits from matte products.
 Do not just moisturize your skin before applying foundation. Daily skin care keeps your skin smoother, which makes makeup look less cakey. Every night before bed, apply a moisturizer to your skin., In general, liquid foundations work better than powder foundations. Powder foundations are harder to apply and tend to look more caked on., Always use a tool, such as a brush or a sponge, to apply your foundation. Using your fingers not only contributes to a caked on look, but it can also cause you to rub bacteria into your skin. This can cause skin issues like acne.