 Shallow, rapid breathing is a common symptom of heatstroke. If this is accompanied with drooling, then your cat may be experiencing a heatstroke., Check your cat’s mouth for a bright red tongue. Additionally, check the consistency of your cat’s saliva. Thick, sticky saliva is another symptom of heatstroke. , Check your cat’s capillary refill time by lifting its upper lip. Place your finger on its gums and apply a small amount of pressure. Then remove your finger. If it takes more than two seconds for the spot to turn pink again, then your cat may be experiencing a heatstroke.Additionally, dark red gums are another sign of heatstroke.
 Difficulty moving or standing up, or refusing to move or stand are also symptoms of heatstroke. Additionally, if your cat appears very lethargic, i.e., lying down with heavy or irritated eyes, and apathetic, then your cat may be in the midst of a heatstroke.Dizziness is also a common symptom.
 Vomiting and diarrhea are common symptoms of heatstroke. Make sure to check its vomit and diarrhea for blood. If you see blood, then this is a sure sign that your cat is experiencing a heatstroke.Additionally, bleeding from the nose is also a symptom of heatstroke.
 To do this, you will need to place a conventional digital thermometer into your cat’s rectum. Oil the tip of the thermometer with a lubricant like Vaseline. Firmly hold your cat with its stomach pressed to the floor, bed or chair. Gently rotate the thermometer into your cat’s rectum. Insert the thermometer about one inch into its rectum. Remove the thermometer once you hear a beep.A cat’s normal body temperature is 100.5 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit (38.2 to 39.2 degrees Celsius). A body temperature of 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) or higher indicates a moderate to severe heatstroke.
If you do not have a digital thermometer, then touch your cat’s nose and observe its behavior. If your cat’s nose is warm and dry, and if it seems very lethargic, then your cat may have a temperature.
 Wet a towel in lukewarm water. Then wrap the towel around your cat. Make sure the towel is touching your cat’s paws as well. This will help bring its temperature down.Alternatively, you can place your cat in lukewarm water in the tub or sink. However, make sure water does not get in its nose or mouth.
Do not use cold water. Using cold water may lower your cat’s temperature too quickly, which can cause other health problems.
 Place an ice pack (or a bag of frozen vegetables) underneath your cat’s head. Also place the ice packs between its legs to cool your cat down., Place your cat in front of a fan, or at a comfortable distance in front of an air conditioning unit. The cool air provided by the fan or AC will help bring your cat’s temperature down.If you are on the way to the vet, aim your car’s air vents at your cat to cool it down.
 Make sure to provide your cat with cool, fresh water. If your cat is too weak to drink water, use a spoon or a syringe to place the water in the sides of its mouth. This will help rehydrate your cat.Try not to force the water down its throat.
 Take your cat’s temperature every five to ten minutes. Once your cat’s temperature reaches 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39.4 degrees Celsius), stop the cooling methods immediately. Remove the wet towel and ice packs, and remove your cat from the cool air.Your cat’s body will begin to cool itself once it reaches this temperature. By stopping the cooling methods, you can prevent hypothermia.
 Even if you are able to bring your cat's temperature down to a normal level, you still need to bring it to the vet to get it checked out. Your vet will check your cat to ensure that any damage to its internal organs has not occurred.They will also want to monitor your cat for a couple hours in order to treat any complications that arise.
 Your vet will give your cat intravenous fluids in order to treat dehydration. This is a routine and necessary procedure, especially if your cat refuses to drink water, or is too weak to drink water., Your cat’s airways can become restricted due to overheating. If your cat is having trouble breathing, then your vet will give it oxygen.Cortisone injections may also be given to reduce the swelling in your cat’s throat.
 Blood tests will help the vet monitor your cat’s blood platelet count. It will also help the vet monitor the clotting time of your cat’s blood., After your vet has treated your cat’s immediate symptoms, they will want to monitor it for the next couple of hours. This way, your vet will be able to treat any damage to its internal organs.Your vet will monitor your cat for heart abnormalities, brain malfunctions, kidney failure, respiratory distress, shock, and other common complications.
 Once your cat’s vitals have stabilized, talk with your vet about ways to prevent another incidence of heatstroke. This is important because cats that have had heatstroke once are at a higher risk of having another incident.Your vet will most likely advise you to keep your cat indoors on hot days, to provide cool water at all times, and to make sure your cat has access to cool areas in your house.

