 Blow into the recorder to get an idea of how it will sound. You will need to blow gently. Think about blowing bubbles as you do this. Blowing softly with a steady stream of air is one of the most difficult but important techniques as you begin to play recorder.


If you blow too hard, you will produce a sharp, unpleasant sound. Blow more gently in order to produce a musical sound.
Breathe from the diaphragm and make sure you blow evenly. It will help to keep the sound consistent.
 When playing a note on the recorder, you should start and stop the sound with your tongue. Put your tongue on the roof of your mouth behind your teeth. The sound should start and stop there.In order to do this, try saying the word "ta" or "too" as you play the note. This technique is called tonguing and produces a clear start and end to the note.
Be careful not to vocalize the "ta" or "too" sound when you're playing. These words should just be used to help you master the correct tonguing technique.
 The first note that people usually learn is B. This requires that you cover the back hole with your left thumb. Now take your left index finger and cover the first hole on the uppermost side under the mouthpiece. Use your right thumb to balance the recorder. Now blow gently into the mouthpiece, remembering to say "ta" or "too". Well done! The sound you just made was a B note.If the note does not come out, or it squeaks, make sure that your fingers are fully covering the holes, and that your fingers stay flat.
Another reason it might squeak is because you're blowing into it too hard.
Keep practicing B until you are comfortable with it.
 A simple fingering chart is used to represent the notes on a recorder. The fingering chart consists of numbers 0 through 7, with 0 representing the left thumb, 1 representing the left index finger, 2 representing the second left finger, and so on.


For example, the B note you just played would be represented on the fingering chart as follows:

0 1 - - - - - -


The numbers represent the holes that are being covered, while the dashes represent the holes that remain uncovered. In this instance, the 0 indicates that your thumb is covering the hole on the back of the recorder, while the 1 shows that your left index finger is covering the first hole. , The first notes that you will learn to play using your left hand are B (which you just played), A and G. The next two notes that you will play with your left hand are C' and D'. The apostrophe at the top right hand corner of these notes indicates that they are high notes.



To play A: Use the same positioning as for a B note, but this time place your left middle finger on the second hole from the top. The fingering chart for an A note is: 0 12 - - - - -

To play G: Use the same positioning as for an A note, but this time place your left ring finger on the third hole from the top. The fingering chart for a G note is: 0 123 - - - -

To play C': Cover the back hole with your left thumb, then place your left middle finger on the second hole from the top. The fingering chart for C' is: 0 - 2 - - - - -

To play D': Leave the back hole uncovered and place your left middle finger on the second hole from the top. The fingering chart for D' is: - - 2 - - - - -

, The first notes that you will learn to play using your right hand are E, D and F#. The next two notes that you will learn to play with your right hand are F and C. These two notes can be a little tricky for new players as lot of holes need to be covered at once when playing them.



To play E: Cover the back hole with your left thumb, cover the top three holes with your left index, middle and ring fingers, then place your right index finger on the fourth hole from the top and your right middle finger on the fifth hole from the top. The fingering chart for an E note is: 0 123 45 - -

To play D: Use the same positioning as for an E note, but this time place your right ring finger on the sixth hole from the top. The fingering chart for a D note is: 0 123 456 -

To play F#: Use the same positioning as for a D note, but this time remove your right index finger from the fourth hole from the top, leaving all other fingers in place. The fingering chart for an F# is: 0 123 - 56 -

To play F: Place your left thumb on the back hole, the index, middle and ring fingers of your left hand on the top three holes, the index finger of your right hand on the fourth hole, the ring finger of your right hand on the sixth hole, and the baby finger of your right hand on the seventh hole. The fingering chart for an F is: 0 123 4 - 67

To play C: When playing a C, all seven holes are covered. Your left thumb will cover the bottom hole, the index, middle and ring fingers of your left hand will cover the top three holes and the index, middle, ring and baby fingers of your right hand will cover the bottom four. The fingering chart for a C is: 0 123 4567

, Once you have mastered all of these notes, you can put them together to play a few simple songs:Mary Had a Little Lamb:

B A G A B B B
A A A
B D' D'
B A G A B B B
A A B A G



Twinkle Twinkle Little Star:

D D A A B B A
G G F# F# E E D



Auld Lang Syne:

C F F F A G F G A F F A C' D'



