 Transcribing will probably take you longer than you imagined. On average, it takes 4 to 6 hours to transcribe one hour of a recorded proceeding. The time will vary based on your typing skills as well.It may also take longer to transcribe if there are multiple voices on the recording or you are an inexperienced transcriber.


Do not wait until the last minute to transcribe something.;
, Listen to the recording once through before you begin transcribing. This can refresh your memory about the content of the recording, understand the flow of the conversation, and identify all of the voices on the recording. You can also compare the recording to the notes that you previously took.
 Audio can be slowed down, stopped, and paused so that you can better understand the recording. Consider purchasing a foot pedal which will allow you to stop and start the recording with your feet. This will free up your hands and make the transcribing process quicker., Your transcript should include page numbers, a title, and the date. It's also a good idea to include an abbreviated version of the title and date in a header or footer on the page.You also need to identify the different voices on the recording. You can use the first letter of each person's name or a nickname.A new paragraph should be started when there is a new voice, a new topic is introduced, or when someone is quoting what someone else has said.Your transcript should not be one long block of text.
 Transcriptions should be exactly the same as the recording. Do not add any words and do not omit any words with the exception of "ums" and "uhs."Do not correct grammatical errors in your transcript either."" is used to denote a grammatical error in the transcript. If someone says, "They is not ready." You would type "They is not ready." instead of correcting the grammar in the sentence.
If a word is inaudible, type "(inaudible)" or use a symbol (e.g. *, ***) to denote that a word is missing. Also, add the time in the recording where the inaudible word is. This can help you when you go back to try to figure out what was said.
 Conversations are filled with more than words. People often laugh, sigh, etc. during conversations. If someone laughs after they say something, put "" after what he or she said. For example, "My dog is so funny. " is appropriate.Never add your interpretation to nonverbal communication. For example, "" is incorrect. Simply typing, "" is appropriate.
 Conversations have ebbs and flows. Your transcript should reflect this. If someone pauses after he or she has said something, include this in your transcript using either ellipses or the word "pause." For example, "My mother has been sick...it's been so hard on me." or "My mother has been sick it's been so hard on me."Whatever method you use, be consistent.
 Use a dictionary or spell check on a computer to make sure everything has been spelled correctly. However, be sure not to edit the transcript for other errors, such as improper word usage or grammar. The transcript should reflect the exact language used in the proceeding.


Re-write your transcript if necessary, to adhere to any form or format deemed necessary.
This is also a good time to check for correct punctuation as well.
 This process is done to ensure that you transcribed correctly and can help you fill in any of the inaudible words. Again, your transcript should reflect the recording verbatim.