 Primary exercise headaches are the most common type of exercise headache. It is not known why some people experience primary exercise headaches, although some doctors believe it may have something to do with dilated blood vessels caused by strenuous activity.Common symptoms of primary exercise headaches include:A throbbing pain in one or both sides of the head.
Headaches that begin during or immediately after strenuous activity.
Symptoms persisting anywhere from five minutes to 48 hours.;
, There are a number of prescription medications available that can help treat primary exercise headaches and their causes. Some people with predictable exercise headaches may be able to take medication before a planned workout, while others who experience erratic or unpredictable exercise headaches may need to take medication on a daily basis.Talk to your doctor if you believe you need a prescription-strength medication to treat primary exercise headaches. Common medications include:


Indomethacin — this non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication (NSAID) is commonly prescribed to treat pain and inflammation. It may help treat moderate to severe primary exercise headaches.If you are taking indomethacin, talk to your doctor about any other health issues you or your family have experienced. NSAIDs (not including aspirin) have been linked with an increased risk of heart attack or stroke.Propranolol — this prescription-strength blood pressure medication may help prevent primary exercise headaches in some people.Propranolol alters the body's response to nerve impulses, which may help lessen pain associated with conditions like exercise headaches.Naproxen — this NSAID is commonly used to treat arthritis pain. It has been shown to be effective at treating headache pain in some people.Naproxen is available in both prescription and over-the-counter forms.If you are taking naproxen, talk to your doctor about any other health issues you or your family have experienced. NSAIDs (not including aspirin) have been linked with an increased risk of heart attack or stroke.Phenelzine — this prescription-strength medication belongs to the monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) class of antidepressants.It may help treat the symptoms of exercise headaches in some people.Ergonovine — this prescription-strength medication is typically prescribed to treat hemorrhaging caused by giving birth.Some studies suggest ergonovine may help treat exercise headaches in some people., Some research suggests that engaging in warm-up activities prior to strenuous exercise may reduce the incidence of exercise headaches.Though there is no way to ensure that exercise headaches will not return in people susceptible to this condition, doctors believe that certain environmental and medical conditions may put people at greater risk of having recurring symptoms. Factors associated with primary exercise headaches include:


Exercising in hot or humid weather.Exercising at a high altitude.Having a family history of migraines or chronic headaches.