 It’s believed that the cumbia was originally a folkloric dance, in which African slaves imitated the Spanish. They did this, in part, through dressing in long skirts like the slave owners. As these two groups began to culturally and racially mix with indigenous Colombians, the cumbia became a dance of courtship and love. As such, the traditional dance almost always included pairs of men and women dancing with one another. However, they generally didn’t touch much, if at all.This was set to a new style of music, cumbia, using the rhythm of drums (the African influence) and the melody of flutes (the native Colombians).;
, In its oldest and most traditional form, you hold a burning candle and take short, sliding or dragging steps to mimic the limited foot movement imposed by shackles on slaves’ ankles. You dance slowly along with other women in a counterclockwise circle. As you continue moving in a circle, sway your body back and forth while waving your skirt in a figure-8 motion. At times of your choosing, and without warning to your partner, approach him and spin, letting the candle pass before his face before retreating to your place in the circle.Today, candles aren’t used much. Instead, women hold both sides of the skirt as they wave it or use one hand to wave the skirt while the other is raised in an open arc.
You can dress in the original style or the more flamboyant one of today. If the former, wear a long and colorful skirt (a bolero) and a short-sleeved white shirt. Go either barefoot or in sandals, and wear your hair back.Or you can dress as many do today in long, colorful dresses. The skirt of the dress is often made of layers and ruffles and adorned with sequins. Wearing flower headdresses or a large flower tucked behind your ear is common. Large earrings and a face full of makeup are also the norm. You can go barefoot or in sandals., Much of the man’s dance involves trying to lure the woman to him. His steps and movements are also faster than hers. Dance behind and around the woman, and take your hat on and off your head with one hand while holding the other behind your back. This gesture is intended to entice the woman toward you. When she approaches and spins, you can “crown” her with your hat before also spinning around her and then retreating. In some scenarios, the man holds a red handkerchief, bends low and fans the woman’s feet with it.Wear white pants and a white shirt; a hat or sombrero; and a large, colorful (often red) handkerchief tied around your neck. You can go barefoot or in sandals.