 Word it in a way that is meaningful to you. Be determined to live a full and happy life. Survival is not enough. You may have to renew your vows to yourself every day, but make each day as productive as it can be. You may only accomplish one thing, but you did accomplish it!;
, Tomorrow will not necessarily be as bad, but even if it is, just do what you can and look for some beauty and success in each day and move on.
 Not committing to that will lead you to lapse into a non functional mode of behavior.
 Physicians, healers, medicine, dietary modifications*(see tips), alternative therapies, family, friends, bosses, co-workers. They all have valuable parts to play in your fully functional life.
 *(see warnings)

, You will be able to do more some days than others, but it is YOUR responsibility to make the most of each day.
 Exercise releases endorphins and promotes the production of neurotransmitters. This can be as simple as taking a brisk walk for 20 minutes, a yoga or Tai Chi class, Aquatic Aerobics, Basic Pilates, whatever you can do. It should be low impact and not endurance based. *(see tips)

, Pace yourself.
 If you feel you don't sleep well, tell your doctor. There are medications/treatments that can help. Deep uninterrupted sleep is required to replenish neurotransmitters and other needed elements that you use up during the day. *(see tips)

, If your hands hurt or are too weak to open a jar, find a tool or other way to do it. There are ALWAYS alternatives.
 You can be stronger longer if you know that at some point you don't need to be "on". That you will just be able to veg or take a nap for a short time.
 Some things tend to seem more overwhelming than they really are when you are in a lot of pain, or are just exhausted. Try to take a mental step back when you feel this way. Don't concentrate on the problem, seek the solution. Or just put it aside for a while and come back to it later.
 You may feel lousy, but you stick a smile on and greet everyone enthusiastically. They respond with a smile and maybe even laughter at your perky response. You allow yourself to giggle back. That makes you feel good. After a few people are startled into greeting you with a smile, you find you feel a little better. The longer you do this, the more true it becomes, until it is an integral part of your day. (It really works if you let it.)

, Life is made of stresses or else we would still just be wallowing in the mud somewhere and making no progress. However, you must learn to minimize it. We tend to make a lot of our own stresses.*(see tips) Learn methods of de-stressing such as meditation, yoga, listening to soothing music, aromatherapy, etc.
 Find ways of interjecting humor into your day. The more you smile and laugh, the more natural endorphins and healthy neurotransmitters your body will produce.
 Find information on your condition from doctors, healers, friends, websites, and support groups. Knowledge is power. Power is control over your own life. That control is the difference between living and merely surviving. *(see warnings)

, If a friendly slap on the shoulder makes you want to jump through the roof, let your friends and co-workers know that you would prefer a hug, or a high five, or just a "Great to see you!". Let your friends and co-workers know that your don't want them to ask you how you are feeling. Tell them you appreciate that they care about you, but that you don't want to be concentrating on that aspect of your life. *(see tips)

, It could be a song, a short poem, a quote, a combination of these or anything that has meaning for you.

