 A firm mattress will support your body better, which may prevent your body from folding in on the nerve and making it hurt more. If your bed does not have a firm mattress, then you might consider sleeping on your sofa or in a recliner for the night.


You can also place a few boards under your mattress to increase the firmness and prevent it from sagging. Another option is to put your mattress on the floor until you have recovered from your pinched nerve.;
, If you are having neck pain from a pinched nerve, then try laying on your back. You can use pillows under your neck and knees to keep your spine as straight as possible. This position should help to alleviate some of the pain caused by the pinched nerve.Make sure your pillow is at the right level. Sometimes, flexing the neck can reduce pain. Some people will then begin using thicker pillows. Avoid this at all cost since this will also shorten the muscles in the front of the neck. Instead of raising the pillows, it may be better to raise the head of the bed, which is describe below.
 Your sciatic nerve extends from the lowest part of your back into your hips and buttocks, and down through your legs. When this nerve is pinched, it can cause pain and numbness in one leg or side of your lower back, hips, or buttocks.Sleeping on your side can help when sciatica is the cause of your pain.


If sleeping on your side feels comfortable, then lay on your side and bring your top leg up towards your chest. Use pillows to support the leg and make yourself as comfortable as possible.Choose the side that is most comfortable for you.
 Elevating the head of your bed may also provide some relief. If you are able to raise the head of your bed, try it and see if that feels more comfortable than laying flat on your back. If so, then you may want to try sleeping in this position.


Keep in mind that it is best to raise the entire head of your bed rather than to rely on pillows. You can raise up the head of your bed by about 6 to 9 inches by placing cement blocks or some sturdy wood under the upper legs of your bed. This strategy is also helpful if you deal with nighttime heartburn or GERD as well.If you cannot raise the head of your bed, then you might also try a wedge pillow or try placing a few pillows under your back to elevate your upper body.
 If you have a pinched nerve in your wrist or arm, then you will need to position it in a comfortable way. One option is to sleep on your back with the affected arm or wrist propped up on a pillow.


If you prefer to sleep on your side, then you can lie on your unaffected side and place a pillow in front of you to cradle your arm or wrist.
Do not sleep on the arm that is affected by the pinched nerve because this can make the condition worse., It may be necessary for you to wear a brace or a splint to keep the area around the pinched nerve from moving. This is common with a pinched nerve in your wrist. If your doctor has advised you to wear a brace or splint, then make sure that you wear it at night as well.You should limit wearing a brace to only at night. Avoid wearing it during the day to allow your muscles to get movement and exercise. Keeping your neck stiff will reduce muscle endurance and ultimately make your neck muscles weak.

