 Have a Google Account on your device. In order to be able to download apps from the Play Store, you will have to have a Google Account registered on your device. Access the Settings app by swiping down from the top of your screen to get the notification panel.


Tap the Settings icon at the upper right corner to launch the Settings app.;
, Tap on the magnifying glass icon on the upper right corner of the Settings app. This will allow you to do a quick search of the Accounts menu. Type in “Accounts” on the search box without the quotes.


Tap the Accounts result that appears. It should take you to the Account settings on your Galaxy device. You should see a list of all the accounts you’ve registered on your device.
 If you see it, you are good to go for the next step.


If the Google account isn’t there, simply tap on the “Add account” button with the + icon beside it. Select Google from the list of accounts that comes up.
 Tap on “New,” and input the requested information in the fields that appear.
 Tap the arrow pointing to the right until you’ve completed the registration or account creation.
 The Play Store icon is usually at the home screen, in plain sight. It is the white shopping bag icon with the Play icon in the middle.
 Depending on how many Google Accounts you have registered on your device, the Play Store will prompt you to select an account to use. Simply tap on the account you want to login with.


If you only have one account, the Play Store will log you in automatically.
 You can either look through the categories or do a search yourself. Tap on the categories colored at the top of the Play Store screen (Games, Apps, Books, etc.) to browse the apps you can download.


You can also search for apps by using the search bar at the top of the screen.
 Tap an app with a good rating, which is typically no fewer than 4–4.5 stars. Under the app names, you will see stars filled at various degrees. This is the rating system Google uses to help people tell which apps are the best.
 You will see the app description page at this point. This is where the developers describe their apps, where you can view screenshots, and where users can post reviews and ratings.
 Read through these details if you want, but if you want to jump right in, then tap the “Install” button close to the top of the page.
 You are now shown the permissions window, where the app asks for your permission to control specific aspects of your device so it can deliver its advertised function. Tap on “Accept” to proceed with installing it.
 The app will begin to download and install, and the “Install” button will change into an “Open” button when it is done. Simply tap the “Open” button to begin using the application.