 Look out for fruits and vegetables that are sitting out. Place them inside the refrigerator while you rid yourself of the gnat problem.


Gnats are called fruit flies because they love to eat ripening, rotting fruit. Even if the produce doesn't need to be refrigerated, that is the best place to put it while you get rid of gnats.
Place dry goods in sealed containers. Then, place them in your cupboards.;
, This can include water glasses, pet water and plant water. These are breeding grounds for hundreds of gnat eggs per day.


Move your pet's water to a room that does not have any food in it. Tell your family not to leave water glasses out while you work on your gnat problem.
 Rotting garbage is also a common place to feed and breed gnats. Remove it regularly and fit it with a tight lid.
 Empty the compost into a heap immediately after preparing a meal. Rinse out the compost basket thoroughly.
 Gnats like to live in and near wet, rotting flowers and houseplants. Check your plants roots for signs of rotting, and throw them out if they are dying.


Make sure never to over water your plants. The build up of water at the bottom can house gnats and cause plant roots to rot and die.
Transplant any plants that do not have well-drained soil. Always use pots that have drainage holes. Place pebbles at the bottom of the pot for extra drainage.
Place your plants in a sink or bathtub when you water them. Pour water into the soil and let it drain through the bottom. Then, place them on the trays in your home. This will reduce the amount of water that ends up standing in the pot's saucer.
, Allow it to sit long enough to disinfect.
, Remove the possibility of standing water immediately.


Pay attention to areas around the sink. Low points can fill with standing water after you do dishes. If you have any mildew in these areas, it is likely they are too moist and need to be cleaned and dried more often.
 Run plenty of water through the disposal as you clean it. Gnats like to live in the food particles that build up in garbage disposals.
 Let it sit for an hour before rinsing well. This will kill gnats that are colonizing the area.
 Place several drops of dish soap into the bowl. Mix the vinegar and soap.
 Gnats will be attracted to the smell of the vinegar, but be trapped by the sticky soap.


Pour out the gnats and rinse them through the drain. Replace the contents of the bowl each morning. Place a gnat trap in each room that has food and/or a gnat problem.
 Plan to leave the house for a day, if you must use chemical insecticide.


Place all food in the refrigerator or airtight containers inside shelves. Spray the product around the kitchen. Wear a mask and leave immediately. Take all pets with you.
When you return, clean all surfaces thoroughly. Chemical insecticides can be deadly for children and pets.

