 To make a wine bag using this method, you'll need scissors, a ruler, a pen, a single hole punch, clear tape, a glue stick, cardstock, some twine or ribbon, and some old magazines or other paper material that can be used for the bag's exterior.;
, Begin by ripping 2 attractive pages from a magazine and laying them side by side, with their long edges touching. Apply a long strip of clear tape along the touching edges to attach the pages together.
 Because the magazine pages will be too thin to support the wine bottle on their own, you'll need to reinforce them by gluing a second set of pages on top of them. Use your glue stick to coat each page, and place 2 additional magazine pages on top of the existing pages.
 Rip 2 more magazine pages out and glue them together to double their thickness. Cut the glued-together pages down the middle to form 2 long strips, and then tape these strips along the long edge of your existing pages. You should now have an area of about 14.5 inches by 17.5 inches (37 x 44 cm).
 You now need to fold the magazine page assembly along both of its long edges (the 17.5 inch / 44 cm edges). Along the top, crease and fold a flap towards you about 1.5 inch (4 cm) from the edge. Along the bottom, make the fold about 2 inches (5 cm) from the edge.
 The top flap (the 1.5 inch / 4 cm fold) is meant to support the handles of the bag, so it is best to reinforce it using cardstock. Cut a strip of cardstock about 1.5 inches (4 cm) wide by 17.5 inches (44 cm) long, and glue this strip underneath the flap.
 The overall length of your assembly should be about 17.5 inches (44 cm), which gives you enough room for a wine bag that is 5 inches by 3.5 inches (13 x 9 cm), with a half-inch (1 cm) overlap to allow you to glue the bag together.


Use a ruler and a pen to measure from the left side of the assembly and mark off each width successively: 5 inches, 3.5 inches, 5 inches, 3.5 inches, and 0.5 inches (13, 9, 13, 9, 1 cm).
Next, make vertical folds at each pen mark to create each side of the bag. The small half-inch (1 cm) section will be used to glue the 2 sides of the assembly together.
 After folding the pages at the marks you made, you should be able to form a rectangular bag shape with only the narrow flap left over. Apply glue to this flap and secure it to the other side of the assembly to create the finished rectangular shape.
 For the wine bag's bottom, fold the bottom flaps over each other and secure them with tape. For extra reinforcement, cut a piece of cardstock to fit the bottom panel and glue it into the bag's bottom.
 Use the single hole punch to create 2 holes on either side of the bag's top. String some ribbon or twine through these holes and knot it to secure it in place. You should now have 2 loops that can be used to carry and present the wine bag.

