 Palm oil is the most commonly used vegetable oil in the world, and over half of the packaged products in most supermarkets contain it. Unfortunately, expanding palm oil plantations have led to widespread rainforest deforestation. The exponential use of cheap palm oil has also endangered many species of animals, and many palm oil companies are guilty of human rights exploitation .Begin to avoid palm oil by avoiding processed foods. Consume mostly fruits, vegetables, nuts, and grains.
Read labels and avoid products that contain palm oil.
Learn the sneaky names for palm oil. These include (but are not limited to): Vegetable Oil, Palm Kernel, Palm Kernel Oil, Palm Fruit Oil, Palmitate, Palmolein, Glyceryl, Palmate, Palmitic Acid, Sodium Laureth Sulfate, Sodium Lauryl Sulfate, Stearate, Stearic Acid, and Sodium Kernelate.;
, Despite the delicate state of the world’s rainforests, trees are still harvested to build guitars, furniture, and other products. Avoid products made of Mahogany, Rosewood, Ebony, and other tropical hardwoods. Instead opt for products made from White Ash, Black Cherry, or Maple woods., Paper products contribute directly to rainforest deforestation. Products like toilet paper, paper towels, coffee filters, notebooks, printer paper, and others are created from rainforest trees. Do your part by using reusable materials whenever possible (such as reusable coffee filters or coffee mugs). When you must use paper products, select products made from 100% recycled materials., 60-70% of the deforestation in Brazil has been the result of cattle farming, and this number is rapidly growing. You can help save the rainforest by avoiding this product. If you choose to eat beef, select grass fed options local to your region, and say no to Brazilian-raised beef.Fast food chains use the majority of this beef. You can begin avoiding Brazilian beef by saying no to fast food burgers.
 Consumption of coffee can have a negative effect on the world’s rainforests. Coffee farms, like palm oil plantations, have also led to deforestation, and have also been known for their poor working conditions and human rights violations. You can work to lessen the ongoing damage to our rainforests by selecting coffee that is sustainably farmed. Look for a “Rainforest Alliance” label to show that this coffee was produced under sustainable conditions.