 Research shows low levels of vitamin D can decrease your risk for influenza. Also, people with stable vitamin D levels may recover from the flu faster. Taking vitamin D supplements during flu season may help you avoid catching the flu.You will want your vitamin D status to be between 40-80 ng/ml. To figure out your status, your doctor can take a simple blood test. If your vitamin D levels are low, your doctor will recommend an amount or type of supplements you should take.
Do not start taking vitamin D supplements without knowing your levels and talking it over with your doctor.
 Elderberry supplements may reduce the risk of contracting a flu during winter, or at least reduce the amount of colds and flus you contract. It can also shorten symptoms if you were to contract the flu. While more evidence on the precise effective of elderberry is needed, elderberry supplements are generally safe. They may be worth a try if you're looking to prevent a cold or flu this winter.You should take elderberry in the form of a supplement. Consuming the leaves or fruit of elderberries can actually cause sickness. Only a doctor or pharmacist can tell you what types of supplements you should use, so talk this over with a medical professional first.
Elderberry supplements are thought to be generally safe in the short term. Long term use of them has not been studied, so stick to using the supplements only during cold and flu season.
Check to make sure the supplements do not interact with your prescription or over-the-counter medication.
 If you do come down with a cold, echinacea may also be able to shorten the duration of your symptoms. In some cases, echinacea can cut a cold's length down by a day and a half.Talk to your healthcare provider about how to take echinacea.
You should be careful about taking echinacea if you are allergic to ragweed.
 Peppermint and eucalyptus are sold in the form of supplements, sprays, and oils. They can reduce symptoms like coughing and congestion as they are high in menthol.You can use peppermint or eucalyptus in teas, or gargle them in water. However, you should not consume peppermint or eucalyptus essential oil by mouth, as this can be poisonous. Stick to diluted mouthwashes containing peppermint and eucalyptus that you find in drug stores. You can also buy peppermint or eucalyptus lozenges at a drug store.
Ointments containing eucalyptus and peppermint can be used on the chest or nose to relieve congestion. If you are using eucalyptus or peppermint essential oil, do not place it directly on your skin. Always dilute it with a carrier oil, like olive oil or vegetable oil, first.

