 A person who is considering violence will usually grit their teeth and clench their fists. If they have any training, they may move a foot forward or turn their body to the side. They may also drop their chin as this is a natural reaction to protect one’s throat. Keep your guard up and be wary of warning signs. If you notice any of these signs, be ready to position yourself in a fighting stance.Always try to diffuse a bad situation with words before resorting to violence. Similarly, never initiate the fight; you should only engage in violence when you’re defending yourself or someone else.
If you’ve practiced getting into a fighting stance you will find it easy to do when you’re in a stressful situation. Practice as often as you can!

, Stay up on the balls of your feet. Bounce around to create movement. Keep your arms stiff and your knees slightly bent. This distracts your opponent and makes it harder for them to predict your movements. Take care not to move so much that you break your form. Move randomly. If you move with rhythm your opponent can time their attacks to your movements.
 Stay balanced, keep your stomach tight, and look your opponent in the eye. Make sure your back is straight and your shoulders are back. This pose suggests self-awareness and confidence. If your opponent thinks you’re unafraid, they may back down. Even if they don’t, your attitude will shake their own confidence and cause them to make mistakes when fighting.


If someone tries to leave a fight, let them. However, don’t turn your back on a defeated opponent as they may choose to attack when you’re not looking.
 Block your opponent’s punches using your hands. Keep your arms in the fighting position and loosely cup your hands at eye-level. When your opponent strikes out, quickly hit his arm away with one of your cupped hands. This action will unbalance your opponent and use their own strength against them. If you’re stance is well balanced, you won’t need a large amount of strength to do this.








If someone lands a punch on your head try to move towards the punch and clench your jaw. Make your forehead the biggest target. Your forehead is a very hard surface and your attacker may injure their hand.
If someone lands a punch on your body make sure to tighten your stomach muscles. Move your body so that the punch lands on your sides instead of your stomach., Extend your arm in front of your body. Make sure your wrist is straight and your thumb is on the outside of your fist. If not, you may injure your wrist or break your thumb. While extending your arm, twist your body into the punch. When you punch with your non-dominant arm you will pivot with your non-dominant leg, and vice versa. Aim for a spot just beyond the place you’re trying to hit to ensure that you give the punch the maximum force.








If you don’t use your whole body to punch, your hit won’t have very much force. Make sure your shoulders are moving into the punch with the rest of your body.

