 Many health insurers have suffered data breaches in recent years.They should contact you and let you know whenever a breach occurs by sending you a letter.


Even if you don’t receive any notification from an insurer, you should still keep a watchful eye over your medical records and credit history.
 Read every piece of mail that you receive from your insurer. If you get bills, then check whether you used any of the services listed. You should receive an “explanation of benefits” letter after you receive treatment., Some identity thieves will change your mailing address. Accordingly, you might not receive any communications from your insurer. For that reason, you should annually call up your insurer and ask for a copy of the health benefits paid for that year., You should write a letter to your insurer and medical providers. Point out which information is inaccurate. Send your letter certified mail, return receipt requested.If you luckily obtained copies of your medical records before the fraud, then you can show your insurer and providers what your medical history should look like.
Also include a copy of your police report.
Your medical providers or health plan must change erroneous information. If they don’t, then tell them you want to include a short “statement of dispute” in the record. The statement can be short. You can say something like, “I never visited the Doctor on the following dates” and then list the dates.
 Unpaid medical debt will be reported to the three national credit reporting agencies (CRAs)—TransUnion, Equifax, and Experian. You can get a free copy of these credit reports each year. Don’t request a copy from the CRA directly. Instead, use one of the following methods:Call 1-877-322-8228. Your report should be mailed to you.
Visit http://www.annualcreditreport.com. Enter your information and you will receive your credit report electronically.
Complete the Federal Trade Commission’s Annual Credit Report Request Form, which is available here: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf. You can mail the completed form to the address printed on it.
 You need to let the police know that someone has stolen your identity and used it to commit medical identity theft. Make sure to get a copy of the police report.If you were the victim of Medicare fraud, then call 1-800-633-4227.
Victims of Medicaid fraud should call 1-800-447-8477.
 Go through and check whether you see unpaid medical debts reported on your credit history. Unfortunately, the three CRAs don’t post bad (unpaid) medical debt for 180 days after it has been reported.Nevertheless, you should look at your credit report once a year.


If you find debt that wasn’t yours, then you should dispute it. You should write a dispute letter to the CRA on which the debt has been reported. You can use a sample dispute letter available from the FTC here: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0384-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report.
The CRA will ask the entity that posted the medical debt to investigate. You should receive a response within 30-45 days.

