 From your desktop, launch the document you’d like to print. It can be a Word document, a spreadsheet, a PDF file, a photo, or anything else you can print.;
, From the application, select “Print” from the File menu. The Print window will be displayed.
 From the Printer section, click on the Name drop-down box to select the printer you’d be using.
 Right beside the selected printer is a “Properties” button. Click on this to bring out the selected printer properties. The Document Properties window will then appear.
 From the Document Properties window, select the Job Storage tab by clicking on it. This is where you configure your print jobs.


Note that only printers that support spooling or print job storage will have the extra menu options or properties.
 Under the Job Storage Mode, click the “Stored Job” radio button. This sets your print to be a stored job instead of an immediate print.
 Tick the “PIN to print” check box to indicate that a PIN is needed in order to access and print the job from the printer. In the box underneath it, key in a four-digit PIN code. This will be the PIN code that you will use to print from the printer.


You can change this every time you set a print job.
 Tick “Display JOB ID when printing” so you will be able to see what job currently is being printed.
 In this section, you must indicate your username or your unique identifier. The username will be used by the printer to identify you and collect all the print jobs under your username.


Some printers allow batch printing of all the print jobs under a single username.
 Configure how the print job will be named. You can manually set and change this every time by selecting “Custom” and inputting the job name, or you can set this to “Automatic” and have the job named automatically in sequence.
 Click on the “OK” button at the bottom of the window to save everything and close the window.
 The Print window will appear after you’ve configured the print to be sent as a print job. Click on the “OK” button at the bottom of the window to send the print to the printer’s job storage.
 After sending over the print job, a confirmation message will appear. The Job Storage Identification window will show the printer name and IP address, your User Name, and the Job Name. Click on the “OK” button to close this window.
 Your print job will be sent to the printer and stored there. Nothing will be printed until you access and unlock your job from the printer’s control panel. Depending on how the printer was set up, your print job can last there indefinitely and will only be removed with your PIN code.
 When you need to have your documents printed, go to the shared or network printer. No need to rush and dash across the floor. Your print jobs are safely stored and locked with your PIN.
 From the printer’s control panel, navigate through it until you find the menu for “Retrieve Job.” The list of stored print jobs in the printer will be listed. Use the arrow keys to scroll through the list and find your username. The number beside your username indicates the number of print jobs waiting for you.
 Once you find your username, select it. All the print jobs under your username will be listed with their respective job names. Use the arrow keys to scroll through the list.
 Once you find the job you’d like to print, select it. You will be asked if you’d like to “Print” or “Delete” the job. Select “Print.”

, You will then be prompted for your PIN code. This is the four-digit code you set earlier. Enter it here. Use the arrow keys to input your code.
 Once your PIN code is accepted, you will be asked for the number of copies for this job. Indicate how many copies you’d like to be printed.
 Press the green, or whatever appropriate, button on the printer to initiate processing of your print job. The printing will start immediately, provided the printer is in good working condition and there are ink and paper available.
 Don’t leave the printer yet. Ensure all the documents under the print jobs you’ve printed are complete and in order before leaving the printer area.

