 The nicest people you know do kind things when absolutely no one is watching. This is because being nice is about caring about more than yourself. Having a positive spirit, kind heart, and willingness to help out those in need isn't about impressing people or getting a reward. Being kind is about creating openness and trust with everyone you meet, showing the world that being nice is its own reward., When you fully respect others' dignity, then automatically more people see you as a nice, caring, trustful, and considerate friend. At the end of the day, you want to be respected for your views, ideas, and passions, even if the other person doesn't share them. You should offer the same courtesy to others as well.
 It is very important to be trustworthy if you are wishing to be a nice person. You must show people that they can trust you no matter what. People will begin to come to you for advice and sometimes just to vent. You can not tell lies and spread rumors, ever. A nice person would never betray a friend or spread rumors, so be cautious of what you say. Habits of trustworthy people include:


Being on time for people, and respecting their time and deadlines.
Following through on promises promptly.
Avoiding double-talk and dealing with issues or problems head on.
 When the burst of anger hits your brain, try not to react immediately. Instead, try to remove yourself from the situation mentally. Look back on the situation and ask yourself if getting angry or upset really solves anything. Before placing blame on others, ask yourself if the situation is really one person's fault. Give yourself 30 seconds to relax -- you'll be surprised how much easier it is to be nice when you're done., Becoming a nicer person can be difficult if you have a hectic, jam-packed life, but it isn't impossible. Start small, focusing on one aspect of life or one relationship where you aren't being kind enough, and start to make the change. As you do, you'll find it easier to settle down and be nicer no matter where you are.
 Keeping cool, level, and positive will always make it easier to be a nice person. If you keep your thoughts generally happy and optimistic, that spirit will come through in your words and actions. The more you can share a positive spirit with others, the nicer you will be perceived to be.Take a deep breath during stressful moments instead of rushing in. Give yourself 30 seconds to get calm and everything will be much less negative.
Look for solutions, not complaints or excuses. Once something bad happens, harping on how it happened helps no one -- move on to possible solutions.

