 To keep unwanted hair from getting all over your meat while you are skinning a squirrel, place the squirrel in the water at the edge of a stream or in a bucket. Lay the squirrel belly-down on a flat surface.


You can also douse the animal with a hose prior to continuing if you are back at home. This step is optional and dependent on a water source; however, it is a handy way to reduce the spread of hair onto the meat.;
, Try only to cut the top layer of skin--no deeper. A sharp knife will make your task of cutting through the skin much easier.


You will be cutting under the tail but on top of the tailbone. Do not cut so deep that you affect the tail attachment.
, Work your fingers around the muscle holding the meat to the skin.
, Most of the hide should come off in one swift motion. Stop when you get to the front arms.


If there is skin remaining along the squirrel's belly, hold the squirrel securely under its front arms. Pinch the skin tightly with your other hand and pull. This motion should remove remaining belly skin as well as any skin left on the front of the hind legs.
 For the front legs, you won't have to make any incisions; just work your finger in between the hide and the meat, tugging gently.
 Despite having skinned a whole animal, your hands shouldn't be messy at this point if you've skinned correctly.
 Carefully slice through the meat with your hunting knife until you reach bone. Then, with a quick snap of the hand, break the bone in half. Slice through any remaining meat to remove the head, arms, and feet entirely.


It's not advisable to try to slice through bone with your hunting knife. This will dull the hunting knife and even leave small bits of bone in the meat.
 If you have more than one squirrel to skin, skin them all first and then remove all their entrails at once. A couple things to remember when you dress the squirrel:



Inspect the liver before you eat the meat. If the liver looks pale, off-color, or spotted, do not eat the meat. If the liver is deep, dark red and looks healthy, the meat is fine to eat.

