 Garage/yard sales are an easy way to get some money in a hurry. However, be aware that people typically come to garage sales and yard sales to try and bargain you into giving them the best possible deal. If your customers are too pushy, or if they can tell you're desperate for cash, you may end up giving away valuable items for a fraction of their worth.As you price each item, keep in mind that most buyers will try to talk you down to a lower price. If you start too low, people will try to go even lower; if you start too high, though, people might just walk away.
If you're really desperate, you can try going through a pawn shop. However, be aware that you probably won't get the best deal from a pawn shop (usually a percentage of the estimated value of that item), as their main goal is to make money too.;
, In the digital age, it's easier than ever before to sell things online. If you're relatively familiar with online selling and bidding, you may even fetch a higher payment there than you would through a physical garage sale.Try websites like Ebay and Craigslist.
Post a high-quality photograph of the item(s) you're trying to sell, and a thorough and honest description.
Make sure you agree to meet in a public place if going through Craigslist, and ask the buyer to bring cash. You may want to consider bringing a friend or family member with you, just so that you know you won't be intimidated by the buyer.
 If you're like most consumers, there's a good chance that you've got one or more old cellphones lying around your home. You might also have an old MP3 player, tablet, or computer. You may have kept these devices around as a "backup" in case something happened to your new device, but there's a good chance that your once-new device is now a backup to an even newer device. You can sell anything you're not currently using for cash online or in person, and free up some closet space while you do it.You can use exchange websites like uSell and Gazelle, or online market places like Ebay.
You can also get cash in-hand on the same day by using an ecoATM. EcoATM tests your device to ensure it works, searches an online network of potential buyers for the highest price, and if you agree to the terms of the sale, dispenses cash to you on the spot.Before selling any device, make sure you transfer or backup any content you want to save. You may want to invest in an external hard drive for computers, or talk to a representative at your cellphone carrier to find out how to backup/transfer pictures, contacts, and messages.
Delete any personal information off the device that you wouldn't want others to find. This may include photographs, contact information, text messages, email accounts, and social media accounts.
You can also reset your phone to ensure that all of your personal data is erased.
Make sure you disconnect your phones and tablets from your contract and network so that no one makes calls or uses data on your bill., Lots of people give and receive gift cards for birthdays, holidays, or as thank you gifts throughout the year. However, sometimes you might get a gift card that you know you'll never use or that you did not completely use. Small amounts left on gift cards can add up . You can use these small amounts to save money on items you would normally buy with your own money, or sell the remaining amounts. Whatever your situation, selling an unused or partially used gift card is a quick and easy way to get money for any need.Find gift card exchange services online. Some of the bigger websites people use are GiftCardRescue.com, Cardpool.com, and CardCash.com.You may get paid within 24 hours if you can enter the card's code online. But sending the cards through the mail will often get you more money, and you'll be paid in three to seven days after your card is received.

