 Distress tolerance refers to how well you can handle uncomfortable, negative, or distressing emotions.Think about how you react when you imagine something bad happening to your family — do you panic and frantically try to stop your feelings of fear and anxiety? Do you run from the feelings or bury them? Do you do something destructive? Increasing your tolerance for these uncomfortable feelings can give you room to deal with them in a healthy way.In fact, the act of worrying can be a way of avoiding distressing emotions. If you're in your head, worrying about something bad that may happen to your family, you are actually distracting yourself from your emotions.Your worry may be a way you distract yourself from anxiety over things you can't control.Learn to self-soothe in the face of distress. When you begin to worry about your family, figure out what you can do to make the emotion more tolerable. This doesn't mean you run from the feeling, but you make it less intense so you can deal with it.
Try some of the following: Exercise, dance, clean the house, listen to soothing music, look at artwork or something beautiful, play with your pet, do a puzzle or play a game, watch your favorite tv show, volunteer, take a shower or a bubble bath, pray, read a book, laugh, sing, go somewhere beautiful and calming.Start noticing the things you do that make you feel better, and the things that make you feel worse (such as binge eating, isolating yourself in your room, etc.).
 Oftentimes people think worrying is productive — if you are hyper-vigilant about everything that might happen to your family, then you might be able to protect them from anything that might harm them. Unfortunately, this doesn't work — this doesn't make life more predictable. Instead, you just waste time and energy, as you can never know with 100% certainty what will happen in life.Realize that worrying about worst-case scenarios ("What if my dad gets cancer and dies?" "What if my plane crashes?") doesn't have the power to stop these things from happening.Ask yourself: Is it possible to be certain about everything in life? Does worrying constantly about something bad happening have any advantages? Does it keep me from enjoying the present moment? Can I accept that there is a small chance something bad will happen, but the actual likelihood of it happening is very low?, This means you become habituated, or grow used to, your worries. For 30 minutes you visualize what you're afraid of — your family dying in a car crash, for instance — and accept the feelings that arise instead of trying to avoid them or run away.The goal of this is to allow your anxiety to calm down and to come to a place of acceptance. It will also help you begin to distinguish between solvable problems and those over which you have no control.Ask yourself these questions, suggested by HelpGuide.org:Is the problem something I'm currently facing, rather than an imaginary what-if? If the problem is an imaginary what-if, how likely is it to happen?
Is my concern realistic?
Can I do something about the problem or prepare for it, or is it out of my control?


If you recognize that, no, there's nothing you can do to eliminate the chances of your family getting injured or killed in a car accident (or other worry), you can work on accepting uncertainty about the situation. Remembering: worrying is not an action. Worrying about a car accident won't somehow prevent a car accident.
If you feel the problem is solvable, try to define the problem, brainstorm potential solutions, and make an action plan to start actively doing something, instead of simply worrying., Taking the steps to speak to a health care professional doesn’t need to be a last resort. Sometimes just speaking your worries about yourself or your family out loud to someone who has no connection to the problem can really help. Look for providers in your area that offer sliding scale rates, and make yourself an appointment., There is nothing like a good cry to wash away your negative emotions. Research shows that after you finish crying, your heart rate slows, your breathing slows, and you enter a state of relaxation. This relaxed state tends to last longer than the time you spent crying. So if you feel so worried about your family that you could just cry, go ahead.


Cry alone or with a friend.
Make sure you're in an appropriate place (embarrassment won't help)., Friends can be an excellent source of support. They can give you their perspectives and help you to sort out yours. They can help you see if your fears about yourself or your family are rational or not. Simply by speaking your fear out loud to a real person, you may find the anxiety start to dissipate.It may help to set a "connection goal," such as calling one friend per week.
If you can't bring yourself to actually call, write an email instead.

