 Being a part of a global culture, seek to respect other cultures. So wherever you go, consider the dress code for the normal environment that is expected within the culture you're visiting. It isn't your place to prove any point about your own sense of liberty; it is about respecting the ways of where you are. Such respect will open many doors for you, allowing you to become friends with local people, to visit places and learn about customs and activities that are often off limits to the standard tourist who lacks awareness of the local preferences.


You may even discover benefits from dressing as people in the local culture do. Perhaps the clothes are cooler or warmer, feel more comfortable or afford you a sense of modesty that also brings with it a sense of security and well-being. You won't know until you try, without passing prior judgment.;
, You can try your own country's food in many places but where is the adventurousness in that? How will you begin to embrace global culture if you're choosing McDonald's fast food cafes all the time? The local food items should not be ignored. Usually the food popular among people is good for the health, reflects what the local environment can produce effectively and has a smaller footprint on that environment. In many cases, the local food reflects the local conditions, such as eating chillies in hot weather to help you sweat more, and thereby cool down. Most of all, eating the local food will open your mind and awaken your taste buds to a range of new flavors, new ways of presenting food and new textures that you've never had before. Some of the local dishes may just become your new favorites.
 You can do this through participating in their festivals and special events, through learning and using their verbal greetings, and by exchanging gifts, knowledge or anything else that is appropriate.


Find out in advance what the customs and traditions are, so that you're not ignorant. And if you don't know, ask those people who are willing to help you, including friends, neighbors, hotel staff, tourist helpers, and so forth.
  Always feel free to ask about other religions and participate in other people's religious activities (if they allow you). You might not be interested in their beliefs, but setting aside your own prejudices and stubborn attitudes about what is and isn't right about beliefs will help you to become a more engaged and understanding part of global society. You are not being asked to take on the beliefs of others but you are being asked tor respect them, to understand why these beliefs matter to them and to observe how these beliefs are often woven into the fabric of daily life, even for the non-believers of each country and place. A little bit of spiritualism exists everywhere, and it doesn't hurt to stop and observe.


When entering sacred places, you need to consider appropriate attire. Many require that you are not sleeveless or immodest in attire. You may need to remove hats, shoes and sunglasses. Look for signs when entering such places.
 When you go somewhere that isn't your own culture, forget about all that you normally relate to and treat as "normal" for a while. In this way, you can enjoy something new, with great enthusiasm and motivation. Learning about other cultures and perspectives on living will help to increase your general knowledge about the world, increases your tolerance through understanding and will help to make you feel at home no matter where you are in the world. A traveler or global citizen is always willing to try new things, see the world in new ways and listen and observe all that there is to learn from other cultures. This isn't a negation of your own culture, it is a flourishing of understanding about the wealth of cultures in existence, building on what you do know and helping you to be more worldly.
 When you go somewhere, make a good attempt to learn how they say hello, how they say goodbye, and how they say their daily and regular greetings. In this way, you will not only learn about other cultures but you'll also feel a part of their culture in the most natural way. It all begins at hello in the local language, revealing your respect for their culture and language and showing your willingness to engage on their terms.
 When you meet someone new, respect his or her cultural beliefs and try to establish friendship based on your own personal traits. Personal traits reveal the humanity in you and are the most enduring way of reaching out to others and remaining close friends. On the other hand, a friendship based only on having a similar culture, religion, or coming from the same region can fail to flourish because you have nothing else in common than familiarity. True friendship is sourced from being intrigued, enthused, awed and motivated by the person each of you really is inside. That's global friendship, and it carries within it the true kernel of tolerance and peace.

