 Music can be a wonderful stress-reliever. It also serves as a powerful way to spark creativity. Depending on your craft, music can rev you up, or soothe your senses.Decide on a type of music that puts you in a creative mood and listen to it while you work or while you complete chores.


You can even try ambient sounds that help you concentrate on your work or unwind at the end of a productive day. Rustling leaves, chirping birds, or falling rain all can put you in a calm mood., Visualization is an excellent tool to help you manage stress while treating bipolar disorder. These exercises allow you to temporarily escape from your environment into your mind’s eye. There, you can use your senses to create a world all your own.


For example, you might imagine being near a creek in the forest. You hear the rustling wind, the flowing water, and the birds chirping in the trees. You smell pine. The wind makes your skin tingle, but the sun warms the places that the wind hits. Use all five senses to activate this image.
Research shows that one type of guided imagery known as open-monitoring meditation actually opens your brain up to creativity. Performing this technique has been shown to help with idea generation. Other forms of guided imagery can be found on YouTube.
 Using your hands in a meaningful way can be a rewarding and relaxing experience. In today’s society, when we are so often absorbed in technology, the act of making something with your hands can promote psychological well-being. In fact, this form of creative action serves as a natural antidepressant, which can benefit your bipolar disorder.Humans have an inherent need to make things. So, find a creative task—different than your usual work—to become absorbed in. Try cooking, baking, pottery-making, gardening, woodworking, or making a mandala, which promotes focus and self-centering., Writing in a journal, developing a storyline, or simply jotting down thoughts can help you release negative emotions and help you generate ideas for creative projects at the same time.


Taking a few minutes to journal each day can help you recognize patterns in your mood regarding bipolar disorder. It can also give you insight into thoughts and behaviors that affect your functioning. What’s more, after developing days and weeks of journal entries, you are better equipped to problem-solve any challenges you face., Sometimes creativity hits a wall because you are burnt out. Taking a break can be just what you need to return inspired and recharged. In addition to providing an outlet to manage stress, traveling can help you stay creative while treating bipolar disorder.Whether you journey to a nearby city or nature park, or book a flight abroad, there are endless opportunities to receive creative inspiration. Try new foods. Learn a language. Visit monuments, museums, and art galleries. Carry a notebook with you to jot down ideas as they come to you.

