 You can turn almost any wooden surface into a chalkboard, or you can use chalkboard paint to create labels on boxes and storage containers. This section will not only teach you how to paint a wooden surface, but also how to prepare it for painting.;
, The texture of the wood will still show after you have painted your piece, so if you want a smoother finish, you will need to sand it down with 120 to 200 grit sandpaper. Use a sanding block, and sand along the wood grain.Once you are done sanding, wipe the surface clean with a tack cloth to get rid of any of any dust caused by the sanding.
 This will help you get a nice, sharp edge. You can create different shapes by using adhesive stencils, or make your own out of thin sheets of plastic.
 Once you have sanded your piece, apply some primer to the area you are going to paint. You can use a regular, flat paintbrush, a foam brush, or a paint roller. You can also use a spray-on primer as well. Once you are done painting, wait for the primer to dry. This can take anywhere between two to four hours. Refer to the instructions on the can for specific drying times, as each brand is different.


If you are using a spray-on primer, hold the can six to eight inches away from the surface, and apply the primer on using light, even strokes. Make sure that you are in a well-ventilated area.
 Depending on how textured the wood grain is, you may need to sand the primed surface. Once the primer has dried, use a fine-grit (120 to 220 grit)sandpaper to gently sand the surface down. Make sure that you go with the grain. Wipe away any dust with a tack cloth, and reapply the primer., After the primer has dried, you can apply the first coat of paint using a regular, flat paintbrush, a foam brush, or a paint roller. You can also use chalkboard spray paint as well. When applying the paint, make sure that you go along the wood grain. Most paint will dry within two to four hours. Read the manufacturer's recommendations on the container for more specific drying times.


If you are using a spray-on chalkboard paint, make sure that you are in a well-ventilated area. Hold the can six to eight inches away from the surface and apply the paint in light, even strokes.
 Once the first coat of chalkboard paint has dried, apply a second coat, but this time go against the grain. If you cannot see the grain, then paint in the opposite direction—so if you painted up-and-down the first time, paint left-to-right the second time.
 Once the paint has dried, use a craft knife or scissors, to lightly score the edges where the tape meets the paint. This lessens the chances of the paint ripping when you remove the tape. Once you have scored the edges, pull the tape off, slowly and carefully.


If the are any uneven areas, either fill them in with paint using a fine-tipped brush, or scrape them off using your fingernail or a craft knife.
 Let the paint cure for three days. Once the paint has cured, rub white chalk over the entire painted surface, then wipe it off using a damp cloth. You can now write or draw on your surface.Refer to the manufacturer's directions on the can for more specific curing times. Some craft-grade paints are ready to be used in as little as 24 hours, while others may require more than three days to finish curing.

