 A huge part of looking great at your wedding is looking good in your wedding pictures. It's a photographers job to make sure you look fabulous. They know what you are looking for in your wedding photos and will give you instruction and feedback as they snap their photos.
 Good posture is flattering to your body and makes you look slimmer. It also gives you an air of confidence. Slouching in your wedding photos will make you look uncomfortable or unhappy, so even if you don't like getting your picture taken, make an effort to straighten up. Try to elongate your spine and push your shoulders back. Make sure to keep your chin up so that your face is pointed at the photographer. , Make sure you are giving a big, natural smile. Remember how happy you are on this day and try to let that show in your face. Concentrate on making the smile go all the way to your eyes! Some people's eyes naturally squint when they smile. Try to keep your eyes open when you smile, because a lot of emotion is lost when your eyes aren't visible.
Smile in a few different ways. Do a close-mouth smile, then an open mouth, and then experiment with the wideness of your smile.
 Don't get stuck in one pose. You want to make sure that you find a pose that is flattering and natural for you, and that might mean posing in a couple different ways. Start with a straight-on, traditional pose. Then angle one shoulder at the camera with one foot slightly in front of the other. Experiment with putting your hands on your hips. Changing poses should feel subtle and natural, so don't try to do any poses that feel strange or unlike you. , This day is about the two of you becoming family, and you want that to show in your wedding photos. Put your arm around your spouse or give him or her a kiss for the camera. You can also look at your spouse and smile. That is a very sweet pose and it communicates how happy you are to start your new life with your new spouse.
 Do series of different shots that feature the important people in your life. Make sure that you get photographs of just you and your spouse. Other ideas for shots include you and your bridesmaids or groomsmen, a shot with both of your families, and a photo with friends.


If you are hiring a professional photographer, he or she is paid to orchestrate these photographs. The photographer will direct the different shots so that your friends and family will know when they are needed.

