 This is a flip-side to successfully spying; you also need to know how to deal with getting caught. Thus, you need to be prepared to come up with believable excuses that cause people to think that you're either not spying at all or to plant doubt in their mind that what they thought they saw was actually something else.
 Make it look like you were trying to recognize them and suddenly realized that it is them and act all friendly. You could even holler out something like: "Oh! It is you! I was not sure there for a second and was trying to figure it out. So great to see you again.";
, Acknowledge their presence as if it's perfectly normal, then be on your way as if you're going about your normal everyday business. Just don't make a big deal out of it.
 In some cases, it might be best to duck down among a group of people to "disappear" or to weave in and out of such a crowd. You could appear to merge into the sea of people and have the person thinking twice about whether or not they saw you at all.
 Initiate a conversation about the weather, the day, work, whatever. Act as if everything is perfectly normal and that you weren't behaving oddly before at all. It'll be hard for them to feel spied on if you're acting all chummy.
 If you're on the street or in a store, you can simply play act at checking out the merchandise or picking things up to find their prices or brand information.
 Say that you didn't mean to stare or be rude but you were taken in by the beauty of their outfit and felt mesmerized. If you turn it into an issue of apologizing about your lack of manners, all ideas of spying will be forgotten about.
 Say that you were looking about for it everywhere and ask the person if they've happened to see the object anywhere.
 Say that you're lost and ask them if they know where X dentist/doctor/hair salon is. Act flustered about being late.
 If you have brought along a spying partner, start talking to each other in earnest, acting as if you're just out for the day together and that you haven't really noticed the person at all.
 Acting eccentric or self involved may well be enough to put the other person right off the scent. Or, make it clear that you're actually having a conversation on your phone (fake it) and that whatever you're being told is causing you to react with vigor. A bit of acting can make it all seem bizarre and surreal, hopefully leading the other person to forget suspicions about spying.
 Tell them until you're blue in the face that you have no clue how that spy app got on their phone or why you just happen to keep popping up in the same location as them all the day long.
 Say "Yep, I've been spying on you. It's for my class project on seeing how people react when they know they're being watched." Good luck with this excuse, especially if the person contacts your teacher or lecturer to confirm it. Or, you could just say: "Well, I'm not spying as such. I'm people watching. It dawned on me at the same time you notice me people watching that you were in the crowd too, how's that for an amazing coincidence?".

