 It's recommended that you take a short shower, so other girls have time to shower.


Get a wax before the trip/camp. Get a wax kit and wax your legs, underarms, face etc. before you go. You will probably be too busy to shave, and this takes a little bit of worry away from your trip.
Bring a big enough wash bag to contain all your toiletries for when you go to the bathroom block.;
, The fewer products, the better. For your face, get some foaming cloths or pads that you just have to run under water. Wash your face and moisturize with a light oil-free moisturizer with at least SPF 15.


Make sure you bring chap stick or a lip butter to keep your lips clean, healthy, and moisturized.
Add a touch of concealer, some waterproof mascara and a dab of nude or light pink/red lip gloss; this should be all you need for make up while traveling. If you don't want to add mascara, consider just curling your eyelashes. But remember you are camping: you don't need to look your best!
For an extra little glow, smile and dab a little bit of Vaseline on the "apples" (fleshy part)of your cheeks. But don't use too much or your face will feel oily.
Keep your eyebrows groomed. A tiny dab of Vaseline and a comb through with an old toothbrush will keep them in shape. Take care not to accidentally use the same toothbrush to brush your teeth after!
Cut and file your nails and toenails before you go, and also put on a clear coat of polish. Your nails will be shiny and well groomed, but not overdone for camping.
 You shouldn't be blow-drying your hair during the summer. Already the heat is drying out your hair and you don't want to totally dry it out by adding more heat. After you get out of the shower, spray your hair with a leave-in conditioner and comb, then towel dry. Rub in a dollop of anti-frizz or smoothing serum all over your hair, especially to the ends! Pull up your hair in a messy bun then let it air dry.
 After you get out the shower, slather on a body lotion enriched with vitamin E. Rub on some deodorant because you will most likely be sweating from the heat and activities. Sunscreen is an absolute must and be sure to reapply it every 2 - 4 hours. Invest in a good athletic sunscreen that is sweat- and waterproof. Spray-on sunscreens are easier to apply and less messy than other sunscreens.

