 When you have experienced loss, you may not be able to return to work for a few days. Contact your supervisor, manager, or human resources to let them know of your loss. If you work alongside others, you may want the manager to let your coworkers know what happened.You may choose to write an email or call your place of employment.
If you do not want to have to explain your situation to everyone in your office, you may want to tell your boss to let everyone know for you.
 Many jobs offer some kind of bereavement leave when someone in your immediate family or a close friend dies. This may be a few days, and some companies may offer up to a week or two. This time allows you the chance to arrange funerals and take care of other details surrounding the death.This bereavement leave may not be long enough for you to cope and deal with the grief. If you cannot take more time off, try to rest and use the time off you do get to do as much as you can.
 Many employers expect you to ignore the grief and be back at work immediately. They may expect you to be fine, at your best, and “over it.” Realize that grief is a process that takes time to work through. You will need time to heal.There is no normal time to grieve for a loss. However, if you are unable to function and do your job after a month or more, you should consider seeing a mental health specialist to help you deal with your grief.
 When you are coping with workplace grief, it may be difficult to focus on your work. If you are unable to take any more time off, you may need to figure out the best way to be productive. It may help to prioritize the work you need to do. This way, you can focus on finishing the most pressing tasks and not worry about less important things.For example, if you have an inbox full of emails, focus on replying to the ones that must be dealt with today. If something can be put off until tomorrow, skip it and come back to it.
 Sometimes, distracting yourself with work and getting back to your routine can help you cope with your grief. Focusing on work may help you get your mind off your loss. Routine may help you start to feel some normalcy and like life will go on despite your grief and loss.When you’re at work, try to think just about work. Push all other thoughts out of your head. Let yourself focus on something other than your grief. It may help you process and start to heal.
 If you are struggling to get back to work, you may want to ask your boss if it is possible to have a temporary lighter work load. If you are the boss and your employer is having trouble, consider allowing them to take it easy for awhile.Explain that your grief is affecting your productivity. Say, “I have suffered a significant loss. It is affecting my concentration and making it difficult to think clearly. I was wondering if I could have a lighter workload while I overcome this loss.”

, When you experience a loss, you should reach out to your coworkers, managers, and supervisors. Share with them what you feel comfortable sharing. Then, ask for help if you need it. You don’t have to do everything on your own.For example, you may say, “I’m struggling getting things done because I can’t concentrate. I was hoping you could help me just for a few days until I get my bearings again.”

, If you have trouble adjusting back to your job after a loss, you may want to see a mental health professional. Even if you talked with a company counselor, you may need more support. Remember, that is okay. Reach out to a mental health professional to help you find ways to cope and heal.When searching for a mental health professional, look for one who specializes in loss or trauma.

