 Go to the YouTube home page at www.youtube.com to log into your YouTube channel account. Click the “Sign in” button at the top right corner of the home page, and type your Gmail address and password in the required fields.


Hit the “Sign in” button below the email and password fields to continue.;
, Click the “My Channel” button at the top left bar of your home page to access your channel page.
 Click on the “Video” tab below your channel’s cover to browse all the published videos on your YouTube channel.
 Click on the title of your selected video to view the video.
 Click “Share” tab below your video player screen to get the video link.


After clicking on “Share” tab, you should see a new bar including 3 options: Share, Embed, and Email.
Do not click on “Embed” or “Email.”

, Click on the “Video link” box below the “Share” tab to select it and press the right button of your mouse to copy this link. You should copy the link.
 Go to the home page of Pinterest at www.pinterest.com and log into your account using your registered email address and password.
 Click on your profile name at the top right corner of your home page to access to your Pinterest profile page.
 You can find this below your profile picture and information.
 Click on “Add a Pin” button on the left side of your profile page. You should see a pop-up box on your screen where you can select the source of your pin.


Click on the “The web” box to enable the link-inserting box. When the message “Add a Pin from a website” appears, click on the “Link” field and paste your copied YouTube video link in the empty field by clicking the right button of your mouse and selecting “Paste.”
You may see the link box become red and marked an error after pasting the video link in it. Just press the Spacebar on your keyboard to make it active.
 To do this, just press the Back button on your keyboard.
 Click on one of the fetched images from your video link to make a cover for your video. Your Pinterest subscriber will see your selected image as the cover of your YouTube video.
 Click on the “Board title” field next to the “Board” option to select an existing pin board or add a new pin board to pin your YouTube video on Pinterest.


It is better to create a different pin board especially for your YouTube videos. If you create a new pin board for your video, you will see the board setting menu after pinning or posting your video on Pinterest.
To create a new pin board, you must type the board name in the empty field and press the “Create” button next to it.
Put a few sentences about your board in the “Description” field. Write something about your video in details to give your subscriber a clear idea about your video. Remember, in this “Description” field, you cannot write more than 500 characters.
You must include keywords in this description field related to your business, if you have a business or commercial purpose. Moreover, you can add the video link in this description section to create a SEO optimized backlink to your YouTube channel.
 Hit the “Pin it” button at the bottom right corner of the dialogue box on your screen. Now, wait for the pinning process. You should see a notification that you have pinned your YouTube video on Pinterest successfully.


You can see the video yourself by clicking on “See it now” button that appears. Your subscriber can watch your posted YouTube video right on Pinterest with a single click.

