 These are all symptoms of bacterial vaginosis (BV), a common vaginal infection. There is no known cause of BV, but it can lead to an overgrowth of normally occurring vaginal bacteria and an infection.Many women display no symptoms of BV other than an unpleasant odor. Your doctor can confirm you have BV during a check up.
Certain activities, like unprotected sex and frequent douching, can increase your risk of developing BV.
 You may also experience pain when you urinate. These are symptoms of trichomoniasis, a sexually transmitted infection caused by a parasite. Men who have trichomoniasis usually display no symptoms, so both partners should be treated for this STI once it is diagnosed.You should always practice safe sex and use condoms to reduce your risk of getting trichomoniasis.
 You may also experience itching, soreness, and a burning sensation when you urinate or have intercourse. These are all symptoms of a yeast infection. This infection occurs when there is an overgrowth of yeast in your vagina., These could be signs that the odor is due to hormonal changes during menstruation or between ovulation and your next period. You are susceptible to unpleasant vaginal odors during these stages of your cycle.Depending on your age and your medical history, you could also be experiencing another hormonal change: menopause. Women can experience a smelly, watery discharge during menopause.
 When your whole body sweats, your vagina can end up smelling sweaty and unpleasant. Your external genitals have a special gland called apocrine sweat glands, which are also found in your armpits, nipples, ear canals, eyelids, and the wings of your nostrils. These glands release an oily fluid that is metabolized by the bacteria on the surface of your skin, thereby letting off a noticeable smell.Wearing tight clothing and sweating in tight clothing can make the odor worse by trapping sweat and bacteria onto your skin. If you are overweight, it may be difficult for your body to release odors around your groin due to skin folds from excess weight.
 If you forget to remove your tampon, this can cause a buildup of menstrual blood and bacteria. This buildup can irritate your vagina, causing itching and a strong, unpleasant smell and discharge.If you realize you forgot to remove your tampon, you should see your gynecologist immediately. She can safely remove it for you and treat any infection due to the forgotten tampon.

