 Horseshoe kidneys are prone to bacterial infection. You will have to have your urine examined to figure out what bacteria is in your kidney. You will then have to get a prescription for an antibiotic that will get rid of the infection. It is important that you finish your whole antibiotic treatment, even if you start feeling better within the first couple of days. If you stop too soon, the infection may come back.Some of the common antibiotics used for kidney infection include Ciprofloxacin and a combination of Amoxycillin and Clavulanic, which is called Augmentin.
 If you are taking antibiotics for a kidney infection, you should rest as much as possible. Take work or school off and rest so that your body can heal itself. Do not do any heavy lifting, and try to stay put in a bed or on the couch.Getting rest will speed up your recovery process and help the antibiotic medication to do its job.
 The more hydrated you are, the more urine your body will produce. If the kidney stone you are dealing with is small enough, filling your body with water and other fluids could flush the stone out with your urine. Drink upwards of 10 glasses of water a day to really hydrate yourself and see if you can flush the stone out.If you get bored drinking water, add some fruit juice, like lemon, to the water to give it some flavor. You could also drink hydration sports drinks like Gatorade or Powerade. Coconut water is also a good option for hydration.
 There are some medications that can enter your system and break down your kidney stone. One of these medications is Allopurinol, which can break down uric acid stones.


If your kidney stones are too large for medication to have much of an effect, your doctor may also suggest Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy (ESWL) to break up the kidneys. During this procedure, high-energy sound waves are sent through the spot where your kidney stone is. The kidney stone will get broken up but the rest of your body will remain unharmed., If you have a horseshoe kidney, it's a good idea to set up regular appointments with your doctor to make sure that you do not have any tumors developing. Doctors use ultrasounds to check out your kidney and make sure that it is tumor-free.


You may want to consider setting appointments up for every six months or so, just to be on the safe side. Talk to your doctor about the amount of visits he or she thinks is necessary based on your medical history.
 Your doctor will take your age, health, and medical history into consideration when determining the best way to fight the cancer.


The two most common forms of treatment are chemotherapy and radiation. Your doctor may also choose to do a combination of both therapies.

