 Saline sprays add moisture to your nasal passages. It can also help clean them of crusts and mucus.You can purchase over-the-counter saline sprays at most drug stores and pharmacies. These sprays come as pressurized canisters or pump spray bottles.


Ask your doctor or pharmacist what type of saline solution is best for you. Hypertonic saline sprays have a slightly higher concentration of salt than is found in your body tissues. Isotonic saline sprays have the same salt concentration as your body. Hypotonic saline sprays have a slightly lower concentration of salt than your body.If you have sensitive skin, use a saline spray with a sodium content of less than 1%. The body's saline concentration is 0.9% (which is why replacement fluids given in medical emergencies is a 0.9% saline solution.)Nasal sprays may sting lightly or cause irritation if they have a sodium chloride content higher than 0.9%.
Most saline sprays are safe to use as often as you like. If you experience nosebleeds, discontinue using your saline spray. If bleeding or irritation continues, consult your doctor., If you use a pressurized canister, wash it at least once a week. When using a pressurized canister, blow your nose once to clear it of mucus. Shake the canister a few times. Keep your head upright and breathe out slowly. Hold the canister up to one nostril and hold your other nostril closed. Press down on the canister as you inhale slowly through the open nostril. Repeat for the other nostril.


When using a pump spray, blow your nose once to clear it of mucus. Lightly shake the bottle a few times. Tilt your head forward slightly and exhale. Hold the pump to one nostril and hold the other nostril closed. Squeeze the pump as you inhale through your nose. Repeat for the other nostril.
Try not to sneeze or blow your nose immediately after using a saline spray.
Follow the directions on the packaging. Otherwise you may end up wasting medication or causing further irritation.
 Most Neti pots and syringes come with prepackaged solution (or dry packets). If you use a Neti pot or syringe to irrigate your nasal passages, start with once per day. If you feel better, you can increase to twice a day.Nasal irrigation has minimal side effects. You may experience a slight burning or irritation when you first start irrigating.Lean over the sink so you are looking down into the basin. You can also do this in the shower or tub to avoid splashing. Breathe through your mouth. Tilt your head at a 45-degree angle.Place the spout of the Neti pot into your upper nostril so it forms a comfortable seal. Do not press the spout against the middle part of your nose. Tip the Neti pot so the solution pours into your upper nostril. It will drain through your nasal passages and out the other nostril. Continue breathing through your mouth.
Once the pot is empty, breathe out firmly through both nostrils. This will help clear out extra salt water and mucus. Gently blow your nose into a tissue.
Always rinse out the extra salt water and wash the Neti pot or syringe with soap and water after use.
It’s normal for your nose to “run” for up to 30 minutes after irrigation. Carry a tissue with you to wipe up any drops.
If your nose stings or burns, use less salt next time.
 To cut down on the expense of your saline treatments or take more control over the ingredients of the solution, you can make your own.


Use ¼ tsp kosher or pickling salt, ¼ tsp baking soda, and 8 ounces of warm distilled or boiled water. It’s important to use water that has been distilled or boiled and cooled because tap water may contain amoebas or parasites.
 Dry air can irritate and worsen your sinusitis. Using a humidifier will help keep the air moist. This will help your sinuses drain and will keep your symptoms from getting worse.Aim for the right humidity. The air in your home should range between 30-55% humidity. If the humidity is too high, it may encourage the growth of mold and dust mites, both of which are common allergens. If the humidity is too low, you may get dry eyes and develop throat or sinus irritations. You can purchase a humidistat to measure your home’s humidity at most hardware stores.
Keep your humidifier clean. Mold can easily grow on these devices and spread throughout the house.
Adding a few drops of an essential oil such as eucalyptus to the water in the humidifier can help reduce congestion.Consider getting a houseplant. Plants can help regulate indoor humidity through transpiration, where flowers, leaves and stems of the plant release water vapor into the air. They also help clean the air of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. Good indoor plants include aloe vera, bamboo palm, weeping fig, Chinese evergreen, and various species of philodendron and dracaena., Inhaling steam from a hot shower or bowl of hot water is an excellent way to moisten your nasal passages and reduce congestion. Some studies suggest that warm showers also help reduce anxiety and stress.Limit your time in hot showers to 5-10 minutes. People with sensitive skin should only take a hot shower once or twice a week to prevent their skin from drying out and becoming irritated.
A mentholated “shower bomb” can help reduce congestion, but some people experience airway irritation from their contents. If buying a store-bought shower bomb, be sure to read the ingredients and warning labels before you buy it.
To use a steam bowl, pour hot water into a temperature-safe bowl. Place the bowl on a sturdy, secure space such as a table or counter.Lean your head over the bowl. Don’t get so close that the steam or water burns your face.
Cover your head and the bowl with a light cotton towel. Inhale the steam for 10 minutes.
You can add 2-3 drops of eucalyptus oil or other decongesting oil to the water to help clear your congestion. Keep in mind that eucalyptus is a very strong scent and people with asthma or those who are sensitive to smells may be overwhelmed by the scent.
Use 2-4 times daily., Some research suggests that spicy foods, especially foods such as horseradish and hot peppers, may help clear congested sinuses.The capsaicin in peppers and other spicy foods may help thin mucus and promote sinus drainage.