 If you are buying a computer for your parents, or making a computer purchase on their behalf, it is important that you ask your parents to get involved. Involving your parents in as many parts of the purchasing process as possible will ensure they end up with a computer that meets their needs and that they are excited about using.


You can involve your parents by asking them about their needs, taking them shopping, and helping them set a budget.
 If it is possible, you should visit a store with your parents to test out different models. This in-person experience will allow them to gain hands-on experience with different types and models of computers that fit within the budget. You may find out that a parent who was hesitant about getting a tablet with a wireless keyboard falls in love with this option when given the opportunity to try it out.
 If you live in another town, or can’t find time in your schedule to take your parents to shop for a computer in person, the next best thing is a virtual shopping trip. Call your parents, or have them come over to your house, and explore computers in online stores. This will involve them in the process and hopefully help them end up with a model they are excited about using.
 Not every computer will come with all the software or accessories your parents will need or want to use. For example, if your parents need Microsoft Office, you will need to purchase, download, and install this software.
 When purchasing a computer for your parents, or making a purchase on their behalf, it is important that you stick as closely to your budget as possible. For example, if your parents need a simple laptop to check email and edit photographs, then you should be able to stick to a budget of around $500 or less.
 Once you’ve decided on a model, make sure you shop around before finalizing your purchase. The prices of computers can vary widely depending on the store and whether or not a retailer is having a sale or promotion. Some retailers will even match the price of their competitors, so be sure to ask before you buy.

