 Contrary to popular misconceptions, dreadlocks require washing just as much as other hairstyles. You should aim to shampoo and roll your dreadlocks every three or four days when they’re new. Once they’ve fully locked up, you can get by washing them once a week, or more often depending on your hair type and the amount of oil your scalp tends to produce.Most people who wear dreadlocks wash them at least once a week. If you have particularly oily hair, or if you exercise, work outside, get dirty or sweat a lot, you may benefit from more frequent washings.You can still bathe regularly between washings without having to shampoo your locks.
 Dreadlocks put a lot of weight on the scalp as they get heavier and pull. It’s essential that you keep your scalp clean and moisturized in addition to your locks themselves. Whenever you’re cleaning your locks, take a few moments to massage your scalp vigorously with your fingertips. This promotes proper blood flow and will strengthen the follicles, meaning you won’t have to worry about your locks becoming brittle or falling out.Itching and discomfort can be a sign that your scalp or roots are in poor condition.
As your hair grows, keep your dreadlocks waxed and twisted to tighten up the new growth close to the scalp., Use a couple drops of tea tree, peppermint or rosemary oil along with your shampoo, or treat your locks with them separately. Essential oils moisturize, cut down on itchiness and irritation around the scalp and leave your hair smelling pleasant. They are far preferable to perfumes, spray-in fragrances and scented cleansers, as they won’t damage your locks or leave behind any residue.Just a hint of essential oils can combat the “dirty hair” smell that naturally accumulates on thick dreadlocks.
 Conditioners are designed to soften and detangle hair, which is the last thing you want if you have a head full of dreads. In general, there should be no reason to condition your dreadlocks. You should also be cautious about any other products that contain oils, waxes or knot-fighting agents. Regular use of these products can damage the structure of your dreadlocks and make them much harder to maintain.A good residue-free shampoo, and optionally pure aloe gel and salt-water tightening spray should be all you need to keep your dreadlocks clean and looking great. For dry scalp or dreads, very light applications of coconut oil will help moisturize without conditioning.

