


It may be inadvisable to fly and you should take the doctor's advice seriously. Find alternate means of travel.;
, Flying can exacerbate whatever illnesses you already have. Between the dry air, tiring situations and stress your little cold can become worse and perhaps even develop into a more serious respiratory illness.


Consider taking a day off to rest as soon as you feel something coming on. People tend to be very busy before leaving for vacation or a business trip. Don't dismiss taking a sick day if you need it.






Place a call to your doctor or get a prescription called in if possible.
 Drinking green tea may also help curb illness.
 It may take several days to show symptoms so try to avoid sick people a few weeks before your trip.
 Commercial airplanes have very low humidity. (Lower than the Sahara desert.) This can lead to you becoming dehydrated. Drink plenty of water the days before your flight as well as during and following your flight.


Dehydration can cause you to become run down and make it easier to pick up viruses.
 It can dehydrate you and leave you feeling drained.


Alcohol affects you differently at different altitudes.
 Make sure you carry accurate instructions. A late connector or lost bag could leave you without important medications.
 Pack light snacks in your bag or pick up something from the airport.


Don't fly hungry. Some airlines have eliminated in flight snack service. Any delay can leave you unable to grab a meal in a connector airport. Have a little something to eat in your carry on.
If you have any restrictions in your diet you should definitely pack something from home. This includes low sodium, low fat, low cholesterol, etc.
Vegetarian and organic eaters should also pack food for the flight. Pickings will be slim in the airport and you don't want to live off of weird sides and a snack you'd really not prefer.






Eating will keep your energy up, your blood sugar normalized and you won't be fighting a growling stomach to sleep.
Eating weird food on the run can cause you to feel bad.
Long flights often offer food service but special need meals (low fat, low sodium, vegan, kosher, vegetarian, etc.) will need to be requested several days in advance.
Contact the airline and confirm what meal options are available.
If you have a special diet you should request the special meal.
Call the day before and confirm they have your special meal request. By calling the day before they can still make arrangements if your request was "lost".






Eating outside your regular diet can cause stomach upset or leave you feeling awful.
 Don't assume the airline will have something if you forget. Take Tylenol, Advil, Pepto Bismol, etc. Think of worst-case scenario and not just how you feel while packing.
 This includes chicken pox, measles, etc. Not only could it be dangerous for you to fly buy you may be a carrier until symptoms begin to show. You could cause many people to become ill.


The recycled air makes illnesses easier to spread.
Don't assume. Ask your doctor. They may even be able to test for exposure.
, The limb expands with flight and you can cause the circulation to be cut off causing permanent damage. Talk to your doctor if you fly often and have them leave extra room in your cast or use a different casting if you will be traveling soon.
 Try to get up every hour or so. Even if you must just walk to the restroom and back you should. Also stretching your legs in your seat will help when you aren't allowed to the restroom.


The lack of blood flow to the lower limbs can cause a blood clot to form with the coagulating blood. It can cause pain or in some cases can lead to death.
Notify the flight crew if you are having pain or swelling in your extremities, any shortness of breath or any other strange symptoms with a sudden onset.
 In case of emergency the other passengers, airport staff or flight crew can have details of any illnesses you have.


If you don't have one you should contact your local pharmacy or your doctor to get one. You may also be able to have it covered by insurance but they are usually inexpensive.
Some pharmacies have some pre-printed with common health problems (drug allergies, asthma, diabetes, cardiac problems, COPD/Emphysema, blood thinners, etc.)
Ask your pharmacist about what is available. Check a different pharmacy if your local one doesn't have it or look online.
 If possible, include a number for your travel town as well as your hometown.
,


Slipping and falling in airports is also quite common.
Consider weather conditions where you are traveling. It may be advisable to pack shoes for walking in snow and rain.
 Many people like to avoid checking luggage so they over pack smaller bags and they become too heavy. Injuries can occur from trying to negotiate a heavy bag. You could injure your back, shoulders, arms, chest muscles, etc. Just check the bag and let the professionals take care of it. If your concern is something getting broken you should consider packing it in a shipping box or mailing it.
 Try to only carry what is needed. Pack your carry-on to be lightweight and as few pieces as possible. Loading and carrying heavy carry-on bags can also cause muscle injury.


You aren't going to read 3 novels on a short flight.
Don't let your over-stuffed luggage spill over into your carry-on leaving you with a super heavy carry on. You may just need a bigger suitcase to pack what you need any leave your carry-on for just what is needed for flight.
You may need to lift it over heads to store in an overhead container.
Not all seats have under seat storage (emergency rows).
 They are often used multiple times and are loaded with germs and bacteria. (If you must find one that is still packaged in the safety wrap).


If you travel often or need to sleep on a flight you should pick up your own pillow at a kiosk or travel store.
 Even traveling in the summer time the temperatures can vary wildly on board (+/- 20 degrees at times). Dress in layers and bring a light jacket or sweatshirt. Longer pants are also a better idea. You don't want to resort to using the loaner blankets and pillows. Sudden temperate changes and being too hot or cold can make you feel uncomfortable and increase your stress levels.
 You don't know who sat there before you and if they were sick with the flu or a cold.
 You can avoid picking up too many extra germs or bugs.



Some allow specific brands or models of oxygen concentrators. Others will not allow you to bring your own and require you to rent one from the airline for a fee.
Always call first to verify your equipment is allowed and establish if you must rent alternate equipment from the airline or make additional arrangements at lay over airports. Call several days in advance and 48 hours prior to verify your rental.
Different airlines have different policies for oxygen use so do your research.
Get a note from your doctor stating it is safe for you to travel.






Don't forget to call the individual airport if you will need oxygen during a layover. Don't assume the airline will communicate your needs with them. Even if they say they will, call and confirm.
 Don't risk falling.

Don't abuse this service and use it if you aren't medically impaired. Others in greater need may require it.

