 There is a very clear link between excessive drinking and pancreatitis. Reducing your alcohol intake is one of the most important things you can do for your body if you are prone to pancreatitis. About seven out of 10 cases of chronic pancreatitis are the result of long-term, heavy drinking.Alcohol and biliary disease are the number one and number two causes of pancreatitis. Try to eliminate all alcohol from your diet.
Cigarettes increase the negative effects of alcohol on the pancreas, so it’s also important to stop smoking.
If you or someone you know drinks excessively, it may be time to seek help. Seek help from a rehab facility or a recovery group such as Alcoholics Anonymous.;
, Gallstones are one of the major reasons that acute pancreatitis occurs. They occur when too much cholesterol builds up in your bile (the stuff in your liver that helps digest fats).You can eliminate gallstones by taking medication or by having your gallbladder removed. Gall bladder surgery is commonplace and carries the risk of infection and bleeding, but otherwise it is safe procedure.
 Anything high in saturated or trans fats is a no-no if you are prone to pancreatitis. Particularly if you are recovering from one attack, fatty foods can cause another bout of pancreatitis.Try to skip foods such as these:Fatty meats, such as organ meat, bacon, pepperoni, and salami
Greasy foods, such as burgers and french fries
Foods high in trans fats, such as packaged baked goods, fast food, and frozen pizza
Full-fat milk, yogurt, or cheese

, Foods high in simple sugars increase you triglyceride levels (the amount of fat carried in your blood), which can lead to gallstones and pancreatitis. These include sugary sweets and high-calorie beverages. Some big ones to skip includeSoda
Cakes, cookies, and pies
Candy
Processed foods like jams and some condiments

, If you’re trying to lose weight, you should do so gradually, or your body will freak out. Rapid weight loss can cause your liver to overproduce cholesterol, which will increase your risk of gallstones., White flour can send your triglyceride levels (the amount of fat carried in your blood) through the roof, which can lead to pancreatitis attacks. Skip white bread and any cereal, rice, or pasta made with refined white flour. Opt for whole grain versions of these foods instead., In particular, look for foods high in vitamin B and iron (like leafy greens). Most fruits and vegetables are full of antioxidants, which help prevent pancreatitis attacks.In particular, try to eatGreens
Berries and cherries
Tomatoes
Squash
Bell peppers

, The National Pancreas Foundation recommends that anyone who has ever been diagnosed with pancreatitis keep a water bottle with them at all times to avoid dehydration (which causes flare ups). Gatorade and other sports drinks are also okay, but watch out for high sugar content.