 By building a good relationship with your supervisor, you’ll both open the channels of communication and relieve your own stress about your position. Depending on the person, your boss may even offer you valuable insight about how you can excel.


Make it clear that you want to both work with and for your new supervisor. When first talking to your supervisor about the promotion, let them know that you “look forward to working with them.”
Ask your boss if there are any priorities they want you to focus on. For instance, say something like, "Jim, before I get started, is there anything you want me to focus on from the get go? I know you have high expectations, and I want to make sure I exceed them."
Always be respectful of your boss.
Be deferential and don’t overstep your position or authority. Let your boss know that they are in charge. For example, if your boss prefers you to refer to them by their title (Dr., Mrs., or Mr.), respect that., Always prepare yourself before talking with your new supervisor about your promotion. By being prepared, you’ll be ready to talk with knowledge about the position. This will most likely impress your new supervisor and help you to be more confident.


Explain your goals and priorities for the position. For example, explain your short-term, long-term, or personal goals.
If you have a meeting about the promotion, make sure you’ve taken the time to look over any associated documents. For instance, say something like "I've looked at the comps and the cash flow statement of the location, and I really think that there is a huge opportunity for growth."
Stay focused on your goal and on demonstrating that you are capable and should be promoted., A good way to handle your anxiety is to refocus it into enthusiasm. "Focus on the positive, fun or creative aspects of the new position instead of the challenges.


Say something like “Thank you so much for this opportunity — I’m really looking forward to showing the organization what I can do.”
Let your boss know what aspects of the job you are really looking forward to. For instance, if you’re tasked with the challenge of establishing a new location, let them know that you think it is an exciting opportunity to get into a new market.