 Trimming your hair can get rid of breakage immediately.Have a professional stylist cut your hair to remove all of the damaged ends. If you blow dry your hair regularly and spend a lot of time in the sun, your hair should be trimmed every eight weeks.Trimming is especially important if you have split ends. The split will continue to travel up your hair shaft and your hair will break off on its own.
If you trim your ends yourself, only use hair shears. Twist your hair into one inch sections around your index finger, and cut off any of the ends that pop up.;
, Antioxidants can correct hair damage caused by the sun and chemical treatments. Products containing rice extract and artichoke extract can make your hair shinier and smoother and repair your hair cuticle.Products containing Vitamin E (panthenol) increase the water content of your hair and make it more elastic.Improved elasticity keeps your hair from breaking when it is being manipulated.


These ingredients can be found in shampoos, conditioners, and hair serums.
 Plant based biopolymers help your hair maintain moisture and fill the outer layer of your hair shaft that is broken. Look for products that contain carob tree extract, Cystoseira compressed seaweed extract, and Lepidium meyenii extract. Out of these three ingredients, carob tree extract works best for smoothing the hair cuticle.Botanical extracts are particularly effective if your hair breakage is due to chemical treatments.
These ingredients can be found in shampoos, conditioners, and hair serums.
 Put coconut oil on your hair every day as a pre-wash treatment. Coconut oil will coat your hair and protect your hair from losing protein when you wash it. This will strengthen your hair and improve its appearance.The quality of your hair will improve with long-term use of coconut oil.


If you wash your hair in the morning, you can apply coconut oil before you go to bed and wash it out in the morning.
If you wash your hair at night, apply the oil as a post wash treatment so it can penetrate your hair before you wash it again., Always apply a rinse out or leave in conditioner after washing your hair. Use conditioners that are formulated for dry or damaged hair. Conditioners containing silicones will increase shine and smooth your hair. Well conditioned hair is easier to comb and detangle. Having smooth hair will protect you from further damaging your hair during the styling process.If your hair is extremely damaged, consider using an intensive conditioner. These conditioners are only used once or twice a week and should be left in for longer periods of time.
 Choose a gentle shampoo that is designed to moisturize your hair.Harsh shampoos can lead to dry, brittle hair that is more prone to break. Read the ingredients before you buy the shampoo and look for shampoos that contain silicones, panthenol, and amino acids. These ingredients will improve the appearance of your hair and reduce the effects of mechanical damage from washing.Consider washing your hair only two or three times a week. If you have oily hair and need to wash more frequently, try skipping just a day., Your hair is made up primarily of proteins. If you hair has been breaking, find a good protein treatment to apply to your hair. These treatments can make your hair softer, more flexible, and restore moisture. Look for products containing hydrolyzed proteins.These treatments can come in a cream, serum, or spray. Some are for daily use while others are used less frequently. Pay attention to how your hair responds to the protein treatment.

