 The swollen veins on your rectum from the hemorrhoids can shrink if you apply cold, which helps reduce the swelling and pain. Apply an ice pack covered in a thin washcloth or towel to your anus. Don't use it more than 10 to 15 minutes at a time to prevent over-chilling, but you can do it several times a day. This may also reduce pain and swelling from stitches if you had an episiotomy while giving birth.
 A sitz bath it is a small, shallow tub that fits over the toilet, which you fill up and sit in. It can be bought at your local pharmacy. To use, fill the sitz bath with a few inches of warm water and sit on the toilet for about 20 minutes after each bowel movement. You can so this two to four times a day to help soothe the pain and discomfort of hemorrhoids. This method helps relieve irritation, muscle spasms, and itching.


Pat the area dry with a soft towel, but do not rub or wipe hard. If the hemorrhoids are painful, try using a hair dryer on the lowest warm setting to dry the sensitive skin.
If you don't have a sitz bath, fill the tub with a couple of inches of warm water and soak in that for 20 minutes instead.If you had an episiotomy, talk to your doctor about how appropriate sitz baths are for you. The extra moisture can affect your stitches, and how often you can take sitz baths will vary based on the type of stitches your doctor used.
 Keeping irritants and wetness from your hemorrhoids can help make them feel better. Keep the skin around your hemorrhoid as clean and dry as possible. Bathe every day to clean the skin with warm water. Avoid using too much soap or soap with alcohol or perfumes on that area, because it can aggravate the issues affected with hemorrhoids. This can cause itching, swelling, and irritation. After you cleanse it, gently pat the area dry.This care is also useful for caring for stitches after an episiotomy.
 To keep yourself clean between baths, use moist wipes after each bowel movement to clean yourself. You can buy baby or adult moist wipes, but make sure they do not have alcohol or perfumes in them.Don’t use dry toilet paper. If you don't have moist wipes, moisten your toilet paper. Use white toilet paper because the printing cause irritation to the area., In order to help ease the pain of hemorrhoids, do not sit on the toilet for long periods of time. This increases the pressure placed on the veins in your rectum.Unless you need to finish going to the restroom, get up from the toiler as soon as you can. Don't read the paper, check your phone, or take a break from the baby.
 To help soothe the irritated skin and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids, use witch hazel on cotton pads. Soak a cotton pad or round with witch hazel and lay it against the hemorrhoid. Some people find that refrigerating the witch hazel prior to use increases the efficiency of the product. Witch hazel is an astringent from deciduous trees that is commonly used for skin conditions, but is also being evaluated for antioxidant and anti-tumor behavior., There is pain and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids and over the counter medication can help. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil) can temporarily relieve some of the discomfort and pain from your hemorrhoids.Do not take these medications for more than one or two days to relieve the discomfort. They are meant to be a temporary solution. Try using more natural remedies, such as cold packs, sitz baths, and cleansing routines, to help reduce the pain and swelling over longer periods of time.
 Before using an over the counter hemorrhoid cream, which also come in suppository form, check with your obstetrician for side effects or other problems that might arise. These can help reduce the itching and discomfort. Most of the over-the-counter suppositories and creams contain 1% hydrocortisone cream, which helps reduce the inflammation, itching, and pain associated with hemorrhoids.Always follow manufacturer's instructions to get the correct dosage of cream within the right amount of time.
Talk with your doctor about using these products while pregnant or if you are breastfeeding.

