 Block quotes should be used sparingly throughout your paper, and be sure to elaborate on their context so teachers and professors know that you’ve understood the work.;
, Place a colon at the end of the sentence that leads up to the block quote. For example, Sam Dean longed for the wide open space of New Mexico: (your block quote will come next).
 After you’ve introduced your quote, begin the quote on a new line. , Moving from the left margin, you’ll want to indent the entire quote by ½ inch (1.27 cm). For most computers and writing applications, you can achieve this indent by hitting the “tab” button.If you are citing multiple paragraphs, indent the first line of the quotation by an additional ¼ inch (0.64 cm).
Indent the first line of each successive paragraph the same way.
Follow block quote formatting for two or more paragraphs, even if there are less than 4 lines in each paragraph., Because you are starting the block quote on a new line with indentation, you don’t need to add quotation marks to set it apart from the rest of the text., MLA format usually calls for double-spacing throughout the main body of the paper, but always have double-spacing for block quotes, even if the rest of your paper doesn’t require it.
 It’s very important to properly cite where the original quote came from, and you can express this with parentheses after the last sentence in the quote.For example: John was eager. He found new inspiration near the sea. (Marshall 78)

, Once you’ve finished formatting your quote, you can continue your personal commentary on a new line. If the block quote is part of a larger paragraph of text, simply start a new line after the quote with no indentation.If you want to begin a new text paragraph after the block quote, start a new line and begin your paragraph with a ½ inch (1.27 cm) indentation from the left margin.
 If you’re citing more than 3 lines of poetry, enter the original line breaks.For example: See fox jump; (new line) over the hill. (new line) Unlike the dipping sun; (new line) setting slowly still. (Pool 2)

