 If you see the signs in your friend, don't hesitate to step in. This condition has become very serious once the signs listed above are evident. The sooner you can help your friend to fight the eating disorder, the better.


Educate yourself on the eating disorder by reading about it.
Be prepared to do all you can to get the sufferer into appropriate professional treatment as quickly as possible. Also be prepared to support the treatment process and to be a helper or supporter if needed.
 Pull your friend aside and candidly ask about what she is going through, and tell the person what you have noticed. Be gentle and above all non-judgmental. Explain to her that you're worried about her and would like to help in any way you can. Ask her to suggest ways that you can help her.


Be a source of calm in her life. Avoid exaggerating, displaying shock or ranting.
For example, avoid assigning blame like "I knew you shouldn't have been hanging with those girls. They are all underweight."

, Instead of shaming your friend, just let him know how worried you are. Say things like "I care about you and want you to be healthy. What can I do to help you?", Listen to his problems without judgement, and let his express his emotions without him feeling like you don’t care about his problems. This requires genuine listening skills and rephrasing or summarizing of his feelings so that he are certain that you've both heard and acknowledged his pain. Be supportive but don't seek to be controlling.See How to listen for more tips on active listening.
Be affectionate, caring and open. Love him for who he is.
 If you go out for lunch, avoid saying things such as “I want an ice cream so badly, but I really shouldn't...” Also, don't ask her about what she has or has not eaten, how much weight she has lost or gained, and so forth, and never express disappointment in her weight loss.


Avoid demanding that she gain weight.
Never humiliate or blame the sufferer for her eating disorder. This is well beyond willpower.
Avoid making jokes about body weight or other things that your friend could take the wrong way.
 Give your friend compliments, and help boost her self-esteem in everything she does, not just her body image. Have a praise-fest whenever she's around you. Support your friend who has an eating disorder through this difficult time with love and kindness.
 Talk to a counselor, therapist, spouse or parent about the best ways to help your friend. As stated earlier, this is the most important part of your friend's ability to recover, so do what you can to facilitate it.

