 Spaying refers to the medical procedure in which a female dog’s uterus and ovaries are removed. In male dogs, neutering is the process by which the testes are removed. Both spaying and neutering are safe and common medical procedures. Spaying/neutering can reduce hormonal swings that cause changes in your dog’s mood and attitude.After being spayed/neutered, your dog won’t be able to reproduce, which will reduce the burden on you to care for a litter of new puppies.
Spaying/neutering not only helps you and your pet get through its adolescence together, but it can help your dog live a longer, healthier life by preventing cancer and other maladies.Use the ASPCA’s low-cost spay/neuter program database at http://www.aspca.org/pet-care/general-pet-care/low-cost-spayneuter-programs to find a location near you that offers affordable spaying/neutering. Alternately, contact your vet and ask them to spay or neuter your dog.
 Surviving puppy adolescence means ensuring your dog stays on track with its elimination behavior – whether that means scratching at the door to go “out,” waiting to do its business until it gets taken for a walk, or some other habit. Administer a treat when it voids in the right place and at the right time.For instance, if your dog poos and urinates in the backyard, monitor your dog’s behavior. When it does its business, give it a doggie snack and verbal praise like “Good dog!” when it returns inside.
 Sometimes, barking and staring at another dog is just part of the socialization process. Dogs might pretend to be aggressive (for instance, by posturing, barking, or swatting at each other) without ever actually being aggressive. Other times, however, conflict with other dogs calls for more serious action.The best way to evaluate whether your dog really has a behavior problem is to calculate its “fight-to-bite” ratio.
Add up the number of conflicts your dog has been in with another dog, then add up the number of altercations that ended with the other dog involved in the conflict seriously injured?
If your dog has been in at least 10 altercations with other dogs and has not caused serious damage to any of them, your dog is not really in need of behavior reform.
Muzzle your dog if necessary. If your dog has sent another dog to the hospital in one (or more) conflicts out of ten, you should enlist it in an intense behavioral training school and muzzle it when in public places.
 Provide your dog with a regular schedule. Give your dog breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the same time each day. Wake up and go to bed each day. Go for walks and watch TV with your dog at roughly the same time each day. And most importantly, correct your dog’s misbehavior in the same way each time it acts up.The more predictable your dog’s day is, and the more predictable you are, the less likely your dog is to do something you don’t appreciate.
Regularity will prevent confusion, which can cause your adolescent dog to feel afraid and upset.
 Pheromones are natural scents which are undetectable to humans, but can have profound effects on behavior, especially in animals. Certain products – pheromone collars – can harness the power of these pheromones and exercise a calming influence on your adolescent dog. The pheromone collar works just like a regular collar – just snap it around your dog’s neck and let it work its magic.You can get a pheromone collar at your local pet store.
Consult manufacturer directions for specifics regarding how long your pheromone collar will remain effective.
A similar gadget, the pheromone diffuser, has the same effect as the pheromone collar. But instead of wearing it, you simply place the diffuser in a room in your house. Plug it in, turn it on, and your adolescent dog will soon find itself in a cloud of relaxing pheromones.
 Your puppy should visit the vet at least once during adolescence, around its six month-old mark.You should also see a vet whenever your adolescent puppy exhibits any abnormal behavior or adverse health conditions such as:not eating much
losing weight
coughing
shivering
yelping in pain while walking
difficulty moving about
voiding itself in inappropriate places

