 If you're in a family with young kids, find ways to include them in volunteer activities that they may be interested in. Focus on events that allow participation from everyone.Kids may want to help other kids in need. Consider volunteering with groups that help families and children in need. For example, start a toy drive for kids around the holidays. Or, consider volunteering at a local community center to help other kids.
Volunteer in ways that promote awareness such as charity walks or runs. Have the kids help at the charity events, or just participate in them by running or walking.
Find activities where kids can be hands-on. For example, if it's a Meals on Wheels program, bring the children on the food delivery route to help give out the meals. Have them interact with homebound adults from different backgrounds so they understand different ways of life.;
, Make volunteering a part of your family routine, rather than something you only do around the holidays. By making your volunteer activities consistent, you help to teach your family to be charitable on a regular basis. Consider picking a charitable cause through a local non-profit, school, or place of worship. Identify activities that can help make a direct impact, as it will help to motivate your family to continue volunteering.
Work together as a family to make a commitment to a charitable organization on a weekly or monthly basis.
Depending on the cause that interests you, connect with a volunteer coordinator affiliated with the event or program. Ask about how to make volunteering a weekly or monthly activity. Set a schedule that allows for the children to participate, such as activities on weekends or evenings.
 Utilize your family's unique skills or talents to give back. Whether your teenage son has been singing for years, your spouse knows how to do home repair, or you have a knack for teaching grammar, make a difference as a family by using those skills.


For example, if one of you has home repair skills, there are many charities that could benefit from your family's support, such as Habitat for Humanity (http://www.habitat.org/) or Rebuilding Together (http://togetherwetransform.org/).
There are many programs for children and adults that focus on literacy, education, and community-building. Reach out to your local schools or non-profits to find programs that may interest you.
Let's say your family has an artistic side. Maybe you all can sing and dance, or maybe you all make handicrafts. Your family could offer performances at charity events for difference causes. You could perform at nursing facilities or assisted living communities. Or, you could hand out your handicrafts to those in a hospital.

