 Clenching your fists and pumping your arms while you breathe can help to increase your oxygen intake and stimulate your circulation.Start by standing with your arms at your sides.


As you take in a breath, clench your fists tightly and begin to raise your arms out in front of you.
Then, bring your fists towards your shoulders as you exhale the breath.
Take in another breath and straighten out your arms out in front of you again, keeping your fists clenched.
Then, exhale as you bring your fists to your shoulders.
Keep repeating this exercise for several minutes.
 Sighing when you exhale can help you to relax.To sigh on your exhales, take in a deep breath through your nose and then open your mouth wide just before you exhale. Exhale the breath out of your mouth with a bit of force.


Try saying “ahhhhh” as you exhale the breath.
Repeat the sighing breath several times when you need to relax.
 Imagining what your breath looks like and where it is in your body can also help to deepen your relaxation as you breathe. Close your eyes before you start breathing. You may also want to sit or lie down in a comfortable spot.As you breathe, imagine that the air coming into your body is bright white.
Imagine the air flowing to every part of your body and bringing energy to your limbs and organs as you inhale.
As you exhale, imagine black air coming out of your body and taking all of the fatigue and negative energy away with it.
Repeat this exercise for about five to 10 minutes.
 Pursed lip breathing can help you slow your breathing process, calm down, and relax. Whenever you're feeling short of breath, try to breathe using this technique.First, find a comfortable seated position. If you are in a chair, keep both feet on the floor.
Breathe in slowly through your nose as you count to two.
Feel your diaphragm expand, and your belly rise, as you inhale. You may feel your rib cage gently expanding.
Bend your lips into an O-shape, as if you were going to direct your breath towards blowing out a candle.
Breathe out through your mouth as you count to four.
As you continue to breathe in this method, you can change the counts, gradually increasing the lengths of your inhales and exhales.
 One of the best ways to calm yourself before a panic attack is to control your breathing. To do this, take a long slow breath. Fill your lower lungs with air, then fill your upper lungs with air. When your lungs are as full as they can be, hold your breath as you mentally count to three. Then slowly exhale your breath through pursed lips.As you exhale, try to relax the muscles in your face, chest, jaws and shoulders. It might help you to tense each of these muscles groups one by one and then release the muscles.
You can use this breathing technique any time you start to feel anxious.
 Breathing too quickly, or hyperventilating, can sometimes feel similar to breathing too little. Both conditions are associated with panic disorders or social phobias.To calm yourself, bring your breath back to a healthy rate of speed by using the 7-11 breathing pattern. Close your eyes, and breathe in through your nose for a count of seven. Pause, then breathe out for a count of 11. Pause at the end of the breath, and repeat.
Hyperventilation is usually a result of chest breathing, rather than diaphragm breathing. Taking slow, deep breaths from the diaphragm, with longer exhales than inhales, can restore your breath.
Practicing this style of breathing will help your overall anxiety level. You might find that you start breathing this way without thinking about it when you start to feel anxious.

