 Be charming. Serena is easy and pleasant to talk to. She doesn't make people afraid of her, instead she is very welcoming (unless she has a reason to be mad at you or hate you.) Try to model after her.;
, Love yourself. Tell yourself that you're pretty, funny, smart, everyone loves you, etc. and believe it. Don't go around telling people that you are great, or you will come off as conceited. Instead, act very modest and don't talk about yourself, but secretly know/believe that you are awesome.
 If you already have the traits above, then it should be easy for people to like you. Talk to lots of different people. Don't ignore someone because they're not "cool" that's not a very Serena-like thing to do. Talk to all kinds of people, you'll make lots of friends this way. However, don't try to make friends with people. If it happens it happens. Don't randomly walk up to someone and start talking, make it seem more natural. Ex. If you are working with someone you rarely speak to in science, then strike up a conversation.
 Have a certain air of mystery around you. Even Serena's scent is mysterious.
 She is also not fake, so if you don't have some or any of these things don't get them. Just make sure you look great with what you have. Serena looks like a goddess, because she knows what looks good, what looks tacky, and most importantly what looks best on her.
 Wash your face, twice a day, everyday. Exfoliate once a week, and use a face mask, I'd say every other week. Also be sure to treat pimples/ acne on face.
 Put a moisturizer that works for you on arms and legs before you go to sleep and when you wake up.
, Make sure to get rid of all unwanted hair.
 It may have been said that Serena has a "hot body", and a lithe, long figure. Some easy tips on weight loss coming up. Eating tons of fruit, can help (make sure it's fresh fruit). Exercise, no kidding. Eat foods you like, but make sure you eat very slowly. This means you can eat whenever you have a craving, but eat it very, very slowly. Wait at least 30 seconds (estimated) between each bite, chew slowly and take smaller bites. Drink LOTS of water, this can help you lose water weight, you'll see results very soon, and don't worry about going to the bathroom all the time, it'll go away by a few days. Wear a good padded bra as well if you feel your boobs are too small.
 This goes along with hygiene. Wear deodorant..DON'T FORGET--SUPER IMPORTANT. Take a shower every day. Don't wear the same clothes twice in a week, (wash every week). Brush teeth. And to top it all off, spray a little light perfume on (too much can be gross).

