 Take into consideration the fact that we will be increasing his range two times, so give a little extra space where needed. Eventually, the Ninja will be (4,1).;
, Buy that.
 Do that too.
 You should be able to comfortably coast from Round 7 to the end of 15. If something gets scary, press the pause button and return to the main menu. Open up the save file and play in regular speed, holding road spikes at the ready for some stray bloons.
 I suggest stretching the distance between the Glue Gunner and the Ninja Monkey as much as possible, so try to account for that when placing the village. Eventually, the village will be (2,2).
, Give the Gunner Bloon Soak, Stickier Glue, and the Acid Upgrade(2,1). Change the Gunner's priority to Strongest. Give the Monkey Village the Monkey Beacon upgrade and Monkey Fort. Eventually, the Glue Gunner will be (3,2).
, Buy Jungle Drums and Radar Scanner. We are now done upgrading the village.
 Place one next to the Glue Gunner. Make sure the chipper is within the Village's range. Upgrade at your leisure for the next few rounds to get the chipper to (4,2). Set the Bloonchipper's priority to Strongest.
 There's a MOAB coming soon, but don't be afraid. That's what the chipper is for.
 We are now done upgrading the Ninja.
 We are done upgrading the Gunner.
 Literally. You should be safe until Round 60. If you can afford it, buy some Banana Farmers. If you get the Farmers, give them a range-boost with another village. Make sure to put as many of the farms within the village radius as possible to make them cheaper. You could make sure to buy all of the farms, you would be using first, and then upgrade them. Start with (2,0) farms, and once they are all (2,0), make one of them (4,2). After that, work at getting them all (4,2) one at a time. *Note*- When I was taking screenshots, I accidentally set my towers to Last instead of Strongest. That will cause many problems, especially when you have to face the Regen Rainbows of Round 56.
 Keep upgrading farms, and if you need to, sell one of them temporarily to build more Bloonchippers set to Strongest. This will get you through Round 84.
 Yeah, you read it right, sell it all. Count to five: . Build one village, and within it's radius, place two of each of the mentioned towers. Upgrade one super monkey to (3,2) and the other to (2,4). For the rest of the towers, buy the most expensive upgrades. Once all of the towers are upgraded, buy the Temple of the Monkey God.

