 If you are only drying one onion, prepare two baking sheets. If you are drying two onions, prepare three or four baking sheets, and so on. It is better to give the onions too much space than to provide too little.
Do not allow the temperature to rise above 140 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius) during the drying process. If the oven does rise above this temperature, you may end up burning or dry-roasting the onion instead of drying it.
The trays you use should be about 2 inches (5 cm) narrower than the inside of your oven to provide sufficient air circulation.
 The root, top, and skins should be removed, and the onions should be chopped or sliced into 1/4 or 1/8 inch (6.35 or 3.175 mm) rings.


The easiest way to slice onions for this purpose is to use a mandoline. If you do not have this particular kitchen utensil, though, you could also slice the onions as thin as possible using your sharpest kitchen knife.
 Transfer the onion slices to your prepared baking sheets and spread them out in a single layer.


If you pile the onions onto a baking sheet, they will take longer to dry and may dry unevenly when all is said and done. This could create problems later on if you accidentally store a few onions that have not been thoroughly dried.
 Place the onion in the oven and dry them for 6 to 10 hours, turning the trays as needed to minimize the risk of scorching.


If possible, keep the door of the oven propped open with a 4-inch (10-cm) gap or so to prevent the inside of the oven from getting too hot. If you do this, you may also want to position a fan at the opening to force the air inside to circulate more effectively.
Keep about 3 inches (7.6 cm) of empty space in between trays and in between the top tray and the top of the oven. There needs to be plenty of air circulation.
Keep a close eye on the onions as they near the end of the drying process since they may end up scorching if left inside the oven too long. Scorching can ruin the taste and make the onions less nutritious.
 When done, the onions will be brittle enough to crumble with your hands. You can create onion flakes in this manner.


For onion flakes, only crush the onions likely with your hands. For onion powder, place the onions in a plastic bag and roll over them using a rolling pin.
You could also leave the onions slices whole, but note that they will be brittle and delicate, so they can break apart easily if handled roughly.
 Place the onion flakes in an airtight container and store in a pantry cupboard or similar storage area.


If vacuum-sealed, dried onion can last for up to 12 months. In slightly less airtight conditions, the onions can last anywhere from 3 to 9 months.
Watch out for moisture. If you spot any moisture inside the container during the first few days of storage, take the onions out, dry them further, and dry the container before placing them back in. Moisture can cause the dried onions to spoil faster.

