 When you are being bullied, it can make you a bit panicky, and you won't be thinking as clearly. Take a couple of deep breaths, and actually look at what's happening to you.It's important to breathe because it can help you calm down.
Trying to observe what's going on can help you name what's happening to you. That will help in the next step.;
, Sometimes, bullies will back down if you just hold your own. Look the person in the eye, and try to make yourself as big as possible. In other words, stand up straight.Try practicing your stance in front of the mirror. Stare yourself down!

, Once you note what's happening, you can decide what you want to happen next. That doesn't mean you can make the person do it, but sometimes saying what you want to happen will actually stop the bullying.For instance, you could say, "I want you to stop throwing paper at me. I know you think it's funny, but I don't. So stop."
Alternatively, you could say something like "I can see you laughing at me. I want you to stop."

, Your bully wants you to get angry. The person is looking for that type of response, and it will only egg him or her on if you get angry. Try to stay calm by taking deep breaths throughout the whole encounter.It can also help to try to blow off the bully with humor. Responding with humor takes the wind out of his sails.For instance, if someone is throwing paper balls at you throughout class, you could say, "What, is your aim so bad that you can't hit the trash can?"

, While it's tempting to just run away without thinking, take a moment to think about where you will be safe. If you just run away, the bully can follow. However, if you go somewhere safe, you can stop the bullying.For example, enter a classroom with people in it.Another option is ducking into a room that has an adult in it., Later that day, write down what happened from your point of view. That way, when you talk to an adult, you have something to show them. If it happens more than once, try to mark approximate dates and times.


Because some schools may define bullying as something that occurs multiple times, it can help to have the details.