 There are a variety of health problems that can show up on your cat's coat. Make sure the cat's coat is shiny and thick, that there are no patches of missing fur, and that your cat is keeping it nice and clean.


Areas of missing fur could signal injuries, like those created during cat fights, that need veterinary treatment. They could also signal allergies or some other auto-immune or skin problem that also needs veterinary treatment.If your cat is not keeping its whole coat clean, this could signal loss of mobility or a different illness that is decreasing your cat's energy.
When looking at your cat's coat you can also spot any fleas or ticks that might be present. Look for "flea dust," which is the excrement of the flea, or flea eggs when brushing your cat.;
, Along with looking at the cat's coat, you should feel the cat's body for injuries or abnormal growths at least once a month. This is one way you can detect internal growths, such as cancers, or painful injuries for the cat.You can do this while you are spending quality time with the cat, for instance when you are petting it on your lap.
If the cat responds in pain when you are feeling its body, then you know that it has an injury that needs further investigation.
 Looking in your cat's mouth will allow you to spot any problems with their teeth, gums, or tongue before they get very serious. Look for discoloration or injuries that could signal a problem, such as pale gums.


If can be difficult to look in your cat's mouth. You may need have someone help you restrain the cat still while you open the cat's mouth and look inside.
While looking in your cat's mouth, make sure that its breath is normal as well. Smelly breath can signal dental problems, such as periodontal disease, or a systemic illness, such as diabetes or kidney disease., If you listen to your cat's breathing on a regular basis you will be able to tell when it changes. For instance, when the cat has a respiratory infection, its breathing will likely sound moist and wheezy. If it has asthma, it will have difficulty breathing, have wheezy breaths, or coughing.If a cat is on your lap and the room is quiet, you should be able to hear its breathing even when it is healthy. Listening to this calm, healthy breathing on a regular basis will help you to spot when the cat's breathing changes.

