 OSHA has a number of training tools on its website that are designed to educate you and your employees about federal safety policies.OSHA's Hazard Identification Training Tool is an interactive visual game that helps you identify hazards in your workplace. You can download the the game and play it offline.A number of other interactive tools are available at https://www.osha.gov/dts/osta/oshasoft/index.html. These tools include videos and graphic menus, and are organized based on the type of hazard they cover.
You also can use OSHA's Compliance Assistance Quick Start, a training module that covers key regulations in the construction industry, the health care industry, and general industry.OSHA also has industry-specific resources available at https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/compliance_assistance/industry.html.
Search for the most common violations in your industry and how to meet frequently cited OSHA standards at https://www.osha.gov/pls/imis/citedstandard.html.
For example, lack of fall protection and faulty scaffolding, such as holes in scaffolding platforms, are two common OSHA violations in the construction industry. These requirements apply to both commercial and residential construction.;
, After you understand a little more about the regulations that apply to your business, you should get out on the floor and observe when and where safety hazards occur and how they can be eliminated.


You can use OSHA's web pages on safety and health topics to figure out how to control or eliminate any hazards you've identified.If you have a construction business, keep in mind that your work site will be constantly changing, so you and your employees will have to be vigilant about the introduction of new hazards.
Inspect your scaffolding regularly for platform holes, and make sure your workers have an adequate point of access onto the scaffold. Cross-braces or stacked blocks are not considered adequate access under OSHA guidelines., You can have an OSHA inspector come to your workplace and work with your employees to identify potential hazards and evaluate your compliance with OSHA safety policies.OSHA's consultation program is a service to small businesses, and offered free of charge. The program is completely separate from enforcement inspections, so you don't have to worry about an inspector who shows up for a consultation citing you for a violation.
The consultation is confidential, and even if hazards or potential violations are found, it won't trigger an enforcement inspection.
Using the consultation program may qualify you for a one-year exemption from OSHA enforcement inspections.
You can find the consultation project nearest you and schedule a consultation by searching OSHA's consultation directory at https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/smallbusiness/consult_directory.html.
 Having annual self-inspections or audits can help you minimize risks and pinpoint areas where there is room for improvement.


Depending on the nature and location of your business, you may want to have an additional inspection in winter to prepare for winter weather.You can find checklists online for your industry and use them to determine whether your workplace is compliant with OSHA standards.During your inspection, enforce disciplinary policies as necessary for employees or managers who are violating federal safety policies.For example, OSHA requires all construction workers working at heights over six feet to wear fall protection. This can be easy to forget, especially if workers are going up and down all day. It also is one of the easiest things for OSHA inspectors to notice if it's missing.
You also can use outside resources, such as your workers' compensation or general liability insurance carrier, to conduct periodic workplace safety inspections.
 You are required by law to display the OSHA workplace safety poster in an area where it is visible to all employees.You can order a copy of the poster free of charge from OSHA, or you can download it at https://www.osha.gov/Publications/poster.html and print it yourself.
The poster is available in English and nine other languages, including Spanish and Arabic.
OSHA puts out new posters periodically; however, you don't have to replace an old one if you don't want to. New posters are redesigns but include the same information.
 If employees are trained how to follow federal safety policies in the workplace from the beginning, they won't fall into bad habits.Require safety training and provide written tests for each employee to demonstrate your commitment to following federal safety policies and teaching employees about OSHA requirements.
Keep in mind that OSHA doesn't allow a "grace period" for new employees, so your orientation must be sufficient that all employees understand how to correctly follow federal safety policies from the first moment they set foot on the work site.
 Continued training will alert employees to standards they may have been overlooking and remind them of regulations they may have forgotten.Depending on your industry, you may want to have training sessions more frequently. For example, if you are in the construction industry, weekly training sessions may be necessary as your worksite changes frequently, exposing employees to new or different hazards as your projects progress.
Keep in mind that hazard communication is one of the most frequently cited OSHA standard violations.Make sure your employees understand all potential hazards in your workplace, how to deal with them, and what safety precautions are required to minimize risk.
Maintain documentation of the dates and topics of these training sessions, and have employees who participate sign attendance sheets.
OSHA offers training courses and seminars through its Training Institute Education Centers. Some courses are as short as a few hours, while others run several days. These courses are open to the public and vary in price.You can also find webcasts and training videos for free on OSHA's website.
If you have non-English-speaking employees, make sure you have training materials and provide sessions in their language, or use a translator.
 Everyone who works for you should have immediate access to safety rules and regulations that apply to your workplace.Your safety manuals should include specific information about typical hazards your employees will encounter on a daily basis in the workplace, and more general information about hazards or issues that may come up less frequently.
Your safety rules should be the same as the OSHA regulations, or stricter.
Require your employees to sign and date an acknowledgement that they have received and read the safety manual and understand the safety regulations they must follow. Keep these acknowledgement forms in a separate OSHA file.
If your work involves use of hazardous chemicals, make sure you have written and up-to-date safety data sheets for every chemical used in your operation. OSHA has standardized formats for these sheets., Regardless of the size of your business, you must send a report to OSHA if an employee is seriously injured or dies at your workplace.OSHA requires a report of any work-related fatality within 8 hours of the incident.
If an employee has a work-related injury that results in an inpatient hospitalization, amputation, or loss of an eye, this injury must be reported within 24 hours of the incident.
You can report incidents by calling or visiting your nearest OSHA Area Office, by calling 1-800-321-OSHA, or by using the reporting application on OSHA's website at www.osha.gov., If you have 11 or more employees, you must create a written report of any workplace injury, illness, or exposure to toxic materials.Some low-hazard industries are exempt from this record-keeping requirement. Check the appendix to the recording and reporting regulation at https://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=12791 to see if your business is exempt.
You can download the required forms at https://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/RKforms.html. OSHA has forms available in fillable format so you can enter the information on the computer, or print and fill them out by hand.
The forms require Microsoft Excel or an equivalent program that can read Excel documents. If you don't have a spreadsheet application, you can download the free Excel viewer, which will enable you to view the form and print it out.You must fill out the form within seven days of learning that the injury or illness occurred. The forms must be kept in your records for five years., A paper trail of continuing inspections demonstrates your efforts at compliance.In the event an enforcement inspection uncovers a violation, proof of regular self-inspections can help you demonstrate a commitment to following safety policies.
 Enforcing disciplinary sanctions for violation of safety policies can provide you with a defense to an OSHA violation.Documentation of employee discipline for safety violations should be kept separately from personnel files. Designate a file specifically for OSHA violations.
These records prove that you have communicated your safety rules to employees, and enforced those rules effectively and consistently when you discovered a violation.

