 The amount of each ingredient you decide to use will depend on the needs of your project. For instance, you will need more sand, cement, water, oxide, and aggregate if you are creating concrete for a large parking lot than if you are creating concrete to pave a backyard patio.To measure your ingredients properly, consult manufacturer instructions for your cement, oxide pigment, and other concrete materials before adding them to the mixer.
Generally, you can mix concrete that is one part cement, two parts sand, and three parts gravel (or some other aggregate). The total weight of the water you add should be about half the weight of the cement.
 When adding oxide to concrete, it’s important not to add too much. Generally, you should add oxide at a rate of 5% of the weight of the concrete’s cement content.For instance, if you have 100 pounds of cement, you should add 5 pounds of oxide.
Adding oxide at a concentration of slightly more than 5% of the weight of the cement content will result in a darker hue.
Adding oxide at a lower concentration will result in a lighter hue.
Adding too much oxide will negatively impact the quality and durability of the concrete.
If you’re trying to achieve a particular color, you might need to do some experimenting in order to discover the right oxide concentration.
 There are three main varieties of mixers. The type of mixer you decide to use depends on the type of concrete you’re mixing as well as your concrete needs.Drum mixers are used to produce large volumes of concrete. These can range from large drum truck mixers (which can produce up to nine cubic yards of concrete) to smaller non-tilting mixers (which produce about one cubic yard of concrete). One sort of drum mixer, the tilting drum mixer, is the best option if you’re using large-sized aggregate or very thick concrete.
Pan mixers use blades fixed to an assembly that stir the concrete as the vertical shaft rotates. Like tilting drum mixers, pan mixers are best used with zero-slump or relatively stiff concrete mixes. Pan mixers are best when you need to produce small or medium-sized batches that range from 0.25 cubic yards to 2.5 cubic yards of concrete.
Continuous mixers are typically reserved for very large projects (dams, foundations, retaining walls, and so on). They usually use a conveyor belt to continuously feed the mixer concrete-creating materials.
 Concrete requires three dry ingredients: powdered oxide pigment, sand, and gravel (or some other aggregate). These ingredients should be mixed for at least 30 seconds.The method by which you mix the dry ingredients depends on the total mass of dry ingredients you’re using. For large batches used to create, say, a parking lot, you will need a continuous mixer or a drum truck mixer.
If you’re adding dry ingredients to an older, less efficient mixer, your dry ingredients may need to be mixed for up to 90 seconds.
The aggregate you decide to use also affects the length of time you need to mix the dry ingredients. Consult the instructions for your aggregate before adding it to the mixer.
 After mixing the oxide and other dry ingredients, add the cement and water. Mix everything until is has an even texture. Your concrete will then be ready for use.If your concrete is too aqueous and sloshes about, you could add a water reducing agent (also known as a super plasticizer) to the mixture. The amount you need to add depends on the volume of concrete you are producing. Consult manufacturer directions for more information.
If your concrete is too thick, add water slowly in small amounts until it becomes more workable.
Adding more water will lighten the final color of the concrete. Using less water will saturate the color of the concrete.

