 Your hair must be wet for this style to set, and it is best to start with clean hair by washing it. Towel dry it to remove excess moisture.


Let your hair air-dry for a few minutes until it is only damp.
If you are in a rush, you can spray hair down with a squirt bottle filled with water.
Use a curl enhancer or light setting lotion to keep the moisture even. It should also give you more polished results.
 For bantu curls, you will be spiraling your hair into little stacks on top of your head. Therefore, you will need sections that are a bit thicker than traditional pin curls.









Depending on the thickness and length of your hair, make sections that are between 1–3 inches (2.5–7.6 cm) wide across your scalp.
Work from the top and front of your head towards the bottom and rear.
If you have time, traditional bantu spirals are separated into a pattern on the scalp. Section off your pieces of hair into a square grid, diamond pattern, or small triangles.
Use your comb extensively during this process to make neat parts and even sections.
 Working one section at a time, twist the strand of hair into a tight rope-looking strand.









Twist each strand as tightly and far as you can manage. The tighter you twist it, the fuller your curls will be.
With enough twisting, the strand of hair will want to curl in on itself. Continue with each strand until you reach this point.
To vary the direction of the curls, spin some clockwise and others counterclockwise.
 These spirals of hair will jut out from your head like little knobs, rather than lying flat like traditional pin curls.









Use 1-2 bobby pins to secure the ends of each spiral to the hair at the scalp.
If your hair is thick and long, each spiral will likely protrude much further from your head. Be sure that they are firmly pinned in this case.
 The curls will not be ready until the hair is completely dry, but similar to traditional pin curls, avoid using a blow-dryer and ruining your hard work.









It is easiest to place this in your hair at night and to sleep on them, so that they are prepared and ready for you in the morning.
Because these curls contain more hair in each spiral than traditional pin curls, they may take longer to dry. Be sure to take this extra time into account.
Again, use a diffuser on the lowest heat setting if you’re in a rush. The curls should still be OK if you are careful.
 This will help keep your pins and curls in place while you work or sleep. Use a cotton bandana or scarf to absorb excess moisture from you hair, and avoid using any fabric that the pins might get caught in.
 Once you are certain your hair is dry, remove all the bobby pins beginning at the back and working towards the top and front. Unravel each curl once you finish removing the pins.
 Begin by gently finger-brushing apart strands to remove their tight coiled appearance. For fuller curls, use a boar-bristle brush to comb strands into big, luxurious waves.









Spread pomade or hair gel between your fingertips and run them through your hair. This will help to reduce frizz and give your hair a natural definition.
Top off your style with a bit of hairspray to set the curls.