 Focus on Italy - how he acts, what he says, and his interactions with other characters. This will give you a good idea of how to think and behave. Watching both the sub and the dub is best.


Read the webcomic, while you're at it. The webcomic came first, and there are many things in it that never appear in the anime.
Take a look at Italy's profile on the wiki for more information. The wiki covers events in both the webcomic and the anime.;
, Italy loves pasta more than anything. Whenever you see pasta will be served for lunch at school or you come across an Italian restaurant, get excited. Complain that the stuff that comes from a can isn't authentic and doesn't taste right. However, don't take this too far and insult someone's cooking. He does that in the show, but you shouldn't. You'll come across as rude.
 Italy is friendly to at least most people, so you should be as well. Don't take this too far, though. If you know people who act like the characters, treat them how Italy would treat the other countries! You know a Germany? Befriend them! However, if you know someone like Britain, don't run away from them. If anything, just act a bit shy around them. You don't want to be rude.
 Italy needs to know how to make pasta, right? Practice cooking until you can make tasty Italian dishes, including several different kinds of pasta. Get good at painting, too. You don't have to be an artistic genius. Just practice your painting and drawing skills and embrace them.
 If anyone asks you what's wrong, just say it's nothing an continue to act a bit glum. Don't take this too far, though. Don't bring a tissue box to History and cry your eyes out!

, In at least the English Sub, Italy is shown to be quite innocent. You don't need to be a saint, but don't curse or say rude things about people behind their backs! Italy wouldn't do that, now would he?

, Italy worked at Austria's place as a servant for quite some time, so he's obviously a hard worker. He always lets people help him and he always makes time for his friends, though, so don't push it!

, Think about the good things in life. If you do this incorrectly, you may end up acting like Romano, and that's not what you're here for! Italy never said anything negative about his past, did he?

,