 Try to be casual when you say this, as being direct might be interpreted as too strong; however, it's possible that the girl you're interested in hasn't realized that you're interesting in dating. You might say something like:"Oh man, I've been single way too long. I have the worst luck in romance. How about you?"
"I've been trying to find a date for the dance next week and I'm having the worst luck. I don't want to go alone.";
, It's very common to start talking about your ideal partner, even with girls you are interested in. If you get this opportunity, try to vaguely describe the girl you like as your "ideal" to hint to her you're interested. You might say something along the lines of:


"My last date and I had nothing in common. I want a girl who likes books, electronic music, and video games. She's got to be out there!"
"I just want a girl who is laid back, likes to read, play board games, and poi. Is that too much to ask for? I don't think so!"

, In some cases, the girl you like may have only thought about you as a friend and not a romantic partner. To get her thinking about you as a potential romantic partner, point out the parts of a good romantic relationship that you see in your friendship already. For example, you might say to her:


"We always have so much fun together. I laugh more with you than anyone else, and we never run out of things to talk about."
"I can't find a single girl to date who shares the same interests that we do. You and I have such a strong relationship. I just want a girlfriend that I can share that with, you know?"

, Most people get caught up in worrying what to say to show someone how they feel and overlook the very important signals we send with our bodies. This is an effective way to literally tell a girl you like her without speaking a word!Make eye contact. Holding a person's gaze can be really intense, and in most normal social encounters, people rarely make eye contact for longer than one second. Send her a clear signal that you are interested by catching her gaze and holding it for a little longer than one second. Don't overdo it with the eye contact, though, as this can come off as hostile or make the other person uncomfortable.
Turn your entire body (even your feet) toward the girl when you are talking, not just your head, to show your interest.
Try "echoing" her body posture. If the girl leans in, try leaning in, too. If she takes a sip of her drink, do the same. Don't copy her immediately after each action — that will start to look weird. Let a few seconds pass before you echo her movements. This not only sends the signal that you like her — it can actually predispose her to like you more, too.
 Try doing something that is a little special or out of the ordinary, but not totally obvious. Something like opening her car door, offering to help out with homework/rides/projects at home, bringing back a small gift from a vacation, bringing her favorite candy to lunch for her, etc. This works best if you know her tastes and interests somewhat, as this can allow you to do something meaningful that you know she will appreciate.
 By giving the girl you like priority over others, you'll not only make her feel special, but you'll also show her you're more interested in her than others. You should be careful when doing this, however. In some cases, your attention may be taken advantage of, or you could hurt the feelings of others by making them feel unimportant.You don't have to ignore others to give her priority. Even giving her your full attention when she's speaking can make her feel special.