 Use wire cutters to cut nine 9-inch (23-cm) lengths of jewelry wire.


Each length of wire will be used to form one petal. You can create fewer or more petals as desired, but nine will allow you to make a simple rose.
 Use your fingers to bend one wire into a 2-inch (5-cm) loop. Twist the ends together at the bottom of the loop two or three times to secure the shape.Repeat with all nine pieces of wire.
To create smaller or larger petals, simply form smaller or larger loops.
 Use scissors to cut nine 4-inch (10-cm) squares of colored plastic.


You need one square per petal. Each square must be large enough to wrap around the length and width of the petal frame.
Plastic bag material works best for this, but you could also use cellophane or plastic wrap.
For a completely different look, sheer colored tights could be used instead of plastic.
 Center one wire petal frame over one plastic square. Wrap all sides of the plastic over the wire frame and twist the ends of the plastic together at the base of the frame.


Try to keep the plastic as flat as possible as you stretch it over the frame. It will bunch up slightly as you twist it, however.
Twist the ends of the plastic together like you would twist the paper onto a lollipop.
Repeat with each wire frame and square of plastic.
 Wrap the twisted base of the plastic petal with a few layers of floral tape.


Repeat with each petal.
To make the petals look neater, you should also carefully trim away any plastic sticking out from beneath the bottom of the floral tape.
 Take one plastic petal and carefully bend the wire around itself into a loose spiral.


Roll the petal from side to side, leaving the excess wire hanging down to serve as part of the flower's stem.
This petal will sit at the center of the flower.
 Take a second plastic petal and position it next to the first rolled petal. Use your fingers to bend the wire slightly so that this second petal curves around the spiral center.


Repeat this process with two other petals. All three petals manipulated in this step should overlap slightly and completely surround the spiral center petal.
Wrap the wire ends around one another at the base of the petals as you work. You should only need to wrap the wires two or three times to keep the petals secure.
 Arrange the remaining five petals around the entire center structure. Bend the wire of each petal slightly so that the entire petal curves gently around the center structure.


These five petals should slightly overlap and must also completely surround the center structure.
As before, you should wrap the wire ends around one another at the base of each petal as you work with it.
 Hold all of the wire ends together, then wrap the bundle tightly with a long length of floral tape.


Start at the petal base and wrap the floral tape in a spiral down the entire length of the exposed wire. Mold the tape around the wire and continue until all of the wire is covered, including the sharp ends.

