 Important features are watts, pre-amp outputs (if you want to hook up new amps later), direct iPod connection, and there are many more.;
,, If you have JBL, you will have more work to do, but the end product will sound better.
 You will need a mounting piece, wiring harness, and if you want the tuner to work properly, an aftermarket antenna. When installing a new headunit, you will not be able to get the antenna to go up when it should, so you either need to buy one and mount it or just skip it. For me, my antenna was stuck in the up position, so I could use it.
 They are located under the radio controls, but above the A/C controls.
 Keep all packaging because it has necessary information on it.
 There should be a similar list on the headunit. Ex. Black-Ground, Red-12v (+), etc.
 Using the key in Step 7, connect the wires. You can use solder or you can twist them together. Make sure you use electrical tape to cover the connections. If you don't, wires can SHORT.
 Find the one that is long and skinny. That is the important one. Hook it in the same way. On the key, you will see things like "Left Rear (+)" and "Right Front (-)." Ignore these for now.
 You should see a bunch of wiring harness's. The one that is closest to the seat and door is the one that you want. Take a 9v battery and connect two wires to it. Then touch the wires to the wiring harness in the kick panel. If you hear a click from a speaker, you got the right harness. Then, you want to determine which speaker is which. Label the wires. If you care a lot, you can determine the polarity of each wire by taking off the door panel and touching the 9v to the wires again and look at the speaker. If the speaker goes out, then which ever wire the (+) end of the 9v is touching is + and the - is -. If it goes in, then the + is - and the - is +.
 You could mess yourself and/or your car up here. Be careful.)

, Cut them about 2 inches (5.1 cm) above the wiring harness. Now, you have 4 pairs of wires sticking out of the wring harness. Ignore these. Take the other side, the ones not connected to the harness and hook a 3 feet (0.9 m) length of 16 gauge wire to each wire. Label these "Right Front (+)" etc.
 It all should come out. Once you have it out a little bit, look in the back. On the side with the Rear Wiper controls, you will have to screw two Philip's screws in the back and take off the rear wiper control knob. On the side with the cigarette lighter and the 4 wheel drive knob, you will have to take out one screw. Then you need to unplug the 4 Wheel drive harness. After that, pull the two wires off the back of the lighter. Then, the whole thing should slide out.
,,, Make sure they are labeled on each end.
, Then using the key on the new h/u, connect the 8 wires from the kick to the wires on the new h/u.
 You may want to have a direct iPod cable or an AUX cable to be in there. Follow directions on the h/u to connect them to it.
,,,,