 A requisite for a well groomed appearance is cleanliness. Start everyday with a shower and the soap of your choice. Do this unless specified otherwise by a medical professional.


Certain soaps are healthy for your skin and contain less harmful chemicals.;
, After cleaning your body, ensure that your smell stay fresh. Apply deodorant after your shower. Choose a sensitive or aluminum free variety if you suffer from allergies. Spend time to find the smell that is right for you.
 Brushing twice a day should be a minimum for your routine. Brush once in the morning and once at night, but don’t feel like you can’t brush whenever you have the urge.


You should also floss once a day. Even if you could floss twice a week will help. Flossing decreases your bad breath by removing bacteria build up from your mouth., Not everyone subscribes to shaving their face, legs or other parts of the body everyday. Only shave your face, legs and armpits if you believe this is necessary. Men can look well groomed with facial hair, but it needs to be controlled and cared for.


For ladies it is typically viewed as necessary to shave your legs and armpits to look well groomed. There are many groups challenging this notion because men don’t shave these parts and still look well groomed.
Do what is right for you. Half of looking well groomed is the confidence around you.
If you have sensitive skin, consider shaving less frequently and find a shaving cream made for sensitive skin.
 Have a “survival kit” with you at all times to combat a blemish once out of the house. You can use a strong zip lock bag and include items for dry skin, broken nails, or messy hair. Use some of the following for your own kit:


Lotion or vaseline
Mini comb
Mints
Mini mirror
Pins
Hair bands
Perfume or cologne
Compact towel
Miniature sewing kit, You can pull off any type of haircut with the proper hair styling technique. Here’s a few products to help for the many hairstyles out there:


Pomade can be used effectively for sleek look on short and textured hair.
Waxes are great for adding a shine and control to your short hair.
Muds and fibers help with the disheveled look for mid length hair.
Creams can control frizz and fly-aways for longer hair.
Gel can be used for a strong hold and wet look., Before styling your hair, you should understand what type of hair you have. You can determine the thickness of your hair by how many times you need to wrap it for a ponytail. One wrap means your hair is thick, 2-3 wraps is medium, and anything more is fine hair. Use a high wattage blow dryer (above 1800 watts) to prevent frizz and create a shiny, smooth finish.


Curl your hair. If you plan on curling your hair apply a lightweight mousse while your hair is wet. Then use a ceramic curling iron once it has dried. Keep the curls all day by using a frizz fighting hair spray.
Straighten your hair. Choose a hair straightener with ceramic plates and prep your hair before straightening. Use shampoo and conditioners that are meant for smoothing.
Add volume to your locks by adding a volumizing gel while your hair’s wet from a shower. Do this at night and put your hair up in a bun before falling asleep. Then let your hair down the next morning for a healthy bounce.When all else fails, wear a hat.

