 Check with your owners' manual to see what your manufacturer has to say about towing options, to help you decide which methods are compatible and most appropriate for your vehicle. Consider using one of the following devices if you do a lot of car-hauling.


One is a lube pump, which provides lubrication to the automatic transmission, in the same way as normal operation of the car would. This helps to prevent damage to the transmission.
A drive shaft coupling device can be installed on a rear-wheel-drive vehicle. Instead of manually disconnecting and removing the drive shaft, this device lets you pull a lever to disconnect your drive shaft without having to get your hands dirty.
An axle-lock is a device not at all dissimilar to the locking hubs found on older 4X4 vehicles, which can allow you to disconnect your wheels from their drive axles, and thus from the transmission.
 This will require getting a little dirty, but if you want to tow your car on its own wheels, it is important to do this. You can also have a mechanic do this for you if you are not confident in your abilities.


The following steps cover how to disconnect the axles by yourself.
 Raise it up if you must, being careful to leave it in park, or with the parking brakes on, wheel chocks or something to keep it from rolling off your jack or ramps. Bring your:


Ratchet set, or wrenches, some spray lube, and a bungee cord, a ratchet strap or some rope when you go under your car.
 Then find the u-joint and on the end of that, the yoke, where four bolts can be found that hold the drive shaft to the differential housing.
 Don't use your exhaust pipes or anything loose; look around to find something solid to connect it to. Don’t tighten this up just yet, but make sure to secure it so that the drive shaft doesn’t fall on to you when you loosen it.
 The wrench or ratchet size you need will vary depending on the make and model of your car, and you might need to knock some dirt off and apply some spray-on lubricant to get them to come loose.


When the last bolt comes loose, use extra caution, as the drive shaft will fall unless it has been properly secured by your bungee chord.
 Adjust your bungee or tighten the strap so there is as little wobble or play as possible. Don't force anything; you just want it up and out of the way and secure enough not to flop around or fall while you are towing the car.
 No need to over-tighten the bolts; you should just put them back in this spot so that they do not get lost in the moving process.


You can also store them in a baggie in your glove box until after you have towed your car to your final destination.
 The main idea here is to get your axles disconnected, and secure the drive shafts(s) well enough that they don't drop and hit pavement while you are towing the car.
 When you get where you are going, use your strap to lower the axle back into range of the yoke so you can get the bolts back in. Check your manual for torque specs, or get those bolts in as securely as you can, and you're ready to drive again.

