 Decide on which form you need to complete, depending on your application status.



Form DS-11 should be submitted by first-time applicants, minors and those wanting to replace a lost, stolen or damaged passport. DS-11 should not be signed until an agent asks the applicant to do so.

Form DS-82 is required for renewals by mail.

Form DS-5504 is the correct application for a passport name change, data correction or replacement of limited validity passport.

Form DS-4085 must be submitted by those who want to add visa pages to their passports.;
, Those submitting Form DS-11 must submit evidence of United States citizenship, proof of identity, a photocopy of the identification document and one 2 inch (5.1 cm) by 2 inch (5.1 cm) passport photo.


Parents applying for a minor's passport must also submit evidence of relationship to the child.
American citizens who apply for renewals are required to submit their most recently-issued passport and two recent passport photos.
Applicants seeking additional visa pages need only submit their current, valid passport along with the application.
 Present the completed, but unsigned application form and supporting documents to the agent. Sign the form when asked to do so by the agent. Pay the execution fee of $25 to the agent.


Include payment of $170 in the packet. This includes an application processing fee of $110 and an expedited service fee of $60. Write the word "expedite" on the outside of the envelope.
 Place the completed form, supporting documents and payment in an envelope.


The U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs recommends that any application sent by mail be sent using the traceable delivery method: either by USPS Priority Mail with delivery confirmation, by USPS Priority Mail with signature confirmation, or by USPS Express Mail (for overnight delivery requests) using traceable delivery.The U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs also recommends that applicants send their application by secure means, using a Tyvek or similar envelope if possible.The fee to renew a passport is $110. The fee for additional visa pages is $82. There is no fee for a name change if requested within one year of the passport's issuance date. Remember to include a payment of $60 for expedited service. Write the word "expedite" on the outside of the envelope.
Note that multiple applications that are sent together may not necessarily be processed together. This could mean that one application gets processed and returned before other ones.
 Applicants who need to obtain a passport, passport renewal, passport name change or additional visa pages in less than two weeks can apply at a regional agency. The fist step is to call the National Passport Information Center's automated appointment system to schedule at visit. The number is 1-877-487-2778.


Arrive a few minutes early to allow time to go through the security check.
Receive a ticket at the information desk. When your number is called, submit the application form, supporting documents and payment to the agent. Applications are usually processed within one day and, often, the same day.
 Applicants who need to get a passport in less than two weeks but are unable to personally visit a regional agency can employ the services of professional expediters. Simply type in "U.S. Passport Expediting Services" into a search engine, choose an expediter, and fill out their online application form.


Send the expediter an envelope containing the completed application form, supporting documents and payment that will be submitted to the U.S. Department of State.
Note, applicants submitting Form DS-11 must still sign the application form in the presence of an authorized agent before sealing the envelope and mailing it to the expediter.

