 In order to upload a picture to YouTube and set it as your profile picture, you will first need to have the desired picture saved somewhere on your computer. IF you need help with this, read our article about how to save a picture to your computer.;
, In order to change your YouTube profile picture, you must first be signed in to your YouTube account. Press the blue Sign In button located in the top right of the YouTube webpage.
 Click on the circle in the upper right corner of the YouTube page. If you have multiple accounts, you will be able to choose the correct account from the dropdown menu. Click the gear icon to be directed to your YouTube settings page.


You may need to first select the correct account, click the circle again, then click on the gear next to the correct account.
 After you have clicked on the gear icon, you should see a webpage displaying information about your account, such as your account name. Click on your channel name's hyperlink located to the right of the word, "Name." After clicking, you should be directed to your channel, with the ability to edit parts of it.
 In the upper left corner of your channel page, you should see a box beneath the count of your subscribers. Hover over this box to reveal a pencil icon in the upper right corner of this box. Click the pencil icon.


A prompt may appear saying that you must edit your profile picture on the associated Google+ account. If so, click the blue Edit on Google+ button.
 You will be able to either upload a picture from your computer, from the internet, or by taking a picture with your webcam.


To upload a picture from your computer, either drag and drop it into the box that say, "Drag a photo here" or select it from the location on your computer by pressing the Select a photo from your computer button.
Select the "Albums" option from the ribbon on top of the webpage to select a photo from already uploaded albums on your Google+ account.
Select the "Photos of you" option from the ribbon on top of the webpage to select a photo that you have been tagged in on your Google+ account.
Select the "Webcam" option from the ribbon on top of the webpage to take a photo with your webcam and upload it to your page.
 Press the blue Set as profile photo button from the bottom left of the webpage to confirm your photo selection and to change your current YouTube profile picture.


It may take a few minutes for the change to take affect.

