 Static discharge can be devastating to computer components. Make sure that you are properly grounded before handling your PC parts. If you have an antistatic wristband, use it and attach the lead to the bare metal of your case. Don’t do the assembling on carpet, and if you are standing, remove your socks. Don’t wear synthetic clothes while assembling the PC.
 In order to install the motherboard, you will need to prepare the case. Open the empty case with the back or bottom lying on your work surface. Install the motherboard I/O plate into the case. This plate is different for every motherboard, and has holes for each of the connectors.


Install the motherboard risers. There will be multiple screw holes in your case for the risers. Screw them in to the holes that correspond with your specific motherboard. The risers are installed with your fingers, and have a hole in the top that another screw can be inserted into.
Place the motherboard on the risers. Gently push the motherboard into the I/O plate as you install the screws. Start with the screws closest to the I/O plate and move out from there.
Install the processor. Carefully remove the processor from the package, and line up the triangle on the processor socket to the triangle that is printed on the processor.
Be sure not to handle the pins, and make sure that you do not force the processor into the socket.
Once the processor has been inserted, secure it by locking the socket lever.
Install the CPU cooler. If you purchased your processor retail, then chances are the processor came with a cooling fan with thermal grease already applied. If not, you will need to put a thin layer of thermal grease on the processor before installing the CPU fan.
 Line up the notches in the RAM with the notches in their sockets. Press down firmly in the center until you hear it click. Both of the clips on either end should be securely locked into place.
 Depending on the case, you may need to install mounts on the drives before inserting them. Make sure that your optical drive is flush with the front of your case. Some cases may require you to attach a cover to the front of the optical drive tray.
 If you are adding a video card to your HTPC, install it now. Look for the PCI-E slot on the motherboard. It will be shorter than the other slots and a different color. Press the card into the slot firmly, and the clip will click into place. The back plate should line up with the opening in the back of the case.
 Most fans will have indicators on the top showing which direction the air will flow. You will want one fan pulling in air and an opposite fan pushing it out. This will make for optimum cooling as fresh, cool air is passed over your components.
 Before connecting your components, attach the case features to your motherboard. This means attaching the leads for your power switch, the power LEDs, any USB and audio ports on the case, fans, etc. Most motherboards have these connections labeled, though you may need to consult your motherboard’s manual for specific locations.
 Insert your power supply into its bay, and secure it with screws. Attach the appropriate power connectors to their devices. Make sure that all of your installed components are properly connected, including your motherboard. If you are using a modular PSU, you only need to attach the cables you need. Otherwise, tuck the excess cables away.
 Connect your hard drive and optical drive to your motherboard using the SATA connectors. Tuck away excess lengths of cable and make sure nothing is obstructing any of the fans.
 A well-designed case helps to maximize airflow. Make sure you case is properly sealed, and avoid running your computer with the case open.
 Using an HDMI cable, or a DVI and SPDIF connector, attach your HTPC to your TV. Make sure that your TV is set to the appropriate input when using the HTPC.

