 Diet is of course important for all around health, but when it comes to building muscle the most important aspect is protein intake. An average amount is 0.8 grams per pound of body weight. For example, if you are that 160 pound person, 160 x 0.8 = 128 grams of protein per day.


That may seem like a lot but when you start adding it up you'll be surprised by how much protein you can find in vegetables, nuts, and seeds to supplement or replace your animal protein intake. There are many supplements as well but try to find one without artificial sweeteners. Protein shakes are more likely to be healthier than protein bars.
 One way to get your recommended daily protein is to supplement your diet with protein powders. You can use the powder to make delicious smoothies, shakes, or baked goods.
 Eating high-glycemic carbs (like white bread and pasta) can raise your blood sugar. This can contribute to weight gain and diabetes. Switch out high-glycemic carbs for low ones, such as those found in peanut butter or apples.There are both simple and complex carbohydrates. Simple carbs are made up of fewer sugar molecules than their complex counterparts. They are a quick source of energy, but are not providing your body with many nutrients or vitamins. These carbs include table sugar, jams, jellies, soft drinks, honey, and maple syrup.Complex carbohydrates provide essential minerals, vitamins, and proteins but also turn into glucose like simple carbs. Complex carbs are much better for you body and can be found in foods like peas, beans, vegetables, and whole grains. , As our body ages, we lose bone mass and density.It may be beneficial to supplement your diet and exercise with vitamins (like calcium) that can replace what you are using.Always talk to your doctor before adding a supplement to your routine. They can be harmful to your health if taken in too high of dosage or may negatively impact a pre-existing condition.
 Your goal in gaining muscle is to develop a routine that will work for you. Popular diets go in and out of fashion because they are often not scientifically backed or proven. Avoid these diets by sticking to a medically approved diet and exercise routine.

