 Knowing your body fat percentage and where it falls within standard, healthy ranges can give you some insight into your overall health. This may help you determine if you need to lose weight, maintain weight or gain weight.


For men, body fat percentages should fall: for athletes: 6 to 13%, for general fitness levels: 14 to 17%, for acceptable or average: 18 to 25% and anything above 26% is generally considered to be overweight or obese.For women, body fat percentages should fall: for athletes: 14 to 20%, for general fitness levels: 21 to 24%, for acceptable or average: 25 to 31% and anything over 32% is considered overweight or obese.Remember, body fat percentage is just one of many numerical values that speaks to your weight and overall health. It's used in combination with a variety of other factors (like BMI, weight and height) to determine what's a healthy weight or body fat percentage for you.
 Once you know what your body fat percentage is and where it falls compared to healthy standards, you may want to speak to your primary care physician about your results. This will be especially helpful if you think your body fat percentage is too high or is indicating you're overweight.


If your body fat percentage is indicating that you may be overweight and you think you may need to lose weight, speak to your doctor about appropriate weight loss plans that would be safe and healthy for you.
Also ask you physician if excess body fat has any effects on any current health conditions you have or if it increases your risk for certain health conditions.
 A registered dietitian is a health and nutrition expert that may be able to give you a diet/meal plan or tips on how to reduce your body fat percentage with foods.


A dietitian may also be able to evaluate your current lifestyle and give you suggestions on small behavior changes to positively affect your body fat percentage.
Speak with your primary care doctor. They may know or can refer you to a local dietitian for additional help.
 A personal trainer is a fitness expert that may be able to help you design a workout that can help you build muscle and decrease your body fat percentage.


Many gyms offer a free or discounted initial personal training session with a staff member.
Personal training can be expensive. However, it may be worthwhile to meet with a train one to three times just to get an idea of a routine or workouts that would help you reach your goal. Then you can continue on your own.
Keep in mind that simply hiring a personal trainer will not decrease your body fat percentage. You will have to do hard work of exercising and eating right to see results.

