 When naming your dog, you want to select a name your dog can easily recognize. Given the microphone-like nature of dog's ears, certain sounds are easier for dogs to recognize.


A name starting with crisp, consonant sound is best. Something like a hard "K" or "C" sound can help your dog distinguish his name from background noise.A blended sound, like a "ch" or "sh", can also help your dog better recognize his name.More sibilant sounds, like soft "s" noises, may be harder for your dog to recognize.;
, Certain names sound similar to commands you might give your dog. This can get confusing in training as your dog may be unable to differentiate his name from an order. For example, the name "Kit" may sound like "sit." The name "Beau" may sound like "No." Something like "Rover" could sound like "roll over." Try to avoid names that can be mistaken for common dog commands., Some dog trainers theorize that dogs have an easier time recognizing names that end in a vowel sound. Names that end in o's, a's, or a long "ee" sound may be easier for your dog to recognize. Think of names like Lobo, Simba, Dolly, or Sweetie. If you find a name you like that ends in a vowel, it might be a good idea to use it to help your dog recognize his name., Review a list of the most popular recent dog names. If a name you like appears on the list, you may want to reconsider it. If you take your dog to a dog park or other public place, he can get confused if he hears other owners calling out his name. Pick a more unique name if you want your dog to come when called., Many popular dog names, such as Charlie or Molly, are also names given to people. Vets and dog trainers recommend against human names for a dog as you'll end up anthropomorphizing your pet. While dogs are intelligent, they are not the same as people and do not respond to the same verbal and non-verbal cues. It might be better to choose a less human sounding name for your dog to avoid thinking of him as a person., A fun way to name a husky is to choose a name from history. Naming your husky after a famous husky can give him a connection to his breed and heritage.


Famous husky mixes like Togo and Balto helped bring medication to the children of Nome, Alaska during the diphtheria outbreak. Both these names end in a vowel sound so your dog might more easily recognize them.Charlie, a husky, was known as the strongest dog ever after he pulled a 3,142 pound sleigh. However, keep in mind Charlie is also a human name so it may be confusing for your dog.Huskies in film and television have gone by names like Exile, Yodel, and Ted.The popular '90s toy beanie babies put out a husky beanie baby that was named Nanook., You may want to spend a few days getting to know you're dog before naming him. Pay attention to his personality and try to pick a name that suits him.


Learn the meaning and origins of names and words. You can find etymology dictionaries online as well as sites that list name meanings. Consider your dog's personality. Is he a happy-to-lucky type? Find a name that means happy or joyful. Is he a goofball? Find a name that means laughter.
Also, consider your dog's history. This can help you find a name that connects to him. Was he rescued from a bad situation? If so, think about finding a name that means "lucky" or "fortunate." The name Felix, for example, means "fortunate" so this might be a good choice for your dog., Many people enjoy finding names for their dogs based on their coat colors. Huskies are often black or gray, so a name that points to these colors can help. Something like Smokey, Foggy, or Ember could be great for a gray dog. Names like Ash, Ebony, or Velvet could be fun for a black dog., Remember, choosing a popular name can be confusing. Consider finding a more unique name for your husky. If a name you like feels too common, try altering it to make it more unique.


When it comes to color names, go beyond basics like Blackie or Gray. Consider looking up the names for different colors in another language. You could also pick weather conditions that point to a certain color. Dusk, for example, could be a fun and unique name for a black husky.If you want your dog to have a name connected to a famous husky, consider altering the name to make it more unique for your dog. If you're a fan of Balto, for example, keep in mind Kevin Bacon voiced Balto in the disney film. Bacon could be a fun, cute, and slightly quirky name for your dog.
Colors of your dog's eyes and nose can also help you think of a name. Is his nose so pink it's almost red? Call your dog Crimson.
Have you had another husky or dog that has died a while ago? Maybe if that dog was called Stripes you could call your dog Stripes Jr and call him Junior for short.

