 Start with a mild or moderate exercise routine and gradually increase how long and hard you exercise. 20 minutes three times a week is a great amount of time to spend per week exercising when you first start out. You don't want to stress your body or muscles because that also increases your chance of injury.;
, Your muscles rely on you to keep them hydrated so they can continue to work well. Dehydrated muscles are more prone to injury. It's also not good for your body.


Drink at least 16 oz. of water several hours before your workout. Remember to drink water while you workout as well.
 Your body will let you know when it is reaching its limits. If you experience pain or become light-headed, it means you pushed yourself too far and you need to dial back the intensity of your activity. It's your responsibility to pay attention to what your body is telling you and to stop exercising and let your body heal. Continuing with what you are doing will lead to acute or chronic injury.
 Active stretching helps to jumpstart the body during a warm-up before you do any exercise. Stretching prepares your muscles for the kind of swift, forceful movement they are exposed to during sporting activities. The following leg swinging exercise is an example of an active stretch which helps to warm-up the MCL.


Stand in front of a wall, with your feet shoulder-width apart. Press your palms against the wall at shoulder level, keeping your stomach muscles engaged.
Lift one leg sideways until it is above hip level, then swing it back down so it crosses in front of the other leg. Continue swinging for 10 to 15 repetitions, then repeat with the other leg. Do two to three sets for each leg.
 Passive stretching helps to improve flexibility in muscles and ligaments during your cool down after exercise. These stretches are important to avoid injury. The following quadriceps stretch is a good example of a passive stretch which helps to maintain the elasticity of the MCL.


Stand in front of a wall, pressing the palm of your right hand against it for support. Lift your right foot by bending your knee, until the right heel touches the left butt cheek. Use your left hand to grip your ankle and hold the foot in place for 30 to 60 seconds. Repeat with the left foot.
Keep in mind that this exercise (and other passive stretches) should never be performed before exercise since they relax the muscles and ligaments, possibly leaving them more prone to injury during exercise. These should only be performed during a cool down.
 Allowing your body adequate rest time after strenuous physical activity is an essential part of avoiding injury. Your body needs time to heal after exercising, usually at least one full day of rest. This helps your muscles strengthen and maintain good health.


During exercise, the MCL sustains mini tears. These mini tears will heal on their own, making the MCL stronger as a result during rest time. But if no rest time is given, the micro tears will not heal and the MCL becomes much more prone to injury.
 Wearing appropriate clothing while exercising helps you to avoid placing unnecessary stress on your MCL. You don't want to wear clothing that is too tight or that restricts movement. When the MCL becomes stressed, such as that caused by inappropriate clothing, it becomes more prone to injury.


When doing activities that involve running, it is recommend that you wear loose shorts that cut off above the knee. Longer, tighter shorts can restrict knee movement, putting more stress on the knee joints.
 Wearing shoes with adequate cushioning and support is essential for preventing injury to the MCL. Shoes meant for running are a good choice for use during sports activities. Replace old shoes and make sure you have enough sole support.


Worn-out shoes are ineffective at reducing impact to the knees, stressing the MCL and making it weak. Running shoes should be replaced every 300 to 500 miles (480 to 800 km).
People with flat feet should also ensure that their shoes provide enough sole support. Having flat feet puts extra strain on the MCL, making it more prone to injury. Adequate sole support alleviates this strain — an orthotic may need to be added to get the desired support.
 Standing on one foot improves your balance, training your MCL to become stronger and more stable. Greater stability goes a long way to prevent injury. It trains your muscles to hold their place and keep your knee stable.


Stand up straight with your shoulders back and your stomach muscles engaged. Slowly lift one foot off the floor and try to hold this position for 30 seconds.
If you start to wobble or lose your posture, try closing your eyes. This will help you to focus on your balance and leg coordination.
After 30 seconds, switch to the opposite foot and repeat the exercise. Repeat the exercise three times on each foot.

