 The longer your hair gets, the more strain it puts on the root. When it's weighed down, your hair will have a harder time standing up and looking as full as possible. By going for a shorter cut, you'll put less strain on your roots and you'll maximize the volume you can get.






;
, When the ends of your hair look wispy and layered, it tends to make your hair look thinner. You can see extreme examples of this in the ends of "scene" hairstyles. To make your hair look like it has more volume, choose a haircut with blunt ends and bangs.
 Figure out which direction your hair lays flat and then style it in the opposite direction. This will create lift at the roots, because your hair is still trying to go the other way.









This works best if you pair it with styling products meant to increase lift at the roots and keep hair in place. A basic hairspray is a good place to start.
So, for example, blow dry your hair so that it's going to the left. Once it's dry, comb and style it to the right. BAM: instant lift with almost no effort!

, Curling your hair can add a lot of volume. Just think about all those 80s perms (of course, that was too much volume). While you might not want to go the perm route, you can use a basic curling iron and hair products to get and keep curls in your hair for a day or two.









When you do create curls, use outward-facing waves.These will draw the eye away from the center of your face, making your hair look even more voluminous.
 Instead of parting your hair at the center, part your hair far to one side or the other. This will double the volume of the main section of hair, making it look super full. The other side is meant to look smaller in this style, so less voluminous hair will not look out of place.









This hairstyle will probably require some coordinating with your hair cut, so you might need to plan ahead on this one. If you have long hair with layers, however, you should easily be able to switch into this style.
 Consider experimenting with layered hair. There is a lot of disagreement about whether or not layers help or hinder when it comes to making your hair look more full. It seems to help for some people, and make the problem much worse for others. You'll just have to try it out for yourself and see how it looks on you.








