 Put into basic terms, soldering is the process of melting a metal onto other metal components in order to bind them.


Soldering differs from welding. In welding, the component pieces are melted together; in soldering, a softer metal with a lower melting point is used to connect them.

Because soldering doesn't melt components, it's useful for more delicate applications, such as electronics work, or plumbing.


The purpose of soldering is to bind two other components. Solder can be thought of as a sort of “metal glue.” It can be used to fill in gaps or hold pieces in place, but doesn't serve any more complicated purpose.

Since solder is metallic, it conducts electricity, which is another reason it's so popular for connecting electronic components.

;
, Solder is the name of the actual material used in soldering. Historically, many solders contained lead or cadmium, but that has been recently phased out for health reasons.


Solder is typically composed of two or more metals combined into an alloy. Silver, antimony, copper, tin, and zinc are all common ingredients.
Solder is soft and flexible. It generally comes in a coil, or spool, that can be stretched and bent.
Solder has a low melting point, and cools extremely quickly after it's been melted. (350F - 500F)
Solder can contain a flux core of natural rosin (tree sap) or a chemical acid. The metal of the solder encircles the core, like a tube.

The purpose of the core is to serve as a flux, or purifying agent. The flux prevents oxidation in the solder as it cools, keeping it strong and pure.
 Soldering irons come in various configurations, but are essentially straight tools with tips that can be heated to melt solder in place.


Most soldering irons typically heat to between 800 and 900 degrees Fahrenheit, so exercise caution when using one.
Soldering irons tend to catch a veneer of solder after each use, which can oxidize and reduce the iron's effectiveness on the next use. To clean this off easily, secure a wet sponge before you turn your iron on, and gently drag the tip across the sponge once the iron is heated.

A layer of fresh solder on the tip can actually make a soldering iron more effective. This process is called “tinning,” and is done by allowing a bit of fresh solder to melt evenly over the tip before use.


Better models of soldering iron come with a heat control that can be adjusted for different projects and types of solder.
 Soldering isn't especially dangerous or difficult if you take sensible precautions. To solder as efficiently and effectively as possible, there are a few useful pieces of equipment you should have.


Clamps or alligator clips, for holding components in place while you solder them
Thick gloves, to protect your hands from the tip of the iron as you feed solder to it
Safety glasses or goggles, to prevent any errant solder flecks from hitting your eyes
A solder stand to rest your soldering iron on between applications.
 Be sure you can see everything clearly so that your work will be as accurate as possible.


If you need to solder somewhere without much light, bring a bright light (such as a portable lamp) with you.
 Even without lead in the mix, solder and flux can produce harmful fumes. Avoid breathing in rosin or metal fumes by opening a window, turning on a fan, and generally doing whatever you can to keep air fresh.
 Soldering is a fast process, and it doesn't generally take more than a few minutes to do what needs to be done, but if you find yourself spending more than 15 or 20 minutes on a project, take regular breaks for fresh air.

