 A garden pond often has multiple levels, to facilitate a waterfall and provide a place for a pump. If you choose to install electric devices the pond should be located close enough to your home that you’ll have access to electricity. Use a shovel to dig a large hole according to the size and depth you have chosen.








If you plan to install a pump, dig a second deeper hole of about 10 inches at the center of the pond.
Create a second level for aquatic plants by digging a shallower shelf around the perimeter of the pond.
You may also use a preformed pond shape, available at garden stores. These are often shaped like a bean and have multiple levels. If you’re using a preformed pond, adjust the hole you dig to its proportions.
 First line the pond with a layer of sand, making sure to cover every crevice. Next add a layer of biodegradable materials, such as newspapers or burlap. Cover this layer with a large piece of waterproof pond liner. This should cover the entire pond and the edges around it., If you’re including a pump, install it in the deeper center pit so that the hose extends to the surface of the pond. You may also install a filter or a skimmer. Consult with the manufacturer of the device you choose for detailed instructions on how to install it. Always make sure the pump is on its own circuit and plugged into a GFCI receptacle.Do not put the pump directly on the ground as this will make the pump subject to dirt and debris that falls into the pond because it is in the deepest area. Elevate the pump with a bucket or a garden pot by at least 3 in. (8.62 cm).
 Trim pond liner so that it overlaps the edge of the pond by about eight inches (20 cm). Dig a shallow shelf under the liner, lay the liner edges flat, and set heavy, flat stones on top of the liner around the edge of the pond. Large stones and flagstone work well for this purpose.








Make sure the stones are set a few inches into the ground, so that they will be level with the surface of the pond when it is filled.
If the stones are large and heavy, it is not necessary to mortar them. If you’re using smaller, lighter stones, you may want to add mortar to prevent them from coming loose when people stand at the pond’s edge.
If you’re installing a waterfall device, it is attractive to surround it with stones.
Be creative here: you may create patterns with stones, or use stones of varying shapes, sizes, and colors to accent your garden.
 Use a hose to fill the pond about three quarters of the way full to prevent overflowing from water features when turned off. Test the pump and other electronic devices you installed to make sure they are working properly.
 Add lily pads, reeds, and other aquatic plants to your pond. Every plant has individual requirements, so make sure the environment you have created is the right one for the plants you choose to grow. For example, some plants don’t do well with movement, so they shouldn’t be situated directly in the flow of a waterfall., Go to your local pet store and buy some goldfish to add to the pond. Do some research to find out what types of plants they coexist well with. Don’t add too many, or they may cause the aquatic plants to deteriorate.If you strike the right balance between plants and fish, you shouldn’t need a filter in your pond. If you have a lot of fish, you might consider installing a filter to take care of their waste.
Koi are different from goldfish, and they require a special kind of pond. Read How to Build a Koi Fish Pond for more information.

