 Without the right shoes, walking for exercise can be very unpleasant and even painful. Walking shoes should offer adequate arch and ankle support. If you have a pair of shoes that you’re already happy to walk in, continue to use them when walking indoors for exercise. If you don’t have a comfortable pair of walking shoes, however, visit your local shoe store and talk to a specialist. Let them know that you’re looking for shoes for walking indoors. Try on several pairs to find the one that is most comfortable for you.Be sure to pick up a few pairs of comfortable, breathable socks, such as those made from polyester or acrylic., Wearing layers means that you clothe yourself with several thin pieces of clothing on your torso. You can then remove them if you later feel too warm. This is a good idea because you can never know what the temperature of the gym or indoor walking space will be.For instance, you might wear a t-shirt, a long-sleeved shirt, a sweater, and a light windbreaker. If you feel yourself working up a sweat while walking for exercise indoors, remove a layer or two as needed.
Place excess layers somewhere they won’t be forgotten if you aren’t walking at home.
 If you’ll be walking outside your home for a long while, or intend to walk for exercise only as one part of your workout routine, you should pack some water and a snack. It’s hard to work up too much of a sweat while walking for exercise, but it’s a good idea to stay hydrated anyway. In addition, a healthy snack like a granola bar or a banana can help you boost your energy levels if necessary before or after your walk., A pedometer is a small device that tracks how many steps you take. They clip on easily to your clothes or slip into your pocket. At the end of each day, remove the pedometer and record the number of steps you took in a log book or spreadsheet. This will help you monitor your progress and keep you motivated to continue.Once you know how many steps you took each day, try to increase the amount of steps you take each day incrementally until you’re walking indoors for exercise about an hour each day.
If you want even more data about your walking and exercise habits, think about investing in an activity tracking device.

