 Pellet food is the ideal food for lovebirds, as it is formulated to give your birds the nutrients they need. Pick pellet food based on the age of your lovebirds. Make sure the pellet food contains natural ingredients and no additives or preservatives.Baby lovebirds will have different pellet food than mature lovebirds. Mature lovebirds are 10 months or older.
Look for pellet food made for lovebirds at your local pet store or online.;
, Look for a seed mix that has a wide variety of seeds like millet, canary grass seed, hulled oats, niger seed, flax seed, sunflower seeds, safflower, and rape seeds. The seed mix may also contain soybeans, rye, canary seed, whole brown rice, fennel seed, poppy seed, and sesame seed.Make sure the seed mix contains a small amount of milo, as this ingredient is often used as a filler.
Only use fresh seed mix. If the seed mix smells dusty or old, do not give it to your lovebirds.
 Lovebirds also do well with supplemental foods in their diet like green lettuce (not iceberg lettuce), spinach, carrots, green peas, endive, tomatoes, parsley, dandelion, radish, cucumber, watercress, broccoli, sprouts, and kale.They also do well with wheatgrass, as it is high in chlorophyll.
Do not give lovebirds avocados, as they are considered toxic to birds.
 Lovebirds do well with fresh fruits like pears, bananas, grapes, strawberries, raspberries, apples, oranges, tangerines, kiwi, figs, melon, pitted cherries, and rose hips.You can give the lovebirds dried fruits as long as they do not contain sulfites.
 Lovebirds also enjoy shelled and unshelled peanuts, Brazil nuts, acorns, horse chestnuts, and hazelnuts. You can give the lovebirds nuts as a small treat or as a supplement to their regular diet., Lovebirds should not be given fast food or foods high in artificial sugar like candy, ice cream, or sweets. Do not give lovebirds french fries, chips, or deep fried foods.You should also avoid giving lovebirds any foods that contain preservatives or additives.
Do not give lovebirds alcohol or coffee.

