 When crab is caught it either needs to be immediately cooked or frozen. Because of this it is easier to find frozen crab legs over live crab. , Don’t just grab the first crab you see. Take time to find the perfect crabs or frozen crab legs.

If you opt for cooking live crabs look at the underside of the crab to determine the amount of meat. If the color is white it has a lot of meat. If the color is black, then it does not have a lot of meat. If the shell is soft there is less meat than if the shell is hard. Try to find a crab with long and large legs. When selecting frozen crab legs look for crab legs that are thick and meaty. Choose frozen crab legs that don’t have too many ice crystals. Be aware the crab legs need to fit in your pan. , If you purchase frozen crab, make sure to give yourself enough time to thaw the crab before you cook it. Put the crab legs, covered, in the fridge overnight to thaw. You can also put the crab legs in a colander and run cold water over them to thaw them faster. , Fill a large pot with water and turn the stove on high. Bring the water to a boil. Put the live crabs directly in the boiling water and submerge them. Put the lid on the pot and turn the heat down to medium. Cook for 15 minutes. , After you are done boiling the crabs, take them out of the water. They should be bright orange. Rinse the crabs under cold water. , Keep rinsing the crab while removing the apron of the crab. Grab each side of the crab and crack it in half down the middle of the body. Remove the mouth, lungs, and any extra parts from each side of the crab. Remove the legs from the shell. Do all of this while still rinsing the crab. , Fill a large pot with to 2/3 full of cold tap water and bring to a boil. Add crab legs to the water, bending to cover as much as possible with water.

Cook uncovered for 4-5 minutes, occasionally adjusting with tongs to evenly heat.
Remove the legs from water, rinse if desired. , The crab legs need to fit in your steamer so break off the body and bend the legs. Put the bodies at the bottom of the pan because they require more cooking and steam gets hotter at the bottom.

Fill the bottom of the steamer with 3-4 inches of cold water. Heat the pot until you get a rapid boil.
Put the steamer basket into the pot and replace the lid. Monitor the pot for a few minutes until the steam begins to develop.
Cook thawed legs for 5-6 minutes and frozen legs for 10-12 minutes. They are done when they reach 155 degrees. , Preheat your outdoor grill on high heat. Lightly oil the grate when it is hot. Mix olive oil, butter, and garlic and brush it onto the crab. Put the crab on the grill and turn once. They are finished when the shell is brown. It usually takes around 6 minutes. , Preheat your oven to 375 degrees. While you wait, melt butter in a pan. Add garlic, lemon juice, and olive oil. Put the crab legs on a baking dish and brush the butter sauce onto the legs. Bake for 25 minutes, brushing the sauce on every 5-7 minutes. , Use scissors or twist the legs at the joint to get the meat out of the shell. If you twist the legs use a towel so the sharp edges on the legs do not cut your hands. , One 4-8-ounce leg is one serving. Use a small seafood fork to take the meat out of the legs. , Fresh snow crab is best alone, in simple dishes. Use it for a recipe or enjoy with melted butter, lemon, and garlic. 