 You can also press flowers in order to preserve them, using books or a flower press. Regardless of which flower pressing method you choose, you need to discard flowers that won't press well. Go for flowers that are not yet fully mature. You should avoid flowers that are particularly thick, like roses. Trim off any unnecessary leaves or petals you do not want preserved prior to pressing., One of the easiest ways to press flowers is using books You likely have some heavy books lying around the house. These can be used to press flowers.


To start, place your flower or flowers between two pieces of paper. Then, close the paper and flowers between the pages of a book. When pressing multiple flowers, make sure to space them out so they're not touching. Choose a book big enough to close completely over the flowers.Place more books on top of the book you're using. This will help weigh down the flowers. From here, change the paper sheets you're using every few days and then repress the flowers between the book. In two to three weeks, the flowers should be completely dry., If you're handy, a wooden flower press might be a good option for you. Once made, it requires slightly less maintenance than using books.


Use two rectangular pieces of plywood. Choose a size big enough to cover all the flowers you're pressing. Drill holes into all four corners. Make sure the holes line up with one another.Place your flower or flowers between two pieces of paper. Place the paper and flowers between the plywood rectangles.
Tighten the boards together using long bolts and wingnut bolts. Set aside for a couple of weeks. Your flowers should dry out., You can speed up the book drying process by using a microwave first. Put your flower or flowers between two sheets of paper. Then, press the sheets of paper between two books. Then, microwave the books for one minute. Allow the books to cool off and repeat as needed until the flowers are almost dry. Allow them to air dry the rest of the way. Cooking flowers until they're fully dry can cause damage.If you're worried about damaging your books by microwaving them, you can buy a microwavable flower press online or at a local craft store., When they are completely dry, pressed flowers will be extremely delicate and should be placed in an album ,frame, or book for safekeeping. You can remove flowers from between paper using your fingers. However, it may be safer to use tweezers as this minimizes the risk of damaging your flowers.

