 If you intend to reuse your firstborn’s baby clothes and sheets, wash them thoroughly, especially if they have been sitting in storage for a while. It is not necessary to use a detergent specified for babies, which can be purchased if your newborn demonstrates any signs of skin irritation. Use a liquid detergent as opposed to a powder one to avoid residue that might irritate your baby’s skin., To sterilize pacifiers and bottles, fill a pot with water, add the items, and bring the water to a boil. Allow it to boil for ten minutes, then let it cool. Remove the items and place them on clean paper towels to air dry.If any pacifiers or bottles appear cracked or stained after washing them, throw them out.
 While it might be tempting to reuse all of your firstborn's baby toys, it is best to buy new ones to prevent the spread of bacteria. Stuffed animals, which can usually only be spot-cleaned, may carry germs that could be harmful to your baby. Bath toys may have developed mold or mildew over time and should be replaced.Chew toys can be reused, but should first be sterilized along with the bottles and pacifiers.
 If you are going to reuse the baby monitor that you purchased for your first child, check the gadget to make sure it is still functional. Change the batteries if necessary, and have replacement batteries on hand for a quick switch the next time they run out. If the baby monitor doesn’t work and it is still under warranty, call the company to have it replaced., While your first baby's crib is likely still in good enough condition to use for your second child, it is best to purchase a new crib mattress. Wear and tear can reduce the quality of the mattress and hinder the comfort of your new baby. Opt for an organic mattress, as the synthetic material and off-gasses of non-organic models may be harmful for your baby., Car seats have a six year expiry date and should not be used past that point. If you wish to reuse your firstborn's car seat, check the date on the label and make sure that it is still safe to use. If not, replace it with a new car seat to make sure that it passes the minimum safety requirements established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.