 Many philosophy graduates have a passion for the field and go on to study the discipline at a higher level. If your goal is to get a university teaching or research position, you will need a graduate degree in philosophy or a related field.


Consider a master’s degree. If you are not ready to commit to a Ph.D. program, a master’s degree will allow you to network with scholars with similar interests and determine whether you enjoy advanced philosophical study. Master’s programs are typically one or two years.
 You can pursue your interest in philosophy while studying diverse subjects such as religion, literature, history, or education. In some cases, these fields may offer more obvious career paths or help you demonstrate your versatility to potential employers.
 If you are not sure whether you want to commit to several more years of school, take some time off. While you decide, use the time to gain experience that will complement your philosophy degree. With the knowledge that your break from school will be short, you can lessen the pressure to find a perfect job right out of college. Focus on gaining workplace experience, rather than finding a job related to philosophy.


Enter the workforce. If you plan to return to school, consider jobs that will develop skills that you will need in academic professions. Experience as a secretary can help you secure academic administration positions, or a retail job may help you develop the interpersonal skills needed to teach effectively. Experience in retail, , or will all help you develop your professional … at this point.
If you are interested in a specific career path, find out what the entry level positions are within the field. Look for editorial assistant positions in the publishing industry or paralegal positions with a law firm. Non-profits may be interested in the skills you developed as a philosophy student. Once you have relevant experience within an industry, you will have an easier time presenting your skills and academic background as an ideal fit for a position you truly want.
 While you decide whether to pursue more education, you can gain marketable experiences by volunteering as well as develop your network.You can also consider a longer commitment with an organizations such as Teach for America or City Year.

