 So many people work at the computer or a desk, and many people don't get enough physical activity. When you have constipation, take a break every hour or so and take a walk. You don't just have to walk, you can do any exercise to help get your bowels moving.Start out walking slowly and then pick up the pace until you are walking at about top speed without actually running. Do the fast walk for about five minutes, and then slow down for another five minutes. The total time walking should be about 10 minutes every hour or so.
If that amount of time doesn’t work for you because of other responsibilities, just try to increase the amount of faster-than-normal walking time you do. However, don’t start with the fast walking. Start out slowly for about 30 seconds and speed up every ten steps. It can be a bit uncomfortable, but don’t let that discourage you.
 So many people rush and don’t take enough time for a bathroom break. Make sure you have enough time to relax and try to let your bowels do most of the work. Bring a book or a magazine. Try to arrange a time when you won’t be interrupted.If possible, you should try to get on a schedule. Try to go to the bathroom at the same time every day to get your system regular.
 You may also try changing the way you sit on the toilet. When you are on the toilet, use a stool or the edge of the tub to prop your feet up. Bring your knees in as close to your chest as possible. This increases the pressure on your bowels and may ease the passage of a stool.Try to relax as much as possible and let your bowels do most of the work.
 Certain yoga poses may help stimulate your bowel and get your body in a comfortable position to have a bowel movement. These positions can be helpful because they increase the internal pressure on your intestines and help the bowels move the stool more easily.Baddha Konasana: In a seated position, bend your knees and bring your feet together so the soles are touching, and grasp your toes with your hands. Flutter your legs quickly, then lean forward so that your forehead touches the floor. Hold for five to 10 breaths.
Pavanamuktasana: In a reclined position, stretch your legs out in front of you. Bring one knee up to your chest, and hold it there with your hands. Flex or wiggle your toes. Hold that position for five to 10 breaths, then repeat with the other leg.
Uttanasana: From a standing position, keep your legs straight and bend at the waist. Touch the mat with your hands or grasp the back of your legs. Hold for five to 10 breaths.

