 Before you start applying for credit cards, you’ll need to know your credit score, as this will directly influence your likelihood of acceptance for more high-level cards. You can obtain a free credit report at the AnnualCreditReport website.Credit scores range from 300 to 850, and a higher score reflects a better credit rating. Scores higher than 690 are considered “Good,” while scores from 630–689 are considered “Fair.”If you have a low credit score (630 or below), you will likely be declined from many of the credit cards that offer substantial credit rewards. In this case, you should wait to apply again for a credit card until you have raised your credit score.
To raise your credit score, pay off all outstanding bills (including credit card bills), avoid accumulating more debt, and develop the habit of fully paying off your credit card balance each month.
 Some individuals may decide to simultaneously open several travel-rewards cards, in hopes of amassing a large number of miles and points quickly. While this plan has obvious benefits—it’ll allow you to travel extensively more quickly—there are also several drawbacks. Multiple cards will dramatically increase the annual fees you pay, and will also multiply the minimum purchase you must make.To determine if you should apply for multiple travel cards, calculate the total spending minimums and annual fees for the cards, and weigh this figure against the potential dollar amount of travel awards you will receive.
For example, if you apply for three cards and the fees total $300, plus a minimum of $3,000 in spending fees (assuming that you wouldn’t be spending all $3,000 anyway), and the trip that the travel rewards will fund only costs $2,500, you’ll be losing money by opening multiple cards.
 In order to pique interest among potential applicants, many travel credit card companies offer additional sign-up bonuses at different times of the year. For example, cards may throw in free miles or extra points for new applicants. Cobranded airline cards and general travel cards often increase sign-up bonuses in November, while cobranded hotel cards often add sign-up rewards in August.Find out the best time to apply for your card of choice by reviewing its sign-up agreement or website information.
 No matter how lucrative the deals offered by credit card companies may be, you’re still going to have to spend money in order to use the card and receive the rewards. Take stock of your current situation before opening any new credit card; if you’re in debt—including student debt—or in a low-income job that will not allow you to increase your spending patterns in order to earn travel rewards, you may be better off waiting to apply for a travel card.


Of course, if you already have credit-card debt, avoid opening any new credit cards. Focus on paying off the credit-card debt you already have before opening a new card.
 If you are not committed to using a specific airline or hotel chain, consider applying for a credit card which offers a cash-back program. Although cash-back does not directly apply to travel benefits, cash-back cards are versatile and impose no restrictions on where or how you apply the refund money towards travel.Cards including the Chase Sapphire Preferred and the Capital One Venture Rewards allow travel miles to be redeemed for cash.
Discover credit cards often offer a 5% cashback return on all purchases made, although the store types switch bi-monthly. None of the cashback rewards are travel-centered.

