 Keeping your skin clean is important for preventing outbreaks. But, some commercial cleansers can do more harm than good. Non-soap cleansers are free from chemicals that can cause irritation and scarring in acne-prone skin.Aim for an organic, chemical-free cleanser to avoid further irritation and scarring. Many natural cleansers are easily available at most pharmacies.
People with sensitive skin should avoid astringent cleansers. They can cause dryness and irritation.
Use oil-free, non-abrasive facial wipes for when you don’t have time to rinse your face with a cleanser.
To make a natural cleanser and toner, infuse one teaspoon of green tea in a cup of warm water for three to five minutes. Then, strain the tea into a clean bowl and let it cool for 15–20 minutes. Apply to the affected area with a cotton ball, facial wipe, or microdermabrasion cloth., Cleansing your face is not only a matter of what product you use. It also matters how you wash. Follow these instructions:Wash your hands before applying the cleanser, so that dirt and bacteria from your hands don’t clog your pores.
Gently rinse your face using lukewarm or cold water before applying the cleanser.
Using your fingertips, gently massage the cleanser into your skin for three to five minutes.
Then, rinse using cold water and pat your face dry with a soft towel or washcloth.
Dermatologists recommend to limit washing to twice a day and after sweating. Wash your face once in the morning and once at night, as well as after sweating heavily.
Perspiration, especially when wearing a hat or helmet, irritates the skin. Wash your skin as soon as possible after sweating.
 In addition to natural cleansing products, you can wash your face with plain, full-fat milk. The lactic acid in milk works as a mild, natural exfoliant to remove dead skin cells and even out the tone of your skin. It also reduces scars and blemishes.Simply take a tablespoon of milk and apply to your face with a cotton ball. Massage in a circular motion for at least three to five minutes to effectively remove dirt from pores. Coconut milk has medium chain fatty acids, which kill bacteria and viruses and help to reduce the number of pustules and cysts. So you may want to replace cow’s milk with coconut milk that is readily available in the East Asian section of your supermarket.
If you have inflamed pimples or oily skin, mix a teaspoon of rice or gram flour into one tablespoon of milk to make a mixture. Using your fingers, gently massage it into your skin.
Rinse using cold water, then pat dry with a soft washcloth.
 Dried orange peel also makes a good natural cleanser. Orange peel contains vitamin C, which helps boost collagen production and repairs skin cells. This reduces the appearance of acne scars and blemishes.Orange peel is especially good for people with oily skin, as it washes away sebum (skin oil). The essential oils of the peel also naturally moisturize the skin.
Dry out an orange peel, then grind it into a fine powder. Mix half a teaspoon of the powder with one teaspoon of milk, coconut milk, or yogurt, then gently rub the mixture into your skin. Leave it on for 10–15 minutes, then rinse with cold water.
The cooling effect of the milk or yogurt also helps reduce inflammation and removes dead skin cells.
 Jojoba oil comes from seed of the jojoba tree. It is the closest compound to the natural oil our skin produces, also known as sebum. However, it is non-comedogenic, which means it does not clog up pores like sebum. This reduces the occurrence of acne.Applying jojoba oil to the skin can trick the skin into thinking it is producing enough oil, thus balancing oil production.
Add one to three drops of jojoba oil onto a cotton ball to cleanse your skin. People with dry skin can use five to six drops, as it is also a natural moisturizer.
Since jojoba oil is not an irritant or allergenic, you can use it to remove makeup, including eye-makeup.
You can find jojoba oil at most health food stores. Be sure to store the oil in a cool, dry place.

