 You have to play security guard, police officer, and private investigator all rolled into one. While being able to physically handle someone is part of this job, handling them mentally is much bigger. To find someone who's running from the law, you need to know how to:


Detect lies
Skip trace
Negotiate
Access and analyze phone records

Dig into a person's past
Interview friends and family
...And do whatever it takes to find the fugitive

, Search through databases of addresses, phone numbers (trace their calls, too), license plate numbers, and Social Security numbers to figure out where the fugitive might be, then go there. Stake out the area -- sometimes this can take hours or days, so sleep now!


Look for the "Judas" -- a person who's been betrayed by the fugitive and might be willing to rat him or her out (perhaps a drug dealer, ex-girlfriend, etc.).Tip motel clerks and the like to call you if the fugitive shows up with weapons.

This is why it's best to know a lot of people. The more "favors" you can call up, the better. While you are doing the work, yes, you're heavily relying on the people in your path to lead you to your goal.
 Many bounty hunters show up in the middle of the night, or pose as a delivery person. Avoid physical confrontation - not only is it safer for you that way, but you have to bring back the fugitive in good shape because jails won't accept them with broken bones or large bruises. Put handcuffs on the suspect and drive him or her to a jail in the county where he or she was originally arrested.If you find the fugitive, you can enter his or her home unannounced, but only after establishing without a doubt that the person lives there.A mother's, girlfriend's, or uncle's house doesn't count.
You don't have to read the fugitive his or her Miranda rights before arresting them, like you do other criminals., Not every case is going to be a cross-country chase that means weeks spent in seedy hotels. You'll likely get the young girl who just bit her husband in a moment of fury. In cases like these, you may be able to just talk to her as you. You the bounty hunter. The skill here is in knowing who will respond to logic and reason and who won't.


Some cases have been done by phone.If you can convince the skip it's best for them to come to you, they may. However, this is a rare scenario. What you should know is that anything could happen. They could be surprisingly cooperative or they could waste a week of your life and tanks upon tanks of gas fleeing from you. At least this career will be full of surprises!

, If you've successfully apprehended your guy, it's time to take a journey back to your bail bondsman to collect your pay. You can invoice him for all the expenses you incurred while on your chase. If he's a good guy, he'll pay you promptly and in full.


Because of the nature of this job, your paychecks will be incredibly inconsistent. Feast or famine, really. If you can handle the instability and the days from home, you're now well on your way to becoming the next successful bounty hunter!

