 The first symptoms usually affect the respiratory tract. Your dog may sneeze, cough, or have thick mucus in his nose.Your dog may have labored breathing if the infection is in his chest. Oftentimes, the dog will develop inflamed and infected nasal passages, which causes snotty nasal discharge.Dogs with poor immune systems may develop pneumonia.;
, When a dog has distemper, her eyes usually have a thick mucus around them. This could look like a gummy, sticky discharge. Eyes with mucus and a snotty nose in a dog not vaccinated more than likely points to distemper., Distemper can be accompanied by a fever. The fever is usually extremely high (over 103.5 °F or 39.7 °C).The fever tends to make most dogs lethargic, listless, and lacking in energy, so the dog may be reluctant to go for walks or prefer to sleep and rest.
 Dogs with distemper may stop eating. This may be caused by the fever or because they feel unwell. They also may stop drinking, which can cause dehydration.Dogs may suddenly start vomiting or have diarrhea as well, which can also lead to dehydration., Distemper can cause abnormalities to the pads of the dog’s feet, like enlargement or thickening.This may cause him to walk strangely or avoid walking, running, or standing. This is a late stage development, so be alert for other signs first.


Be careful when you examine. The pads may be tender and he may snap at you because of the discomfort.
 For puppies who have not received their adult teeth, distemper can affect their permanent teeth. The adult teeth can be weak or misshapen because the enamel doesn’t form.This can also cause discolored teeth.


This is also a symptom that may arise in the later stages of distemper.
 In more severe cases, or in later stages of the disease, the virus can attack the dog’s bodily systems, especially the nervous system. This can lead to seizures, fits, hysteria, and paralysis., Many of the symptoms are nonspecific, which means that other conditions apart from distemper can cause similar signs. Usually dogs with distemper are extremely ill. If you are unsure, take your dog to the vet immediately.If you see any of these symptoms and you did not vaccinate your dog, see the vet immediately.

