 Envision how happy you'll be when you earn that promotion at work or meet your weight loss goal. Focus on the positive outcome of accomplishing your goals, rather than becoming discouraged about how far away that goal might seem.For example, if you want to save up for a vacation, decide how much money you'll need for the trip and brainstorm how you can reach your goal. Don't get overwhelmed if it feels daunting at first. Maybe you'll skip your morning latte or get rid of cable for a year to save up. Envision how happy you'll be as you progress toward having enough money to take your vacation.;
, Avoid focusing on past failures or struggles, which can be very discouraging.Instead, focus on your successes and the actions you can take moving forward to achieve your goals.


If you've been trying to lose weight and you have a bad weekend where you overeat and forget to workout, don't beat yourself up over it. Instead, focus on what you did right, such as getting right back on track on Monday morning or giving your body and mind a break for the week. Focusing on what you did right instead of focusing on your mistakes helps keep you encouraged and in a happier mindset.
 Everyone has failed at something at some point. Remember that just because you experience a setback does not mean that you are a failure. Setbacks are just opportunities to learn what did and didn't work for next time.


If you experience a setback, try not to dwell on the negative. Dwelling on your setbacks is discouraging and unproductive, so try to look for the opportunities in the setback instead.
For example, losing a job could be an opportunity to find a more fulfilling one or to go back to school. The end of a relationship might be a chance to focus more on loving yourself and cultivating your friendships., Unrealistic goals set you up for discouragement, so be sure that the goals you hope to accomplish are realistic and can be completed in a reasonable amount of time. Remember that progress takes time, and for most personal goals, results will not happen overnight.


Be sure to break up large goals into smaller steps so you feel better able to conquer them. For example, instead of making a goal of running a marathon this year, work your way up to that goal by making your first goal to complete a 5K run.
 Seeing physical proof of your accomplishments is important. Having visual proof of your progress will make you feel better and keep you encouraged to keep working toward your goals.For example, you might chart weight loss in a journal, jot down when you pay off a credit card, or keep a tally of your growing savings account. Every little bit counts, and documenting your progress will help you see how far you've come.

