 Before beginning the conversation, try to remain calm. If you come into the conversation angry or stressed, you may be inclined to yell and argue. This will make it hard for your parents to see your point of view. Take a few deep breaths just before the conversation. This will help you enter the situation in a calm fashion., You want to make sure you are understood. As you begin to try and express your viewpoint, be as clear and direct as possible. You want to make sure no information gets obscured.


Be upfront about what you want to discuss. Open the conversation stating your concerns. Start with something like, "I wanted to talk to you guys about prom night. I've been thinking about it for awhile, and an 11 o'clock curfew seems early. This is a special occasion and I would like to stay out later."Be honest. If you leave out or obscure any information, this can lessen trust. Your parents will be unlikely to see your point of view if they feel you're being dishonest with them. Provide them with all the information necessary. For example, say something like, "I know you feel like my friend Joel is a bad influence. He will be hanging out with us for a little bit on prom night, but I promise I won't do anything I'm not supposed to do. If there's any drinking or anything else illegal going on, I promise I'll come home right away.", "I"-statements are a great way to express yourself and get others to see your perspective. They emphasize personal feeling over objective truth. You'll be telling your parents how a certain action or behavior makes you feel. This way, your parents won't feel blamed or judged by your assertions.


An "I"-statement has three parts. It begins with "I feel," after which you immediately state your emotion. Then, you state the action that lead to that emotion. Lastly, you explain why you feel that way.
Stating your emotions without an "I"-statement risks sounding judgmental. For example, you may be inclined to say something like, "You guys always assume that I'm going to end up just like Elizabeth. I know she screwed up in high school, but stop looking at me like I'm my sister." This statement is needlessly confrontational and accusatory. It may escalate the situation instead of allowing your parents to see your perspective.
You can easily rephrase the above sentiment using an "I"-statement. Try something like, "I feel misjudged when you bring up Elizabeth's mistakes when making rules for me because I'm my own person." This is far less judgmental. You are not expressing anger or frustration, but merely explaining how your parents behavior affects your feelings.
 Just as it's important that your parents understand you, you should be willing to take their point of view into consideration. Even if you feel frustrated by their responses, remain calm and listen to what they have to say.Your parents probably have reasons for making certain rules for you. Even if they seem unfair, you should try to understand. If you're confused about something, ask your parents for clarification on why they feel the way they do.
Be respectful. Do not say something like, "Why would you expect me to drink just because other kids are drinking? That makes no sense." Instead, ask for clarification in a calm manner. Try something like, "I understand you worry about other kids influencing me, but I've always been really responsible. Can you explain why you still have reservations?"

, Sometimes, your parents simply will be unable to understand something. Even if they make the effort to listen to your perspective, they main remain relatively firm in their stance. If this is the case, avoid arguing or complaining. This only serves to escalate the situation, frustrating both you and your parents further.If your parents aren't listening to your perspective, try to end the conversation. While you may be frustrated, continuing to push, argue, or complain after a certain point is counterproductive. Say something like, "I'm sorry. I don't think we're hearing each other. Maybe we can talk again later."
It's always possible your parents will feel differently in a few days. Parents are not perfect and yours may overreact to certain requests or declarations. Even if you were just sincerely trying to express your perspective, this can be misconstrued as an insult or accusation. If the conversation does not go well, give it a few days. Then, approach your parents again. Say something like, "I know we already talked about prom night, and you didn't seem too happy, but can we talk again? There are just a few things I'm not sure I understand."

