 Earn a high school diploma or GED at minimum, and go for a college Associates, Bachelors, or even Masters or PhD degree to have better chances at landing a well-paying job that you enjoy. Find something you love to stick with in school, and this will likely give you a purpose in your adult life., Diligently search online job hunting sites, newspaper classifieds, or get to know people in your field that might have job opportunities for you to start earning a paycheck. Once you have a job, get to work on time every day, do your work consistently, and find opportunities to learn; this will show your worth as a responsible employee.Submit quality cover letters and resumes that show your education and experience when applying to jobs.Don’t forget to ask questions in job interviews, and research the company ahead of time., Get a job with a consistent and large enough paycheck to cover all of your expenses, and don’t rely on parents or others to provide for your bills, spending money, or other finances.
 When you’re of age, research and choose an insurance company for your health insurance and start paying premiums. If you have or plan to get a car, house, or apartment, you need insurance to cover those things, too.
 Find an apartment or house to rent or buy by searching online, in newspaper classifieds, or at an apartment finder service. You should find something that charges reasonable rent and that’s in a condition and area that makes you feel safe and healthy. Ideally, choose something that is close to work and other activities, and that you can afford to live in without roommates.
 Depending on what town or city you live in, buy a vehicle or find public transportation routes that you can easily use. You can find less expensive used cars at used car dealers, online, or in newspaper classifieds. You can often buy bus, train, or subway passes for less when you buy them for frequent use over long periods of time.
 Save money and plan to travel to new places in order to experience new things, people, and ways of life.
 Focus on committing to both friendships and romantic relationships that you see as lasting, with people that are also mature, responsible, and kind to you. Don’t waste time on flings or with people you know won’t last, and cut out anyone that brings out the worst in you.
 Recognize that everything you do has a consequence, and you are in control of the outcome of your life through your own words and actions. If you want to get into a great college or university, you have to do well in school. Or, if you talked back to that former boss of yours, you won't be able to use her as a reference for a job you really want. See that both good and bad actions, and their outcomes, are your choice.

