 You need to start by applying your foundation and powder like normal. This will help you know what color you need to use when you contour your nose.


Make sure your foundation matches your skin tone as closely as possible. You don't want to draw unnecessary attention to your face by having it appear a lighter or darker color than normal.Try applying it to your hand, or anywhere that the skin is the same tone as your face; it could also help to seek out any allergies you may have against the product.
Setting your foundation in powder can help with contouring your nose. Your skin will be free of shine, helping to disguise the angles of your face. It will also help set the contour lines you draw by giving the powder something to blend with.;
, You are going to use a powder makeup to contour the areas around your nose. You need to find a powder or eye shadow that is one to two shades darker than your normal foundation. This will help create the darker contour areas, making them recede into the background and causing your nose to appear smaller and thinner.


You can also use mineral powder, foundation, or bronzer as your means of contouring. Any kind of makeup that is a few shades darker than your natural skin tone will work. If you tend to have oily skin, try using powders only instead of cream or foundation. You don't want your nose to appear too oily because it will draw extra attention to it due to the added shine.Don't forget to match your skin's undertones to your makeup. For example, if you have yellow undertones, don't use a pink blush. This is especially important with contouring, as the key is to appear natural. Avoid clashing or dramatic colors that may stand out.
 Using a slanted eye shadow brush, dip the tip in the powder makeup of your choice. Apply a line along the side of your nose, from the corner of your eyes to the tip of your nose, curving around your nostrils. The line should fall at the width that you want your nose to appear to be. The line should also be visible but not too dark. Repeat on the other side.









If you want to give your nose a curved appearance, you can also add a small contour line along the upper portion of the tip of your nose.
Make sure you don't put on too much powder or eye shadow when making the contour line. It is easier to add more powder than it is to wash it off and start your makeup all over. You also don't want to press too hard, packing the powder into your skin. It will be harder to blend later. Just start out subtle and add more if you think you need it., Gently dab just a touch of powder. Be sure to also apply your contouring makeup underneath the tip between your nostrils. This is a contouring trick specific for longer noses. It creates the illusion of the nose being slightly shorter by moving its "shadow" up slightly.
 Now that you've started the darker shadows on the edge of your nose, you want to highlight the thinner area on the bridge of your nose. You can either use concealer or a lighter powder for highlights. Draw or brush a thin line down the center of your nose.









If you don't want to highlight the edge of your nose because you feel it will bring unnecessary attention to its length, you can skip this step. It does work well, however, to highlight the thinness of your nose if it is wider than you'd like., Using a makeup brush or sponge, gently blend the edges of your contour lines on all areas of your nose. You want to use soft, even strokes that sweep back toward your face. You don't want to wipe your contour lines off but you need to make sure they look well blended and natural. Your nose should look smaller and thinner with no visible contour lines once you've blended it enough.








Make sure you check from every angle to ensure you didn't forget to blend any spot.

