 Document any symptoms you notice, so that you can tell your doctor about them. These symptoms are not definitive proof that you have prostate cancer, but they should be a signal to you that you need to get screened by a doctor.;
, Changes in urination cycles — both drastic and gradual — may indicate prostate cancer. Due to its location, the mass from cancer can push up against your urethra or bladder, preventing normal flow of urine. This is called a weak or slow flow. Note if it takes you longer to complete urinating or if the urine is slow/dribbling from your penis. Other changes to watch for include:


Wanting to go to the bathroom but no urine comes out. The mass from the prostate may have blocked off the urethra or bladder opening to the urethra. If you feel you have to go but nothing comes out the penis or very small dribbling of urine, you may have a more severe blockage of the urethra/bladder.
Having the urge to urinate more at night or waking up with the feeling. Since the mass obstructs urine outlet, your bladder may not empty entirely during the day. So when you are sleeping the bladder it fills up faster due to the urine previously there.You may also get the sense you want to urinate but you cannot due to the mass blocking the urethra/bladder.
You can check other changes in your urination cycle against a questionnaire that is used by urologist and primary care doctors, located here: http://www.urospec.com/uro/Forms/ipss.pdf


, Due to more urine collecting within the bladder and/or urethra from incomplete voiding, infections can arise causing inflammation. When urine passes through it irritates and causes a burning pain through the urethra. When the prostate is inflamed from an infection, this is called prostatitis.
 Due to the enlarging mass from prostate cancer new blood vessels may form and many others may get injured. Also, enlargement of the prostate may lead to prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate) and increase urinary tract infections which can cause blood in the urine.Blood in urine is known as hematuria.
 It is well-documented that there may be an association of prostate cancer with prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate from infection).When this occurs the inflammation of the prostate can irritate the gland upon ejaculation causing painful orgasms.