 It is easy to be full of bitterness and even hatred towards the girl you loved as you begin to get over her, but such feelings won't do you or anybody else any good. If you find yourself filled with resentment and bile, remind yourself that she still has value as a human being, and that there were good reasons you fell for her. Don't deny her good qualities; just focus on accepting that you won't get to date her.
 Now that you have faced your grief head-on and taken steps to give yourself space and time to heal, it is important to fill that space and time with other things. Think back to the amount of time you used to spend agonizing over your former crush. Make a rough guess of how many hours it cost you each week, and resolve to spend those hours doing something else. There will never be a better time to dream big and jump into a new project.


Read a book you've been meaning to read, or even plan to write one of your own. Visit a new club or volunteer somewhere every Saturday. By broadening your horizons, you can remind yourself that the world is vast, strange, and beautiful, and it's never worth ignoring it all over one person.
 There are pretty, friendly, funny, and smart girls everywhere. Make an effort to notice them all around you. Never forget that, as the saying goes, there are plenty of fish in the sea. Don't look for a new crush yet; just enjoy the diversity of attractive people you hadn't noticed before.


Take some time to sit on a park bench with a friend and (quietly!) compare ratings of women who walk by on the street; check out the outfits women wear and be impressed by how many of them carefully coordinate their clothes and accessories. Just keep your mind on the multitude, rather than one girl.
 As time passes and your grief segues to acceptance, you will find yourself reviewing your notes less and less. This is a sure sign that the time has come to finalize the process and move on for good.


Store any art you created as a direct result of processing your earlier emotions. Put it away somewhere you won't see it unless you go looking for it. Years from now, you will be glad you kept it; for now, get it out of your sight.
Consider taking your list or any other hastily-scrawled missives that you wouldn't count as artistic endeavors and getting rid of them. Burning papers is one option; striking all names with a pen and stuffing them into bottles to be released into the ocean is another. The act of physically sending your thoughts and feelings away from you can be very therapeutic.
Look for a date. When you attend social events, try meeting new girls, or girls you haven't gotten to know very well. Go out with friends and meet their friends. If you meet a cute girl, consider asking her out to coffee right on the spot. Even if nine girls say no, the tenth could say yes, and it's a great way to prove to yourself that there is still a lot to look forward to in your romantic life.

