 Regardless of when and where you plan to obtain your visa, you will need a passport in order to enter Egypt. You can often apply at a local post office or governmental office. You will need an application form, birth certificate, and other forms of identification.


If you already have a passport, make sure it is not due to expire soon. Your passport must be valid for at least 6 months after the date of your arrival in Egypt.If you have an official or diplomatic passport, you must obtain your visa before arriving in Egypt, even if you are traveling as a tourist.;
, Your country’s government should provide current information on obtaining an Egyptian tourist visa and other entry requirements specific to travelers from your country of origin.


For example, if you are from the USA, visit the travel information website of the State Department and look for information on traveling to Egypt.The State Department website offers information on entry and exit requirements (including passport and visa requirements), current travel alerts and warnings, health information, information about local laws and customs, contact information for American embassies and consulates in Egypt, and a general description of the country.
 You may visit your embassy in person or apply by mail. Keep in mind that applications by mail will take additional time to process. In order to apply for a visa at your local embassy, you will need:A completed visa application (form available for download from most consulate/embassy websites).
Two 2 inch x 2 inch (5.08 cm x 5.08 cm) current passport photos, against a white background.
Your passport, which must be valid at least six months past your planned date of entry into Egypt.
Two copies of your passport information page.
 Most consulates or embassies will accept only cash or cashier’s checks. Depending on your country of origin, tourist visa fees range from US $15-$30., Depending on your country of origin, you may need additional documentation, such as copies of your round-trip tickets or itinerary, or a letter from your school or employer. If you're a resident alien in the country from which you are traveling, you may need to provide a copy of your residency card., Travelers from some countries must obtain pre-approval before obtaining an Egyptian tourist visa. This process can take up to 6 weeks and must be completed before the visa can be processed. Consult your local Egyptian embassy or consulate to learn the proper procedure for getting pre-approval to obtain a visa.


Currently, pre-approval is required for citizens of Eritrea, Ethiopia, Burundi, Rwanda, Liberia, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Mali, Niger, Chad, Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine, the Philippines, Lebanon (for travelers ages 16 to 50 years old), Morocco, Mauritania, Nigeria, Tunis, Bosnia (for travelers of Egyptian Origin), Congo, People’s Republic of China, Somalia, Algeria, Cyprus, Sudan, Kosovo, Libya (for men ages 16-60 years old), Pakistan, Moldova (for women ages 15 to 35 years old), Syria, Turkey (for travelers ages 18 to 45 years old), Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Yemen, and North Korea.