 Headaches cause a dull, constant pain.Whenever you plan to fake the headache, whether it’s in the morning, at lunch, or during class, don’t act like yourself.


If you are a talkative, outgoing, hyper person, talk less and move around slowly. People will become concerned about you if you do this.
Act miserable. Put your head on your desk and sigh loudly. This will cause people to ask what’s wrong.
If your friends ask you what's the matter, say “I think I have a headache.”;
, Headaches also make most people a little crabby because they aren’t feeling well.If you want to get attention, however, still be nice even if you’re acting irritable.


If your classmates are in a good mood, tell them “I don’t feel like laughing. My head hurts.”
Don’t act excited about anything that happens.
Just nod if someone asks you a question.
 Keep your head down and don’t look directly at a light. Your classmates and teacher will notice this symptom.


Wince when you have your eyes open.
Pretend to be in pain if someone opens blinds or turns on a bright light.Open your eyes slowly when someone is talking to you.
 Because you are in pain, getting up to sharpen your pencil or get a piece of paper will make it worse. Ask your friends to help you do the little things you don’t usually need help with.


Politely ask, “My head hurts. Can you sharpen my pencil for me?”
Tell them, “Ugh, I’m in pain. Can you grab me a tissue?”
Request food at snack or lunchtime, “Maybe I just need to eat. Can you buy me something?”

, Headaches can last for hours.Tell your friends you can’t do math or write for English class because the pain isn’t going away.


Say, “This headache isn’t going away. Can you do my math problems?”
Ask, “Oh gosh, I’m dizzy from pain and can’t read. Will you write on the board for me?”
Tell them, “I feel a little nauseous. Can you tell me the answer?”

, Did you know stress makes headaches worse?If you get made fun of, tell your classmates they are stressing you out, which is making you feel worse. Ask them to be nicer to you.


Say, “Hey, I’m in a lot of pain. Can you be nice to me today?”
Tell them, “I’m not in the mood—my head hurts so bad!”
Remind them you’ll be nice when they’re sick, “When you have a headache, I’ll be nice to you, too.”
Thank them when they do act nice, “Thank you for being a good friend when I’m sick.”

, Raise your hand during class or go up to your teacher at break time. Tell them you feel sick. This will make them become concerned.


You can say, “My head is pounding.”
Mention your symptoms, “It hurts to open my eyes, and I feel kind of nauseous.”
When you do this, speak softer and whinier than you normally would.
 At this point, your teacher may want you to go to the school nurse, but say you think you will feel better if you rest your head. Putting your head on your desk will make your teacher pay attention to you.


Ask you teacher, “Can I please put my head on my desk? It hurts so bad.”
Tell your teacher, “If I just put my head down for a little while, I think that will help.”

, Since you’re in pain, you can’t possibly do classwork the rest of the day. This will cause your teacher to pay special attention to you and keep an eye on you the rest of the day.


Tell your teacher, “I don’t feel well enough to do classwork.”
Check in with your teacher periodically. Say, “I still feel so sick” every 30 minutes.
Sigh or groan occasionally to show you’re in pain.
 This is a great way to get more attention from your teacher. You can even have a one-on-one conversation you would not have otherwise. Just make sure to keep acting like you have a headache.

