 If possible, use thread that matches the color of your clothing. If the stitch won't be visible from outside the garment, then the color of the thread does not matter. You may also choose to use a vibrantly-colored thread to complement or contrast with the fabric.;
, If the fabric is thick and tough (denim, leather, and multi-layered cloth), use a sharp, heavy needle so that you can pierce the cloth without too much effort. If the fabric is soft or thin, you may use any needle – though you might want to use a more delicate needle.Cotton, nylon, silk, jute, mixed fabric, and any other thin, soft fabric is better stitched with a lighter needles. The needle can be as short as 1-2 inches, or longer as needed. If you use a thick needle—approximately 1 mm in thickness—it may leave visible holes in the fabric. You may use a finger cap to prevent being poked by the needle while stitching.
Opt for a thicker needle to avoid breaking any needles. Use a solid board to push the needle through while stitching if your finger hurts. Some thick fabrics like denim need pushing against a hard surface.
 If unsure, try laying the thread over the torn area for reference. Take about 10 inches more than you think you'll need. The in-and-out sewing motion will take up a lot of thread, and you'll also need a bit more thread than the needle's length in order to tie the final knot. Remember: the thicker the fabric, the more thread you'll need. You may choose to take two times more thread if the fabric is thicker than 5mm.
 Make sure that the tip of the thread is tight, not split. If the tip is frayed: wet it, then roll it with your fingers so that it goes easily through the eye of the needle.Try using a needle threader if you have trouble., Hold both ends of the thread. Tie a small knot to keep the far tip (the one that you didn't thread through the eye of the needle) from slipping through the fabric after the needle.


If you intend to make a stitch to a torn knit wear, then you must make a bigger effort. Knit wear or woolen clothes contain much bigger gaps than other fabrics. Here, to begin with, you must make a knot with the threaded needle so that your thread has something holding it in place.

