 In the state of Arizona, you can practice nursing as a licensed practical nurse (LPN) or a registered nurse (RN). Explore the job duties of both an LPN and RN.


Licensed practical nurses provide direct patient care under the direction or supervision of a doctor or registered nurse. The LPN can direct the activities of nursing assistants and aides in a health care setting. The duties of an LPN include taking patient vital signs; administering medications; providing patients with assistance in eating, standing and grooming; and updating patient records.
Registered nurses provide direct care to patients as well as educate families and patients about care and treatment. The RN assists physicians in diagnosing illnesses and conditions and in the development of a patient care plan. Registered nurses administer medications, assist physicians in surgery and provide medical care to patients under the orders of a physician.;
, It’s important to learn exactly what a nurse does on a day-to-day basis before deciding to become a nurse. Ask a friend or family member who is a nurse if you can take them to coffee or lunch. If you don’t know a nurse, ask friends and family for suggestions.
 Becoming a nurse means attending school for at least eighteen months and up to four years in the state of Arizona. Take some time to research program requirements, costs, financial aid, and job placement statistics on each school’s website.


A registered nurse can complete a bachelor or associate's degree program to qualify for licensure in Arizona. The bachelor's degree program prepares the RN to advance in the field and pursue administrative positions in the nursing field. The Nurse Practice Act in Arizona requires a registered nursing education program to provide student nurses with the education to care for geriatric patients, infants, patients with mental impairment and conditions, premature infants, adults and patients seeking wellness care. The program must also include clinical education for the registered nurse.
Licensed practical nursing programs are available at vocational and community colleges. These programs prepare the student to provide basic nursing care to patients in a variety of settings. The Arizona Nurse Practice Act requires the LPN education program to include clinical instruction in patient care and basic nursing skills.
Be sure to learn about any courses you need to complete before applying to and/or entering the program.

