 Not every small claims court will allow you to request a jury trial. Instead, they might require a “bench trial,” which is a trial where the judge decides the verdict. Before choosing to go to small claims court, you should check whether a jury trial is an option. Contact your court clerk and ask.


In some states, either party may request a jury trial.In other states, the person bringing the lawsuit cannot request a jury trial but the defendant may.Also check whether the jury trial will be held in small claims court. In some states, you can request a jury but the case will be transferred out of small claims to the regular civil courts.;
, Analyze why you want a jury to hear the case instead of the judge. It’s generally easier to let the judge hear and decide the case.If you request a jury trial, you’ll have to question and select jurors.Accordingly, you should be sure of your reasons for requesting a jury.


You might want a jury because you assume they will be more sympathetic to you. That might be true, depending on the case. For example, juries tend to be more sympathetic to small business owners.If you’re suing a small business, you might not want to request a jury trial.
However, a jury trial might make sense if you are a small business owner being sued or suing someone else.
If the issues are complicated, then a bench trial might be better. Judges can focus better than jurors.
 The process for requesting a jury trial differs depending on the court. In Illinois, for example, you need to include your request for the jury in the complaint you file with the court. A defendant must request a jury trial in their written response or at their first appearance in court.In some courts, you might have to submit multiple documents. Check with the court clerk, who should have a pamphlet that explains small claims court procedures. In New York, for example, the defendant must submit an affidavit identifying the factual dispute the jury must decide and must also affirm that the dispute is in good faith.Pay attention to your deadlines. In some courts, you can wait until the day before your trial to request a jury. However, in other states, you must make your request within a certain number of days after filing the suit or receiving the notice of claim.If you miss the deadline, you won’t be able to request a jury.
 You typically don’t get the jury free. Instead, you must pay a fee, which is set by the court and will differ depending on where you bring your case. In Dallas County, Texas, for example, you must pay a $5 fee.In New York, you must pay a $55 fee to request a jury trial., You might change your mind and not want a jury trial after all. The process for withdrawing your request will depend on the court. In Indiana, for example, once you request a jury the other side must agree in order for you to withdraw your request., To familiarize yourself with jury selection, you should attend a small claims court trial. Courthouses are generally open to the public, so check the court’s calendar to see when cases are heard. Show up at the courthouse and sit quietly in the back with a notepad.


Pay attention to the questions the judge asks potential jurors. In some courts, the parties to the lawsuit also get to ask questions.
Understand the process for selecting the jurors. Typically, you get a certain number of “peremptory” challenges, which means you can keep them off the jury without giving the judge a reason. You may also ask the judge to excuse a juror “for cause.” This means the juror can’t be fair, often because they are related to one side.Jury trials might be rare in the small claims court nearest you. If so, sit in on a trial in regular civil court, where jury selection might be more frequent.
 The day of your trial, court personnel will select a group of potential jurors from a jury pool and bring them to your courtroom.You will probably also receive a list of their names. If you have time, you might want to do quick research on these people using your smart phone.


For example, you can check if they have social media accounts. You might realize that one juror has recently complained about her home repair. This person would be a great asset to have on your jury if you are suing a carpenter.
You don’t want your phone going off in court, so you might not want to perform research unless you can completely mute the phone. Most phones buzz when muted, which is still annoying.
If you attend your trial with a friend or family member, they can step outside the court room briefly and do research.
 The judge will begin by asking potential jurors basic background questions: job, marital status, whether they have ever served on a jury. You might also get to ask the jurors questions, though this depends on the judge.You can learn a lot about jurors based on their answers and their body language.


Always ask about relevant experiences. For example, a juror who has had a negative experience with a veterinarian could be a great juror if you are suing your vet. However, they would make a terrible juror if you are the vet.
If your case is complicated, you might want jurors with higher education since they can probably understand the evidence better.
Pay attention to body language. The judge will probably ask the juror if they can be fair. A juror who looks away or answers “yes” in a grudging manner is probably lying.
 If a juror admits to bias or to knowing the other side, then ask the judge to excuse the juror for cause. You get an unlimited number of for cause challenges. However, realize that you can’t challenge someone for cause simply because you have a gut instinct they might be biased. It isn’t enough that a potential juror is a nurse and the person you are suing is also a nurse.


When you have a gut instinct someone might not be fair, then use one of your peremptory challenges.
You can’t use peremptory challenges in a way that is discriminatory. For example, you can’t exclude jurors based on race, ethnicity, or sex.The other side might claim you are using your peremptory challenges in a discriminatory manner, so make sure you have a non-discriminatory reason for using it. The judge will ask what the real reason is. You should be able to say something like, “I’m suing a doctor, and she said she was married to a doctor.”

, Jurors need to be instructed on the law, and you may need to submit proposed jury instructions to the judge. It can take quite a bit of work to select the right jury instructions, so begin early. One advantage of a bench trial is that the judge doesn’t need to be instructed on the law.


Look to see if your state has “pattern” jury instructions. These are standard instructions, often created by your state’s bar committee.Type “your state” and “pattern jury instructions” to see if any are available online.
If you can’t find them online, then visit your nearest law library, which may be at the courthouse or at a nearby law school. The instructions could be in paper form.
You should choose all relevant instructions. This can be tricky, especially if you are not a lawyer. For example, if you are suing because the defendant was careless when they harmed you, you’ll want a “negligence” instruction. If you don’t know what else to pick, you should consult with a lawyer.
Go through the pattern instructions and pick the ones that seem most relevant. The judge will ultimately decide which instructions to give the jury.
 Jury trials are like bench trials in most respects. However, one difference is the opening statement. In many bench trials, a judge won’t need an opening statement, but you’ll need one for a jury trial. You should carefully prepare and practice your opening statement, which provides a sneak peek of the evidence you will present.Sit down and list all of the witnesses you will call. Then summarize in a few sentences why you are calling them. For example, you might call your real estate agent as a witness because she heard a home seller say the roof was new (when it wasn’t).
Organize the list of witnesses in the order you will call them.
Summarize what the witnesses will say. Use sentences like, “And you’ll hear from Rosa Smith, who is a real estate agent. She will testify that the defendant claimed the roof had been put on just that year.”
Practice giving your opening statement to family and friends. Work on developing good pacing and eye contact with your audience.
 Once all evidence has been presented, you get to make a closing argument to the jury. This is your chance to sum up all of the evidence and show how it supports your side of the case.Don’t type up a page of text and read it to the jury. Don’t memorize it, either. Instead, outline your argument in bullet points so that you can refer to them if you need to. Begin and end with your strongest arguments.
Print out a draft of your notes and take them to court. If a witness says something surprising during trial, you can pencil the new information into your notes so you remember to mention it.
 Small claims court is designed so that people don’t need lawyers. However, you might have a lot of questions and not know where to get answers. Court personnel can’t give you legal advice or tips for trial strategy, so you should find a lawyer if you need someone to bounce ideas off.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association, which you can find here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx. Enter your zip code. Call up the attorney and ask how much it will cost for a consultation.
If you are low income, you might qualify for legal aid. Visit http://www.lsc.gov to find the nearest legal aid office near you.

