 If you’re going to convince your parents that you’re ready for a piercing, you have to show them you’re mature. Mature people don’t back out of their decisions because they get bored with them. A piercing, especially a cartilage piercing, is a long-term commitment that requires daily maintenance.Make sure that you’re informed about the entire process in advance.


If you’re not sure whether your piercing will look good on you, put a dot on your face with a non-toxic marker. Wear it all day and check your face periodically to see if you like how it looks.
When in doubt, wait a few weeks. In the meantime you can do extra chores to help butter up your parents.;
, Your parents will have a lot of questions about your decision and you need to be able to answer them with confidence. By taking the initiative and getting informed, you’re showing them that you’re mature enough to handle a piercing.You need to know how much it costs, where to get it done, and how to take care of it afterwards.


For example, some piercers will tell you to rinse the piercing with a saline solution twice a day, while others will tell you to use Neosporin.
The price of a nose piercing will vary depending on where you live. They are generally more expensive in larger, popular cities than in small towns.
 Using your research as a guide, explain the various methods of aftercare to your parents and reassure them piercings are safe procedures. In the U.S. piercers and piercing shops have to finish an apprenticeship and take bloodborne pathogens classes.As long as you go to a certified, reputable piercer, you will be safe from scarring and bloodborne illnesses.


If your parents aren’t squeamish, show them videos of the procedure so that they know what to expect.
 Many parents are nervous about letting their children get piercings because they think piercings are permanent. If you follow the aftercare instructions that your piercer gives you, your piercing won’t leave a scar if you have to remove it. This means that a piercing won’t negatively affect your job prospects in the future.


If you need to take your piercing out for work but don’t want it to close, buy a nose piercing retainer. These acrylic studs keep your piercing open and are almost invisible.Your nose piercing can close up in a matter of hours. If you leave your ring out for too long, you will need to re-pierce your nose.
 Plenty of celebrities wear them, such as Solange Knowles and Kelly Clarkson.In the past, nose rings have been seen as unprofessional. However, nose piercings are much more common than they used to be. In younger generations they are now seen as cute accessories instead of extreme statements.


Choosing a smaller nose ring over a larger one may help show your parents that your nose ring is a harmless fashion statement.
 Your parents are interested in your well-being. If you can show them that a piercing would improve your self-esteem they are much more likely to let you get one. For example, fashion choices such as body piercings help you explore your own unique style.The more you know about your sense of style, the more confident you will be in your social circle.


Research has shown that self-expression can build confidence in teenagers. Nose piercings are a form of self-expression.

