 Lightly grease the inside of three 9-inch (22.86 centimeters) cake pans. Dust the inside of each pan with flour, then tap out the excess., Cut the butter into small cubes, and add it to the saucepan along with 6 ounces (175 grams) of chocolate. Turn the heat up to medium, and wait for the butter and chocolate to melt, stirring with a rubber spatula occasionally., Keep stirring until the sugar melts. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the saucepan from time to time as you do so., If you beat the eggs in too soon, you'll risk them cooking and forming clumps. Stir the eggs in using a whisk, so that the yolks break easier. Keep stirring until they are mixed evenly into the batter; you should not see any streak of egg yolk., Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined, and there are not lumps or streaks left. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the pan., Use a rubber spatula to help guide the mixture into the pans, and to scrape any residual batter from the saucepan. Make sure that each pan has an even amount of batter in it. Don't worry if it looks thin. You will be stacking these on top of each other to create a tall, layered cake., The cakes are ready when a toothpick poked into the middle comes out clean. Try to bake all of the cakes on the same level. If your oven is small, and you have to bake them at different levels, then be sure to rotate the cakes at regular intervals. This will ensure that all the cakes bake evenly., Allow the cakes to cool in their pans for 10 to 15 minutes first, then remove them from the pans, and let them finish cooling completely. The cakes must be cool before you frost them. If they are warm, the frosting will melt.

Set one of the cakes down onto the serving dish you want to use. Set the other ones aside.
 Keep stirring until the sugar has dissolved, and the heavy cream is evenly mixed in with the chocolate. You don't want to see any streaks or swirls of heavy cream.

You can use the same saucepan as before, but make sure that you clean it first.
Do not add in the shaved chocolate yet. You will be using that to decorate your cake with.
 Don't worry if the mixture looks too thin to be frosting. It will thicken up once it cools, and it will continue to thicken when you beat it., As the mixture cools, it will thicken, sort of like pudding. Stir the mixture occasionally as it cools to prevent a skin from forming on top.

Consider placing a sheet of plastic wrap right against the surface of the mixture. This will further help prevent a skin from forming on top.
 You can do this using a handheld beat, an electric stand mixer, or even a food processor fitted with whisks. You an try doing it by hand with a plain old whisk, but it will take much longer., Spread a thick layer of the whipped, chocolate cream over the top of your first cake, then place the second cake on top. Repeat with the second cake, and finish off with spreading a generous amount of whipped chocolate cream on top of the third cake.

For a more professional finish, use a off-set cake decorating spatula.
 Once you have the cakes all stacked, start spreading frosting over the sides of the cake. If you have any frosting leftover, you can pipe it on top of the cake using a piping bag and star-shaped decorating tip. Finish off by sprinkling the shaved chocolate all over the top of the cake.For extra texture, gently tap the sides of the cake with a spatula or the back of a spoon. This will create a spiky texture.

