 Many people report coming up with their best ideas while engaged in vigorous aerobic activities such as running, swimming, hiking, or biking. We're not sure exactly why this is the case: perhaps it allows your brain to continue working on creative solutions to a problem, perhaps it serves as a kind of meditation, or perhaps it is simply a way for you to get into the outdoors. But in any case, moving your body for at least 20 minutes is an excellent way to allow your brain to imagine new things., Studies have shown that people who perform an undemanding, repetitive task could come up with more imaginative uses for an object than those who performed a demanding task that required a lot of focus.Consider developing a hobby that will allow your mind to wander and imagine. For example, you might try repetitive, un-focused tasks like:


Knitting
Walking
Doodling
Paper-folding

, If there is a particularly difficult task in front of you, resist the urge to pull an all-nighter. Instead, consider the problem before bed, then fall asleep. The next morning, your brain will be better equipped to find new, creative, imaginative solutions to the problem. The more difficult the problem, the more likely it is you will have to sleep on it before imagining a solution., During the Rapid Eye Movement (REM) phase of sleep, your brain recombines your thoughts, memories, and experiences into wildly creative dreams. You are more likely to enter into REM sleep if you have been active throughout the day and allow yourself enough time to sleep each night.By getting a good night's rest and living a healthy lifestyle during the day, your brain will be at its most imaginative during sleep.
 Don't let these imaginative dreams slip away: hold on to them by keeping a dream journal. Keep a blank journal and working pen or pencil by your bedside, as well as a soft light that will allow you write in the evening hours. Whenever you wake up and remember a dream, write down as many details as you can remember. This will help prevent you from forgetting these important imaginative tools.
 Many routines are helpful and healthy. However, it is good for your imagination to change your routines every now and again. Studies report a short-term boost in creativity during times when you have altered your daily routine.In order to get out of a rut, you can try:


Biking to work instead of driving
Jogging down a different street
Eating a different breakfast cereal
Waking up at a different time
Listening to a different playlist during your workout

