 Neutral gray is the easiest to create when working with icing, but you can still make complementary and primary grays.


It's best to stick with neutral gray if you want a pure hue, but you can consider the other two types if you'd prefer a tinted gray.
Since readily available packages of liquid food color come with red, yellow, green, and blue, you'll need to create primary (red, yellow, blue) gray or complementary (red and green) gray if you plan to use standard liquid food coloring. If you buy specialty gel or paste food coloring, however, you can create any of the three types since these food colorings have a wider variety of color options.
 Spoon the needed amount of white frosting into a glass bowl. Gradually add the involved colors and mix until fully combined.


As a reminder, the color options are:

Black and white (note: you do not need to add white food coloring since the icing itself is white)Blue and orange
Yellow and purple
Red and green
Red, yellow, and blue


Add liquid food coloring by dropping it in with the bottle's dropper cap. Add paste or gel colors by dipping a toothpick into the color and swirling the same toothpick into the white icing, thereby transferring the color., If you like the tint of the gray but want a darker shade, mix small amounts of black into the frosting until you reach the desired hue.


You can darken the icing with black food coloring regardless of the colors used to produce the gray.
Alternatively, you should be able to create a more vibrant shade by adding more of the original colors to the icing. The higher concentration of color will make the gray brighter. This can be tricky, however, since you'll need to use the exact same amounts of each color to avoid changing the hue.
 If the gray seems a little too flat, try mixing in a small amount of some other color to slightly alter the hue.


For neutral gray, you can tint the hue using nearly any other color.For complementary and primary grays, you should only tint the hue by adding a greater amount of one color already involved. For instance, if you made the gray with red, blue, and yellow food dye, you should only use red, blue, or yellow tints (not green, purple, or orange).

