 If a dog is not breathing, you may need to perform CPR. Close the dog's mouth and place your lips over its nose. Give three to four strong breaths.If the dog does not start breathing on its own, continue to give it 10 to 12 breaths per minute.
If you can't detect a heart beat, lay the dog on its side and compress its chest with your hands. Give five compressions per breath.
Once a dog starts breathing on its own, stop CPR.
 There is a good chance you will need to move the injured dog, whether you are bringing it home, taking it to a vet, or just trying to get it out of a busy street. An injured dog must be moved gently and with great care.


If you are able to, splint, bandage or otherwise stabilize wounded areas before moving the dog to reduce the risk of further harm.Confine the dog while moving it so it can't hurt itself more. If possible, use a pet carrier, but if you don't have one, punch some holes in a box.
Larger dogs can be moved using a makeshift stretcher. You can use a board, a door, a rug, or a large blanket, carried by at least two people.
 If the dog is bleeding from its injury, press down firmly on the injured area with your fingers and palm and apply a firm but not tight bandage. Gauze or a washcloth or towel will often do the trick.If the bandage becomes soaked through with blood, don't remove it. Place additional materials on top.
 If a dog has an injury on it's leg or tail that will not stop bleeding, and is gushing blood in a rhythmic way, it may have a damaged artery. You may need to apply a tourniquet to save its life.Wrap the limb in a bandana or other strip of cloth, between the wound and the heart, tightly enough that no blood can pass through.
Every 15 minutes, loosen the tourniquet so blood can pass through for about 10 seconds. If you don't, the dog may lose the limb.
Always seek immediate emergency care for a wound of this nature.
 If the dog has any lacerations that aren't bleeding, clean them with an antiseptic solution, such as hydrogen peroxide, and dry them. If you don't have an antiseptic solution, warm water with a little salt will do.
Pat the area dry with some sterile gauze. You can apply some ointment if its not an area the dog can lick.
Keep an eye on the injury in case of infection and make sure to keep it clean for several days.
 For bruising or tenderness, you can give your dog some immediate relief using a cold compress. Gently place something frozen, such as a bag of frozen peas, on the injured area.Cool the affected area for 10 to 15 minutes, then remove the compress. You can reapply as often as every two hours if it seems to be helping.
 Even for what seems like a minor injury, it is a good idea to seek professional care. You may not be able to detect some injuries, such as those that are internal.For non-emergencies, call your vet and explain the situation. The vet's office will either make an appointment for you soon or refer you to emergency care if they deem it necessary.
For serious bleeding or other major injuries, search online for an emergency vet clinic near you and take your dog immediately.

