 It's the best time to plant switchgrass, since it gives the roots time to get established before the temperature gets too hot. Plant as soon as the soil is workable but before the last frost. The soil temperature should be over 60 degrees when you plant.You may need to adjust the planting time to your growing region. If you live in a place where the soil is never far below 60 degrees, planting in fall or winter is fine.
If you live in a place with harsh, cold winters you may need to wait until late spring to plant your switchgrass.
Soil is workable with temperature over 60 degrees.
 Planting seedlings instead of seeds is the easiest way to include ornamental switchgrass in your garden, since seeds are slow to germinate. To plant seedlings,


Work the soil to a depth of several feet, to accommodate the length of the taproot. Remove obstructions like rocks and other roots.
Plant the seedlings 12 inches (30.5 cm) apart. Lightly water the area to help the soil settle.
 This is the best method for planting if you want a field of grass, rather than just a plant or two for ornamental purposes. Lightly till the soil to a depth of half an inch using a garden spade or till, then scatter the seeds over the soil. The seeds are slow to germinate.


If you’d like to try no-till planting, this seed usually does well with that method.
Water the planting bed immediately after broadcasting the seeds, to help them settle.
In a garden setting, thin out once the seedlings grow 2 inches (5.1 cm) tall. Leave 12 inches (30.5 cm) of space between them.
 After the seedlings are established, there's no need to water them. The switchgrass should get everything it needs from spring and summer rains. Once the root systems are established it will begin gaining height.


Do not fertilize switchgrass. As a native species, it doesn’t need extra fertilizer to grow healthy. Extra fertilizer can actually damage the plants.
However, in very poor soil you can fertilize lightly in spring, and in very dry conditions you can water it once in awhile.
Avoid treating switchgrass with pesticides or herbicides. In the case of ornamental switchgrass, no pests or weeds pose a real threat to this native species.
 Over the summer it will grow quite tall, then dry out and die over the winter. In late winter, shear the switchgrass back to a few inches. The new green grass will begin sprouting as the weather warms and soon reach its adult height again.

