 If you don't have a lift, jack up the back end so you can get under it. Use ramps or a jack, whichever you have.


Be sure to lock the emergency brake and chock at least one wheel that is still on the ground.
Make sure to block the car using jack stands, wooden blocks or other sturdy blocks. Never use just a jack; the car may fall on you.
Check the stability of your setup. If there is any doubt that your jack/block configuration is stable, adjust your setup.;
, Examine the situation and imagine what you will replace and how you will get it off of the car. Look for obstructions to the removal process.
 You may need to begin at the exhaust manifold, the crossover pipe, or the catalytic converter.
 Don't forget gaskets for between the components. If you are unsure about all that you might need, ask at your local auto parts store or find a model-specific exploded diagram of your exhaust system in a repair manual or online.
 Don't forget gaskets for between the components, penetrating oil, and hangers.
 Lay everything out and visually test fit the assembly as accurately as possible. Try to identify and correct problems before you take off the old exhaust system.
 Generally, the bolts are rusted and hard to get off unless you have an impact gun. Use some penetrating oil to aid removal and remember that, sometimes, tightening a nut or bolt just a bit, breaks it free, allowing your to remove the bolt or nut.
 Remove the system from the hangers and set all of your parts aside. You should now have all the piping removed.









If you have new hangers (recommended as stock ones are soft and old), cut the old ones off with some kind of cutting tool.-- A high-speed rotary tool fitted with a cutting disk or a side grinder will work.
Depending on the type of hangers your car has, put the new hangers onto the exhaust pieces first, this is usually an easier way to put the exhaust parts back on.
 Do not tighten all the way until you have all pieces on.









If you don't have new gaskets to put between the pipe segments, you can use the old ones if they're the right diameter. It's best to have new ones,though, to prevent exhaust leaks later.
 Use a good amount of torque on each bolt to make sure its tight.
,,