 When making homemade meals for your Pomeranian, 40 to 50 percent of your dog’s diet should be high-value proteins. When choosing proteins, try to choose lean meats, i.e., no more than 10% fat. Some ideal protein choices are poultry (ideally dark meat), beef, and organs, such as the liver and heart. Also, fish, such as salmon, trout, mackerel, and sardines, is a great source of protein.Eggs are a great addition to your dog’s diet, as well. Because Pomeranians are small, only feed it half an egg three times a week.;
, Fruits and vegetables are essential for a balanced diet and should make up 30% of your Pomeranian's meal. Choose non-starchy vegetables, like spinach, green peas, carrots, broccoli (but in small amounts), cucumbers, and celery.Fruits, such as bananas, apples, blueberries, strawberries, oranges, raspberries, mango, papaya, watermelon, pineapple, and peaches, are a great addition to your Pomeranian's diet, as well., Carbohydrates, including starchy vegetables, are an essential part of a healthy diet, but should only make up 20% of your Pomeranian's diet. Including starchy veggies, such as potatoes, sweet potatoes, and winter squashes, like pumpkin, in your Pomeranian's diet is a great way to meet its daily intake of carbohydrates.Grains, such as oatmeal, brown or white rice, barley, pasta, and quinoa, are good choices for healthy carbohydrates.
 Make sure to add vitamin and mineral supplements to your Pomeranian's homemade meals. These supplements ensure that your dog is getting its daily vitamin intake. All homemade meals must be supplemented with calcium, oils, such as fish oil, cod liver oil, or plant oil, and vitamins, such as E,D, and A.Give 800 to 1,000 mg of calcium per pound of food.Fish oil helps regulate the immune system and reduce inflammation. Give 300 mg EPA and DHA per 20 to 30 pounds of body weight on days when you do not feed your dog fish.If you do not feed your Pomeranian much poultry fat, i.e., dark meat, then you should supplement its diet with a plant oil, such as a walnut, hempseed, or vegetable oil. Add one teaspoon of oil for every pound of meat., Heat olive oil or coconut oil in a large pot or dutch oven over medium heat. Add in a cubed or ground meat, and cook until browned, i.e., three to five minutes. Then, stir in your desired vegetables and cook thoroughly. Mix in any cooked carbohydrates until heated through.Make sure to cook vegetables thoroughly.
Cut the meat into nickel-sized cubes.

