 A betta’s stomach is roughly the size of its eyeball and should not be fed a meal larger than that at once. This translates to about 3 bloodworms or brine shrimp per feeding. If you feed pellets, this equals about 2 to 3 soaked pellets per feeding. A betta can be fed this amount once or twice a day., If your fish isn’t eating all of its food, reduce the amount you’re feeding them. If you usually feed 4 pellets per fish, try reducing to three for a while. If you notice the fish is eating very quickly, you can increase back to 4.
 Uneaten food can attract bacteria that is bad for the fish. This is especially problematic if the fish eats the food after it has gone bad.Use a small net that you would use to scoop out excrement or transfer the fish to another bowl.
 A betta should be fed every day or nearly every day. If you keep a betta in the office and you can’t feed it on the weekends, it will be just fine as long as you feed him the other five days per week.Remember to leave one day of fasting for your betta fish. It will suit its needs.It takes a betta about 2 weeks to starve to death so if your fish doesn’t eat for a few days due to illness or adjusting to a new home, don’t panic.
 In the wild, betta fish prey on a variety of smaller animals. Feeding your betta the same type over a long period of time can harm their immune system and cause them to eat less.


You can change up the type of food as often as you’d like. Try to feed the betta at least one type of food that is different from what you normally feed it at least once a week.
 Various species of small aquatic worms make up the core diet of betta fish in the wild. The most common worm for betta fish is the bloodworm which comes live, freeze dried, frozen, or in a gel.You can also use the tubifex worm which comes frozen. Live tubifex often carry parasites or bacteria so they should be avoided.
The best live worms to use are white worms, grindal worms, and black worms.
These worms are available at most major pet stores.
 You can use either live or frozen insects. The best options are daphnia, also known as a water flea, and fruit flies.These insects will be available at most pet stores.
 There are various frozen meats that betta fish can also eat. You can use brine shrimp, mysis shrimp, or frozen beef heart. These options will be available at most major pet stores., This includes dried pellets, flakes or freeze-dried foods. Some fish foods will be marketed as being for Bettas but could still cause digestion problems because of indigestible fillers and a lack of moisture.These pellet foods absorb water and expand in the fish’s stomach 2 or 3 times their original size. Some bettas will have bad reactions, potentially developing problems with constipation or bladder disorders.
 If dried foods are the only thing available, soak them in a glass of water for a few minutes before feeding them to your Betta. This will expand the pellet to its full size before the Betta digests it.Do not overfeed your Betta and cut its portion if you notice abdominal bloating. You may want to switch to live foods if your Betta is consistently bloated.
 Fish pellets or flake containers often say “Feed what your fish will eat in 5 minutes or until it stops eating.” This does not apply to betta fish. In the wild, their instinct is to eat as much as possible because they don’t know when their next meal is coming.


Overfeeding can also lead harm the water quality and cause obesity.