 Choose a large plastic bottle that you want to use as the base of your vase. Use a craft blade to cut the top portion off. This will not only make inserting the smaller bottle easier, but pouring the cement in as well., The bottle needs to be small enough to fit inside the larger bottle with at least ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) of space between the two.If the bottle has a label on it, be sure to remove it first, otherwise, it will show up on the finished vase.
 Follow the instructions on the container as each brand will be a little different. In most cases, you will need to stir 1 part water into 4 parts of cement.You can use a paint stick or even a trowel to mix the concrete.


Always wear gloves and protective goggles while mixing concrete., This works great with white concrete. Scoop out some of your concrete into a separate container. Stir in some pigment into it until evenly combined. Pour the white concrete into the dyed concrete. Stir it a few times until it starts to look marbled and swirly.Make sure that you are using concrete-appropriate pigments. If they are not sold alongside the concrete in the store, you will need to buy them online.
 Pour the concrete in slowly so as to minimize air bubbles. Don't worry if the concrete doesn't fill your large bottle all the way. The next couple of steps will fix that.
 This will remove any air bubbles and make the surface of your vase smoother in the end.Keep in mind that the finished product may still have some air bubbles. This is perfectly normal and part of the beauty of concrete.
 Do not push it all the way to the bottom of the vase, however. As you push the bottle into the cement, the cement will raise and fill the rest of the big bottle.If the concrete overflows, simply brush it away.Try not to get any concrete into the smaller bottle.
 If the concrete level isn't high enough, use a spoon to scoop more concrete into the large bottle. Keep doing this until the bottle is filled.Once again, avoid getting any concrete into the small bottle.
 Wet your finger, then use it to smooth down the concrete between the two bottles. You can also leave it as it is for a more jagged, rustic touch., How long this takes depends on what type of cement you used. Quick-set concrete can dry in as little as 15 minutes.Other types can take up to 3 to 5 hours, or even longer.Refer to the package your concrete came in for more specific drying times.
 Once the concrete is solid, use a craft blade to slice down the side of the plastic bottle. Tear it away in strips, revealing the concrete vase.You may have to use pliers to pull the plastic away from the concrete., You may have portions of the small, inner plastic bottle sticking out of the concrete. This needs to go. Use a craft blade to cut the smaller bottle down until it is flush with the top of the vase.Do not remove the plastic bottle. If you do, the concrete vase may absorb too much water.
 After you remove the concrete from the bottle, it may still feel a little damp. Set it some place where it will not be disturbed, and allow it to dry completely.
 You can paint it a solid color, or you can paint designs onto it, such as strips or spots. Painting the bottom of your vase a soft pastel color will look very chic!You don't have to do this, but it's a great way to make you vase look more interesting!

, You don't have to do this, but it would be a good idea if you plan on keeping your vase on surface on delicate or fragile surfaces. Simply turn your vase over, then stick 3 to 4 felt circles to the underside., You can use your vase to display fresh or silk flowers. If you use real flowers, fill the inner vase with water. The plastic, glass, or metal will create a barrier, and prevent the concrete from absorbing all the water.

