 Party crashers are usually not welcome at most parties. (Definition of a crasher : Someone who either does not know the host/hostess or someone who is not formally invited to said party.) If you are not sure if you were invited, get clarification. If you know you weren't invited then don't go.;
, This completely depends on the type of party that you are going to (See tips for further advice.) If you are female your hair and makeup should also be planned before.
 Good. Now you need a few things to put in your pocket or purse. Things you may not think of but will most likely need include: A compact mirror, makeup for touch ups, a small comb/ brush, car keys, money for a taxi (in case you decide to drink), camera (optional), cell phone, taxi service numbers, friends numbers, families numbers, pen and paper (to write phone numbers of new found friends) and possibly something nice to give to the host/ hostess.
 Don't rely on friends not to drink, always have a back up plan.
 Then it's time to mingle. Get a drink if you wish, it makes you seem more personable and approachable.
 Don't exclude anyone from talking to you. And don't forget to talk to other people than your circle of friends.
 If you are on your own people will be more compelled to approach you.



You should talk in a quieter voice, loud enough for the people you are talking to, but quiet enough that you are not being obnoxious and rude by letting everyone hear you.






You should also sip your drink, alcoholic or not. Chugging is rude and makes you look uncivilized.
Smile and listen intently when people are talking to you. Don't be an attention hog, if you are classy and sophisticated people will want to pay attention to you.
 If there is dancing at this party don't be afraid to dance, but don't dance embarrassingly, provocatively, or suggestively. It will make you seem crass.
 There might be someone waiting to be asked to dance and you could be that person to ask them.
, Karaoke is highly overrated but it just might be an icebreaker depending on the party and the party goers.
,

, Often the people who have the least amount of fun at a party is the person throwing it.
