 Choose photos that were taken over the course of many years or recent photos, depending upon what you think your father would like best.


Try to gather many photographs. You do not have to use all of the photographs, but it is better to have more rather than less because you will have many creative options.;
, For example, you can separate them by years, people, sports, vacations and more. Once you have all the photographs arranged into piles, you can decide if you want to concentrate on 1 area or do a scrapbook that includes the whole set.
 If you like to do arts and crafts, then choose the traditional scrapbooking method of finding the elements, gluing them on paper and putting them inside a binder. If you are skilled on the computer, or your dad is very tech savvy, then go with the more modern digital option.


If you want to craft the scrapbook by hand, you may want to go to an arts and crafts or dedicated scrapbooking store. Find a scrapbook with a metal binder, so that you can add pages. Find base pages in the right size. You can plan out your pages 1 by 1.
If you want to do a digital scrapbook, then you will want to ensure that all your photos and memorabilia are scanned into the computer. Use clip art, cutting and pasting and more to create a proof of your scrapbook and then print it. You can go to SmileBox.com or Shutterfly.com to make your scrapbook using online programs and templates. You can also use the Apple program iCollage to make a printed, email, Facebook or Flickr scrapbook.
 After you have decided the set or sets of photographs you want to use, you can begin looking for complimentary themed items. The following are things that you can find online and in scrapbooking stores:


Look for paper products in your theme. Many scrapbooking stores carry decorative paper, stickers and lettering in sports, vacation, hobby and patterned themes. If your theme is more general, use paper in your dad's favorite color or pattern, such as plaid, stripes or paisley.
Find poems or quotes about fathers. If you can't find the words you want to use, then choose quotes from famous authors. This is similar to choosing a greeting card that says what you want to say.
Look for ticket stubs, programs, pennants, children's artwork and other memorabilia that you have gathered in recent years. An advantage of scrapbooking is that you can take many seemingly unrelated elements to form an artful collage.
Look for clip art, magazine images or other images that remind you of your dad. These may be used in the background to express the scrapbook's themes more clearly.

