 Before you start the test, make sure to thoroughly read the instructions and warnings that came with it. While these instructions work for most take home urine drug tests, the one that you purchase could be slightly different., Often, the test will come with its own specimen cup that the test taker can fill up. If not, the test taker should fill a disposable cup halfway.Stand near the person while they take the test to ensure that the person taking the test isn't tampering with the sample.
You can stand on the other side of the door, or you can stand in the room with your back facing the person taking the test, if you're worried that they will tamper with the sample. Adding chemicals to the test can produce inaccurate results.
 Make sure that the test strip was sitting at room temperature before removing it from its packaging. Remove the plastic cap on the bottom of the test strip to reveal arrows., Dip the test card into the urine, arrows facing down. There will usually be a line on the card that designates how deep you should dip the card. Dip it to the line on the card. Keep the strip in the urine for 10 seconds, then pull it out and let it rest on a non-absorbant surface. Don't let the urine go over the designated line on the strip or it will affect your results.Wear gloves to prevent urine from getting on your hands.
Some tests will have a test strip attached to a cap that covers the specimen cup. If you have this sort of test, screw the top back onto the cup securely, then tip it over so that the urine spreads onto the test strip in the cap., There should be two areas labeled C and T. C stands for the control region while the T represents the current test sample. If there is a line on the T area, it means that the test is negative. If there is no line in the T area, that means that the test is positive for drug use. If the C region doesn't have a line, that means that the sample is invalid, and the person should retake the test.The line for the T area may be faint, but any line at all means that it was a negative test.

