 Regardless of what type of cleaning fluid/method you use, using a special, flat head hardwood floor mop will provide you with the best result.


Look for a mop that has washable/reusable flat pads. Many hardwood flat floor mops come with one or two cotton pads, designed to fit specifically fit your mop. However, if you mop your floor often (more than twice a week) you may want to purchase a package of refills.
Consider purchasing both a large and small mop to accommodate both larger and smaller spaces. Depending on your space, if you have a large floor area, you may want to buy a mop with an extra large head. Additionally, for small, hard to reach spaces, a small mop may do the trick.;
, Or check your cupboard for any brand/type of black tea. You want black tea because this type of tea contains tannins, which will give your floor a bright shine.


Consider buying tea that has a pleasant aroma. Try different flavors such as lavender, ginger or lemon--all flavored black tea may leave behind a clean, pleasant smell.
Allocate at least three tea bags for approximately four cups of boiling water. Generally, the best potion is to use three bags, but if you want something stronger or have a tougher job ahead of you, add one or two to your brew.
 You’ll want to bring the water to a rolling boil before you drop your bags into the water. This will allow for the seeping process to occur.


Drop tea bags into kettle, pan or bowl after the water has come to a rolling boil. Check to make sure either the water is fully boiling or your tea kettle is “singing.”
Allow the tea bags to seep for several minutes. Unwrap the bags, place in the boiling water and leave them for up to 10 minutes. This will also allow the water to cool slightly, making it easier to use for mopping.
Remove and discard/recycle tea bags. If the water is too hot, use a pair of tongs or a spoon to remove the tea bags. Wait until the bags are cooled before placing in the trash (as the boiling hot bags may permeate through the plastic or paper trash bag)
Transfer tea to a bowl or a bucket. Once the tea is still hot, but not scalding transfer to the bowl or bucket you like to use to clean the floors.
 Make sure the tea is hot but not too hot to touch. You will need to wring out the pad before placing it over your hardwood cleaning tool.


Fully immerse the pad in the steaming tea so that it is completely soaked. If the water is still to hot for your hands, use a wooden spoon to submerge the pad into the water.
Wring out the pad into the bucket. Wearing a pair of rubber gloves, wring the pad into the bucket. Wearing the gloves will protect your hands from the hot water and allow you to effectively wring out the pad.
 Mop as usual using broad, even strokes across the floor, going along with the wood grain.


Consider rinsing and re-soaking the pad after cleaning every floor, depending on how dirty the floor. Rinse the pad in a separate bowl or sink in order to avoid contaminating the tea.
Go over any areas that were difficult to clean or had excess tea (to avoid streaking).

