 Cut out six equal pieces of string. The string should be thin enough to fit through the holes you created in the plastic bag.


A foot of string should suffice, provided the parachute is the size of a regular shopping bag.
It's a good idea to place the strings up against one another to ensure they're the same length. When you prop them up all in a row, you can cut off parts of any string that protrude from the rest.
 Run each piece of string through their respective holes and tie them each in a small knot on the parachute's roof. When you are done, each of the taped holes you made should be filled with their own string.









Try to keep your knots consistent. Different knots may result in different lengths for the strings.
 In order to secure these strings, fix a nut on the screw and turn it around until the strings are caught in the middle. This screw will give your parachute some much-needed weight to work with.
 Because you'll be throwing your parachute up in the sky, adorn the parachute with eye-grabbing colours. Detailed designs won't be picked up by the human eye from a distance, so it's best to keep your decorations simple. Coloured marker is perfect for decorating your parachute.
 Alternatively, you can throw the screw high in the air. The parachute will catch air and slow the descent.









Dropping it down from a higher altitude will give the parachute more time in the air.
 This has the effect of straightening your parachute's descent. If you don't have a hole, it will be much more likely to float off course. Straightening the parachute is ultimately optional, but it is valid to keep in mind if you're dissatisfied with the way your parachute is gliding.









The marks should be placed a centimetre into the plastic bag from the outer perimeter.
 Take the strings and wrap them around the screw weight. When the strings are secured, you can fold in the plastic bag. Take care to treat the parachute gently; any rips or tears could ruin the parachute completely.









If you do end up ripping par of the parachute, you may be able to save it by taping the rip shut. The parachute won't likely work as well as it used to, but it should be able to pick up air all the same.

