 For someone who wants to keep organized, it's a good idea to create a to-do list of things that you haven't had the chance to finish (or even start) before the vacation hit. Create a list of things you want to do, and prioritize them from most important to least important. Over the break, try and get as many of those things done as possible.

For example, a good to-do list might consist of watching your Watch Later videos on YouTube, hanging out with friends, finishing up the work your parents or guardians wanted you to do, and doing something you're interested in, such as reading or writing. It would be best to prioritize finishing up the work for your parents or guardians, and then you have time to do what you want.;
, While you may groan at the thought of reading because you have to do it all the time in school, reading can actually be quite productive. It helps to expand your vocabulary, and if you like to write, it can help to improve your writing skills, as well. You also get to choose what books you read, instead of having to read something that everyone else is reading that the teacher told you to read., You don't have to make anything that would go into a museum, but let your inspiration run wild! You can draw pictures, doodle, make random shapes, or anything you want., A lot of the time, people get bored over breaks because they don't have anything to do except for their typical daily routine. Try something new! Try playing a new instrument, drawing, writing, computer programming, sports, or anything else you want to try., It doesn't matter how old you are - anyone can learn a language at any time in their life! Pick out what kind of language you want to learn, and once you've decided on what language you want to learn, try websites such as DuoLingo to learn the language. You don't have to use a website, though - it's possible just to take notes and review using flash cards.

Some languages are more difficult than others. If your native language is English and you don't know any other languages, start off with something that uses the same alphabet of English - for example, Spanish or French. If you're up for a challenge, try a language like German or Finnish; if you really want to be challenged, try a language with a different alphabet entirely, such as Russian, Chinese, or Korean.
 You don't have to run a mile like in gym class; try just going for a walk or participating in a sport you enjoy. Exercise keeps you healthy, and it helps you spend time doing something fun., Over vacation, it's easy to neglect your friends and family and just get stuck on the computer all day long. Don't forget about the people closest to you! Suggest to your family the possibility of taking a day trip somewhere, or call up your friends and ask if they have any time to hang out. Even if they don't have time to hang out, don't drop communication with them. Texts and instant messages can go a long way., Once in a while, take some time out to treat yourself and do something to relax. For example, if you like soaking in a bath, take some time out to do just that; if you like to listen to music, listen to music. Regardless of what it is that you're doing, enjoy it and pamper yourself!