 Because everyone has different traits in combat, you must find an art form that you would be proficient in. If you are unfamiliar with Japanese martial arts, here are some common ones:


Kenjutsu: Training with the katana and other weapons (depends on school) for use in combat.
Iaijutsu/battojutsu intended for combat. Used to dispatch your opponent during or immediately after the draw of the sword.
Kendo: Art of Japanese fencing. Fought with shinai using armor.
Iaido/battodo: Art of drawing the sword.






Almost every art form will have different styles. Again, find the one that suits you best.;
, The equipment may differ depending on the art. Common weapons are:


Shinai: Bamboo swords for kendo comprised of bamboo strapped together. Used in kenjutsu where a bokken would be too dangerous or in kendo.
Bokken: Wooden practice swords closely resembling a katana or wakizashi. Safe alternative to a live sword. It's the most used weapon in kenjutsu.
Tanto: Japanese dagger about 0.5 feet (0.2 m) to 1 foot (0.3 m) in length.
Wakizashi: a short sword about 1.5 feet (0.5 m) to 2 feet (0.6 m) in length.
Katana: A sword about 3.5 feet (1.1 m) in length.
Ninjato: A cousin of the katana but with a straight blade.
Nodachi/Odachi: A really long katana that ranges from 34–60 inches (86.4–152.4 cm) long!







, After you have found an art form you are interested in and have gathered the necessary equipment, pick up books on the subject and do some research. The books should only be used IN CONJUNCTION with a qualified teacher! Trying to self learn techniques is highly discouraged, as doing so may corrupt your foundations.
 There is no way you can learn well without guidance. Find a dojo or school to learn your desired art.
 Practice assigned kata, or routines, until you can execute it fluently and effectively. If necessary, get a partner to train with you. Then, if permitted, move on to others. Don't forget the old ones.
 After you feel confident, acquire better (which usually means more dangerous) weapons.


Choosing a katana:






Choosing a katana is mostly a matter of preference: some prefer heavier katana, while others like lighter; same goes for length. Ask a senior member of your class or your sensei where to purchase your katana from.
Use the Internet and study up on the different parts of the katana and how a katana is made, and you will be able to tell the difference between the quality of different katanas.
Choose a suitable kissaki (tip) for the blade. Different arts require different kissaki sizes. Find out which one your art form requires. Common kissaki types are o-kissaki, chu-kissaki and Kk-kissaki, which are large, medium and small, respectively. It is usually possible to determine the kissaki size by just glancing at the blade. Turn the tip up, and look at the sword from the side. Note how the blade narrows at the end, and forms an angle with the relatively straight blunt side of the sword. If the angle is more than 45 degrees, it is usually an o-kissaki. If the angle is around 45 degrees, it is a chu-kissaki. One can conjecture what a ko-kissaki is like.
Choose a suitable sori (curvature). The requirements for curvature of the blade differs from form to form. The sori pattern not only differs in the degree of curvature, but the also where the deepest part of the curve is located in relation to the tsuka (hilt) or kissaki.
Choose a design. By design, I mean the aesthetics of the sword. Believe it or not, the aesthetics of a weapon affects your use of it. Choose a sword that interests your tastes, but not so much that you are overprotective of it. Choosing an unappealing sword could potentially lead to disinterest in your weapon.
The only thing a person should be cutting with a katana in this day and age are items used for tameshigiri (test cutting). The techniques for this will be taught to you if you take kenjutsu and iaijutsu but to my knowledge are not taught in kendo.



