 Depression is the primary reason people use St. John's wort. Research the value of using St. John's wort as an anti-depressant to decide if this is a treatment option for you. There is some scientific evidence that St. John's wort is useful for treating mild to moderate depression, but it is not effective for severe depression.If you have other mental health disorders (e.g. bipolar disorder) in addition to depression, taking St. John's wort can cause psychosis (i.e. hallucinations, confused thinking, false beliefs and delusions)., Take 300 mg, three times a day with a meal. Check the label of your capsule or tablet. It should be standardized to contain 0.3% hyperycin extract. Hyperycin is the active ingredient in St. John's wort that works as an antidepressant. It will take three to six weeks before you feel any effect. If you decide to stop taking St. John's wort, gradually wean yourself off. You may experience some side effects if you stop the treatment overnight., It is important that you know exactly how much St. John's wort you are getting. Taking the herb in a capsule or table form will guarantee that you are getting the recommended dosage. Ingesting St. John's wort as a tea or eating the flowers of the plant should not be done to treat depression. There is no way to know how much St. John's wort you are actually getting using those methods.
 If you take St. John's Wort in conjunction with other anti-depressants, your serotonin (i.e. brain chemical that anti-depressants target) levels may rise to an unsafe level. Symptoms of serotonin syndrome include tremor, diarrhea, muscle stiffness, decrease in body temperature, death, and extreme confusion. It can also decrease the effectiveness of your prescribed medication., A naturopath physician is trained in the use of natural medicines for improving health and wellness. These doctors likely have experience treating depression with St. John's wort. Visit the American Association of Naturopathic Physicians website to find a licensed doctor.Also consider visiting an herbalist to help you with your depression. An herbalist is trained to stimulate your body's healing power through the use of herbs, diet, and lifestyle. You can find an herbalist by visiting the American Herbalists Guild website., Let your doctor know that you are interested in using St. John's wort as part of your treatment.Untreated depression can become severe and lead to suicide. Even if St. John's wort is not a good option for you, there are effective medications and treatments that can help you.

