 The Royal Thai Immigration Commission posts a quota each year for those persons seeking to receive permanent residency in Thailand. Find the quota within the Government Gazette publication. The quota is divided according to persons per country., The application period usually covers the fall of each year, often from October until December. After the quota is posted, you are able to submit an application until the last working day of that year., You must hold a Thai non-immigrant visa with three consecutive yearly extensions logged in order to be eligible for residency. The visa must be the same type in order to qualify under the three-year mark. If you hold multiple, non-immigrant visas then you will not qualify., The Immigration Commission will assess a variety of factors when weighing your application. You must offer something beneficial to Thailand in the way of income, knowledge, expertise, personality, or other factors. An understanding of the Thai language is another factor that can count in your favor.If you can demonstrate a respect for government and authority via regular tax payments, then this will also benefit your application.
 Everyone 14 years of age and older will have their criminal records checked before being considered for residency. You will need to supply a copy of your fingerprints to be checked by the Criminal Records Division. And, your passport will be scanned to make sure that you are not a “prohibited person” or someone under a foreign warrant.Be aware that in a competitive application environment any crime on your record will result in the rejection of your application.
 If you are a foreign national seeking residency, then you must meet one of three personal qualifications: investment, working/business, or humanity. Your personal and professional circumstances will determine which category you’ll fall into.The investment category means that you are seeking to invest in a Thai business operation. The working/business category covers those persons with permanent employment in Thailand. The humanity category includes those persons who are married to Thai citizens or whose parents are Thai citizens.You can also apply on the basis of special circumstances and these applications are evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
 It is not required to go through the immigration process with a lawyer, but it can help a great deal. Locate a lawyer by talking with your embassy or the Thai Ministry of the Interior. Lawyers can especially help you if you need to have multiple documents translated into Thai.