 This is the best exercise you can do to start building up your chest.To do it, you'll need a weight bench and a barbell or some dumbbells. (At the gym, you can also use a bench press machine.) Select a weight you can lift 5 to 7 times before needing to rest. Don't worry if the weight seems low - that doesn't matter right now. What matters is that you lift enough to build your muscles, and that number is different for different people. You'll add more weight as you get stronger. However, in order to build a big chest, your goal should be to lift at least your bodyweight.Here's how to do a bench press:









Lie on your weight bench on your back, with your feet firmly planted on the floor.
Hold the barbell over your chest, with your hands spaced evenly apart.
Push the barbell toward the ceiling until your arms are straight.
Lower the bar until it touches your chest.
Repeat until you've lifted the weight 5 to 7 times.
Rest for a minute, then do 2 more sets.;
, Doing regular push ups with proper form and breathing techniques is one of the simplest, and best exercises you can do for your chest, but weighted pushups puts extra strain on your muscles that encourages them to break down, then build up stronger, but is not recommended for just starting out, as it could result in muscle tears and other injuries, that will only set you back from accomplishing your fitness goals. To do weighted pushups, strap on a weight to increase the weight of your torso. Do 3 sets of 15 pushups per workout. If you find it easy to do more than 15 at a time, add more weight.


You can also make the standard pushup tougher by doing rotating pushups and lifting dumbbells at the same time. Start in a regular pushup position, but instead of having your palms on the ground, hold a dumbbell in each hand. Lower your body to the floor, then push up up with one hand and raise the other toward the sky, rotating your body sideways as you do so. Lower it to the floor and push down again, then push up with the other hand and rotate in the other direction.
 Another great chest exercise is flyes, for which you'll need either a set of dumbbells or a cable station. This motion activates your pec muscles and helps break them down to build them back up. Since this movement is mechanically a little more difficult than the bench press, it's recommended that you use lighter weights.








Lie on your back grasping either your dumbbells or the cables (if you're using a cable station).
Extend your arms straight toward the ceiling.
Lower your hands to either side of your body, so that your arms are spread like eagles' wings.
Return to starting position, then repeat. Do 3 sets of 10 or so reps.
 You'll need two exercise benches. Try this exercise first without the weight and work your way up to doing it with weight added. Place your hands on one bench, and rest your crossed feet on the other. Your butt and thighs should be positioned over the gap between the benches. Once you have mastered the dip, you can begin to place a weight across your thighs. Make sure it's secure before you begin.Keeping your back straight, "dip" your torso and butt into the gap by lowering yourself with your arms. Bend your elbows and lower yourself so that your elbows align with your shoulders, pointing straight backward.
Straighten your arms to lift yourself back up.
Do 3 sets of 10 or so reps.
 Take this classic abs exercise up a notch by adding some weight. Crunches might be boring, but they're still one of the best ways to get your abs toned and cut. Make sure you're using the right form:









Lie on the floor with your knees bent and your feet comfortably planted on the floor.
Hold a weight over your chest. Don't make it too heavy; you should be able to do about 12 - 15 crunches before stopping.
Use your ab muscles to lift your torso and head forward so that your shoulders lift from the floor. Don't lift your entire back off the floor; you could strain it, and lifting it doesn't give you any sort of advantage in terms of building abs.
Lower back to the floor, then repeat. Do 3 sets of 15 crunches.
Mix it up sometimes by doing side crunches; get in the same position you use for regular crunches, but crunch to one side or the other. This works out your obliques, the muscles on either side of your abs.
 This exercise engages all of your abdominal muscles at once, and no equipment is required. Make it part of every ab workout you do and you'll start seeing a difference. Here's how to do a plank:


Lie on the floor stomach-down, with your legs stretched straight.
Lift yourself up onto your forearms. Keep your elbows in a straight line with your shoulders, and point your fingers straight ahead.
Lift up onto your tiptoes, so that your legs and torso aren't touching the ground. Keep your back straight.
Hold the position for as long as you can - at least a minute. Tighten those ab muscles.
Relax on the floor, then repeat.
You can do side planks as well, to work out your obliques. Raise yourself up on just one forearm, turn your body sideways, and lift the other arm straight toward the ceiling. Hold the position, then repeat on the other side.
 Strap leg weights around your ankles before beginning this exercise. Lie on your back with your arms at your sides and your legs straight. Keeping your legs together and your back against the ground, lift your legs up until they reach a 90 degree angle with the floor. Make sure they're straight. Lower them back to the floor. Do 3 sets of 12 leg lifts.









You can use an exercise ball instead of leg weights; simply hold it between your feet when you lift your legs.
 Again, using some weights will make this exercise more effective. Lie on your back with your knees and your feet on the floor. Straighten your left leg, keeping the other one bent. Bring your left elbow to your right knee by twisting it across your body. Repeat with your right elbow and left knee.








