 This model uses a foam sphere to represent the Earth with a quarter of it cut out so that you can see the inside layers of the “Earth”. To make this, you will need a large Styrofoam ball (diameter ~5-7 inches), a pencil, a ruler, a long serrated knife, acrylic paint (green, blue, yellow, red, orange, and brown), a paintbrush, four toothpicks, tape, and small strips of paper. Parental supervision/help is recommended when cutting a slice out of the ball.All of these supplies should be easily found around the house or purchased at a craft supply store.
 You want to cut out approximately a quarter of the foam ball. To do this, you need to draw a circle around the horizontal and vertical halves of the ball. It doesn’t have to be exactly the center, but try to get close.Hold a ruler to the point that is about the center
Hold the pencil in place above the ruler.
Have a friend rotate the ball horizontally while you hold the pencil and watch the line form around the center.
When the ball is back to the starting point, rotate the ball vertically.
When you’re finished, you should have two pencil lines that dive the ball into quarters.
 With the two lines around the foam ball, it should be divided into quarters. You are going to cut one of those quarters out with the knife. Parental supervision is strongly recommended for this step.Position the foam ball so that one of the lines is facing straight up.
Place the knife on the line and gently saw back and forth until you reach the center of the ball (the horizontal line).
Reposition the ball so that the horizontal line is now facing up.
Gently saw again until you reach the center of the ball.
Wiggle the quarter until it comes free from the ball.
 You’ll want to start the model by painting the outside of it like the globe. Sketch the continents in pencil and then paint them green. Paint around the continents with blue to represent the ocean.You can throw away the quarter that was cut out of the ball.
Let the globe dry before painting the inside.
 With the pencil, sketch the layers inside the quarter that was cut out. The inner core is going to be a small circle in the very center of the ball. The outer core is next and should have a width about one-quarter of the inside. The next layer is the mantle which will take almost all of the remaining space. The crust will be a very thin line painted just around the edges.Once each line has been sketched, color them in with the various paints.
Use yellow for the inner core, orange for the outer core, red for the mantle, and brown for the crust.
 Make a small paper tag and wrap it around a toothpick. Tape it in place. Label each piece of paper with the corresponding layer. Stick the toothpick into the foam ball so that everything is properly labeled.


Alternatively, you can write the labels directly on the ball.

