 For a good walking stick, you want dead wood that's got some heft to it, but is still lightweight enough to carry comfortably. The ideal piece should come up to your chin, though you may want a longer or shorter walking stick depending on your preference. It should be relatively straight, and relatively uniform in thickness, at least an inch or two in diameter.


Green wood is too bendable to be effective as a walking or survival stick, so only collect dead wood to make for possible staffs. If you find a very desirable branch that you'd like to use, but it's too green, cut it and whittle it to debark it, but let it dry outdoors for several weeks before treating it and finishing.;
, Any wood that feels comfortable to you is appropriate, but many people prefer the lightness and strength of hickory and ash, as well as the availability. Keep an eye out for good branches while you're out on hikes, of the appropriate size, and a variety of wood that'll hold up to heavy use. Research good woods in your area that are commonly used for hiking sticks. Other woods that make good walking sticks include:


Vine maple
Ironwood
Salt cedar
Aspen

, Use a sharp pocket knife to whittle off the bark, taking extra care to smooth out any tiny branch notches or uneven places. Round up the ends of the stick by making tiny cuts to achieve a durable and clean finish to the end pieces.


After cleaning up your branch, let it sit for a few days to make sure it's thoroughly dried out. If an orangish skin starts to form on the inner flesh of the wood, that's water escaping. Scrape it off again and let it continue sitting for a while until it remains a whitish color after several days.
 If you want to give your staff a clean and durable finish, stain it with a good wood finish or wiping stain. Typically, you'll do a few coats, wiping on a thin layer evenly, then wiping it off and applying more layers. Do at least 3, and do more coats if you want to achieve a darker finish to your staff. Follow the instruction on the particular brand you purchase.


Alternatively, some choose to woodburn, or do pyrography designs on their walking staff before sealing it. Choose a distinctive design that you like, if you want to give your staff some character, and burn it on.
 Some hikers and survivalists like to wrap a length of par cord Paracord around the staff to use as a grip, and electrical tape a couple of fish-hooks or other implements under it. You might also include carabiners for other attachments, like water bottles, knives, and other survival gear. Consider fashioning a leather grip and binding it to the staff to make the hand-grip more comfortable.


On the lower third or so of your staff, notch a series of inch-measurements to use for tracking or to measure the depth of water as you hike.