 It is not uncommon for someone performing alternate nostril breathing to employ the Mrigi mudra in their exercise.


Bring your index and middle finger down to touch your palm. Keep your other fingers straight and stiff.
Instead of closing your nostrils with your thumbs, use the pinkie and ring fingers of the opposite hand.
For instance, you could close your left nostril by forming a Mrigi mudra with your right hand, then bringing the ring and pinkie fingers of that hand to your left nostril and gently push it closed.
 Instead of counting the individual inhalations and exhalations during your alternate nostril breathing session, you could simply set a watch or clock for a certain time during the breathing. For instance, you might set a watch for three minutes, then close your right nostril and breathe in long and deep, hold your breath, then breathe out. After three minutes, reset the alarm and do the same on the left nostril.This will relieve you of the need to count each inhale/exhale cycle.
 When you’re ready to exhale, bring your left index finger across your nose and squeeze it gently against your right nostril. In the same motion, remove your left thumb from against your left nostril. Exhale through your left nostril. Repeat for as many cycles as you wish.


Alternately, you could start by covering your right nostril first. It makes no difference.
If you wish, you could bring your opposite thumb up to close each nostril, instead of moving your index finger across your nose to close your opposite nostril.
 When you’re starting out, the length of your inhalation, pause, and exhalation should be equal in length. For instance, you might breathe in slowly for five seconds, hold the breath for five seconds, then breathe out for five seconds before switching nostrils. You could, however, try to adjust these ratios to suit your own style and needs.If you wish to relax more deeply, increase the amount of time you spend exhaling. For instance, if you breathe in for five seconds, breathe out for about seven seconds.
If you find that you feel tired after practicing alternate nostril breathing, try adjusting your rate of inhalation so that it lasts longer than your exhalation. For instance, if you breathe in for five seconds, breathe out over a period of about three seconds. This will boost alertness and help you perk up.

