 Stress is incredibly bad for your mental health, so commit yourself to reducing stress however you can.The first step to reducing stress is to pay attention to the things that trigger it. Once you understand what causes you stress, you can decide how to react to it. In some cases, you may be able to avoid your triggers by staying away from certain people or not overcommitting yourself.
If you can't avoid your triggers, consider managing your stress by incorporating yoga, tai chi, massage, or deep breathing exercises into your daily routine. Exercise, even something as simple as walking, can also help reduce stress.
 No matter what happened in your past, dwelling on it will only decrease your quality of life in the present. If you have trouble living in the moment, try deep breathing exercises or meditation to help ground you.This doesn't mean you should block out the past. It's important to acknowledge and learn from it, but you need to move forward.
Be sure to accept any personal responsibility you may have for whatever happened in your past. Continuing to blame others will not allow you to truly let go.If someone hurt you in the past, it's important to forgive, even if you never reestablish a relationship with that person. If you did something bad in the past, you must forgive yourself as well.Stay focused on the present. If negative thoughts about your past enter your mind, try reminding yourself that the past is the past and now you are focusing on the future. Saying this aloud maybe helpful., If there is something you want to achieve, it's a great idea to set goals for yourself. Just make sure they are attainable goals. You will stay much more motivated and focused on the big picture if you reward yourself for making small accomplishments along the way., Instead of focusing on the negative aspects of your life, try to stay focused on all of the positive things you want to accomplish. To stay on track, repeat a mantra to yourself, such as, "I am working to improve my life" whenever you start to feel overwhelmed with negativity.Be sure to acknowledge all of the small improvements you make. They don't all have to be drastic changes!
You can also use a mantra when you are faced with situations over which you have no control. Try something like, "There is nothing I can do but make the best of this."

, When life has you down, try thinking about everything you have to be thankful for. It might be a loving family, a great job, or the world's best dog. Reminding yourself of these great things in your life will help keep you positive in the worst of times.Consider making a list that you can look at when you're feeling down. You can challenge yourself to add one new item to the list every day. You might be surprised by just how much you have to be thankful for!

, Whether you're able to travel to see the world's most spectacular sites or you can just manage to see the local wonders, take some time to admire the world! Looking at awe-inspiring landscapes is a proven way to boost your mood.If you can't get out to see any natural wonders, at least look at some pictures. This can have a similar effect.
 Another proven way to reduce stress and improve your mood is to pet your dog! This can even improve your physical health.


If you don't have a pet, even petting a stuffed animal can give you a serious mood boost. Or try volunteering at an animal shelter or asking a friend if you can come over and play with their pet.
 The simple act of smiling can improve your own mood and those of everyone around you. Try it even when you aren't feeling particularly happy, and you might just find that all of your troubles seem less important., If you are struggling with a mental illness like depression, it's important to get the help you need. Diet and exercise may improve your symptoms dramatically, but you may also need to see a mental health professional or join a support group to really improve your lifestyle.