 Having good credit is an important part of qualifying for credit cards. That’s not all, though. You may need good credit to get utilities connected to your home, to rent an apartment, to pass an employer credit check, or to secure car and home loans.Start early. Length of credit is a big factor in getting future credit and qualifying for cards. Lenders want to see that you have a track record in paying off your debts.
Student or secured credit cards are good ways to establish and build your credit, as are retail and gas station credit cards. With good management, you can upgrade to a major credit card with lower interest rates and larger spending limits., Payment history counts for about 35% of your credit score. Make sure that you at least pay off your monthly minimums on the card’s balance, or you may hurt your standing.Don’t miss outstanding payments, obviously. Card companies will charge you late penalties and, possibly, raise your interest rate if you pay late. Also, payments 30 or more days late can end up on your credit report.
The best thing to do is to pay off balances early and in full, before the monthly deadline.
 How much you pay or how often you pay per month does not figure into your credit score. The thing that really matters is your balance on each card, or what is called the “debt-utilization ratio.” Utilization counts for about 30% of your credit score. Having a large debt-utilization ratio (i.e. big balances on your card) sends a bad message to lenders. It suggests that you spend more than you can pay.
Try to keep your ratio low. Most experts say that your debt-utilization ratio shouldn’t be more than 30% at the most. This means a $3000 balance on a $10000 credit line. A ratio of zero will greatly improve your credit score., Another factor in your credit score is the number of accounts you hold, not only credit lines but mortgages, student loans, car loans, and others. The ideal number of cards to keep is not so clear, however.Some experts recommend that you limit yourself to two personal credit cards, keeping one for normal purchases and the other for emergencies. More cards mean more temptation to spend and more risk of high debt.However, others argue that it’s possible to have many credit cards, so long as you always pay on time and use them wisely.Whichever path you choose, make sure not to apply for many credit cards at once. Every time you apply for a card, it initiates a “hard inquiry” on your credit report, which lowers your score. Too many hard inquiries in a short period will actually damage your credit., Finally, keep in mind that a credit card is not “free money” and that you will have to pay for purchases sooner or later. Use good financial sense and your credit score will be high, leading to future opportunities for cards and loans.


Avoid the temptation that comes with a credit card. It’s OK to use it now and then, but don’t spend beyond your financial means.
Pay off your balances on time, every time. This will more than anything will assure you of good credit and sound finances.