 It might be tempting to squeeze your zits. However, squeezing and popping your pimples can spread the acne, lead to infection, worsen your redness, and cause scarring.It might be hard, but it is better to wait for the acne to clear up.
 Touching your face can spread acne-causing bacteria, add oils to your face, and lead to infection. All of these will worsen acne symptoms, including redness.Tell yourself that touching your face will only make things worse. If you cannot stop touching your face, consider wearing mittens, sitting on your hands, or wearing a rubber band around your wrist to remind you not to.
 Your hair, telephone, hats, and headbands can irritate acne-prone skin.They can cause sweating and the clogging of pores. Do whatever it takes to keep your face free and clear. Use speakerphone instead of your receiver, stop wearing hats, and keep your hair pulled back until your skin clears.
 Hairsprays, hair gel, oil-based sunscreens, and oil-based makeup can all exacerbate acne redness.Discontinue use of all these products. Use noncomedogenic or water-based sunscreens and moisturizers instead., The oil from your hair can make your acne worse. Eliminate excessive hair oil by shampooing regularly.Try shampooing every other day or every day and see if that alleviates your acne redness.
 Sunburned, dry skin is susceptible to acne. Use noncomedogenic or oil-free sunscreens or stay in the shade to protect your skin.Protecting your skin from the sun is especially important if you are using an acne medication that makes your skin prone to sunburn.
 The relationship between diet and acne is a controversial one. However, there have been several studies that indicate that dairy products can contribute to increased acne lesions in some people. Consider switching to soy- and nut-based products and eliminate as much dairy as you can from your diet and see if your skin improves.


Remember that dairy can provide essential calcium and vitamins to people, especially to growing teenagers. Talk to your doctor before changing your diet to make sure that you continue to eat a well-balanced diet., The Glycemic Index measures how much a carb-heavy food raises blood glucose levels.Many studies have shown that a high-glycemic diet is more likely to cause acne than a low-glycemic diet will.Moreover, high-glycemic foods tend to be generally less healthy than low-glycemic diets.High-glycemic foods tend to be processed foods, made with a lot of white flour and sugar. Low-glycemic foods tend to be high-fiber whole foods such as whole grains, vegetables, and fruits.