 Although many think of Mahjong Solitaire as a classical Chinese game, it's more commonly (and easily) performed with a computer. Mahjong Solitaire is a very popular puzzle game for computers, so it's really easy to find a way to play it. Web search the game and you should come up with countless game servers with the game available for play.You can also download the game as a computer program, or as an app for your phone.


For simplicity's sake, you start off playing Mahjong Solitaire online. Helpful things like pre-made layouts, difficulty settings and a "hints" toolbar make it perfect for someone who is still learning the ropes.
 There are hundreds of different kinds of layouts available for Mahjong Solitaire online.While many will use the classical Chinese "spider" layout, different outlets of the game will favour different layouts. A layout will have a major impact on your experience on the game. Depending on the shape, there may be a lot or very few "open" tiles to choose from.


Try looking for a difficulty gauge on the version of the game you're using. This may have an impact on the type of layout you play with.
 The basic gameplay of Mahjong Solitaire involves removing pairs periodically from the game board. Although the particulars may vary depending on the specific version you're using, this mechanic applies to all versions of Mahjong Solitaire. Keep your eye open for pairs and remove them at will. Because there are more than two blocks for each potential pairing, strategy is involved. Aim for the blocks you think will open up the most blocks in future turns.


The blocks must be considered "open" in order to be taken out. This means they're not covered by other blocks on more than one side, and are not covered by a second layer of block.
This gameplay mechanic has been mirrored in many other online browser games to date.
 While you won't have anyone to tell you whether you have run out of moves in a real-life game, the computer will be able to let you know what moves there are to make with your given set. This is helpful if you're having difficulty identifying blocks apart.
 What's more, if you want to beat a certain puzzle, you can have the game restart to the exact layout it was at the start. This is helpful if you're deadset on triumphing over a particularly challenging round.
 Because it's a fundamentally simple game at heart, developers have created countless different versions with extra features to spice up the core gameplay. Certain versions, like Castle Mahjong, will add elements associated with computer gaming (like castle building) into the game.If you love the puzzle element of Mahjong but want it to resemble more of a game, sites like Mahjong Games will offer many variations all in one place.Although all of these games ill use the same core gameplay elements, you'll have to learn new rules specific to each game. This is perfect if you've overplayed the core game too much and are looking for a way to liven up your experience.
 Mahjong Solitaire is scored based on a combination of how many tiles you removed and how fast you played. A bonus is awarded if you're able to get all of the blocks removed. A benefit of playing Mahjong online is that the computer will score it automatically for you. Many online outlets host high score lists. This will give you a potential long-term goal to strive for.


Many Mahjong sets award different scores to sets of tiles based on their rarity. Taking account of the rarity of certain sets can help you strategize your game further.