 If you suspect you have a case of FMD, contact a large animal veterinarian immediately to have them come out and see the animals affected.

All animals will need to be tested to see if they are carriers of FMD. All livestock animals are susceptible to the disease.
 The vet will take at least 1 g (0.035 oz) of vesicular "membrane" or skin raised from the formation of blisters with a scalpel, and/or the fluid inside the vesicles with a sterile needle.

The samples will be placed on a transport medium of PBS (phosphate-buffered saline) or equal parts glycerol and phosphate buffer with pH 7.2 to 7.6. Samples need to be kept refrigerated or transported on ice.
If there are no blisters or vesicles present, then samples of "oropharyngeal fluid" need to be taken. This means fluid (saliva or mucous membrane keeping the pharynx moist) from the back of the throat behind the tongue needs to be obtained with a sterile swab or a probing cup (a long wire with a cylindrical cup at the end).
Blood samples can also need to be taken so that the serum is analyzed for any presence of a virus.
 The vet will take various biopsies or tissue samples to send away to a specialized laboratory that meets OIE (World Organization for Animal Health) standards for FMD testing under Contaminant Group 4 pathogens.

If your country does not have access to a national or regional laboratory that meets these guidelines, samples will need to be sent to an OIE FMD-reference lab instead.
 ELISA testing is most common, but reverse transcription (RT)-PCR is also used if ELISA is not enough to detect the virus if it happens to be in low levels in the samples.

The virus that causes FMD is an Aphthovirus under the family Picornaviridae. Seven serotypes exist: A, O, C, Asia 1, and SAT (Southern African Territories) 1, 2, and 3. You do not need to worry about doing this particular step; most people are not qualified nor have the equipment to accurately test their own animals for FMD.
 The test results may take a few days to a week to come back. The results will first come back to the veterinarian you had come out to take samples, where they will look over the results and determine the next steps that need to be done if further action is needed.

FMD is a reportable disease, so if you or neighbouring herds come up positive for FMD, actions will need to be taken to deal with these animals and save the rest of the nation's animals from spread of infection. This will mean the euthanasia of all infected and susceptible animals.

