 This usually only happens in movies as a physical hyperbole for effect. However, do keep in mind that your excitement will build. The key is to stay calm. Take deep breaths, take a drink. If you do that, you should be fine.;
, Take a look at Wiki how to kiss file for a better look.
 This means, make sure they're not chapped, or dry. If they are, take your toothbrush, wet it with warm water, and gently scrub your lips. This will exfoliate them, and leave them smooth. If you don't want to do that, exfoliate with sugar. To do this, put a pinch of sugar in the hand opposite of that one you write with (if right handed, put the sugar in your left), wet your writing hand's finger tips with warm water and wet your lips, let no more than 7 - 10 dips of water mix with the sugar, dab the mix onto your index finger of your writing hand, and scrub your lips gently in a clockwise circular motion. WARNING: Do not do both methods, as it could harm your lips by giving small cuts, drying out your lips, or making then sore from rubbing too hard. After you exfoliate, use a moisturizing chap stick, such as Blistex Deep Renewal, or Burt's Beeswax lip balm. Fresh breath is always a plus!

, Make sure they're comfortable with it. If you're extremely close with them, chances are a kiss will be an okay move to make. A good way to make sure they're okay with it, without asking (if you're shy) is to try to break the touch barrier by hugging, or simply holding hands.
 When they're talking to you, look them in the eyes nonchalantly, and subtly, but noticeably, look from their eyes to their lips, look back up. Give a soft smile, and hopefully, they'll get the hint. Make a French kiss too!

, When you know they're okay with it, slowly move in closer. Both partners need to move in together, because it shows that both are willing. The popular/standard is girls move in 30% of the way, guys move in 60% of the way.
, Live in that moment. It's perfect after all, right?

, Who knows, you may even go back in for seconds.

