 In sign language, the ordering of words is different than in written or spoken English. To form phrases in sign language, you will need to get used to the different ordering of words in sign language and remember to use this order when you are signing.For example, the question “What is your name?” would be ordered “Your name what?” in sign language. “Are you deaf?” would be signed as “Deaf you?” and “Who is she?” would be signed “She who?” or “Who she?”
This different ordering is often done to reduce the number of signs that must be performed in a conversation and to make it easier to move the conversation along using a minimal amount of signs.
 You can start to learn how to put short sentences together in sign language so you can have a casual conversation with a deaf or hard of hearing person. Begin with a simple conversation, such as greeting someone and asking them their name.For example, you may say, “Hello” by placing your hand to your forehead with your palm facing downward and then raising it away from your forehead.
Then, you may ask, “Your name what?” by pointing at the person with your forefinger and middle finger stacked on top of each other, followed by the sign for “name”, which is crossing your forefinger and middle finger over your other forefinger and middle finger to form a flat “X” shape, tapping them twice over each other.
You can then say “Nice to meet you” by placing your palms flat over each other and sweeping your top palm over your bottom palm once to sign “nice”. Then, hold both pointer fingers on each hand so they are horizontal and move them together until there is an inch of space between them for “meet you”.
 You can also learn how to tell someone you think they are great or that you love them. Learning how to praise someone can allow you to get better at casual conversations in sign language and communicate your feelings in sign language.


For example, you can say “I love you” by using your dominant hand to form the letter “I” with your pinky finger horizontal. Then, form the letter “L” by holding your forefinger and thumb up. Finally, form the letter “U” by holding your pinky finger and thumb up.You can also learn how to say “You are great” by first using your forefinger on your dominant hand to point to the person. Then, you can say “great or awesome” by holding both hands up at the height of your head with your palms facing away from you. Push your hands out towards the person two times and then close your hands and lower them.