 Consider those or wait for the new procedures to complete research phases and become commercially, publicly available in the U.S.; you still have those ready options for treating presbyopia.;
, You can discuss your options with your eye doctor to get help deciding to make your choice for your needs.



Surgery deemed cosmetic is not paid for by insurance unless there is an injury needing repair, in the opinion of the insurance providers.
 The pocket then heals, self-seals, holding the lens in that place. The procedure takes about 10 minutes once you and everything else is ready.


"This corneal lens implant appears to be a safe, effective way to correct presbyopia in people aged 45 to 60," said Dr. Pallikaris, MD, University Hospital of Crete, Greece. "Ninety-eight percent of patients were satisfied with their vision; 69 percent reported 'excellent' and 30 percent 'good' near vision in our survey. Ninety-two percent said they no longer used glasses." He said there were no surgery-related complications, but about 15 percent of patients reported glare and/or halos around lights, and some had reduced contrast sensitivity.

In studies on Flexivue near vision was improved from 20/100 to 20/25 (average) in the one eye with the implant without glasses, and vision was stable in both eyes in study follow-ups.
 Then an inlay (not a lens) with a small, pinhole opening is placed in the center of the cornea, and the flap is replaced, but patients may notice a slight difference when they compare their two eyes.


Inlays, as with corneal lenses, are reversible by removal, according to Daniel S. Durrie, MD, a clinical investigator employed by AcuFocus.
The inlays' pinhole changes depth of focus. The inlay blocks out peripheral (surrounding) light without affecting the central vision which uses the rays passing through the pinhole, improving near vision and leaving distance vision as before in the eye with the implant.



The pulses mainly help to shift the center of the cornea forward, improving near vision without affecting distant vision. Unlike LASIK and related surgeries, no tissue is removed. The study advocates say that there is little risk of infection and the cornea is not weakened, according to Mike P. Holzer, MD, University of Heidelberg, Germany, who receives consulting fees from Technolas Perfect Vision GmbH.

In research, patients' vision improved within hours of treatment and remained stable during follow-up.



