 Avoid using plastic or metal for this. You will be running an electric current through the water that could melt plastics. Metal will conduct this current and could shock you if you touch the container.If you are unfamiliar with this experiment, start with one cup of water. Producing too much hydrogen can be dangerous.
Children should only do this experiment with a responsible/knowledgable adult.
Add a tablespoon of salt to the water for better results.;
, While large scale hydrogen production requires a lot of energy, this experiment can be done with little input. A 9V battery is sufficient to perform the electrolysis (splitting of the water into hydrogen and oxygen). You can also use multiple batteries in series to strengthen the effect.A portable power supply is good for this experiment, as this experiment should be done outside or under a fume hood.
An easy way to make leads is to connect a paper clip to each terminal of the battery.
While batteries aren’t generally dangerous, keep in mind that you will have salt water on your hands. You should wear rubber gloves to avoid being shocked.
 You will have a negative lead (the anode) and a positive lead (the cathode). You can create these leads by wrapping a paper clip around the positive and negative terminals of the battery. Electricity will flow from the anode, through the water, and to the cathode. Hydrogen bubbles will form at the anode and the cathode will produce oxygen and chlorine gas.Be cautious not to touch the leads together.
 Tear up pieces of aluminum foil and put them into a beaker or other container. Do not use a container with a lid or cap, as this could result in an explosion. There is no need to measure the amount of aluminum used.You could tear a three inch by three inch square of aluminum foil into pieces about the size of your thumb.
 Do this experiment outside or under a fume hood. Hydrogen gas disperses quickly, but is very flammable. A buildup of hydrogen gas that is exposed to the air (or any other source of oxygen) can explode.One example of hydrogen gas exploding is the Hindenburg.
 There is no need to precisely measure the amount of hydrochloric acid used. The chlorine in the in the hydrochloric acid will react with the aluminum to form aluminum chloride. This will result in the formation of hydrogen gas.Start with about two ounces of hydrochloric acid and add more if needed.
 Place the opening of the collection vessel (bottle or balloon) over the opening of your reaction beaker or container. The hydrogen gas is less dense than air and will move up into your collection vessel. This method is often used to blow up a balloon to demonstrate the upward movement of hydrogen gas., Hydrogen gas in contact with oxygen will explode. If you are doing electrolysis, do not collect the gas emitting from both leads, as it will be a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen. If there is only one opening in your container and you lack way to avoid mixing the gases, do not collect them at all. If you do collect the hydrogen, keep it away from fire and in an airtight container., You should not collect or store a high volume of hydrogen gas. It poses a serious safety risk, and is difficult to contain. You should do this experiment only for entertainment or educational purposes.