 In order to understand what is happening to your newborn, it's generally important to understand the normal process so you can figure out what went wrong. Testicles develop in a fetus’s abdomen, very close to the kidneys, which later descend into the scrotum through a tunnel known as the inguinal canal. When the testicles descend, they are preceded by a sac that’s formed from the lining of the abdomen (this is called the processus vaginalis).The processus vaginalis normally closes above the testicles, which prevents fluid from entering. If it doesn’t close properly, a hydrocele can form.
Hydroceles result from a reaction to testicular torsion, epididymitis, orchitis, or trauma. These conditions are ruled out by physical examination and ultrasound.
 A communicating hydrocele means that the sac around the testicles (the process vaginalis) remains open, rather than closing up like it's supposed to. When it remains open, it allows fluid to get into the scrotum, creating the hydrocele.While the sac remains open, fluid can flow back and forth from the abdomen to the scrotum which means that the size of the scrotum will get larger and smaller throughout the day.
 A non-communicating hydrocele forms when the testicles descend as they should with the sac (the processus vaginalis) closing up around them. However, the fluid that goes into the sac with the testicles doesn’t get absorbed by your child’s body, so it gets trapped in the scrotum and forms a hydrocele.This type of hydrocele usually disappears within the first year of a child’s life. However, in an older child, it could indicate a more serious problem, and should be seen by a doctor. If your child was born with a non-communicating hydrocele that doesn’t disappear within one year, ask your child’s doctor to check the hydrocele again.
 Although it is usually nothing to worry about, if an infant has a hydrocele that your doctor has not already addressed, you should talk to them about the hydrocele, especially if the baby is over one year old. This is because it could indicate a more serious problem.Take note of when you first noticed the hydrocele, whether or not the child is experiencing any pain, and anything else that could be related to the hydrocele.
A majority of the hydroceles resolve in newborns by one year of age. Surgical intervention is warranted in those that do not resolve after one year, those that are communicating hydroceles, and those that are idiopathic hydroceles that are symptomatic.

