 Prepare a baking sheet by lining it with aluminum foil.

Choose a baking sheet with a shallow rim.
Note that steelhead trout are generally quite large, so you should use a large baking sheet instead of a small one.
 Add the butter to a saucepan or small skillet and heat it over medium heat until it melts and begins to sizzle., Add the shallots first, cooking them for 3 minutes until softened. Afterward, add the minced garlic and 1 tsp (5 ml) of grated zest from the lemon. Cook for an additional minute.

If using pre-minced garlic, use roughly 1 tsp (5 ml). You could also use 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) garlic powder.
Use a hand grater or box grater to produce the lemon zest.
 Remove the pan from the heat and let cool slightly. Squeeze the juice from one half of the lemon into the pan and stir to blend it in., Place the fish on the prepared baking sheet and sprinkle it with a little salt and pepper.

If you are uncertain about how much salt and pepper to start with, try 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt and 1/8 tsp (0.625 ml) pepper.
If the fish is too large to fit across the length of the baking sheet, turn it and let it lay across the sheet diagonally.
Note that steelhead trout has a taste somewhat comparable to salmon, and the two are often used as substitutes for one another. Steelhead trout tends to be slightly thinner, though, so it requires a shorter cooking time than salmon.
 Spoon the flavored butter mixture over the trout, coating it evenly and completely., Use half of your minced dill to season the fish before it cooks.

If you do not have fresh dill, you can use 1 tsp (5 ml) dried dill for every 1 Tbsp (15 ml) fresh dill you might otherwise use.
 Cook the trout in the preheated oven until it flakes apart easily with a fork.

Do not turn or flip the fish as it cooks.
Do not cover the baking sheet.
A thin fillet will cook in 12 minutes, but thicker fillets may take longer.
 Use several spatulas to carefully slide the trout off the baking sheet and onto a serving platter. Squeeze the remaining lemon juice over the fish and sprinkle it with the remaining dill.

If desired, you could also cut the fish into multiple pieces before sliding it off.

