 To keep a “Hives Diary,” make an entry every time you have an outbreak of hives. Make sure that you include lots of details about how you are feeling and what has been going on. Some questions you might want to answer in your diary include:Are you cold?
Are you hungry?
Are you upset, angry, nervous, tense, or anxious?
Do you have a chronic condition such as asthma, diabetes or an autoimmune disorder? Has anything happened that might make your chronic condition worse?
What have you eaten?;
, After a while of keeping your “Hives Diary,” you should be able to detect patterns in your hive outbreaks, such as breaking out more often when you are hungry. After you have identified your stressors, do what you can to minimize them.


For example, if you notice that you tend to break out into hives more often when you are feeling hungry, then try to keep a snack on you at all times to stave off hunger.
 Breathing exercises can relax you, which may help get rid of stress hives. To use deep breathing, lay down or sit in a comfortable chair. Then, place your hands on your stomach with your fingers close together.


Take in a long, slow deep breath and expand your belly as you breathe in. This ensures that you are using your diaphragm to breathe, which can stimulate your parasympathetic nervous system and help calm you. Your fingers should separate as they lie on your belly.
Continue deep breathing for about 10 – 15 minutes.
Repeat this exercise whenever you are feeling stressed.
 Progressive muscle relaxation may help you to relax as well. This exercise requires you to tighten and release your muscles starting at your toes and moving to the top of your head.Start by tightening the muscles in your toes and holding them like that for five to 10 seconds. Then, relax your toes and move to your feet. Keep moving up your body through your legs, thighs, abdomen, arms, neck and face. Make sure that you relax your muscles slowly every time.
 Visualization exercises can also help you relax. To use visualization, try to imagine a place that you like to go or imagine a serene setting, such as a beach or mountaintop. As you focus on your chosen place, try to focus on its sensory details. What color is the sky? What does it sound like? How does it smell? Is the temperature warm or cool?Keep the “picture” in your mind for as long as you can. Breathe deeply as you focus on the image. Try to focus on this image for about five to 10 minutes or longer if you can.
 Using daily positive affirmations may also help you to relax and get rid of stress hives. You can say your positive affirmation or write them down on sticky notes and leave them around your house. Seeing them or saying them may help you to feel better and reduce stress levels. Some examples of positive affirmations include:“Yes, I can!”
“I am successful!”
“I feel better every day!”

, Talk therapy may help if stress is the main cause of your outbreaks. If stress is interfering with your daily life and causing regular hive outbreaks, then consider talking to a therapist. A therapist can help you to develop better strategies for dealing with stress, which may help reduce future stress hive outbreaks.
 There are tons of ways to treat stress. Exercise has been proven to help reduce stress. In addition, think about trying acupuncture, massage, meditation, tai chi, yoga, biofeedback, music, art therapy, or hypnosis. Coping with stress in your life should help you manage stress hives.

Your diet may also contribute to stress hives. Try to limit yeast and food additives. Use supplements such as B12, vitamin C, vitamin D, fish oil and quercetin.

