 Both you and your parents should discuss your medical condition with people at your school. Letting an authority figure at school know that you wear diapers may allow you to have some special privileges. You may be able to gain access to a private restroom where you can change your diapers. They may also give you permission to come late to class or leave class early to change your diaper.

Two more things are necessary if you want to have complete bowel and urinary protection - namely a pair of plastic pull up pants - clear is best so as to monitor adult diaper underneath; and a onesie or singlet for support of the diaper once it becomes heavier. Lastly, Seni Quatro or Tena slip maxi are the kind of quiet briefs with cotton surface and velcro which attract no attention in a stall.
 Bring your extra diapers, lotions, and creams in a special pouch that you keep in your backpack or in a backpack diaper bag. Diaper backpacks have special compartments to store all of your supplies, but they look like a regular backpack.


You should also pack plastic bags in your backpack. You can put your dirty diaper in the plastic bag before you throw it away. Throwing away a plastic bag is less embarrassing than throwing away a diaper.
 Plan to use the bathroom when other students are less likely to be there. You want to increase your chances of being in the bathroom alone.
 Diapers are noisy and changing in a public restroom may make you uncomfortable. You should figure out the quietest and quickest way to change your diaper when you are at home. This will help you feel more comfortable changing your diaper when you are at school.
 Some people may make fun of you for wearing diapers or ask you questions. If you are being bullied, you need to let your parents, teachers and principal know. You should also stand up for yourself if someone is teasing you. If someone politely asks you about wearing diapers, you should explain to them that you have a medical condition.
 A wet diaper is difficult to hide, and other people may notice. Changing your diaper as soon as it is wet will prevent the diaper from sagging and showing through your clothes. Soaked diapers will also smell if they are not changed quickly.
 Talking to other people who also wear diapers to school can be a source of comfort. You can also get tips and ideas about how other people manage wearing diapers to school. Support groups can be online or in person. There are many online support groups and discussion boards. The National Association for Continence also has a list of resources to help you connect with other people. 