 One of the most common signs of alcohol abuse/misuse is tolerance. Tolerance occurs when your body becomes accustomed to consuming a certain amount of alcohol with recurring frequency, meaning you may need six drinks instead of three or four to feel intoxicated.Do you find that you need to drink more alcohol to experience the same effects?
Take note of how much you drink on a given occasion, and on how many occasions you drink in a given week.
The good news is that you can decrease your alcohol tolerance and its subsequent health risks fairly easily on your own. You can do this by either moderating the quantity and frequency of your alcohol consumption, or taking a break from alcohol altogether for a few weeks.;
, There are many health risks associated with alcohol abuse. These health problems may be physical, mental/emotional, or both. Talk to a qualified medical professional if you've experienced any of the following as a result of drinking alcohol:


nausea
vomiting
diarrhea
excessive sweating
mood swings
depression
anxiety
insomnia
chronic fatigue
blackouts (not remembering what you said/did while drinking)
high-risk behavior
frequent falls, injuries, and accidents
other substance abuse problems (including heavy tobacco use)
seizures
tachycardia (abnormally rapid heart rate), After health problems, social problems may be one of the most prevalent effects in your life if you have a drinking problem. Some of these may not be immediately noticeable to you, but they will most likely be noticeable to your friends, relatives, and coworkers. Assess your social and professional relationships to determine if you've ever experienced any of the following:


traffic accidents
workplace-related problems (performance problems, tardiness/missed work, etc.)
family and domestic problems
interpersonal violence, Many people with alcohol problems eventually face legal repercussions as a result of their drinking. You might be ticketed or arrested for public intoxication, carrying an open container in public, urinating in public, driving under the influence, or even engaging in violence because of your drinking. All of these citations/crimes can have serious repercussions on your ability to drive or be qualified for certain job opportunities.


Have you ever been arrested or ticketed by police for actions you committed while under the influence of alcohol?
Has anyone ever brought a lawsuit against you for actions you committed while under the influence? This may include property damage, harassment, or acts of violence.
Have you been through court-mandated alcohol counseling and/or rehabilitation?

, Some people who abuse or misuse alcohol can reduce their alcohol consumption to a safe, responsible level. However, many individuals with more serious alcohol problems, including dependence/addiction, will need to give up alcohol entirely. Only a qualified medical expert can advise you on whether it's safe for you to drink alcohol responsibly in the future, or whether you should quit altogether. If you are told by a medical expert that it is safe for you to drink in the future without risk of alcohol abuse problems, it's imperative that you drink responsibly and in moderation.Set drinking limits for yourself.
Count your drinks and monitor your drinking behavior.
Try switching to drinks with less alcohol, slowing down your pace of drinking, or spacing your drinks further apart.
Alternate alcoholic beverages with nonalcoholic beverages. Try drinking a glass of water (slowly) after you've finished an alcoholic beverage, and wait until you've finished your water before ordering another drink.
Don't overindulge. The U.S. government recommends limiting yourself to no more than one or two drinks per day in order to maintain a safe level for alcohol consumption.Never drink and drive. Have a designated driver or plan on an alternate transportation method, such as walking or taking a taxi.
Limit your weekly drinking habits. Stick to 9 or fewer drinks per week for women, or 14 or fewer drinks per week for men.
Consider quitting alcohol altogether. Even though abusing alcohol is not necessarily the same as an alcohol dependency/addiction, abuse can quickly lead to those and other health problems over time.
 Many people may not realize that they are at risk of developing an alcohol addiction before ever consuming a single drink. Your genetics and family history play a huge role in your potential risks of developing an addiction to alcohol, and it's important to have a serious talk with your doctor to determine your risks.People with mood disorders or mental health problems, such as depression and anxiety, are at a higher risk of developing a drinking problem.
Low self-esteem and/or feeling "out of place" are commonly associated risk factors for developing problems with alcohol.
Anyone with parents who had alcohol dependency/addiction is at a very high risk of developing a drinking problem.
 Most people do not become an alcoholic after their first drink. Problems with alcohol tend to come on much more gradually, which can make it all the more difficult to observe yourself sliding from one stage to the next. Learning the stages of alcohol use disorder can help you better assess where you are on the spectrum and what your potential risk might be at a given point in time.Stage one is having access to alcohol. In this stage, it's important to minimize the risk factors that make you more likely to use/abuse alcohol.
Stage two is experimentation with or occasional-to-weekly use of alcohol. This stage may involve binge drinking, drinking on a regular basis, or both.
Stage three involves an increase in the frequency of alcohol use. In this stage, a person with a developing alcohol use disorder may drink daily or almost daily, and may begin stealing to acquire alcohol.
Stage four is marked by an established and consistently frequent consumption of alcohol. People in this stage tend to become preoccupied with drinking/intoxication and are likely to experience social, educational, vocational, or family problems caused by drinking.
Stage five is the final and most serious stage of alcohol use disorder. In this stage a person only feels normal while drinking and is highly likely to engage in risk-taking behaviors.
 The biggest test to determine if you're dependent or addicted to alcohol is evaluating how much you drink alcohol and how often. The World Health Organization has developed an assessment called the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) for medical professionals around the world to evaluate how advanced an individual's drinking problem might be. Talk to a qualified medical professional about your results to determine if you have a drinking problem and are in need of treatment.How often do you have a drink containing alcohol? (Answer: never, monthly, two to four times a month, two to three times a week, or four+ times a week.)
How many drinks containing alcohol do you have on a typical day when you're drinking? (Answer: 1 or 2, 3 or 4, 5 or 6, 7 to 9, or 10+.)
How often do you have six or more drinks on a single occasion? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
How often in the last year have you been unable to stop drinking once you'd started? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
How often in the last year did you fail to do what was expected of you because of drinking? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
How often during the last year have you needed a drink in the morning after a night of heavy drinking? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
How often during the last year have you felt guilt or remorse after drinking? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
How often during the last year have you been unable to remember what happened while you were drinking? (Answer: never, less than monthly, monthly, weekly, or almost daily.)
Have you or someone else been injured because of your drinking? (Answer: never, yes but not in the last year, or yes during the last year.)
Has a relative, friend, or health care worker been concerned about your drinking and advised you to cut back? (Answer: never, yes but not in the last year, or yes during the last year.)Talk to a medical professional about your results to see whether treatment is right for you.
If you answered "almost daily" to any of the above questions or answered that someone has been injured because of your drinking, seek treatment immediately.
 Withdrawal symptoms occur when your body has become so accustomed to consuming alcohol that it exhibits physical reactions to the sudden lack of alcohol when you quit drinking. You may have a serious alcohol dependency or addiction if you've ever experienced any of the following:


nervousness
nausea
shaking/tremors
cold sweats
hallucinations
seizures, If you've experienced withdrawal symptoms, drink in excess and on frequent occasions, or recognize that you have advanced in the stages of alcohol use disorder, you probably have a serious drinking problem. The first step to getting help and seeking treatment is to admit that you have a problem and that that problem is affecting your life in negative ways.


Recognize that the problems caused by your drinking will only increase and get worse without treatment.
There is no shame in admitting that you have a drinking problem, but that admission has to come from you. Though others may try, ultimately no one else can make you realize you have a drinking problem.
As with any addiction, admitting you have a problem is the first step on the road to recovery.
 Detoxification (also called detox) will help you manage your withdrawal symptoms until your body becomes used to functioning without alcohol or drugs. A detox program is typically held in a medical facility and will incorporate close monitoring, medical support, and may include prescription medications.Chlordiazepoxide (Librium) or clonazepam (Klonopin) are often prescribed during detox to reduce the symptoms of withdrawal.
You may also be prescribed Naltrexone (Trexan, Revia, or Vivitrol). This medication decreases your cravings for alcohol by blocking your body's euphoric response to alcohol consumption.Similar to Naltrexone, Disulfiram (Antabuse) reduces cravings by actually producing a negative reaction to drinking.
Medications like Acamprosate (Campral) can help reduce future cravings in people who have already stopped drinking but are at risk of a relapse.
Find a detox program near you by searching online or checking your local phone book.
You can ask your primary care physician to recommend a good detox program near you.
If you don't have a doctor, you can call or visit your local hospital and ask someone there for information on detox programs near you.
 Psychotherapy may be recommended in conjunction with detox or instead of it. Only a qualified medical expert can properly evaluate your level of alcohol abuse and determine the best course of action for you. However, psychotherapy has very high results because it gives you the tools to continue living a sober, healthy lifestyle after you've completed rehab/detox treatment.One-on-one or group substance abuse counseling - focuses on short-term behavioral goals to help discontinue alcohol use altogether.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy - teaches you how to recognize what factors tend to precede and follow instances of alcohol use to avoid or better cope with those factors.
Motivational enhancement therapy - encourages you to want to participate in therapy by setting goals, outlining the risks of not staying in therapy, and showing you the rewards for success.
Stimulus control therapy - teaches you to avoid situations, activities, and people associated with alcohol use and replace those factors with more positive, healthy activities/situations.
Urge control therapy - helps you change the patterns of behavior that might otherwise lead to relapsing alcohol use.
Relapse prevention therapy - teaches you methods for recognizing problem behaviors and correcting/amending those problems.
Social control therapy - involves family members to help prevent them from enabling alcohol use/abuse.
You can find psychotherapy options in your area by searching online, checking the phone book, or asking your primary care physician for a recommendation/referral.
 There is a high incidence of relapse among recovering alcoholics. This is not a sign of weakness or failure; rather, it's simply a fact of addiction, which is a medical ailment. If you are at risk of relapsing, it's important that you take steps to build a support network and avoid situations involving alcohol in the future.Approximately 70% of people with alcoholism who complete treatment are able to decrease or eliminate their alcohol consumption and improve their health within six months.
Most people with moderate to severe alcohol-use disorder who complete treatment end up having one or more relapse during the first 12 months after treatment.
Recognize that alcoholism is a life-long disorder that requires continued effort and support.
Having a relapse does not mean that you've failed or that you're weak, but it's important to re-commit to sobriety after you relapse.
Be patient and dedicated, and seek support from family and friends.
 If you've committed to quit drinking for good, it's important to enlist the support of your friends and family members. These people closest to you will be your strongest support network, as they know you and they know your history.


Inform your family/friends of your decision to live a sober lifestyle. Ask them to avoid having/using alcohol around you, and make sure they never offer you an alcoholic beverage.
Ask your family and friends to give you words of support and encouragement. You should also ask them to withhold any criticism or negative judgments.
Ask your family to hold off on giving you new demands or responsibilities until your life is more stable and you've settled into a sober lifestyle. Stress can easily trigger a desire to resume drinking in a recently-sober person.
Educate your friends and family on what your former triggers were that led you to drink, and ask them to help you avoid the people, places, and situations most likely to cause a relapse.
Find new and rewarding ways to spend your time that don't involve alcohol, and invite your family/friends to join you in these new hobbies and social groups., Support groups can help you bond with others who have recovered (or are currently recovering) from addiction. These groups create a safe space in which you can talk about the temptations to drink, recall the problems caused by your drinking, and ultimately remember why you've committed to living an alcohol-free life. You may need to try out several different support groups before you find one that feels comfortable and helps you, so don't give up if you don't fit in with the very first group. Keep trying and remain patient. Some of the most common support groups include:


Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) - 212-870-3400 (check your phone book or search online for local chapters)
Moderation Management (check your phone book or search online for local chapters)
Secular Organizations for Sobriety - 323-666-4295
SMART Recovery - 440-951-5357
Women for Sobriety - 215-536-8026
Al-Anon Family Groups - 888-425-2666
Adult Children of Alcoholics - 310-534-1815

, There are many phone lines dedicated to helping recovering alcoholics prevent relapses. Memorize one or more of the phone numbers for a support phone line, add one or more phone numbers to your phone's contacts list, or carry a piece of paper with the phone numbers written down on your person at all times.Alcoholics Anonymous World Services: 212-870-3400
American Council on Alcoholism treatment referral line: 800-527-5344
Codependents Anonymous: http://www.coda.org

Mothers Against Drunk Driving: 800-GET-MADD
National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence: 800-NCA-CALL
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism: 301-443-3860
National Clearinghouse for Alcoholism and Drug Information: 800-729-6686
National Resource Center: 866-870-4979

