 Installing Dropbox on your computer creates a folder that will be automatically synced with all of your devices. Any files in your Dropbox folder will be automatically backed up to your Dropbox account. Point your web browser to Dropbox.com and click “Download the app” on the top right corner of the page.Mac: When the download is complete, a window containing a Dropbox icon will appear on the screen.
Windows: Save the file to your Downloads folder. When the download completes, navigate to that folder to find the Dropbox installer (it will end with .exe).
Never install the Dropbox app on a public computer. If you’re not on your own computer, use the Dropbox website.
 You may see a pop-up asking you to confirm that you want to run the installer. Click “Yes” or “Open” to continue.
,


Windows: The Dropbox folder is created in your main user folder. If your Windows user name is Darrell, you will find a folder called “Dropbox “in C:\Users\Darrell.Mac: The Dropbox folder is created in the Home (main) folder., Once you drop the file inside the Dropbox folder, it will automatically sync to your Dropbox account.


This will move the file or folder from its original location to the Dropbox folder on your computer.To make a copy instead, select the file, then press Ctrl+C (Windows) or ⌘ Cmd+C (Mac) to copy. Paste it into the Dropbox folder with Ctrl+V or ⌘ Cmd+V.
 If you want to sync a different folder to your Dropbox, move that folder to your Dropbox and create an alias at its old location.First, drag the folder (don’t try this with a built-in system folder, like “Documents”—these shouldn’t be moved) to the Dropbox folder.
Right-click the moved folder and select “Make Alias.”This will create a duplicate folder with the word “alias” at the end of its name.”
Drag the alias folder back to the original folder location. The folders are now linked, meaning that anything you do to one will do the same to the other.
 If you want to sync a different folder to your Dropbox, move that folder to your Dropbox and create a a symbolic link to its old location.


First, Download and Install Microsoft SyncToy.Create a new folder(Ctrl+⇧ Shift+N) in the “Dropbox” folder with the same name as the one you want to link.
Open SyncToy from the Start menu and select “Create a New Folder Pair.”
Click the first Browse… and select the folder inside Dropbox.
Click the second Browse… and select the original folder.
Click “Next,” then choose “Synchronize.”
Click “Finish,” and then “Run” to create the link. The folders are now identical and will remain so. Anything you do in one folder also happens in the other.

