 This will lessen the workload for you, and there won't be a risk of potential ticket fraud. There are online outlets that specialize in ticket printing.Check online for a few of these and compare prices to see which one suits you best.

Depending on where you live, you may also be able to find a printing store with ticket printing options.
Tickets tend to be sold for 60-80 USD per 1000 tickets. You'll need to add shipping costs to your tally if you're getting them online., Whether you've found a local ticket producer or an outlet online, you need to get a hold of them before you can order your tickets. Online companies will have their contact info somewhere on their webpage. Drop them a line, introduce yourself and let them know you're interested in purchasing raffle tickets. Be sure to let them know roughly how many tickets you're looking to buy, as well as the date you want to have them by. A representative should respond within a business day to take things forward from there.

While you don't want to waste anyone's time intentionally, it may be helpful to contact a few places. It's possible you'll be able to snag a better deal if the company is open to wholesale bargaining.
 Once you've chosen a manufacturer and are in contact with them, it will come time to solidify the specifics of your order. Some of the bigger outlets will come with pre-made ticket designs you can buy more cheaply. Custom orders may cost more, but you'll have a ticket with a specific look for your event.Make sure to give the manufacturer all the information they require. This may include:

Name and date of the event you're hosting.
Name of the hosting organization.
Quantity of tickets you want to order.
Date you need the tickets by.
 Once you've gone through with your order, it's time to wait for the tickets to ship. Because shipping can take up to a couple of weeks depending where you, it's a good idea to order your tickets far in advance of the raffle itself. You'll also want time to sell the tickets after they arrive.

If you're in a bind for time, you can have tickets manufactured locally. Even then, depending on the business' workload, you may have to wait a couple of business days before they have something ready for you.
 The tickets normally come wrapped coil and will most likely be perforated. You should leave the coil wrapped until it comes time to sell the tickets so you don't lose any.

If the tickets do not make it by the agreed-upon time, you should ask that your money be refunded. From that point, purchasing from a local vendor or making the tickets yourself are viable options.

