 The law backs you up when you are making a dispute, but it does state that you must do it within 2 months of getting your bill. Therefore, make sure you write and send the letter in a timely manner., Have the date in the top left-hand corner. Put your name and address underneath the date with a line break between them. You should include your account number with your address. Add another line break, and then put the credit card company's address. You should send it to your credit card company's billing inquiries' address, including "Billing Inquiries" under the name of the company.You can find the address on the company's website.
 You will have a harder time finding someone to address this letter to than your business letter. Therefore, just address it "Dear Sir or Madam:" with a colon after it., Start by saying exactly why you are writing. State the amount of the dispute, the date it was charged, the date it came out (stopped pending), and the company that charged it.For instance, you could write, "I am writing this letter because two instances of $122.14 was charged to my account by The Boots and Such Store in Podunk, Texas on January 27, 2015, which officially came out of my account on January 29, 2015. Only one of those charges should be on my bill, and I want to dispute the second charge."

, If you can, provide a detailed description of what was bought. You may not be able to do this step if the charge was completely fraudulent (someone stole your card), but provide as much information as you can.As an example, you could write, "On the date in question, I did purchase a single pair of boots for the stated amount. However, my card was charged twice."

, Note that you've sent a letter to the business. Also talk about in detail what conversations you've had, both with the business in question and the credit card company., You should include the same information you did in the first letter, such as a copy of your credit card billing statement and a copy of your receipt. You should also include a copy of the letter you sent to the business. Don't forget to state what you're including in the letter you're writing., Once again, you need to address what the company should do with the information you are providing. You don't want to leave them confused about what you want.As an example, you could say, "I would like this charge looked into, and I expect it to be removed from my credit card bill."

, At the bottom, write the word "Sincerely," with a comma. Place a line break (for your signature). Add your name in print.Print the letter out and sign it.
 You want to have evidence of when you sent this letter, as well as what exactly went into it. Keep a copy for your records., It's important to send it this way because it guarantees someone must sign for it on the other hand. That way, they can't say they didn't get your letter.