 A towel that's warmed to 37-40 °C (100-105°F) may be applied 3-4 times a day for no more than 10-30 minutes until the cyst dries up. This dilates the blood vessels and improves local tissue perfusion for the delivery of nutrients necessary for repair. The increased blood flow also washes out any inflammatory exudates and waste products from local swelling.


Furthermore, the warm sensation diminishes the pain by acting as a counter irritant that masks the pain brought about by the inflammation.
Sebaceous cysts may be left alone if not causing the patient distress; most are non-dangerous and are only bothersome aesthetically. However, if it's infected, seeking medical treatment is wise.;
, Be sure to routinely and thoroughly wash the skin with non-irritating antimicrobial soap in running water. Pat dry the skin using a clean cloth or towel and cover with a sterile gauze – keep the gauze dry at all times.


Over the counter antiseptics (e.g. povidone-iodine) may also be applied but are not required. Repeat this once a day and every time the gauze dressing becomes wet and/or soiled until the skin forms a healing crust.
Avoid putting cosmetics and skin care products on the site of the cyst. This may cause further irritation and infection.
 This type of cyst dries up naturally; trying to pop it would put you at risk for further infection and may cause permanent scarring. Resist the temptation -- if it bothers you, get it removed by a doctor.


If a cyst burst due to healing or accidental popping causing a break in the skin; wash the area thoroughly in running water using a non-irritating antimicrobial soap.
 If signs of infection occur -- pain, swelling, redness, and warmth sensation -- notify your doctor immediately for appropriate medical intervention. It's a very routine procedure and nothing to worry about; however, if left alone, you can become septic, which is a very, very serious condition.Even if your cyst doesn't seem infected, you may wish to visit a doctor. A very simple incision will be made and the cyst can be gone in a matter of minutes. You'll end up wondering why you waited so long!

, Oil made out of tea tree is a great anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory remedy. It can kill the bacteria causing infection. However, know that there is little hard science to back up the relation between tea tree oil and cysts.


To use the remedy, simply apply one or two drops of tea tree oil on the lesion and cover it with a band aid. Use tea tree oil once a day, in the morning, and uncover the lesion at night.
 Castor oil contains ricin, a chemical very effective against bacteria. Soak a piece of cloth in castor oil and place it on the cyst. Place a hot compress on top of the castor oil soaked cloth and hold it for 30 minutes. The heat will help the oil diffuse into the skin a lot easier. The ricin will destroy the bacteria causing the infection.


Again, the science is lacking. It may fight bacteria potentially, but its efficacy on cysts is dubious. It likely will not be harmful, but it may also not be effective.
 Aloe contains phenolic compounds which have antibiotic properties. Apply aloe vera gel directly on the lesion and gently rub it until it penetrates the skin. Repeat the process each day, until the infection is cured.


Aloe vera is a treatment that has been used for centuries. It is one of mother nature's greatest curing agents. However, once more, there's no science to show that it is an end-all, be-all cure for cysts.
 Witch hazel contains tannins, which will remove the extra oils covering the skin and will increase blood flow. The extra blood flooding the area will help heal the infection faster, as more antibodies will be transported at the affected site.


Apply a small amount of witch hazel gel (a pea sized drop) directly on the lesion and gently rub it in. Repeat the procedure each day for about a week.
Again, the science in this department is lacking and only applicable in theory.
 The main compound found in apple cider vinegar is acetic acid. It has antiseptic properties, killing infection causing bacteria. This, however, is very general and does not specially apply to cysts. In other words, do not rely on this remedy alone.


Apply vinegar on the affected area and cover it with a bandage. Remove he bandage after 3 or 4 days. You will notice that a hard layer is formed on top of the lesion.
When the crust is removed, pus will ooze out along with the bacteria. Clean the area and apply a new bandage, without vinegar. After 2 or 3 days, the cyst should be healed.
 Boil a bag of dandelion dried herb in four cups of water. Simmer for 45 minutes after boiling and drink the tea 3 or 4 times per day. Continue to use the treatment for about a week.


Dandelion is an herb containing taraxacin, a natural antibiotic. However, the science stops there. Medical treatment is much more effective for cyst removal than any herbal remedy.
 An effective antibiotic to fight the infection will be prescribed as soon as possible. Be sure to finish your course so the infection doesn't weaken and then return. In as little as a week your cyst will be disappearing.


Flucloxacillin is one of the most common antibiotics used in the case of an infected sebaceous cyst. Take a 500 milligram pill every 8 hours, for a week, in order to cure the infection.
 Surgical intervention is a simple operation in which the cyst is completely removed. Don't worry -- the area around the lesion is numbed with a local anesthetic. Here's what you need to know:


After the anesthesia is performed, the surgeon will either perform an oval incision on both sides of the lesion’s center, or a single incision down its center. If the cyst is small, the doctor can lance it, instead of cutting it.
The keratin around the cyst will be squeezed out. A retractor will be used to hold the edges of the incision apart while the doctor will use a forceps to remove the cyst.
If the lesion is whole when removed, the operation is a success and the cure rate will be of 100 percent.
If, however, the lesion is fragmented, curettage will be performed and the remaining tissues will be cauterized. The wound will be sealed by stitching after the procedure is complete.In the case where the cyst was infected, the same antibiotic treatment will be prescribed for a week after the intervention.
 All the recommendations in the first section hold true after surgery, too. The most important thing is to keep the area clean and not to fuss with it. As long as you take care of it, there will be zero complications.


Identify if sutures were used in wound closure. If so, it is also important to take note when would they need to be removed (1– 2 weeks at most). Note: some type of sutures readily dissolves in the body and may not need removal.
 You can use either of the following:


Guava leaves. Put whole guava leaves in a clay pot full of boiling water for 15 minutes. Let it cool until a tolerable temperature is achieved – lukewarm temperature is ideal. Use the solution to wash the wound.
Aloe vera. After thorough washing and patting dry, generously apply the sap of the plant to the break in the skin and leave it to dry. You can do this several times a day if you'd like.
As a precaution, you should always test a small amount of any of these homemade treatments for any allergic reaction. A good site to test this is in the forearms on the same side as your palms – its fair complexion and relatively thin skin makes it easier to feel and notice any itching and redness.
 The skin surface is made out of keratin, a thin layer of cells which protects the skin. The keratin layer is continuously shed and replaced with a new batch of cells. Instead of a normal exfoliation, the cells can move deeper into the skin and continue to proliferate. Keratin will be secreted towards the inside of your body, creating a cyst.


This is, in itself, not harmful or dangerous -- it's simply not aesthetically pleasing. It's only if a tumor or infection develops that this abnormal proliferation is something to worry about.
 Sounds pretty harmless, huh? Even just a hair follicle can create a sebaceous cyst. If you were worried you were suffering from some serious health problem, know that it can really just be because of a hair.


When this is the cause, a small pocket of modified skin found in the dermis, which is the second layer of the skin, is referred to as a hair follicle. Each hair grows from one of these pockets. Follicles damaged by a constant irritating factor or surgical wound will suffer damage and scarring, leading to blockage.
 During the developing process of the fetus, stem cells which are initially assigned to skin, nail, or hair formation can end up being trapped inside other cells. They will continue to form keratin inside those cells, which in time will lead to cysts.


If you have recurring cysts, talk to your doctor about your options. They're more pesky than worrisome, for the record.
 If a cyst is ruptured, bacteria can contaminate it, leading to infection. The cyst will become painful, and will start to resemble a pimple. It will ooze pus as well as moist keratin deposits. The area around it will be red and slightly swollen. If this happens, you need to seek medical treatment.


If the infection goes untreated, it will get worse and worse and can eventually affect your entire body. While a cyst itself isn't anything to be greatly concerned about, an infected cyst does require action., Even if a cyst is not infected, it can still become inflamed. If the cyst is constantly exposed to an irritating factor, such as rubbing against a rugged fabric, it will become inflamed.


Luckily, it's usually fairly easy to reduce the inflammation, either with NSAIDs (like ibuprofen) or just to remove the irritating factor.
An inflamed cyst is difficult to remove, because the area is vulnerable to infection. If a surgical procedure is necessary, it will be postponed until the inflammation goes away.
 A ruptured cyst will trigger an immune reaction if a foreign material infiltrates your skin. This will cause a collection of pus called an abscess to form. This is more likely to happen in large cysts. A ruptured cyst is better off seen by a doctor.A ruptured cyst needs to be kept as clean and hygienic as possible. Visit your doctor for advice on how to care for the cyst and what medical treatment you should seek.

