 Some studies have that acupuncture can relieve pain and other symptoms of arthritis.Schedule an appointment with a certified acupuncture practitioner to ease any pain or discomfort you have because of arthritis. They will insert small, fine needles into specific points on your skin. This may reduce your pain or discomfort.Find a local medical acupuncturist at http://www.medicalacupuncture.org/Find-an-Acupuncturist. Ask your doctor or friends and family for recommendations of acupuncturists.
Ask any questions you may have about the therapy. This may include, “Will the needles hurt,” or “What can I expect?” Let the acupuncturist know your specific symptoms. They can tailor their therapy to these.
 Schedule an appointment for a moderate pressure massage.This can increase blood flow and warm affected joints, which may temporarily relieve your pain and/ or any discomfort you have.Massage can also reduce anxiety, stress, and muscle tension that contribute to arthritis symptoms.Ask your doctor, family member, or friend to recommend a licensed massage therapist. Find a licensed massage therapist at https://www.amtamassage.org/findamassage/index.html.
Tell your massage therapist which of your joints are most affected by arthritis so they can focus on those areas., Activities such as meditation, yoga, t’ai chi, qigong are known as meditative therapies. They combine special movements or posture with breathing exercises.The slow, stretching movements associated with meditative therapies can improve joint flexibility and range of motion in individuals with arthritis.They can also ease stress that makes arthritis symptoms worse.Visit local yoga, t’ai chi, or meditation schools. Trying out different classes can help you figure out which meditative therapy works best for you. You can also find yoga, Tai Chi, mindful meditation, and Qigong classes online so that you can enjoy them in the comfort of your home.Do yoga classes designed for stretching and relaxation. Restorative and yin yoga, for example, are excellent choices for people with arthritis., Working with a physical therapist can reduce the strain and pressure on swollen and painful joints. In addition to manual therapy, the therapist may counsel on proper positioning and body movements. They may also suggest assistive devices such as braces, splints, and shoe inserts to support your joints and/or relieve pressure on your legs and feet.Some physical therapists specialize in working with individuals who have arthritis.Find a physical therapist in your local area within the US at http://aptaapps.apta.org/findapt/default.aspx?navID=10737422525&UniqueKey=. From here, you can ask if they specialize in arthritis or know someone who does.
 There is some evidence that certain diets may ease the symptoms of arthritis. Fasting or the Elimination Diet, a healthy vegan diet, and the the Mediterranean Diet can reduce inflammation, pain, and stiffness. Speak with your doctor before starting any new diet to ensure you’re healthy enough to follow it., Some people with arthritis use copper bracelets or magnetic wrist straps to ease their symptoms. However, there is no medical evidence that either can help your arthritis or symptoms. Avoid using copper bracelets or magnetic wrist straps because they cannot ease your arthritis symptoms any better than a placebo.