 There are multiple ways to get out those yellow stains. Whether your choice is based on a friend’s raving review, or because you already have the product in your cabinet, decide which remedy is the best fit. Choose from the following products then look to the subsequent steps for each individual product.


Baking Soda (Sodium Bicarbonate)
OxiClean (baking soda and hydrogen peroxide)
Vodka
Dish Detergent
White Vinegar
Crushed Aspirin (kept safely away from children)
;
, Thoroughly moisten the stain by pouring the water over the fabric or sponging it on.


Stains are actually created by perspiration reacting to the aluminum found in most deodorants and antiperspirants. The combination of the protein found in your sweat combining with the aluminum creates the yellow stain. As the stain is protein based, immediate exposure to hot water sets in the stain.However, hot water is best for actually removing the stain. After submerging in cool water and treating with the remedy of your choice it is advised to wash in hot water to purge the remaining soils.
 No matter which of the previous products you have chosen, in order to activate the cleaning agents you must mix with warm water. Ratios and mixing specifications for each of the products are listed below.


OxiClean, vodka, hydrogen peroxide, white vinegar and dish detergent should all be mixed in a container at a 1-1 ratio.
Baking soda should be mixed to water at a 3-1 ratio.
Aspirin pills must first be crushed. Use 3-4 pills and then mix into a bowl of warm water. See How to Remove Sweat Stains With Aspirin for more specific instructions. Keep aspirin out of reach of children, and be careful not to inhale any any of its particles as it's being crushed.
 After the ingredients have been properly combined you will discover which form your solution has taken.


Baking soda will produce a paste.
Vodka, hydrogen peroxide, white vinegar and aspirin will dissolve into a liquid. You will be soaking the garment or stained area in this mixture, so be sure to have a large enough container for the task.
OxiClean and dish detergent will dissolve into water with the given 1-1 ratio. However, you can also create a paste by using more OxiClean or detergent at a 3-1 ratio. Some prefer the paste solution, believing it fights harder against tough stains. , Make sure you have completely covered the stain before proceeding.
 You may need to apply more paste as the fabric absorbs the solution. You will start to see the stain fade away.


Although the baking soda paste works well on its own, you can also try pouring vinegar over the stain while you scrub. The vinegar will immediately bubble up, so use caution.
Baking soda is a base while vinegar is an acid, so the two combined produce an explosion of sorts in the form of bubbles. This reaction’s abrasive qualities helps eliminate residue while the bubbles lift the stain out of the fabric. , This will give the cleaning agents enough time to settle in and break up the chemicals causing discoloration.


If the stains are especially bad, let the treatment sit overnight.



Some materials do not react well with heat, either shrinking the garment or fading the color. Check the garment’s tags for washing instructions. , Tough stains may not completely fade after the first treatment. Scrub more paste into the stain, let sit and wash again until the discoloration has completely faded.


If using OxiClean or detergent paste, try soaking tough stains in the liquid form as well. This will increase the stain-fighting power. Follow the steps in the section below. ,


Mix baking soda or higher proportions of OxiClean, detergent or crushed aspirin with water in order to create a paste.
Scrub the paste into the stain with a toothbrush or nailbrush as described above. Let sit for an hour.
 You really only need to soak the stained portion, but you can submerge the entire garment if you like.


For lesser stains, soaking may not be necessary. Pour the solution into a spray bottle and apply to stained areas. Generously spray and allow the solution to soak in before washing as usual.
If you have sensitive skin you may want to wear rubber gloves for the following steps, as the cleaning agents contain strong chemicals.
Stay away from bleach products when soaking clothing, as the chemical oxidize dyes which could lead to discoloration. The items listed in this article do not contain bleach and should be fabric safe.
 Soaking time really depends on how light or dark the stain. Lighter stains may only need to sit for 15 to 30 minutes, while dark stains can sit for a few hours, possibly even overnight. Monitor your garment. If the stain fades quickly, remove from the soak. If the stain barely fades in an hour, leave overnight.
If a garment has been stained for a long period of time, it will be harder to remove. Try to treat your armpit stains as soon as they appear.



Some materials do not react well with heat, either shrinking the garment or fading the color. Check the garment’s tags for washing instructions.



Stains are actually created by perspiration reacting to the aluminum found in most deodorants and antiperspirants. The combination of the protein found in your sweat combining with the aluminum creates the yellow stain.
Tom’s of Maine makes an aluminum free line of deodorant.
 Caking on the deodorant or antiperspirant could lead to worse discoloration. Try to use sparingly. Excess deodorant will only cling onto your clothing and create more stains.
 Before wearing, after washing, turn the garment inside out. Sprinkle baby powder liberally over armpit areas and iron. This works best for cotton or cotton blend fabrics.
 To keep stains away from nicer dress shirts, use an undershirt as a buffer zone between your sweat and the garment. , By consistently treating the stain, you keep the garment clean and prevent it from settling into the fabric. 