 Make sure your hair is dry and hasn't been washed in a few days, so it's protected from the bleach by the natural oils your scalp produces. Put on an old t-shirt and have a stack of towels available to wipe away stray bleach. Work in an area that won't get damaged if a few drops fall on the floor.


If your hair is thick, have hair clips handy so you can apply bleach to one section at a time while the rest of your hair is clipped out of the way.
Drape a towel around your neck to protect your skin from the bleach.
Put on your plastic gloves when you're ready to mix the solution.
 Check the bleach powder package to calculate how much you need to use for your hair length. Pour the bleach powder into the plastic bowl. Measure out the correct amount of crème developer and mix that into the powder. Add a tube of red gold corrector and mix well.
 Working in sections, use the tinting brush to apply bleach to your hair from tip to root. Cover the front and back of each section of hair, making sure each strand gets an even application of the bleach solution. Continue until all of your hair is covered in bleach.


Some find it easier to apply bleach to sections of hair by using strips of aluminum foil to keep the sections separate. Place a section of hair over a strip of foil and use it as a base on which to apply the bleach. when you're finished with a section, fold the foil over to keep it in place.
Stop short of completely dousing your scalp in bleach. You won't be able to avoid getting some on your scalp, but it will burn if you get too much on it.
A tingling sensation on your scalp is normal, but if it becomes too painful, you should wash out the bleach immediately.
 Use a sheet of plastic wrap or a plastic shower cap to cover your hair while the bleach goes to work. Let it sit for 30 minutes.


After 15 minutes, check the hair to see how it's progressing. If it looks like the bleach has already finished working, you can go ahead and wash it out. If your hair is still dark, let it sit for another 15 minutes.
Do not leave the bleach in your hair for more than 40 minutes. It could cause your hair to fall out.
 Remove the plastic wrap and the aluminum foil strips. Place your head under the faucet and rinse out the bleach with warm water until the water runs clear. Use the purple shampoo to wash your hair, and use conditioner to start restoring its moisture. Let it air dry, and wait until the next day to dye it blonde.

