 Sydney has golden-blonde hair that is layered and shoulder-length. Try to dye it a natural-looking blonde, because Sydney doesn't dye her hair, so you don't want to make it obvious. Go to a professional to get it dyed or cut to the correct length so that you don't botch it up. Keep your hair straight and use hairspray to keep it perfect all day long.;
, Sydney's eyes are brown, and are molten gold when she stands in the light.
 If you've read the Bloodlines series by Richelle Mead, you know that Sydney wears business casual clothing in non-descript colors. Invest in some khaki or dress pants and some plain blouses. You can still look cute in these clothes, don't worry! Pick solid colors in white, off-white, beige, gray, peach, tan, and occasionally black (seriously, don't over-do it on the black) and match them up nicely.
 In the Bloodlines books, Sydney is close to an eating disorder, which is very unhealthy. If you want to be thin like Sydney Sage, just exercise and eat healthy. Do NOT starve yourself or restrict your calorie intake as she does. Remember, as much as we all love Sydney, she is just a fictional book character.
 The only jewelry Sydney wears is a small and simple golden cross around her neck.
 If you're dressing up as Sydney Sage for roleplay purposes, make sure you include the golden lily on her left cheek that identifies her as an Alchemist. Make sure you don't use anything that is permanent. If you're going for an everyday look, you should probably skip the facial tattoo.
 Sydney wears very little makeup and still looks beautiful. For those of us who aren't so lucky, try a no-makeup makeup look. You can find plenty of tutorials on the internet. I suggest using foundation and powder that is the exact shade as your skin to even out your skintone, some brown eyeliner (because brown looks more natural and isn't as dramatic as black) to make your eyelashes look thicker, some lip balm or chapstick, and to fill in your eyebrows (not heavily, though; make it look as natural as possible).
 As you probably know, Sydney Sage is very intelligent. She speaks five languages and is enrolled in many AP classes during her stay at Amberwood. Get an A+ on all of your homework and quizzes and have a love of learning, just as she does. Read educational books in your spare time (Greek Architecture, maybe?), and always be involved in your classes. Learn to love school and education. Make sure you're always a step (or five steps) ahead of everyone else, but don't intentionally be a show off.
 Sydney is polite to everyone. Always say "Yes/No, sir" and "Yes/No, ma'am"  when spoken to. Be obedient and do as you're told, without argument, unless you see a flaw in the plan, but do not let anyone walk all over you or do anything you're not comfortable with. Stay silent until you feel you need to talk and always pay attention to your surroundings and what people around you are saying.
 Sydney has had to face some pretty tough situations and had to make decisions, based on what she believed was right, even though her beliefs changed over time. Be brave, even when you don't feel like it.
 Always have your school assignments in on time and take up some extra responsibilities at home and work. Be reliable and make sure you do everything perfect the first time.
 While Sydney belonged to the Alchemists, she really had to fend for herself once she was out in the field, with minimal help from her higher-ups. Make sure that you don't rely too heavily on anyone else and don't whine when you don't get your way. Keep your head held high, even when you're being interrogated or insulted. Don't break down and cry in front of anyone.
 Sydney is very organized. Feel free to color-code and containerize everything! Make sure everything is always spotless and orderly, just like Sydney Sage. If organizing is new to you, you can find plenty of tutorials on wikihow and the rest of the internet.
 This one is obviously optional, but Sydney Sage believes in a higher power. That doesn't mean you should too, but Sydney does, so I thought I should include it, as well.  But also, whether you're religious or not, respect everyone else's beliefs and religions, even if you don't agree.
 You never see Sydney Sage wearing indecent clothes or chasing after multiple men (in fact, if you noticed, they chase her). Learn how to be a proper lady and act modest.
 While sometimes Sydney can come off as mysterious, she does tend to show off her extensive knowledge to others. Do this carefully, though. You don't want to come off as arrogant.
 Even though Sydney didn't like the Moroi and Dhampirs at first, she warmed up to them and ended up helping them out with quite a lot. Don't be shy to help others out and put yourself last sometimes.
 Yes, Sydney can come off that way, but she's really not. Find the right balance so that you don't make yourself look bad. Again, we all love Sydney, but she is a fictional character.
 Sydney Sage loves coffee! She drinks tons of the stuff a day, however, make sure, if you're going to drink a lot of coffee, that you switch to decaf. Sydney's addiction to caffeine is pretty unhealthy.
 Syndey's mom is a mechanic, and she transferred her love of cars to Sydney. Make sure you know all about classic cars (and don't be shy to name your car, as well).
 You almost never hear Sydney swear or curse. If you do have that bad habit, stop. It doesn't look good on anyone.
 These are some of Sydney's cutest traits. She's very clever and funny when she wants to be, but she doesn't offend anyone and uses clean humor. So no perverted jokes!

, Sydney Sage is anything but trashy. She's very educated and mature and hardly ever flirts with anyone (unless it's with Adrian Ivashkov!).
 Sydney has the ability to remain calm in very tough situations. You often see that she schools her face to a neutral facial expression. Be careful when you do this, though, you don't want to come off as cold, emotionless, and creepy.
 Sydney doesn't really have emotional breakdowns and she keeps her head, even when things get really bad. If she does break down, it's in private.
 Syndey views everything logically. This can make it hard to relate to others her age, but it helps her cope in life or death situations. It's also one of the things that makes her seem so smart.
 Sydney won't touch the stuff!

, Sydney takes her time with things so that she gets it right the first time. She hates making mistakes.
 Nothing escapes Sydney's notice. Look over everything at least twice and think about it from every angle before making a decision or commenting on something.
 Sydney's job requires her to be placed in dangerous situations and she hates feeling helpless. If you do take a self-defense class, make sure you find the right one for you.
 I don't believe this is in the book, but I can't imagine Sydney Sage slouching. This doesn't mean sit rigidly straight, but try to keep your shoulders back to look more professional and put-together.
 Everything Sydney does is professional and tidy. Make no mistakes and always be prepared.
 If you really want to be like Sydney Sage, don't just take advice from me, take it from the source itself! Really get to know the character so that you know what she would and would not do or say in a certain situation.

