 Add 1 packet of active dry yeast and 1 ¼ (294 ml) cups of warm water to a large bowl. Stir the mixture until the yeast dissolves.The water should be approximately 105 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit (40 to 46 degrees Celsius). Use thermometer to make sure that it’s warm enough to activate the yeast.;
, Once the yeast and water are mixed, add 1 ½ cups (188 g) of all-purpose flour, ⅓ cup (67 g) of sugar, ⅓ cup (76 g) of melted butter, 1 egg, and 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt to the bowl. Use an electric mixer on low to beat the mixture for approximately 1 minute until fully combined.You can substitute vegetable oil for the melted butter if you prefer.
As you’re mixing the dough, be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl regularly.
 After you’ve mixed the ingredients together with the electric mixer, add more flour to bowl and mix it in with a wooden spoon. Use just enough flour to create a soft dough that pulls away from the sides of the bowl.You shouldn’t need to use more than 2 ¾ cups (344 g) of additional flour to get the dough to the right consistency.
The dough will still be slightly sticky after you’ve added the flour.
 Once the dough has come together, take a 3-quart (2.8 l) container, such as a bowl or baking dish, that has a lid and grease it lightly with non-stick cooking spray. Place the dough inside the greased container, turning it over once so its surface is greased as well.You can substitute butter for the nonstick cooking spray if you prefer.
 After you’ve placed the dough in the greased container, cover it with the lid. Place the dough in the refrigerator to chill for at least 5 hours or overnight., After you’ve chilled the dough overnight, take it out of the refrigerator. Use your fists to punch it down, and then turn it out onto a lightly floured surface., On the floured surface, use your hands to divide into two pieces. Cover them with a clean kitchen towel, and let the dough rest for 10 minutes.If you have any trouble with the dough sticking to your hands, you can flour your skin lightly.
 While you’re waiting for the dough to rest, ready 1 to 2 baking sheets for baking the rolls. Lightly grease the sheets with cooking spray to keep the rolls from sticking when they bake.You can substitute butter for the cooking spray if you prefer.
You can use a baking dish to bake the rolls if you prefer.
 Once the dough has rested, uncover it. Use your hands to shape the dough into approximately 24 balls. Be careful not to work the dough too much, though, because it will become stickier the more that you handle it.You can shape the dough into more decorative rolls if you prefer. For example, you might roll sections into ropes, tie them into knots, and then tuck the ends under.
 After you’ve shaped all of the dough into rolls, place them on a the greased baking sheet(s). Set them at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart so they don’t rise into one another., When the rolls are placed on the baking sheet(s), set a clean towel over them once again. Let them rise until they are nearly double in size, which should take 45 minutes to an hour and a half.For the best results, set the rolls some place warm to rise.
 In order to ensure that the oven will be hot to bake the rolls, it’s important to preheat it. When the rolls are nearly done rising, set the oven temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. It should beep or flash an indicator light to alert you.
 After the rolls have doubled in side, place the baking sheet(s) in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the rolls are a golden brown color., When the rolls are finished baking, remove them from the oven and use a spatula to take them off the baking sheet immediately. Use a pastry brush to apply 2 tablespoons (28 g) of melted butter over the tops of the rolls, and serve them while they’re still warm.You don’t have to brush the rolls with butter. However, the melted butter adds an extra layer of flavor to the rolls.
 Give your rolls more flavor by adding ½ teaspoon (½ g) dried rosemary or 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried thyme or oregano to the dough when you mix the ingredients for the dough. Finish preparing the rolls in the same way that you would with plain dough.For added flavor, brush the rolls with melted butter and sprinkle them with parmesan cheese before baking them.
 If you want to give your rolls a sweet, spicy kick, you can coat them with cinnamon sugar. Prepare them as you would plain rolls, but brush them with melted butter and sprinkle a little cinnamon sugar on them before baking them.If you don’t have any cinnamon sugar, you can make your own by combining ¼ cup (55 g) of white sugar with 1 tablespoon (8 g) of ground cinnamon and mixing well., Give the rolls an extra savory flavor by dusting them with salt and pepper. Brush the rolls with melted butter and sprinkle them with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper before baking them.