 Having a fear of hospitals is a very common phobia. There are many reasons that people might be scared to enter these buildings. For example, some people are afraid of blood. Others might fear being separated from friends and family during a procedure.Reflect on what it is that you actually fear. Are you nervous about procedures that can cause pain? Do you have a fear about not waking up from surgery?
Figuring out what you are scared of is the first step in finding ways to cope. Identify your particular fear and acknowledge it.
Admit your fear to yourself. Try saying, "Hospitals make me anxious because I worry about being around sick people.";
, There is a difference between getting nervous around hospitals and having a phobia. Having a phobia can be as debilitating as any physical ailment. Pay attention to your symptoms so that you can figure out whether what you are coping with is nerves or a more serious disorder.Generally, people with phobias will experience physical symptoms when having an attack. That means that when you are near or in a hospital, your body will react in a certain ways.
Phobias cause different reactions in everyone. Some common symptoms are heart palpitations, chest pains, and dizziness.
You might also experience nausea or difficulty breathing. Feeling weak and having "fuzzy" vision are also common symptoms.
 Many people who have a phobic condition have to cope with panic attacks. A panic attack can cause frightening emotions and physical reactions. Understanding panic attacks can help you cope with your fear or phobia.A panic attack makes it very difficult to think rationally. During an attack, it can be difficult to separate reality from things that are not actually happening.
For example, a panic attack might cause someone to feel like they are having a heart attack. It can also cause you to lose control of your emotions.
If you have experienced a panic attack, it is a good idea to consult a medical professional. This may indicate that you are dealing with a phobic condition rather than mild anxiety.
 In order to fully confront your fear, it is useful to gather as much information about your fear as you can. Writing down attacks and particular events can help you keep track of your feelings. Try keeping a journal to track your symptoms.If you are near or in a hospital, write down your reactions. Include the circumstance of your visit and who was there with you.
Track your symptoms. For example, if you experienced blurred vision, write it down.
Look for patterns. For example, you might notice that driving by a hospital does not cause a reaction, but walking by a hospital does.

