 Feel sense is a very important part of whether to choose a paperback or a hardback book. For many people, there is an obvious and immediate reaction of texture, weight, and strength. Even the odor of the book can captivate or disturb the reader. However, whether you prefer a hardcover or a paperback may vary between books depending on the size and amount of pages, so it isn't always a given that just because you prefer one type of book over another that this will always be the case for all of your books.



Be honest with yourself. Some people love hardcovers because they're pretty.Really. It can be as simple as that!

, Hardcover books are made for durability. As such, they are an excellent choice when it comes to reference texts that you will be using often, such as dictionaries and thesauruses, quote books, professional texts such as case law and medical or veterinary manuals, great literary works, and so forth. In addition, hardcover is best for larger sized books such as atlases, coffee table books (paintings, scenery, photography, etc.), and similar large sized books. On the other hand, softcover or paperback books are great when you take them with you on public transportation, when you're traveling, or when you're reading in bed at night because they're not as heavy or cumbersome to carry or hold.


Do you enjoy reading a heavy or a light book in bed? Everyone has their own preferred method for snuggling up with a book and for some, the hardback versions are just too heavy while for others, they offer the required stability amid the marshmallow crevices of pillows and mattress!

, Most bookstores, chain or not, sell the paperback for a cheaper price than the hardback.This is because paperbacks are easier to manufacture. Hardbacks have a longer printing and production process that can be quite costly (better quality paper, harder cover, more paper used, etc.); printers set the prices on them higher so that they can get their money back.
 Hardbacks are usually the first version of the book. A couple of months after the publication of the hardcover, the paperback comes out – possibly with new information, such as an excerpt for the sequel, extended endings, or Q & A's from the author.If you're a book collector or you're collecting books of a particular author or series, the hardback first edition book is usually the preferred edition and is usually the book you'd buy for collection purposes. High value books, such as those from the Harry Potter series, tend to come out in hardback form first because they already have a high known value., A hardback would be better in terms of durability. Hardback books tend to have higher quality printing standards. They're usually made with acid-free paper (a pH of 7, neutral), which ensures their durability long-term. The paper is usually stitched and glued to the spine.Paperbacks are made less for durability and more for mass consumption. They have easy portability but also lack the durability of a hardcover and they may also suffer from foxing (yellowing and spotting), marking, lose pages, etc., much sooner than you'd find with a hardback.


Hardback books are protected by their binding in a way that paperback books are not and may be less prone to tear and wear as a result and are less likely to get dog ears. Although, be aware that libraries will often request that you do not return large hardcover books through the after hours chute, as these books can be easily damaged if they land awkwardly when dropped from a height. And while a paperback can be easily bent out of shape, the flexibility of a paperback can be its saving grace when carrying it about as it can squish into small bags and provided you take care, still come out okay for a good read!

, Like everything else, books wear out eventually and are no longer worth selling or even donating. While many single-stream city recycling programs accept paperback books along with newspapers, cardboard, etc., the glue in the binding of hardcover books makes them ineligible for some city recycling programs. If this is important to you, ask your local recycling service their policy on recycling worn-out books.
 Your desired book may be released in hardback first. If a book is released in hardback form first (as most books are), they are most likely destined to be successful and you'll have to wait awhile before it's published in paperback version. It all depends on how "up-to-date" you want to be or if you have the patience to wait. Even if it isn't released as a hardback first, that paperback shouldn't be shunned! It might just pleasantly surprise you.


You can circumvent the waiting period and the cost by placing a hold on hardcover bestsellers at your local library. Free and hardcover; now that's a perfect combination!

, Sometimes the book is only ever published in one or other format for reasons of cost, durability, marketing promotion, and so forth. In that case, the choice has been removed from you and you'll just have to go with whatever is provided.
 With the advent of eReaders and iPads, the avid reader has yet another type of book to consider. While not printed on paper, many eReaders have been formulated to look just like the pages of a printed book and the iPad has some very fun interactive features for books. The benefit of these electronic gadgets over books is that they're lightweight and can hold more than one book; indeed many of the eReaders can hold hundreds of books. On the other hand, they don't look, smell, or handle like a book and they're probably not as convenient when researching or writing an article as you can't have several of them open at once (unless you happen to be wealthy enough to own several of them at once but that's sort of wasteful in comparison to books). And they need juice, so when their battery is flat and you're in the middle of nowhere without electricity, your trusty book will still give you the satisfaction of a good read.
 Finally but importantly, don't lock yourself into only ever choosing one type and not the other. Each book or eBook has its benefits and its disadvantages dependent on all of the factors above and dependent on your intended end use. Give yourself the flexibility to chop and change between formats as needed.
 If so, choose hardback first.
Is your book testing the waters, a first off print run, a novelty or specialist topic, or just a big unknown? If so, choose softcover first.
Are you trying to keep down the costs of your print run? If so, choose softcover first.
What are your readers likely to prefer? (You're going to have to stand in their shoes a bit for this one.);
, This might enable you to meet the needs of each type of reader. However, it's likely that your budget will be the ultimate deciding factor here as this will definitely be a more costly way to produce the book.
 These are increasingly popular formats for publishing in and you might not even need to publish in print form!

