 Lemon juice is naturally acidic and it acts like a mild bleach. It works to remove unwanted color from patchy and flaky tans. Make sure you use fresh lemon juice because already squeezed lemonade that you buy at the store may have different chemicals in it that you may not want to apply onto your skin. Simply cut a lemon in half and squeeze the juice out into a bowl.


Then, mix one cup of raw sugar with 3/4 cup of fresh lemon juice.
Dip a cotton ball into your mixture, and wipe the streaky orange areas using circular motions. Your candy corn discoloration should be diluted after several minutes of light massaging.Use a loofa or other scrub brush with the lemon juice and sugar mix for a more aggressive way of completely removing your fake tan.
 Sugar is course and can be rough to scrub against your skin. If yours is too sensitive for the sweet solution, try baking soda instead to strip the fake tan right off. It is nonabrasive and leaves your skin feeling incredibly smooth. However, it may take a little longer to get rid of the streaks.Grab a bowl and mix equal parts baking soda with fresh lemon juice. Mix together until the powder becomes a paste. If your mixture seems more like a liquid, add more baking soda. You want the spread to stay on your skin and not run right off.
After you have developed your desired consistency, spread it on your skin and begin rubbing in soft, circular motions. Focus on the areas of extreme streakiness until the unwanted tan disappears. Don't scrub for more than three minutes.
When you are finished, clean off with water and a wash cloth or jump in the shower.
 Many people attempt to tan their face only to find that it doesn’t spread evenly or forgivingly. If your face is oily, sweaty, or dry, you will end up with dark patches that refuse to blend in, especially over your lip where fine hair grows. When blending in this undoubtedly tricky area, or anywhere on your face, you have to be very gentle because the skin on your face is sensitive and you can easily break capillaries if you scrub too hard.


To lighten above your lip, wet a wash cloth with warm water and gently rub for about 30 seconds using circular motions. The area will lighten up quickly because you are simply cleaning off the tanner that is attached to the fine hair above your lip.
Pull your lips in tight, hiding them while you apply the tanning spray or cream.
Do not apply the fake tan directly around your mouth because it will stick more easily here than in other facial areas. Instead, bring down existing tanner from your cheekbones and lightly rub on thinner amounts.
 If you have streaks in areas where you skin is dry or rough, you need to exfoliate your skin before you apply more fake tan to even out your first job.


Take the astringent toner or toothpaste and apply them on a dry washcloth. Gently massage your patchy areas in a circular motion until you can see the fake tan rubbing off.
Then, wash off your skin with warm water and apply the fake tan again. After you give the tan enough time to develop, you can determine if it is dark enough. If you want a darker look, or if you still see streaks, repeat the procedure.
You may need to repeat this step up to three times in order for it to look the way you want it to.
 These products are designed to take off the top layer of skin and change the DHA in skin, essentially lightening the fake tan. However, they may also irritate sensitive skin, so exercise caution. If you decide to use them, dilute the chemicals with moisturizer and avoid your face and neck at the very least. Never apply them immediately after shaving or exfoliating.


Cut either the peroxide or anti-dandruff shampoo with half parts moisturizer cream and apply the mixture to a wash cloth. Gently rub your skin in circular motions for a couple minutes.
Stop rubbing your skin once it becomes irritated or it starts to burn.
 A quality hair removal cream should help to erase those disastrous fake tan spots.


Simply apply your hair removal cream, let it sit for the recommended time in the directions on the package, and wipe off. While this may work like an eraser, beware of skin irritation. Hair removal cream works by using strong chemicals that strip off dead skin cells.
If you have sensitive skin, this may not be the best method for you., If you notice shortly after application that your tan is headed in the wrong direction, the fastest method is to slough it off with a specialty exfoliator mitt. These mitts are double-sided for easy access to areas that are hard to reach. Before using, it is important to soften your skin in the shower or bath first and dampen the mitt.


Squeeze any excess water from the mitt and use reasonable pressure to rub your skin in a rapid vertical direction. You should see folds of dead skin and more importantly, fake tan, begin to roll away.Soak in a bath to remove self-tanner pigment. This is a great way to loosen the top most layer of dead skin cells before you use your mitt.
Add in a body wash to your bath to create bubbles that will also help exfoliate your skin.