 If you have a diet devoid of essential nutrients, it shows in the volume and texture of your hair. Thick, voluminous hair depends on a healthy diet filled with vitamins and minerals that cause your hair to grow strong.


Get plenty of protein. Protein makes hair thick and shiny. Make sure you're getting enough in your diet by eating a lot of fish, lean meat, nuts, and eggs.
Eat omega-3 fatty acids. These healthy fatty acids promote hair growth. Eat sardines, walnuts, avocados, and pumpkin seeds.
Eat spinach and other leafy greens to get enough vitamin C.
Take vitamins. Prenatal vitamins, especially, contain ingredients that help thicken your hair.
 Everyday activities you don't think about may be causing your hair to become brittle and thin. Take the following measures to protect your hair from outside factors:


Keep it out of the sun. Direct sunlight can damage your hair just like it can damage your skin. If you're out in the sun a lot, start wearing a hat or a scarf to keep your hair safe.
Protect it from pollution. Do you have a morning commute that involves walking near heavy traffic? Pollution from cars, buses and other automobiles can cause your hair to dry out. Consider wearing a hat when you're in areas with traffic.
Don't expose it to chlorine. Chlorine in swimming pools is a common cause of dry, damaged hair. Over time it that can cause your hair to become thinner. Wear a swim cap in the pool. When you don't wear a cap, be sure to wash out the chlorine as soon as you get out of the pool.
 Stress from work, family issues and any number of factors can take a physical toll that manifests as hair loss. Becoming aware of this problem can help you figure out how to eliminate the problem that might be causing your hair to thin.


If possible, remove the stress from your life or deal with it using healthy methods like meditation, exercise and getting plenty of sleep.
Knowing that your hair is thinning can itself become a source of stress. Ease your worry by employing new strategies to help your hair grow thick, like using natural products, skipping chemical treatments and eating a nutritious diet.

