 Warm a small bowl of oil and massage it into your scalp.The oil will help moisturize your scalp and reduce flaking. If you want to use a natural oil, 5% tea tree oil has been shown to help in studies. Pure olive oil and pure peanut oil are sometimes recommended instead, but their use is controversial since they may provide food for dandruff-causing fungus.


Rumors about the harmful effects of mineral oil, such as it containing toxins or clogs your pores, are probably unfounded, as long as you use pure mineral oil sold as a skin care product. Products that make claims to relieve dandruff are tested by the FDA and would not be allowed to be on the market if they were harmful or contained toxins.Gently warm the oil. Do not heat it too hot to handle, especially not to smoking temperatures.
 While this treatment may reduce dense dandruff faster than a single anti-dandruff shampoo application, it will be more effective if you leave the oil in for several hours. A shower cap may be handy to keep your hair clean during this time. , Water alone will likely be ineffective at removing the oil. Instead, remove the oil with several applications of shampoo. If this is not enough to remove the oil, try leaving conditioner on your hair for 10 minutes, then rinsing out. A small amount of liquid dish soap can be used as a last resort, but it may damage or dry out your hair.


A tar-based shampoo may also work, and will also help remove additional dandruff, but many people find this substance unpleasant due to its smell and ability to stain., Many oil treatments and long-term care shampoos can also be effective at reducing dandruff if left in for eight hours, typically overnight. Look for an anti-dandruff shampoo that contains both coal tar and keratolytics. If it does not advertise keratolytics, or substances which dissolve dead skin cells, look for urea, salicylic acid, or sulfur in the ingredients list.


Find a well-fitting shower cap before you apply these, if you intend to sleep with them in your hair.