 To download free VPN software, open any web browser, and go to hamachi.en.softonic.com/download. Click the “Free Download” button in the center of the screen.


After the program finishes downloading, double-click the .exe file either at the bottom of the browser or in your Downloads folder, click “Run” to begin the installer, and then “Accept” after reading the terms and conditions.
Select “Custom” to avoid downloading unnecessary software, select “No,thanks,” then click “Next”; this will begin downloading Hamachi.
Hamachi will automatically open after being downloaded.
VPN software automatically sets up a virtual private network that makes it easy to create your own server.;
, Go to mediafire.com/download/ng6o5fw0wmvh4hq/Minecraft_Server.exe. Click the green “Download” button to download an alpha 1.2.6 server.


New servers are officially released with each update to the game. In order to host a server for a specific version of Minecraft, the game profile and the server must match. For example, if the latest server available is 1.7.9, attempting to use this server to play Minecraft version 1.7.2 will not work.
Mineraft.net only offers the latest server version for download, so you must use an alternative website to download an older server.
 Select “New” then “Folders” to create a new folder. Right-click the new folder, select “Rename” then type in “Alpha.”

, Open the Downloads folder, and drag the alpha server into the Alpha folder you just created.
 Notice the IP address that the VPN shows at the top of the main menu in bold. This is not your actual IP address; this is what anyone who connects to your server will need to access it. It also needs to be added to the new network that was created.
 If the server is an .exe file, double-click the file to open the server. If the server is a .jar file, right-click the file and select “Open with Java Platform SE binary” to open the server.


The first time the server is run, it will take a few minutes to add data files to that folder.
,


For others to join the server, instead of typing “localhost,” they can type the IP address given by the VPN.

