 OS X does not allow custom cursors, as the cursor is determined by individual apps instead of by the system. You can adjust the size of the pointer in the System Preferences menu. In order to change your cursor, you'll need to use a special program (See the next step).Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
Select the "Accessibility" option and then click the "Display" tab.
Use the "Cursor Size" slider to adjust the size of the cursor.
 Mousecape is a free, open-source cursor utility that allows you to apply custom cursor sets, or "capes", to OS X. Mousecape is by far the easiest way to currently change your OS X cursor.


You can download Mousecape from github.com/alexzielenski/Mousecape/releases. Download the latest "Mousecape.zip" file and then drag the .app folder inside into your Applications folder.
 Mousecape lets you load .cape files, which are preset packs of cursors. You can find these at a variety of different sites, including DeviantArt. You can also drag and drop image files into Mousecape to create custom cursors, so you could load up the preview of any Windows cursor file and then use that to create your new cursor.
 You will see a list of available capes, which will likely be empty.
 If you downloaded cape files, you can drag and drop them into the Mousecape window to add them.
 Select your new cursor in the list and press ⌘ Cmd+E to edit it. Give the new cursor a name.


If you are using a Retina display, check the Retina box.
 This will create a new object in your new cape file.
 You can add additional copies of the image to the other boxes if you intend to zoom the cursor.
 The standard system pointer is labeled "Arrow".
 This is the location of the actual pointer on the image. The Hot Spot starts in the upper-left corner of the image. The first number is the number of pixels the Hot Spot will move to the right, and the second is the number it will move down. You can see the new Hot Spot when you change the numbers.
 Click "File" → "Save" or press ⌘ Command+S. You can close the cursor window.
 It will show a preview of your new cursor. Double-clicking the cape will apply your new cursor.