 If you think you pronate too much and believe it's causing pain or other symptoms in your feet, ankles, knees or low back then make an appointment with your physician. Although your doctor is not a foot specialist, she should be familiar enough with normal anatomy and physiology that she can detect abnormalities and make helpful recommendations. She can also better assess what's causing your symptoms. For example, foot, ankle and/or knee pain is often caused by osteoarthritis (the wear and tear type), repetitive trauma, circulatory problems, lack of exercise and obesity, and may have nothing to do with your degree of foot pronation.Your doctor may take foot x-rays, which is great for seeing bone alignment (a collapsing ankle joint can be detected, for example), but not great for seeing the integrity of the ligaments and tendons that form the foot's arch.
Your doctor may recommend that you lose weight by changing your diet, which may relieve your symptoms and reduce the degree to which you pronate.
If you're pregnant, your doctor may tell you to be patient because the hormones released during pregnancy make ligaments more lax, which can lead to temporary flat feet and over-pronation. Occasionally this can become a permanent condition — if symptoms persist for more that six months postpartum, you should be re-evaluated.
 A podiatrist is a foot specialist who is more familiar with the normal biomechanics of the feet and the various conditions and diseases that cause abnormal gait (walking and running), including over-pronation and flat feet. A podiatrist will examine your feet, including your arches and ankles, and determine if your degree of pronation is normal or abnormal. A computerized gait analysis is often used by podiatrists to better understand how you walk and to what degree you pronate. The analysis typically involves walking over a sensitive force plate that's connected to a computer. Some doctors may also use thermography (heat sensitive pads) to better understand the biomechanics of your feet while walking.


Conditions related to chronic over-pronation include plantar fasciitis, heel spurs, bunions, Achilles tendinitis and shin splints.To correct over-pronation, podiatrists usually recommend custom made orthotics (shoe inserts with strong arch support) or orthopedic shoes that help prevent the ankle from rolling in excessively.
Podiatrists are trained for relatively minor foot operations, but more complex or involved surgical procedures are usually done by orthopedic surgeons.
 If you think you over-pronate (with or without flat feet) and are not getting adequate relief from conservative approaches such as orthotics, supportive shoes and weight loss, then ask your family physician for a referral to an orthopedic surgeon (musculoskeletal surgeon) who specializes in the foot. The orthopedic surgeon may use a CT scan, MRI or diagnostic ultrasound to visualize the soft tissues of your foot to confirm if you pronate too much and then determine the likely causes. This doctor can tell you if you pronate, and present all your options for treatment, which may include corrective surgery. Your doctor will likely not suggest surgery until all other possibilities have been exhausted.


Some causes of pronation, such as tarsal coalition (an abnormal fusion of two or more bones around the ankle), are only correctable with surgery.Surgery may also be required to lengthen an overly tight Achilles tendon or to repair an overly lax posterior tibial tendon (the main tendon of the foot's arch) — both causes of over-pronation.
Recovery times for surgery vary depending on the procedure (whether bones need to be broken or fused, tendons severed, or ligaments altered), but can last several months.

