 Every one is a different size and shape; ask yourself what sort of curves you may or may not have. Body shapes can range from rectangular, curvy, pear shaped, to hour glass.Visit a local dress shop, or research to understand your body shape.


Body shapes can be determined by bust, waist, and hip measurements.
Know your problem areas as well as your positive ones.;
, There are more formal styles as well as contemporary wear. Everyday styles are usually made with simple cotton, while more glamorous styles have ornate beading, diamonds, embroidery, and print.Ghagra cholis often come in different materials, causing them to be light or heavier depending on the type of cloth. There are also many different varieties of colors. Find a color that suits your complexion and one that makes you stand out in the best way.


Understand the symbolism behind the colors.

Red means charity, fire, and blood. White means purity, joy, and glory. Blue signifies truth. Green signifies hope of eternal life and nature.Choose the proper ghagra choli depending on your body shape.Choose a wide, full ghagra for a rectangular or athletic body shape. Pair with a plunging blouse to create the illusion of curves.Wear an A-line lehenga for an hourglass shape. Choose fluid fabrics, and pair with a short choli to show off your waist. Choose a jacket lehenga for a curvy or heavy body shape. Layering materials will support your figure. Make sure to have a wide neckline to keep the material from constricting you and adding unnecessary weight. , Normally, you can buy them in clothing stores in India. In the US, certain Indian stores sell them. Ghagra cholis can also easily be purchased online.


Ghagra cholis can also be customized according to preference. Ask a knowledgeable tailor or seamstress to change the full sleeves to half sleeve or sleeveless depending on the weather or look you're going for.The blouses can also be designed to be backless or with different necklines to complement your figure.
Ghagra cholis can cost anywhere from $60 (used) to upwards to $3000 (new)., At times, fabrics may be sheer and transparent, so wearing support and additional breathable undergarments can keep you comfortable throughout the day. Consider wearing a bra and underwear that are similar in color to your ghagra choli.


Choose undergarments that are form fitting and supportive.
 At times, they may be have to be zipped up. Other cholis can be pinned together with hooks. Be careful with the material when zipping or connecting hooks as the material is very delicate and can damage easily.


The choli should be well-fitted and flattering to your body shape.
 If it is not elastic and does not grab on to your waist, tie the drawstring. With movement and celebrating, the drawstrings will tend to loosen. Make sure to comfortably tighten it so you won't have any inappropriate accidents.
 It can also be arranged on just one shoulder. There are several options for draping the dupatta, so choose the proper draping to complement your features and dress. Since ghagra cholis are often very expensive, knowing several draping styles for your dupatta can help you transform it into a completely new style and dress.You will need safety pins depending on style you choose. You may also need help from another person to accurately drape the dupatta.
 Bring the material behind your back, and pleat the dupatta onto your right shoulder, and adjust the length of the pallu (excess material on other end) to fall below the knees. Secure with a safety pin. This style is a simple yet elegant style of draping, which allows you to have good posture as you will always have something in your hand., Secure the pleats with safety pins. Pick up the remaining dupatta on the other end, and tuck the corner into your left hip. Bring the loose side near your abdomen from your right shoulder, and tuck it into the same left hip, overlapping the previous tucked in material. This allows your waist to appear slim and hide your problem areas., Take one corner of the dupatta from the front end, and wrap it around your waist to tuck it into the skirt. Take one corner from the back side of the dupatta and bring it over the left shoulder. Pleat the dupatta in such a way where only the border is visible., Allow it to fall around your knee. Take a corner of the dupatta from the back side and bring it to the front around your waist. Tuck in on the left side of your ghagra. This accentuates slim figures as it shows your abdomen., Most women enjoy wearing matching bangles with their ghagra choli. Choose colors like silver, gold, white, or black to complement the colors on your dress. If there are gold details on your dress, wear gold sandals and a fancy necklace to complete your outfit.
 Shower, moisturize accordingly, and make sure to wear primer if you are wearing makeup. Festivals and weddings can be all day events, so ensure that your look stays with you all day. Choose a matted foundation as there may be lots of flash photography. Add eye shadow that matches the color of your ghagra choli.For married women, you can also add on a bindi as a sign of beauty, prosperity, and wisdom.