 Get out any time the light is good (which isn't the same thing as bright daylight; early mornings and late evenings are the best)., This is the camera's only exposure mode, which is fully automatic. You'll only need to turn this to L to lock the shutter while it's stowed away to prevent accidental shots; keep it around your neck and you won't need to bother doing this., This is covered in quite some detail in another article., Don't worry about this being a manual-focus camera; the T50's viewfinder is so enormous and bright that you'd have to try to get a shot out of focus. You also have two useful focusing aids to ensure that your shots are sharp. One is a split image, the circle right in the center, which splits the images into two pieces, and which are aligned when the image is in focus.
The other (more useful) aid is a microprism ring around the outside of the the split screen. This will cause any defocus to be far more obvious than it would be otherwise; when it's out of focus, this area will flicker and display a very obvious "cross-hatched"-ish pattern. Turn the focus ring until either the split image is no longer visibly split, or until the image in the microprism ring is visibly sharp., This will wake the camera up and you'll see a little green P appear.,
A slowly-blinking P: If it blinks about twice a second, it's warning you that your picture might be blurred by camera shake (this happens if the shutter speed is down to 1/30 or slower). Use a tripod or brace yourself against a solid surface.If you find yourself down in this range quite a lot, you might want to consider shooting a faster film.
A rapidly-blinking P: You're dead; you're either trying to operate outside the T50's metering range or you're going to need a shutter speed longer than two seconds. The T50 simply cannot operate under extreme low-light conditions, sorry.
 The camera's noisy little motor drive will automatically advance the film to the next frame. Keeping it held down will make it shoot again just under a second later. This might be a good idea if you're down in the slowly-blinking-P range (since it increases the chance that one of the shots won't be blurred by camera shake), otherwise you're wasting film by doing this., The camera will beep loudly at you when you're out of film.