 While the word rodeo clown may sound funny, the job itself is fairly serious. Rodeo clowns help distract animals, such as bulls and horses, in order to prevent ranchers and rodeo performers from getting injured. It's a job that takes a tremendous amount of bravery and physical skill.


Entertainment is an aspect of a rodeo clown's work. As rodeos are supposed to be fun, carefree events you need to keep the audience calm while quelling an unruly animal. There's a creative aspect to clowning. Many rodeo clowns use props like fireworks and costumes to prevent accidents while keeping the audience engaged.
You can make quite a bit of money as a rodeo clown. You're generally paid by gig, earning anywhere from $100 to $500 per show. Full time rodeo clowns make around $50,000 per year average. However, the downside is you do have to pay for your own travel expenses. Rodeo clowns also have a rubber safety barrel which they slip into in the event something goes wrong. This is another expense you'll have to pay yourself.Another perk is that finding work is fairly easy. Nationwide, every rodeo needs a rodeo clown and many people are unwilling to take on the task. Rodeos are always looking for new clowns. As rodeos are a popular form of entertainment, not appearing to be going out of style any time soon, you'll have some longterm job security as well.;
, Most people who become rodeo clowns grow up around farm and rodeo activity. If you want to become a rodeo clown, get acquainted with the ins and outs of the field. Try to land summer and seasonal work helping out at ranches and rodeos.


There's usually ads in the local paper or on Craig's List in areas, such as Colorado, Montana, Texas, and Kansas, where rodeos and ranches are popular. While some experience working with livestock is a plus, you may not need tons of experience to get an entry level job as a farm hand. While the work is not glamorous, you'll make connections and gleam valuable insights into the life of a rodeo clown.Talk to the rodeo clowns as you work. This gives you a chance to learn about the career path. Ask the rodeo clowns how they made the connections they did and how they got their jobs. You may find out about online registry websites, training programs, and more., Rodeo clowns have to be able to act fast in the event of an emergency. You'll need to develop agility, strength, and stamina. It's important to be in peak physical shape if you want to become a rodeo clown.


Build your stamina. Strive to be able to engage in vigorous aerobic activity for a prolonged period of time. You can build stamina by joining a gym and using equipment like elliptical machines, treadmills, and stationary bikes. You can also take up running or jogging.Strength training is also important. You'll need to build up muscle if you want to be a rodeo clown. Join a gym and engage in weight lifting and other forms of weight training. You might want to talk to a trainer about how to best build your muscles to top form.Practice improving your balance and agility. Exercise programs like cross fit, triathlon training, and other forms of exercise that engage multiple muscle groups and skill sets.
Strive to work out at least 5 times a week, focusing on weight training 3 of those days. Rest in between days you weight train.

