 This pertains to providing training and awareness to supervisors and managers to discreetly address any office relationships. They should be advised to monitor office relationships without infringing on any employee’s privacy.


The managers should be instructed to amicably and comfortably coach employees who get into a relationship with each other. If necessary, they should talk to the employees any negative impact their relationship has had on the office environment, on productivity, or on team morale.
They should also be instructed to keep their ears open for gossip and any potentially career damaging behaviors in case the relationship breaks up. Where a breakup ends up becoming a sexual harassment claim, they are advised to immediately take action in consultation with HR.
 The company should have a well defined policy to handle any sexual harassment claims. The policy should detail how a sexual harassment claim should be handled.


The policy should serve the purpose of educating employees about the behaviors that fall under harassment and emphasize the fact that the company has a zero tolerance policy regarding harassment.
 If the company finds it suitable, it may be a good idea to establish a separate workplace relationship policy. However, sometimes this is covered under the company's harassment policy.


The workplace relationship policy may state that all staff members are expected to behave in a professional manner and all personal interactions and relationships must be kept outside of the workplace.
Furthermore, consequences of the relationship turning bitter must be clearly spelled out within this policy.
 Once you have a concrete policy that is being periodically reviewed, you should be prepared to handle an issue if it comes your way.
 There has to be a level of professionalism and decorum maintained throughout the office, relationship or no relationship. So when two employees are together you need to watch them closely for any inappropriate behaviors.


Things like hand holding, talking intimately, rubbing shoulders, spending unnecessary time with each other, etc. are inappropriate in the workplace and should be nipped in the bud. If it is allowed to continue, these behaviors can irritate other employees and create slackness in discipline that can affect the productivity of the workplace.
However, if the two employees do behave appropriately and the relationship does not seem to be affecting their productivity or the other employees morale in anyway, there is no reason that the relationship should not be allowed to continue.
 Office relationships can sometimes affect other employees in a negative way, and when this happens they are liable to put forward their concern in the form of a complaint.


Addressing any employee complaints regarding an office relationship becomes more important if the office relationship is negatively affecting general work environment and productivity.
Secondly, if upon a breakup, either individual comes up to you for filing a claim of harassment, this also has to be acknowledged. When a complaint arrives, you have to consider employee records before making any decisions.
 Every employer understands that such a sensitive issue should not be disclosed publicly, but should be dealt with in private.


If you attempt to discuss the issue in front of other staff members, this may cause a lot of embarrassment to the employees involved in the relationship and could even be interpreted as a violation of their privacy.
 All this is undertaken in light of the impact on the overall organization. Many times organizations take strict action so that others learn from it.


Appropriate action taken by the employer will depend on the specific situation. Sometimes only slight changes may be necessary, like transferring employees to new roles or new location. However sometimes more drastic action is necessary, such as firing an employee on harassment grounds.
Other associated actions include conducting policy refresher sessions across the organization to ensure that the work environment stays pleasant and that these types of situations are avoided in future.

