 The United States Constitution is the supreme law of the United States of America, and this document, along with its amendments, expresses the fundamental laws of the country and the rights given to every citizen.Even though federal, state, and local laws have developed since the Constitution was ratified, every law passed must conform with the rights and duties set out in this founding document.


In other words, the rights provided to every citizen by the Constitution are both guaranteed and inviolable.
The first ten amendments to the Constitution, collectively known as the Bill of Rights, outline the most important rights that every American possesses.;
, The first amendment to the Constitution prohibits the government from mandating a national religion or passing any law that restricts any American from practicing his or her chosen religion.Therefore, practice any religion you choose in any way you choose, so long as you are not infringing on the rights of others.
 The first amendment also protects your right to express yourself how you choose.You are allowed to say whatever you wish, express yourself in any way you would like, and voice any opinion—however controversial or unpopular—without interference from the government, with limited exceptions for speech that is obscene or may cause physical harm (i.e., you cannot yell "Fire!" in a crowded movie theater when there is no fire present).
 The first amendment also provides citizens the ability to join organizations aimed at political change, peacefully protest in public, and communicate their grievances to federal, state, and local governments.While the government does not have to respond to each of these communications, you have the right to make your voice heard either by yourself or as part of a group.
 The second amendment to the Constitution protects the rights of citizens to possess and use firearms in this country.This is not an unlimited right, however. While you may lawfully possess and use a firearm nationwide, you must comply with federal gun law in addition to the relevant law of your state.
 While the Constitution does not specifically provide for a right to privacy, courts have interpreted a combination of its amendments to guarantee citizens with a right to privacy in their daily lives.While privacy law is complex and evolving, it is largely based on where a person would expect to enjoy privacy.


For example, you have the greatest right to privacy in your own home, because that is where a reasonable person would expect to have the most privacy.
The amendments used to infer a right to privacy are the first, third, fourth, and fifth amendments, as the protections offered by these amendments center around protecting an individual and his or her property from unjust interference by the government.
 The sixth amendment to the Constitution requires that someone who is accused of a crime be told exactly what that crime is. This amendment also guarantees a person accused of a crime a right to a speedy public trial by an impartial jury.The sixth amendment also guarantees your right to have a lawyer present during criminal proceedings, and requires the government to pay for a lawyer to defend you if you cannot afford one.
 The seventh amendment to the Constitution gives every citizen the right to a public trial by an impartial jury in civil cases (i.e., lawsuits not based on a crime, like a dispute between neighbors over placement of a fence)., The fifth amendment to the Constitution also limits the government's power of eminent domain—the government taking your private property (e.g., your land) for government use.While the government may take your property under certain conditions, it must always pay you a fair price for doing so.
 The fifth and fourteenth amendments to the Constitution protect every citizen from being treated differently by the federal or state governments due to aspects of their person that cannot be changed, like race, gender, or nationality.The government can not discriminate, or treat you differently, based on any of these factors.
 The nineteenth, twenty-fourth, and twenty-sixth amendments to the Constitution guarantee every citizen aged 18 years or older the right to vote in public elections.The government is prohibited from requiring any citizen to pay any fee or tax in order to vote.

