 An up-to-date list of cities that have Uber service is located at https://www.uber.com/cities/.
 If you are travelling to a country where you plan to use Uber, make sure you have a payment method that works in that country. Credit cards are a popular way to pay for Uber, and many credit card companies will have no issue overseas. However, some cards may prevent international purchases, and that can hinder your ability to use Uber.


If you live in the US or Canada and have cellular service through T-Mobile, AT&T, or Bell and Rodgers, your phone is compatible with GSM networks.Other providers may also have phones that use GSM—call your carrier if you are not sure.
Some CDMA providers (like Sprint and Verizon) have a range of “world phones” that can be used on either CDMA or GSM networks.
If your phone is not GSM-compatible, you can still use the Uber app when you have access to Wi-Fi. This can be dangerous to rely on, as Wi-Fi networks are not always available.
 If you have an unlocked GSM phone, get a local (to your destination country) phone number by purchasing a SIM card for use in that country. Not only will doing this save you roaming fees, but it will also ensure that your Uber driver can call if he cannot find you.


A few weeks in advance (if possible), call your carrier’s customer service phone number and ask if your phone is locked. If it’s not—great!
If the phone is locked, as the customer service agent to unlock it for international travel.The agent may offer you an international roaming plan as an alternative. These plans do not come with a local phone number in the company where you are traveling and cost far more money than you’re used to paying for calls, texts, and data.If you do decide that an international plan sounds right for you, you should still be able to use the Uber app to make your reservations.
 If you’re staying in the country for less than a month, expect to pay anywhere from $15-40 for a SIM card and prepaid calling, SMS, and data credit.


If you have already arrived at your destination, head to a mobile, electronics or department store and view your options. Most stores will activate your new SIM card on the spot.You can buy a SIM card online in advance. This gives you the opportunity to do research before making your purchase. Popular international SIM providers like LycaMobile and Lebara make it easy to buy a SIM card and activate it online.
 If you have not already done so, install Uber from the App Store (iPhone) or the Play Store (Android) and create your Uber rider account before you leave. This will give you time to test the app’s functions when you’re still in a familiar environment.


While tipping is not required, Uber drivers are permitted to accept cash tips if they are offered.

