 Although fake news sites typically provide a byline at the top of the article and name an author, a little research on your part can help you tell if the individual exists and if the news site is genuine.If no other information about the author is given on the website, or if the article does not provide a byline, you’re probably looking at fake news.


For example, if the byline of a potentially fake news article gives an author’s name, Google the author and see if they have written any journalism for other sites. Reputable journalists should have multiple publications, and often a personal website as well.
Even if a news site provides a “biography” of the suspicious author, but provides suspicious or seemingly bogus information therein, the individual may not be real.
Genuine news sites are scrupulous about documenting their writers’ achievements and providing access to contact authors and journalists.
 Look into the sources and citations that the article provides. Genuine news stories will quote interviews, provide statistics, and back up their claims with references to facts. Check out the sources themselves—follow links given in the article—and make sure that these websites are factual as well.If the article does not provide any sources for its information and does not link to any corroborating news stories, it’s likely providing fake news.If the article has no quotes, quotes from only one person, or quotes from people who don't exist, then it is likely fake.Be wary of fake quotes. If you see a sensationalist quote, try copying the quote and pasting it into a search bar. If it's real, then it's likely that other news outlets will have the same quote., Often, fake news sites try to pass off outlandish claims as being true, with the hope of shocking gullible readers. Read past the headline, and continue past the opening paragraph. If the logic of the article seems to fall apart as you continue, or if the article cites clearly inauthentic sources, you’re dealing with a piece of fake news.News stories that are extremely ridiculous or rage-inducing may be fake.In extreme cases, the content of the article may have nothing to do with the sensationalist, attention-grabbing headline.
The previously mentioned fake news article about Pope Francis endorsing Donald Trump is a good example of a sensationalistic piece. The article is designed to create an emotional response in specific readers (Catholics and Republicans), although the basic premise is absurd.
 Sometimes fake news sites will use stock images, or steal an image from someone else. Right-click on the image and you will have the option to search Google for it. (You can also search the URL and it will offer an image search option.) This way, you can see if other news outlets are using the image, and what they are saying about it.Sometimes it is normal to use stock images. For example, an article about healthy eating might have a stock image of food on it. However, if they are using a generic stock image and claiming that it is a specific person, it is likely that this person doesn't exist.

