 Head to a well-lit location with a mirror. Bring the mirror as close to you as possible so that you have a clear view of at least one of your eyes.This will make it easier to apply the makeup.


A magnifying mirror is ideal, but any mirror will work well enough as long as you can clearly see your eyes in it. This includes stationary mirrors, like those hanging on a wall or cabinet, as well as movable mirrors, like those included in a small compact.
Natural light often provides the best lighting, but as long as you can get a clear view of your eyes, artificial lighting can be just as good.;
, Look at your upper eyelid. If this eyelid does not have a crease, you have "monolid" eyes. On the other hand, if your eyelid does have a crease, you will need to continue on before you can identify your eye shape.


Note that the eyelid crease does not need to be visible to be counted. True "monolid" eyes completely lack a crease.
The "monolid" counts as a basic eye shape, so if you have one, you do not need to progress through the remaining steps in the "Shape" section of this article. You can, however, move onto the "Position" section.
 Imagine that there is a straight, horizontal line extending through the centers of both eyes. Ask yourself if the outer corners of your eyes lie above or below this center line. If the corners are above this line, you have "upturned" eyes. Similarly, if the corners are below this line, you have "downturned" eyes.


Imagining a center line might be difficult, so if necessary, you can place a disposable coffee stirrer or thin pencil across the horizontal center of one eye. Use your unblocked eye to examine the outer corner position of your blocked eye.
If the outer corners of your eyes fall near the center line, you will need to progress further to identify your basic eye shape.
If you have "upturned" or "downturned" eyes, you can stop sorting through the steps of the "Shape" section and move onto the "Position" section.
 With your eyes wide open, ask yourself if the crease of your eyelid is visible or hidden. If the crease is hidden underneath the upper part of your lid or your brow bone, you have a "hooded" eye shape.


Stop here if you have identified your eye shape as "hooded." This is your basic eye shape, so you can skip the rest of the steps in this section and move onto the "Position" section of the article.
If the crease of your eyelid is visible, you will need to progress through the last part of this section.
 More specifically, look at the whites around the iris—the colored portion of the eye. If you can see any white around the top or bottom of your iris, you have "round" eyes. If you cannot see any white above or below the iris, you have "almond" eyes.


Both "round" and "almond" eyes are basic eye shapes.
If you have no other identifiable shape features, as indicated by the previous steps in this section, your eye shape can only be "round" or "almond."
This is the last quality you can take into consideration when identifying eye shape. The only other thing to take into consideration after this is the position of your eyes on your face.
 Just as you did when you identified your eye shape, you need to look at your eyes closely using a mirror while in a well-lit location. Unlike before, however, you should make sure that both eyes are visible in the mirror. One eye will not be enough to accurately determine eye position.
 More precisely, examine the gap lying in between the inside corners of both eyes. If this gap is less than one eye length in size, you have close set eyes. If this gap is larger than one eye length, you have wide set eyes.There is also the possibility that this gap is roughly the length of one eyeball. In this case, gap length is inconsequential and does not need to be taken into consideration.
This step only identifies your eye width. It does not influence depth or size, so you will still need to move onto the remaining steps in this section even if you have wide or close set eyes.
 Most individuals do not need to take depth into consideration when determining the position of their eyes, but some do have either deep set eyes or protruding eyes.


Deep set eyes appear as though they are tucked further back into the socket, causing the upper eyelid to appear short and small.
Protruding eyes, on the other hand, literally bulge outward from the socket and toward the upper lash line.
Since this step only identifies eye depth, you will still need to continue with the remaining step of this section to determine eye size.
 Compare your eyes with your mouth and nose. Average eye size will be similar to that of your mouth or nose, if not a little smaller. If your eyes are significantly smaller, though, you have small eyes. If they are larger than your other features, you have large eyes.


As with depth, most people will not need to pay attention to the size of their eyes.
 For most people, the shape of your eye will determine the best practices to follow when applying eye makeup.


For mono-lid eyes, create a gradient of eye shadows to add dimension. Apply dark colors close to the lash line, a soft neutral toward the middle, and a shiny color near the brow.If you have upturned eyes, apply dark shadow or liner along the outer lower corner of the eye, thereby making the outer corner look lower.
If you have down turned eyes, apply liner close to the upper lash line and blend the shadow across the socket, but only on the outer two-thirds of the eye. This "lifts" the overall appearance of the eye.For hooded eyes, use medium to dark matte colors and apply as little as possible to avoid overwhelming the eye.
If you have round eyes, apply medium to dark shades over the center of the eyes and use light shades to highlight the corners. In doing so, you “narrow” the overall shape of the eye.
If you have almond eyes, you have what many consider to be the “ideal” shape. You can try just about any look with your eye makeup.
 If you have notably wide or close set eyes, you may want to consider that quality, as well, when you decide how to apply eye makeup.


For close set eyes, use light colors on the inner corners and dark colors on the outer corners. Line the outer corners with mascara, as well. Doing this extends the outer corners of the eye.
For wide set eyes, apply dark liner as close to the inner corner as possible and use mascara on the lashes from your mid-eye to your nose. As a result, your eyes will look closer together.
 Eye depth does not necessarily play a huge role in the application of makeup, but there are a few things worth considering.


If you have deep set eyes, apply light colors on the upper lid over your eyes and a darker color and just above the socket line. This redirects the shadows of your eye, drawing it further out.
If you have protruding eyes, use medium to dark colors around the top and bottom of the eye, extending the color no further than the creases on either side. Using a little more color than normal adds more shadow to the eye, making it appear further back in the socket.
 The amount of eye makeup you should use may vary if your eyes are sized outside of the traditional norm.


Small eyes tend to be overwhelmed when you use dark colors, so stick with light to medium shades and avoid weighing down your lash line with too much liner or mascara.
Large eyes give you a larger palette to work with, so you can play around with a variety of looks. Medium to dark shades tend to look better, though, since light shades can make the eye look even larger than it already is.

