 Most brunettes have brown eyes, but some have hazel, blue or green eyes.


If you have brown hair and dark brown eyes, your colors are:

Blue (all shades)
Pink (all shades)
Red (dark)
Chocolate brown
Taupe
Aqua
Grey (dark)
White
Yellow (all shades)
Lime green
Orange
Turquoise
Black
Purple (creamy-light and dark)


If you have brown hair and hazel eyes, your colors are:

Blue green
Tan
Sage green
Yellow (LIGHT)
Orange
Purple (creamy-light)
Grey (light)
White
Aqua
Hazel
Pink (rosy-light)
Dark Blue


If you have brown hair and blue eyes, your colors are:

Blue (all shades)
Pink (medium blue-based shades)
Grey
White
Peach
Lime green
Purple (all shades)
Tan (light)
Brown (light)
Black (jet-dark)


If you have brown hair and green eyes, your colors are:

Green-blue
Green (all shades)
Brown (all shades)
Hazel
White
Black
Aqua

;
, Don't change your hair color just for this purpose, it'll change your whole image and you may look fake and a lot different then what you probably look like originally. Stick to your true colors, don't fall victim to peer pressure.
 If you are a brunette with pale skin, then avoid the darker colors; they will flush out your skin tone.


If you are a brunette with medium-tan skin, then you're pretty much safe to wear any color. Try rich, deep shades of purples and browns to enhance your skin tone and give you a little glow.
If you are a brunette with dark skin, then you're lucky! You can wear practically any color you want! Just try to avoid black and try the different pastels to give your color a glow... you'll be impressed with your results!
If you're a brunette with freckles, avoid all reds and pinks, if possible. Try yellows and tans!

, A brunette keeps it natural, though. Wear a neutral cream eyeshadow and tan-brown cream eyeliner, and natural-looking brownish-black mascara. Wear a blush one-two shades darker than your skin tone, and avoid pure pink. For blush, tawny tannish-pinks are best. Wear a foundation to match your exact skin tone. If you want an extra glow, lightly sweep bronzer all over your face.
 Keep it healthy. Use a shampoo like John Frieda shampoo and conditioner made especially for brunettes. It will give you major high-gloss, and a healthy shine/sheen. Before straightening, don't forgot to use heat protection!

