 The common cold is usually caused by a rhinovirus. Rhinoviruses cause upper respiratory infections (URIs) most commonly, but they can cause lower respiratory infections and sometimes, pneumonia. Rhinoviruses are most prevalent March through October.


The incubation period is usually short, only 12-72 hours after exposure to the virus. Exposure usually occurs by being in relatively close proximity to someone who already has a cold and who coughs or sneezes., Nasal dryness or irritation is often the first symptom. Sore throat or an irritated, itchy throat is another common early symptom.


These are usually followed by nasal discharge, nasal congestion, and sneezing. These usually get worse over the next 2-3 days after the first symptoms.The nasal discharge is usually clear and watery. It may become thicker and greenish-yellow.
Other symptoms include: headache or body aches, watery eyes, facial and ear pressure from congested sinuses, loss of sense of smell and taste, cough and/or hoarseness, vomiting after coughing, irritability or restlessness, and a low-grade fever may occur, usually in infants and preschool children.
The common cold can be complicated by ear infections (otitis media), sinusitis (inflammation of the sinuses), chronic bronchitis (lung inflammation with congestion and coughing) and worsening of asthma symptoms., There is no current cure for the common cold. Instead, you should focus on alleviating the symptoms. The medical recommendations include:Get plenty of rest.
Drink lots of fluids. These fluids can include water, juices, and clear chicken or vegetable broths. Chicken soup IS actually very good for the common cold.Gargle with warm salt water. This will help make a sore throat feel better.
Use cough drops or throat sprays if you have a severe cough that is not allowing you to get enough rest.
Take over-the-counter pain or cold medicines. Make sure to follow the directions on the packaging.
 Most of the time, there is no need to see a physician. If, however, you or your child experience any of the following symptoms, call your doctor:A fever with a temperature higher than 100.4 degrees F. If your child is younger than 6 months old and has a fever, call your doctor. For children of any age, if the fever is 104 degrees F or greater, call your physician.
If the symptoms last more than 10 days
If the symptoms are severe or you experience unusual symptoms, such as severe headaches, nausea or vomiting or difficulty breathing.

