 You will be asked to provide this information when you check price quotes, so you should know how many feet of fence you require.


USA Vinyl provides an excellent blueprint for devising a vinyl fence system. Print out their template at usavinyl.com/fenceestimate.html to decide what posts and fencing you will need.





;
,


Make sure your fence has aluminum or galvanized steel supports at the bottom. This metal will ensure that your fence stays straight. Wood supports will cause the fence to wave. Steel supports, other than galvanized steel, will rust and deteriorate over time.
Choose fencing that is .150 inches (0.4 cm) thick rather than other fencing that is .120 or .135 inches (0.3 cm) thick. This will be more durable and prevent dents.
Choose fence hardware that is stainless steel or galvanized steel. You want the hardware to be strong but avoid rust.
Choose a long-term fencing company that is likely to last well into the future. Inevitably, vinyl fences require some part replacements over the years. If your brand of vinyl fencing is no longer in production, you will find it difficult to keep your fence sturdy and attractive through the years.
 This online search tool is an effective way to look at the different types of vinyl fences and decide what you want. For example, you can choose a privacy, semi-privacy, post and rail or decorative vinyl fence.


Go into home improvement stores or look on this site to get a starting point for comparison shopping. Most of these stores provide vinyl fence without installation, for people who like to do their own home improvement. You should decide what your skill level is before deciding to take on a vinyl fencing project yourself.
 The main draw of these businesses is that they install the fence themselves, so they are able to guarantee the work they do in case your fence warps with the weather. Request several quotes, taking into account the guarantees and services they provide.
 If this is a large job and you can install the fence yourself, this may be the best way to buy. Search for quotes on sites like buydirectvinylfence.com, wholesalevinylfencing.net and vinylmartdepot.com.


Keep in mind that some of these sites put you into contact with vinyl fence dealers from around your area. They will use your email address or phone to contact you after you ask for a quote. Use an email address other than your business address.



Fence post holes should be wider at the bottom than at the top. This will help to keep the fence post steady in case of frost. If you make them wider at the top, the fence can get pushed out of the ground during a frost.
Fence posts should be placed below frost depth. This depth will depend upon your location; however, you should be exact in your depth to avoid installing fence posts that are no longer steady after cold weather.
Do not install fence post sections too tightly. They need some room to move with changes in heat and moisture. If you are unsure of the correct way to install them to avoid warping, get quotes on installation.
 Vinyl is considered a lifetime product, so choose a company that is willing to back that up and provide replacements if anything goes wrong. It may save you more money in the long run to choose a fence with a warranty than to go with a lower cost fence without a warranty.
 Look for reviews and go to the Better Business Bureau website to see how many outstanding problems they have with clients. If they get a bad rating, you may want to look for another provider.
 Buying with a credit card creates future proof of the transaction, and most credit cards provide you support in the case of fraudulent companies. If your product does not arrive or arrives with problems, you can file a complaint with the credit card company as well as the fencing company.
 Vinyl fencing that is installed in hot or cold weather is likely to move and warp when the weather fluctuates. Choose a date carefully, taking into account the temperatures in your area.

