 They can include condensation on windows, allergies, musty smells and wall stains.;
, Mold can affect property values and a home inspector can tell you how to mitigate mold problems.
 This small temperature and humidity gauge is available online for $15 to $30. Measure the humidity in each room of your home to see how many rooms require a humidifier.


Hygrometers are available in digital and mechanical displays. Digital hygrometers with LCD displays are slightly more expensive and may not pick up low levels of humidity.
Make sure you reset the hygrometer as you move from room to room and wait an appropriate amount of time before judging the humidity., You will need to convert the measurement to square feet or square m. For rectangles or squares, you can simply multiply the length measurement in feet by the width measurement in feet.


You can also use an online calculator at http://www.squarefootage.org/square-footage-calculator.php

, A 500 square foot (47 square m) room will need a dehumidifier that can process between 10 and 16 pints (4.7 to 7.6 l) of water in a 24-hour period.
 A floor model can work for 1 large room or a few smaller rooms that are connected by a door or entryway.
 These models can be as large as a window air conditioner.


If you plan to use a dehumidifier in several rooms, pick a model that is on casters so you can push it from room to room. , You can attach it to existing air circulation systems for best results. It will need to process between 22 and 44 pints (10.4 to 20.8 l) of water per day.
 Laundry rooms and basements usually need the maximum dehumidifying power for the space. , If you have a home improvement store or a large department store, you may be able to compare accessibility factors before you purchase a model.


If you can’t find dehumidifiers to test, then make sure you have a quality assurance and/or satisfaction guarantee.
 If you are using a small to medium-sized dehumidifier, you will probably need to empty the bucket manually. The bucket should be accessible through the front and the top.
 Basement and whole house humidifiers may require a hose to empty large amounts of water that is removed from the air. Ensure you have a place in your house, such as a utility sink or a drainpipe that will work for this purpose.


Whole-house dehumidifiers require a hose that extends outside of the house. You should employ an installer to make sure the hose is emptying into an appropriate place on your property.
 These models are certified as energy efficient by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the US Department of Energy. Check with your power company to see if you can receive a credit on your bill for using an Energy Star device.
 If the temperature regularly drops below 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 degrees Celsius), you will need to buy a special cold-weather and frost-resistant model. These models will work to approximately 42 degrees Fahrenheit (5.5 degrees Celsius).
 You can control the machine based on the humidity level in the room. It should also have several safety features, such as an automatic shut off if the water bucket is full., You may choose to upgrade for an additional 5 years of protection, but try to avoid expensive service agreements.

