 Continue watering the garden every day according to the specific needs of the plants you are growing. Both overwatering and underwatering can be detrimental to the plants' lifespan, so do your best to give each plant the amount of water it needs, no more and no less.
 Some plants require extra fertilizer a few times throughout the growing season; others are fine after they're put in the ground. It's up to you to figure out what type of fertilizer your individual plants need, and make sure they get enough nutrients to grow tall and strong.


Over fertilizing plants can actually harm them, so make sure you don't use more than they need.
Natural fertilizers are preferable to chemical fertilizers, which can be detrimental to the soil over time.
 Every week or so, you'll need to get on your knees and pull up the weeds. Left to grow wild, weeds will crowd out your vegetables and flowers, taking the nutrients and water from the soil. Grasp weeds close to the roots and pull gently to remove them from the ground, roots and all. Weeds will grow right back if you tear them off at the stem and leave the roots in the ground.
 Deer, rabbits, squirrels, beetles, spiders, and many other types of animals and insects will be as excited about your new garden as you are. If you see signs that your garden is being invaded, you may need to take measures to protect it by putting up a fence or using methods to keep insects away. Look for bite marks on leaves, holes in produce, or other signs of pest problems.


Before you take action, make sure there's definitely a problem. A snake in the garden, for example, is a sign that your plants are healthy. Spiders can keep the insect population down. You don't need to get rid of creatures that aren't actually causing harm.
Use organic methods to keep creatures out, rather than resorting to pesticides. Pesticides are indiscriminate when it comes to what living things they harm; they aren't much healthier for humans than they are for bugs. Methods like spraying bugs off leaves with a water bottle are less harmful to the environment than chemical sprays.
A good way to keep insect pests at bay is to plant 20% of your garden area with flowers to attract beneficial insects. This will let natural predators do the work for you. Some pest repelling plants include basil, sage, geraniums, chrysanthemum, and flax.