 This is probably the hardest step if you're used to talking all day and night. But there is no way you can start feeling better if you're always waiting for a text to come through or getting dragged back into the fantasy that everything will be okay. Also, communication is the key to a relationship, no communication, no relationship. To help yourself resist the urge to contact them, delete, delete, delete! If they try to get in contact with you, ignore it. That may be hard, but it is the best thing to do, let them know that you're moving on.;
, Friends can help you keep your mind off the things that will keep going around in your head. It may seem like just blocking it out, but one day, everything will be resolved. Go for long walks with friends, re-kindle friendships that may have been lost during your time with your latest ex.
 Just close your eyes, and ask someone to take this pain from you, ask them to give you strength to carry on and be happy. It doesn't matter if you have no religion, but just ask!

, Just until your sleeping returns back too normal. It helps because it will stop you thinking about what's happening and calm you until you fall sleep.
, Although it may make you feel happy, it is a depressant and isn't a sustainable way to keep yourself feeling good. If your mind is down in the dumps, alcohol could push you into deep depression.
 All of them will have been through what you're going through now and can support you in your despair.
 There is always someone else out there. They may be a million times different than your past lover, but you can still share the same feelings for them, and they will for you.
 Having sex just to have sex will make things worse, because you'll miss the times you've shared with your old lover and it won't fill your missing emotional bond.
, Even if you can't be bothered to do anything, make a bit of effort to keep yourself fresh and beautiful.
, It'll make you feel strong which is exactly what you need at this time.
 Undo the anchors that makes it yours and your old lovers.
,,, A smile can mend a broken heart.

