 When you decertify your union, it no longer operates in your workplace. It can’t collectively bargain on your behalf, and you no longer will be bound by prior collective bargaining agreements. You should find people who can help you handle the decertification process. Only the National Labor Relations Board can decertify your union, and they have made the process lengthy and difficult.If you no longer want any union in your workplace, then you should talk to a lawyer. Your employer is prohibited by law from helping you.You can find a labor lawyer by contacting your nearest bar association and asking for a referral.
You might want a new union. The process is similar to the one described in this article. However, it is often easier to try to reform your current union than switch. You should contact the National Labor Relations Board with questions., You can only move to decertify a union at certain points in time. For example, you can’t vote to decertify within the first year of the union’s certification. However, you could seek decertification at other points:In the first three years, you have a 30-day window in which you can seek decertification. This window begins 90 days before the bargaining agreement expires and ends 60 days before the agreement expires. If your union agrees to a new collective bargaining agreement before the window arrives, then you can’t seek decertification.
After the first three years of a contract, you can seek to decertify at any time.
If your collective bargaining agreement has expired, then you can seek decertification so long as a new agreement hasn’t been signed.
 You can’t request a decertification election from the NLRB unless you get signatures from at least 30% of bargaining unit members who agree to hold a decertification election. There are many petitions available online. Remember to work to decertify the union only during non-work time and only in non-work spaces.A petition might read: “We, the undersigned employees of Acme Company, no longer wish to be represented by National Union Federation, our current union. We request that the National Labor Relations Board hold an election since we believe a majority of unit employees no longer wish to be represented by National Union Federation.”Include lines for each signatory to put their printed name, signature, department, and date.
 You need to get at least 30% of all members covered by the union to trigger a decertification election. Remember that the 30% threshold applies to all people covered by the union—not simply members.


It’s possible that people choose not to join the union but nevertheless are covered by the collective bargaining contract. These people can vote to decertify the union.
 You must notify your employer and other interested parties (such as your current union) that you are seeking decertification. Don’t show them your petition with signatures. Instead, you will need to provide them with completed copies of the following forms.You can serve them by certified mail or hand delivery.Form NLRB 502-RD
Form NLRB-505
Form NLRB 4812

, You should make several copies of the petition. You need to submit it to your nearest NLRB regional office, along with NLRB Form 502.You can find your nearest NLRB regional office here: https://www.nlrb.gov/who-we-are/regional-offices.
Also send a Certificate of Service, NLRB Form 5544., It is an unfair labor practice for anyone to try and intimidate you into staying in the union. Once you begin your decertification drive, you can expect the union to find out and not be happy. Be sure to thoroughly document any intimidation, such as threats or harassment.


Save threatening emails and notes, as well as voicemail messages.
If someone personally confronts you, then write down their name and what they did or said.
 The NLRB should run the decertification vote. After receiving your request, they will need to validate signatures. The election should be held within 60 days. At the election, a majority of people who vote will need to vote to keep the union, otherwise it will be decertified.Once decertified, you can negotiate terms of employment directly with your employer—and without union involvement.
 Decertifying a union is not easy. It can take years to decertify a union, and you may need more than one petition or election before you succeed.

