 When examining a wood swivel chair at an auction or antique store, look for such problems as chipped wood, a poor luster, cracked finishing, uneven wear and broken parts. Consider whether the chair is solid enough to be worth salvaging and if parts or mimic parts can be made for the chair. Another thing to check for is insect damage; if the chair has holes in it, does this effect the look or even the stability of it? Once you're satisfied, make you purchase and proceed with restoring it!
, It is important to make the chair sturdy again if it isn't before you attempt to restore the chair's finish, or else you risk it falling apart on you as you work on it. If the swivel mechanism is broken, can you replace it with another one from spare parts (ask an antique store) or can you get a new one soldered for you by a manufacturer or specialist such as a carpenter or chair repairer? Indeed, if the swivel mechanism needs replacing, unless you are keen to work it out and possibly make errors, or you know what you're doing, it's recommended to get some professional help. You could always ask to learn from them at the same time! In addition:

Replace nuts, bolts, screws, etc. that are rusted or worn
Fix any of the chair's support rungs if needed
Fix any missing pieces

, Sand the wood using a 10 grit sandpaper or sandpaper sponge. Aim to smooth over any rough parts, as well as create a consistent surface all the way across the chair, down the legs, on the back support, etc. This step must not be skipped because it removes years of ingrained dirt, chips, etc., that will show up if you stain over them without removing them. On the plus side, sanding is a therapeutic activity, or you can always cheat and use and electric sander to speed up the process!, A damp wipe will pick up the last of the fine particles., When purchasing, try to match the stain color as closely to the original as possible. That will help to maintain its old style look and keeps its value higher., Stir well before use., Use a natural bristle brush and be generous with the stain layer, as the wood will soak up a lot of the stain. Wipe off any excess., Once dry, use a sanding sealer over the stain. When applying this with a natural bristle brush, follow the grain of the wood at all times, and try to keep your strokes as long and even as possible, without too much overlap., Use 280 grit sandpaper or a sanding sponge. Clean off the resulting sanding dust using either a damp cloth or a vacuum., Follow the manufacturer's suggested method of application, although it is usual to apply with a rag or foam brush., Sand once again using the same 280 grit., Being careful now will pay major dividends in the future, preventing the chair from cracking or warping later.,, These are best left until last, after the chair finish has been improved so that there is no chance of staining. It is a good idea to try to match the original texture and color as much as possible if there is an insert of any kind. If the seat or backing are all wood, then you're already done!