 Contractions caused by nipple stimulation can come on fast and extremely strong for some women. It is important that you do your stimulation sessions with your partner or with your phone close by. This will make it possible for you to reach out for help if you need it during/after the process. , For stimulation to be effective, you need unfettered access to your breasts. When you are ready to begin, go somewhere private and arrange your clothing in a way that is most comfortable for you. Be aware that some women find that wearing a bra (especially one with an underwire) impacts blood flow and reduces responsiveness .
 Start by placing your areola (the dark area around your nipple) between your thumb and forefinger. Gently massage and roll your areola, slowly working your way inward toward your nipple. When you reach the nipple, you can pull on it lightly or massage it.When you are stimulating your nipples one of the goals is to mimic the actions of a baby suckling. This is one major reason why you should only massage one breast at a time. Doing more can overexcite your system. Massaging each breast in turn will hopefully result in your body releasing oxytocin as it would do if you were breastfeeding.
Another way to massage the entire breast is to place one palm over the areola and nipple while the other palm cups the outer edges of your breast. Both hands then work in tandem massaging the entire area.
It is best to switch to the other breast after your nipple has been erect for one full minute.
 It is best to wait for 2 to 4 minutes before starting the process over again with your as-yet-untouched breast. The entire breast massage should take between 15 to 20 minutes maximum. It is recommended that you repeat the massage a maximum of three times daily., Your goal is to start labor, but you don’t want to rush directly in to heavy contractions. Those can be overly taxing for both you and your baby. For that reason, if you feel a contraction, stop massaging until the contraction concludes. If you choose to continue massaging afterwards, proceed very carefully and stop completely if your contractions last in excess of one minute or if they come 3 minutes apart.If you choose to continue massaging after your contractions start, make sure that you are doing so with the guidance of a medical professional.
Be aware that it is quite possible to overstimulate the baby at this point if you are not tracking their heartbeat.