 If the person really loves you, then the idea of you being in his or her future is an absolute given, not something that he or she would ever have anxiety or uncertainty about. If the person routinely talks about what you're going to do in the future, about what your lives will look like one, two, or even ten years in the future together, then s/he is probably in love with you.


True commitment means seeing a forever with another person. If the person talks about the future and always includes you in it, then there is a good chance s/he truly loves you.
If the person talks about what your kids will look like, where you will retire together, or where you will go for your honeymoon, then s/he may really love you.
 There's a difference between saying, "I like your new haircut" and "You have the ability to make me feel better no matter what." If the person gives you compliments that show that s/he really appreciates the important aspects of your character and personality, then there's a good chance s/he really loves you.


Your loved one doesn't have to shower you with compliments all the time — it's the quality, not the quantity, that makes a difference.
 Remember that there is a big difference between "Love ya!" and "I love you." If your special someone really loves you and tells you this much while looking into your eyes, sounding earnest, and not wanting anything from you, then it's likely that s/he really means it.


If the person undeniably loves you, then s/he will say it for no reason at all, not just because s/he needs a favor or because it feels like the right thing to say.
 If your loved one really loves you, then they will really open up to you and tell you what they are thinking, feeling, fearing, and longing for. If the person really opens up about their childhood, greatest regrets, most painful moments, or most romantic dreams for the future, then it's likely that they like you because the person is so comfortable telling you about almost everything.


If the person tells you, "I've never told anyone this before..." then there's a good chance that s/he really loves and trusts you.
 If you and your loved one are apart, but s/he still texts you, calls you, or emails you to let you know how much s/he misses you, then it means s/he can't imagine his or her life without you. If you go on a three-week vacation and don't hear a word from him or her, then it may not be love.


S/he doesn't have to call you constantly to let you know if she/he misses you.
 If that person truly loves you, then s/he doesn't have an idealized picture of you in his or her mind. If it's truly love, then that person will be comfortable with telling you when you've made a mistake, said something illogical, or acted badly. Though the person shouldn't criticize you all the time, giving you a healthy amount of criticism just means that the person really knows you in and out and accepts your mistakes as well as your best qualities.


If the person never argues with you or never criticizes you, then you should be on the look out. Make sure that the person truly loves you instead of an ideal version of who you are.
 If the person truly loves you, then s/he'll care about what you think — whether it's about his or her new pair of shoes or the political situation in your country. If s/he really loves you, s/he will ask for your advice and opinions, whether it's on big or small matters. S/he may feel self-conscious about asking for your opinion, but s/he'll do it because s/he loves you.


S/he doesn't have to ask for your opinion on everything — only the things that really matter.

