 Make sure the account you have chosen contains all the specific contacts that you would like to Import to your new account. If there are contacts that are not preferred, simply remove or delete them from your list prior to the process. Therefore, please take the time to review your contacts before advancing.;
, This shortcut to the menu is located at the top-right, right under the inbox button of the windows messenger program. To confirm your selection, the icon should say "Show Menu" when ever your cursor hovers over it and should contain a downward arrow for drop-down list of options. NOTE: this button can be accessed from two locations depending on your setup.
 Then, "Save instant messaging contacts".


This should then pop up a window that will ask you what folder you would like to save your contacts in. Then, you must choose a safe folder to save your contacts. This folder MUST be safe so that later on in the process, you are fully capable of accessing this file without it disappearing. NOTE: this action will save ALL the contacts that are currently in your list.
 After the folder has been selected to "Save File" in, make sure the file did get saved in that specific directory. This step is required because if the file cannot be found later on, then you will have to go and save your contacts again. Therefore, please do check just in-case you made a mistake and accidentally saved the file containing your contacts in a dangerous non-accessible place.
 When you have saved your contacts list in a trusted folder, you are then ready to move on. To continue, you must now sign out of the currently opened account and log in to your second or new account. This is done because the only reason your original account was required was because of the contacts that it contained. That is why; this is an essential step in the process of eventually importing the contacts to your newer account.
 This option should be located right under the save instant messaging contacts option that was previously used. This action will likely open up a new window.
 The file that you select must be the same one that was saved earlier in Step#3 using the "save instant messaging contacts..." option under the menu button.


That last selection will lead you to a confirmation window which will show up displaying the summary of your decision to import. This includes all the selected contacts email addresses as well as a confirmation message that reads; "Are you sure you want to add these people to your contact list?" Simply click the "Yes" option to confirm you decision. NOTE: once confirmed, an invite will be sent to each individual person therefore, this is likely the last chance you have at refusing to import.
 So, simply hit "OK" to close the message and move on to the final step.
 To check if the contacts have accepted you and that this process worked, simply check your account to see if the actual name of the person that you sent an invite to is displayed in your contacts list rather than their default email ID which is only displayed until that user accepts your invitation.

