 The purpose of the "sit" is get your dog to transition from standing to sitting, not just continue sitting. Walk into your dog or step away from him to get him into a standing position.
 Stand directly in front of the dog so that his attention is focused on you. Let him see that you have a treat in your hand.
 Begin with the treat held down at your side. Raise that hand in front of the dog’s nose to let him get the scent, then to above his head level.


When you hold the treat above the dog’s head, most dogs will naturally sit to get a better view of it.
 Follow the routine of clicker-treat/praise or just treat and praise. Say “good sit” when he's performing the behavior you are practicing. He may be slow at first, but more treats and praise will speed up his response.


Make sure that you do not praise him until his butt touches the ground. If you praise halfway through the sit, the dog will think that is what you want.
Also, make sure that you do not praise him for getting back up, or you will get that behavior instead of the sit.
 Stand next to the dog, facing the same direction as him. Place a little backward pressure on the collar to encourage a sit.


You may even need to encourage the sit by adding a little gentle scoop behind the dog’s hind legs. Gently lean the dog backward with the help of the collar while doing this.
As soon as he sits, give him immediate praise and reward.
 You want the dog to respond on the first utterance, not the second, third, or fourth. If the dog does not perform the behavior within 2 seconds of your command, reinforce the command with the help of your leash.


When you begin training a dog, never give a command that you are not in a position to reinforce. Otherwise, you risk training the dog to ignore you because there is no follow through from your end and the commands have no meaning.
Create a positive meaning for the dog with praise and consistency., Look for times throughout the day when your dog just sits on his own. Praise that behavior, and pretty soon you'll have a dog that sits for attention instead of jumping or barking at you.

