 You consolidate your debt by taking out a loan in the amount of all of your debts. You then pay off each individual debt. Now, you have only one monthly payment, preferably at a much lower interest rate.You can get a personal loan from your bank or credit union. You should stop in and ask about interest rates and repayment periods.
Ask if you can get the loan without a prepayment penalty. This will allow you to pay back the loan faster and reduce your overall debt.
You can also get a personal loan from an online lender. Some online lenders specialize in personal loans for debt consolidation. Be wary. Most scammers operate on the Internet. Don’t borrow from lenders that claim not to care about your credit score or require that you pay an advance fee., Instead of getting a personal loan, you might seek a HELOC. HELOCs are usually offered for a low interest rate, and you can spread out payments over a long time.However, a personal loan is much better than a HELOC because a personal loan is unsecured. This means that if you do have to file for bankruptcy, you can completely wipe out the debt in a Chapter 7.
With a HELOC, by contrast, your bank will keep its lien on your home, which you can’t get rid of in bankruptcy.
 For a small fee (usually around 4% of the balance) you can transfer debt from one card to another. For a limited amount of time (usually one year), you don’t have to pay interest on the debt. Check to see if your credit cards allow you to use balance transfers.


Make sure you are transferring to a card that doesn’t have a balance. If it does, the balance already on the card will continue to accrue interest.
If you have good credit, you might take out a new credit card. Often, credit cards offer a promotional period of 12-18 months where you won’t be charged interest on your balance transfers., Once you consolidate debt, you might gain some breathing room. However, you can’t immediately start spending again.For this reason, you should come up with a budget even if you consolidate debt.


To pay off debt as quickly as possible, funnel all extra money to debt repayment.

