 As you approach a girl to start a conversation, look her in the eyes. This displays confidence and, when she is speaking, an interest in what she is saying. Don’t stare, however, especially when you’re not having a conversation with her. Look at her enough to show that you’re paying attention, then look away.


To practice eye contact, start with a mirror, then move on to friends and strangers.
Eye contact is difficult but it prevents you from getting caught looking at the rest of her body.
 Greet girls by saying hello and bringing up appropriate topics. Icebreakers include asking for opinion on clothing, talking about a class you share, complimenting a girl on making a good point, or offering to help her.Do this at times to gain confidence around girls and build towards deeper conversations.
 Truly listening to what she says and means will be appreciated by a girl. Put down your phone and try to grasp the complete meaning of what she’s saying. Don’t interrupt. Show interest by nodding and responding when she’s finished.Respond by paraphrasing the message, such as by saying, “So what you’re saying is…” to show that you get the important point of the girl’s message.
When you respond, be respectful and nonjudgmental no matter how you feel.
 To grow trust between you and a girl, communicate on a deeper level with them. Ask a girl about herself, her interests, and her desires. Show that you’re interested in learning about her as a person. This makes you appear more confident and helps girls feel more comfortable around you.A good question, for example, is to ask her what kind of music she likes. If she likes the same music, you can share that interest.
 Displaying an interest in a girl’s life builds trust with her, so she may open up to you about something that’s troubling her. Listen with interest and respond to her empathetically. Never make her feel judged or ridiculed.For example, you can say, “That’s okay, the test was really hard. You did your best.”
Encourage her in her goals, too. If she wants to be a photographer, encourage her to do it no matter what you think of the idea.
 Humor is an effective way of being charming and charismatic. Engaging in banter with girls reduces awkwardness as you learn about each other and allows you to talk about more serious issues. You don’t have to be a natural comedian, but making witty observations or recalling funny tales from your past will help you communicate with girls.Not all humor is appropriate in every situation. For example, avoid telling crude or sexist jokes around a girl you’ve just met.
As you spend more time with a girl, you’ll learn what she finds funny and develop inside jokes between you and her.

