 Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a standard slip knot.


This pattern calls for a size J/10 (6 mm) crochet hook and light to medium-worsted weight yarn, but you can vary the hook size and yarn weight as desired to create different sizes. Use lighter yarn and a smaller hook for a daintier bow, or use heavier yarn and a larger hook to make a chunkier bow.
 Work 25 chain stitches from the loop on your hook to create a foundation for the rest of your stitches. Slip stitch the last chain to the first to create a round.


You can alter the size of the bow by changing the number of chains. The final length of the bow will be about half the length of your foundation chain.
Working 25 stitches with the pattern hook size and yarn weight should create a bow between 3 and 4 inches (7.6 and 10 cm) long.
 Chain two, then work one half double crochet into each chain across the foundation round. Slip stitch the last half double crochet to the top of the initial chain-two.


The number of half double crochets should match the number of chains in your foundation.
 Complete three more rounds following the same pattern used in the previous round.


Chain two, then half double crochet once into each of the stitches of the previous round. Slip stitch the final stitch to the top of the chain-two in each round.
Turn the work over in between rounds to keep the stitch pattern even.
 Cut the yarn, leaving roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm). Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.


Use a yarn needle to weave the start and end tails into the inner stitches of the work.
This step completes the body of the bow. You'll create the bow center separately.
 Attach new yarn to the crochet hook using a standard slip knot.


This step starts the bow center. The yarn and hook used for the center of the bow should match that used for the body of the bow.
 Work four chains from the loop on your hook, creating a foundation row.


The exact number of chains can vary depending on the size of the bow and your personal preference. This chain will determine the width of the center, so you can add fewer or more depending on how wide you want the center to be.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook, then work one single crochet into each remaining chain across the foundation.


The number of single crochets made in this step should be one less than the number of stitches in your foundation. If you started with four chains, you should make three stitches in this step.
 Continue working rows of single crochet until you have a strip of material long enough to wrap around the center of the bow body.


For each row: chain one, single crochet once into the same stitch as the chain, and single crochet once into each stitch across the rest of the previous row.
Turn the work over in between rows.
The final strip should wrap tightly around the center of the bow body. It will need to be slightly larger than the width of the body.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 10 inches (25.4 cm) of excess. Pull the excess tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.
 Fold the bow body to create one double-layered band. Cinch the center of that band, then wrap the smaller strip around that center.


Center the seam of the bow body along the back of the folded band. The short ends of the bow center should meet over this seam.
 Using the 10-inch (25.4-cm) tail and the yarn needle, whip stitch the stitches along the short ends of the bow center, fastening it together.


After finishing the seam, knot the yarn and weave it into the stitches.

