 It is not absolutely necessary to get a degree to become a booking agent, but what a degree will do for you is give you specialized education that just grinding it out in the business will not. People who have made successful careers as agents tend to recommend formal education, even if they did not get one. They say that times have changed and just getting experience is, in general, not enough to make it nowadays.Recommended degrees are in advertising and marketing, public relations, and human resources.
Going to school full time may be out of the question for you, but many universities offer online classes. Some college even operate 100% online, so this could be a really good option. They are directed at people who need the convenience of online programs, so they are crafted specifically with that in mind.
 If this type of commitment is an option, it is a great way to get your foot in the door and make connections. Large talent agencies often offer agent training programs for aspiring agents. In general, booking agents don’t just start out on their own and make it big. It is a career that tends to take time to build up, and internships are often the ideal place to start your career.If a formal internship doesn’t work out, get an assistant job. Get a low-level “go get my coffee” job. Whatever you can do to get in the door will help you start making connections and gaining some knowledge and experience in the industry.
An internet search of "talent agency internship" or "music booking internships" should return quite a few sites that are designated to internships. There will most likely be an application and if that is accepted you will have to interview to see if you are a good fit for the internship.
 Maybe you can’t enter the agent business in a direct line, but in the meantime you can get basic experience that will benefit you. Being an agent means making people want your “product,” which in this case is your talent. So learning to market and make sales is a great foundation.


Do you already have a job where you could ask for extra responsibility in this area? Can you practice your sales and marketing skills somehow in your work?
Can you start a job in sales and marketing to start getting experience related to being an agent?
You can start practicing your sales and marketing skills in everyday life, besides within a job. Think about what it takes to be a good salesmen: convincing people that they need the thing you are offering. So the next time you are picking a movie to watch, think of it as a sales pitch. Do what it takes to convince the person to watch the movie you want. Or pick an event that you are excited about going to and just start a talking it up a lot and trying to get other people interested in going to it. This may not be "experience" per se, but it will help you develop the needed skills.

