 The size of the visor will need to change based on the circumference of the baby's head. The main instructions here are for head circumferences between 14 and 16 inches (35.56 and 40.64 cm), but further instructions are noted for larger sizes.









Standard baby head circumferences are:

0 to 6 months: 14 to 16 inches (35.56 to 40.64 cm)
6 to 12 months: 16 to 18 inches (40.64 to 45.72 cm)
12 to 18 months: 18 to 20 inches (45.72 to 50.8 cm)


For a more exact head measurement, wrap a flexible tape measure around the baby's head, placing it around the widest part of the head. This will usually land just above the ears and over the center of the occipital bone (the bump at the back of the head)., Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a standard slip knot.
 Work a chain with 55 chain stitches, then slip stitch once into the first chain to join the first and last together.








For the 6 to 12 month size, work 60 chains. For the 12 to 18 month size, work 65 chain stitches.
Make sure that the chain does not twist as you slip stitch the ring together.
 Chain two, then half double crochet once into the same space occupied by the first of these two chains. Half double crochet once into each of the remaining chains in your foundation ring.









Slip stitch the first and last half double crochets together at the end of the round.
Do not turn the work over at the end of the round.
The number of half double crochets should match the number of chains in your foundation ring.
 Chain two, then half double crochet once into the same space as your turning chain. Work one half double crochet into each of the stitches in your previous round, then slip stitch together the first and last half double crochets of this round.









The number of half double crochets in this round should match the number of half double crochets in your previous round.
Do not turn the work at the end of the round.
 Follow the same procedure used for the second round when creating rounds three, four, and five.









After completing five full rounds, the band of the visor is complete.
Do not turn or fasten off the yarn after completing the band. The brim of the visor will be worked from the same yarn used for the band.
 Chain one, then single crochet once into each of the next two stitches. Half double crochet once into each of the next two stitches after that.










Double crochet once into the next stitch and twice into the stitch after that. Repeat this pattern seven times.
Double crochet once into the next stitch.
Half double crochet once into each of the stitches after that.
Single crochet once into each of the next two stitches.
Slip stitch once into the final round of the visor band.
 The second brim row is nearly identical to the first, but you'll need to increase the number of double crochets.









Chain one.
Single crochet once into each of the next two stitches and half double crochet once into each of the two stitches after that.
Double crochet once into each of the next two stitches, then twice into the stitch after that. Repeat seven times.
Double crochet once into the next stitch, half double crochet once into each of the next two stitches, and single crochet once into each of the next two stitches.
Slip stitch the final row stitch to the final round of the visor band.
 Other than another increase in double crochet amount, the third row of the brim is similar to the first two.









Chain one.
Single crochet once into each of the next two stitches and half double crochet once into each of the two stitches of that.
Double crochet once into each of the next three stitches, then double crochet twice into the stitch that follows. Repeat this pattern seven times.
Double crochet once into the next stitch.
Half double crochet once into each of the next two stitches, then single crochet once into each of the two stitches that follow.
Slip stitch once into the final round of the visor band.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to bind the yarn.









Weave the remaining tail into the underside of the brim.
After fastening off the yarn,

, Enjoy!








