 Sooner or later, you need to commit to either talking to your crush about the way you feel or staying silent. Being undecided about a crush is a terrible feeling. Making a decision can be scary, but it gives you closure. You get to either take things to the next level with your crush or start moving on, but either way you don't have to worry about it anymore.


Often, honesty is the best policy. Being open about your crush can feel like taking a huge weight off your chest — no matter what happens, you were true to your heart. It also lets you avoid nagging feelings of regret. In other words, you won't be wondering, "What would have happened if I had talked to my crush?" in a few weeks. Try explaining to him that you don't want to ruin the friendship and you wouldn't like it to be awkward. Usually he would accept that and try to keep things as normal as they were before whilst deciding his next move.
On the other hand, if you really don't want to open up about your crush or you have good reason to think it's a bad idea, you shouldn't ever feel like you need to. An example of a situation where it would be a bad idea to act on a crush is if your crush is already with someone else.
 If you decide that you're going to open up to your crush, don't waste time waiting for the "perfect moment." It probably will never come. In the meantime, your crush may lose interest or even start to think that you don't like him anymore. Pick a time and place where you can be alone with your crush and stick to this. Your best chances for romance will come if you seize the opportunities you are given.


For example, if your crush is someone you know from school, you might arrange to meet this person after school in a secluded spot. It doesn't have to be 100% deserted — just reasonably private. A park bench, for instance, will usually work fine.
 Opening up to your crush doesn't have to be a huge, dramatic production. In fact, if you make a big deal about it, you may even scare your crush off. Instead, keep the conversation low-pressure and casual. This will make it much easier for him to give you an honest answer.


You don't even have to outright say that you have a crush. Instead, you can simply invite him to spend one-on-one time together. For example, you might start the conversation by saying something like, "Hey, Spanish class has been fun. Do you want to get some lunch and go to the fair with me this weekend? I hear the enchiladas they have out there are amazing."

, Even if you keep things very low-pressure, your crush might get a little shy. Don't worry about this. Don't take silence or awkwardness as a sign that he doesn't like you. These things just show that he is having a hard time getting his words out. Give him plenty of time to take in what you're saying and encourage him to come to a conclusion when he's ready.


He shouldn't even feel like he needs to answer you right away. Getting a date offer or having someone admit they like you can take a day or two to fully process. Consider saying something like, "Take your time — you don't have to tell me today."

, Respect your crush's ability to come to his own decisions, even if you don't like the one he makes. If he says no, just casually say, "Oh, OK" and make your exit. Don't pester him with repeated questions or try to get him to change his mind. On the other hand, if he does accept your offer, congratulations!


After a "no," you may want to limit the amount of time you spend with this person for a couple days. You don't have to outright ignore him, but if your feelings are hurt or if it's hard to stop thinking about it, give yourself some distance for a little while until your emotions die down.

