 Since Animal Jam doesn't offer dogs, you'll have to choose another canine, like a wolf or fox. Several common animals that are usually used as dogs include either of the wolves, foxes (members only), and bunnies. Bunnies and foxes are commonly used as puppies, but if you want to be a big puppy, arctic wolves (members only) are acceptable as well.
 These are the natural colors of dogs. You can use any color, but sometimes, certain Jammers like to bully those who aren't colored like actual dog.

If you do decide to use unnatural colors, report and block any bullies that get in the way. Reporting and blocking mean Jammer will make you seem like the better person, and you won't be accused as bullied instead.
 Necklaces or collars are unnecessary when being a dog, but you can wear them if you want to. Sometimes, necklaces and collars can tell you apart from any other creature when you are attempting to get adopted as a pet. Necklaces can be bought in just about any shop, but collars are hard to find sometimes., This is one of the many ways you can define your personality as a pet puppy. You can wander in to seem curious, get thrown in inside of a basket, which prompts that you are sad and abandoned, or arrive with scars to seem as if you need some sort of medical care. Almost anything is good as long as you don't go overboard., Sometimes, people can mistake puppies for children and dogs for mothers. This can be easily fixed by simply saying that you are a dog. If you want, you can tell others your personality and breed is as well., If you want to be seen as playful, play around with potential adopters or with fellow adoptees within the room. If you are shy, have some trouble approaching some of the Jammers in the room. You can even be aggressive, as in, you will pick a fight with almost anything in the room., You cannot contradict yourself in the house, or else you may be kicked out. You also must show your personality by doing actions around the house. If you are loyal, you follow your master's every command, and if you are friendly, you like to be pet and play with your housemates., You can get sick every once in a while, and you can get injured sometimes, but you shouldn't do it so often that you seem like you want every eye on you. Instead, try giving attention to your housemates. If you share the spotlight with your fellow housemates, then at some point, they will shine the light on you. Being an attention hog could also get you kicked out of the household, where you will have to repeat the process of being adopted., Destroying couches, tables and beds will make you seem like a very destructive dog, and could be your one way ticket to leaving the house. Especially don't destroy your house mate's stuff, as the owner bought those things for them, and can make you seem like you hate that particular Jammer. The only thing that you can break, however, is when it is your own toys. Dogs break their own toys most of the time., You can't be a puppy forever (unless you want to), and therefore, you must grow up.

Change your animal to an animal that is bigger (unless you are an arctic wolf). This will indicate that you have grown up.
Say "Grows up". This will tell everyone in the household that you have grown into a bigger (and hopefully better) dog.
Act more mature. Your constant play times are over (unless you really don't want them to be over), and you must learn to take care of younger housemates. Younger housemates must be taken care of appropriately, since you are a dog and cannot bottle feed a baby.

