 With either a laptop or a pen and notebook, it seems like you should be able to just plop down anywhere and write. However, to write consistently and effectively, you will probably want to set up a defined writing space that is specifically suited to your task. Find a place that minimizes distractions and tells you that it’s “writing time” when you see it.


Many people benefit from sitting and writing at a desk that is comfortable but not cozy; that is, a place that won’t cause you discomfort but also won’t easily let you drift into a nap. Set up a desk that has what you need where you need it, so you don’t have to get up while writing.Some people, however, do their best writing at the coffee shop or at a shaded picnic table in the park. This works best for people who can readily block out ambient noise and visual distractions. There is no single ideal writing spot for all of us; there is an ideal writing spot for you. You just need to find it.;
, Especially if you are easily distracted while working, simply putting a closed door between your workspace and the outside world can make a major difference. Not only does it block visual distractions and muffle distracting noises, it physically and psychologically isolates you within your writing space.If closing a door isn’t possible or practical, using noise-canceling headphones to block out ambient noise may be a good option for you.
 Thanks to modern smartphones, a world of limitless distractions accompanies us wherever we go. The focus required for effective writing is not helped by the constant pings and rings, and the unending lure of making a quick check of emails, updates, and so on. While it may pain you to do so, try to not only silence your phone, but to turn it off completely while you are writing.You may even need to remove the phone from your sight while you work. Put it in a drawer that is nearby but that you’d have to get up from writing to reach. Don’t worry, it will still be there when you are finished.If you have to keep your phone on, at least shut down as many apps and silence as many notifications as you can. And keep the phone out of easy reach so you aren’t as tempted to make a quick check every couple minutes.
 Along with disconnecting or hiding your phone, you should also consider shutting off internet access on your computer (especially if you’re using it to write). Yes, this will make it more difficult to look up a word definition or quickly research a topic, but it will also eliminate a world wide web of possible distractions.If you have something to check or look up while writing, jot down a note for later. Keep your focus strictly on writing and worry about corrections and fine details at another time., Plan ahead so that when it’s time to sit down and write, you can do exactly (and only) that. If you keep having to get up to grab this or do that, you’ll lose your concentration and writing momentum. If you can get yourself into the writing “zone,” you want to stay there as long as you can.That said, you’re not a machine and you can’t work non-stop. Eat a quick snack if you’re hungry, use the restroom as needed, and get up and stretch every hour or if you feel like you’re getting stiff. It’s hard to concentrate if you're uncomfortable.
Try to plan out and coordinate these breaks so they don’t cause too many distractions.
 Despite your best efforts to reduce them, you will face distractions such as a knock on the door or a crying toddler. When you have to stop to deal with a distraction, it’s easy to say to yourself “Oh, that’s enough writing for today.” Fight this urge, and get back to writing as soon as possible after dealing with the distraction.Even if it’s 8:30, and you can only write until 9:00 before you have to get ready for work, sit back down and write. Stick to your schedule as best you can.

