 The average garage and/or yard contains a number of substances that are dangerous for dogs. Even if you do not expect your dog to go into your garage, it is important to place all toxic substances up high or in locked cabinets, just in case.Some dangerous chemicals include:


Mothballs
Rat poison
Garden pesticides
Automobile chemicals (including anti-freeze)

, Anti-freeze poses a specific threat. Although is extremely toxic, dogs are attracted to the smell of anti-freeze and may try to lick it. If there has even been anti-freeze on the floor of your garage, or on your driveway, you will need to clean these areas before your dog comes home.Wet these areas using a hose.
Apply a mild cleanser (such as dish soap) and scrub using a mop (which you should discard afterward).
Rise the soap away using your hose.
 Curious dogs have been known to knock things over, eat small items, and otherwise break things. Heavy items, small objects, sharp objects, and tools must be kept out of reach. Consider investing in a tool box or putting in shelves.You may want to move:


Tools
Screws, washers, and nails
Saws and other sharp objects
Building materials
Car parts

, If you plan to leave your pet unsupervised in the yard, you must first ensure that you fence and gate are secure. Take a walk around your property and look for any gaps in your fence and/or gate.Wiggle the gate. Do you feel confident that it could contain your pet?
Block and/or repair any openings.
You may consider contracting a professional to help you, if the damage is significant.
If your dog is prone to digging, you may want to place large rocks near the base of your fence.
 Some fertilizers and pesticides can make animals ill. Avoid using chemicals on your lawn and garden. Before adding anything to your lawn or garden, read labels and make sure that all products are safe for pets.Even some “organic” pesticides can pose dangers to your dog.
Look for products that claim to be “pet safe.”
If you’re unsure, consult your vet.

