 If using footnotes or endnotes, make sure that the citation matches the notation number used in-text. This is not applicable for a "Bibliography" page.


Note that legal documents, including cases, are rarely cited in bibliographies. Unless your instructor specifically requests that the case be listed in the bibliography, cite it using a footnote or endnote.
 The name of the case needs to be written in "Plaintiff's Name v. Defendant's Name" format. The "versus" is always abbreviated as "v." and the first letter of each proper noun and major word should be capitalized. Follow with a comma if using notes or a period if using a bibliography.


1. Plaintiff v. Defendant,
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation,
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation.
 The volume number of the U.S. reporter which published the details of the case should be listed. You do not need any abbreviations or punctuation. Only list the numerical value of the volume.


1. Plaintiff v. Defendant, 000
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, 189
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation. 189

, Write the official abbreviation for the specific reporter being used as well as the beginning page number of the case. If citing an exact page number, write this, as well, separating the exact page number from the starting page with a comma.


1. Plaintiff v. Defendant, 000 Abb.Rep. StartPage#, SpecificPage#
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, 189 P.3d 1032
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation. 189 P.3d 1032

, In parentheses, type out an abbreviated form of the court's name and the year in which a decision was reached. Follow the closing parentheses with a comma, if using notes, or a period, if using a bibliography.


1. Plaintiff v. Defendant, 000 Abb.Rep. StartPage#, SpecificPage# (CourtName Year),
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, 189 P.3d 1032 (S.C. AK 2008),
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation. 189 P.3d 1032 (S.C. AK 2008).
 If you accessed information about the court case using a specific database or online source, you must provide either a static URL for that database or the name and any additional identification number associated with that database. Conclude with a period.


1. Plaintiff v. Defendant, 000 Abb.Rep. StartPage#, SpecificPage# (CourtName Year), Database.
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, 189 P.3d 1032 (S.C. AK 2008), LexisNexis.
Example: James Parson v. State of Alaska, Department of Revenue, Alaska Housing Finance Corporation. 189 P.3d 1032 (S.C. AK 2008). LexisNexis.

