 Rinse your potatoes thoroughly to remove any dirt and grime. Use a vegetable peeler to thoroughly remove all of the potato skin. Once they are all peeled, chop them into chunks. They don't need to be perfectly or uniformly chopped, but just make sure the pieces are big enough to eat in one bite – or about 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) thick., Fill a pot about half way with water and bring it to a boil. The pot should be large enough to fit all of the potatoes with a couple of inches of space at the top to spare. Once the water is boiling, add the potato pieces. Continue to boil until they are tender, which should take about seven to eight minutes. Keep checking on them regularly, because it's crucial that they do not get too soft. You want them to become tender, but not fall apart. You do not want to wind up with mashed potatoes., Place your eggs in a pot and cover them with cold water. They should be completely submerged, with water about an inch above them. Turn your stovetop to medium-high heat. Once the water starts to boil, remove the pot from the heat and let your eggs cook in the hot water for about eight to ten minutes.Once they are done cooking and have cooled, peel the shells off the eggs and dice them up. Learn the easiest ways to peel hardboiled eggs here!

, Once they are tender, drain the water by pouring the contents of the pot into a colander. Alternately, you can scoop up the potato chunks with a slotted spoon. Put your potatoes in a large mixing bowl. Put the chopped eggs and potatoes into the refrigerator to chill. It's best to construct and season this salad after everything has cooled., Chop the onion half into small pieces. Once it's completely chopped, go over the pieces with your knife again to dice them up even smaller. You don't want to have too large of onion chunks in your potato salad. Cut the celery stalks into similarly sized pieces., Remove the eggs and potatoes from the refrigerator and make sure they have completely cooled. Pour the chopped eggs into the potatoes, and then add your chopped celery and onion. Stir these ingredients together., Make sure that you stir everything so that all of the potato is completely coated. These wet ingredients give the Southern potato salad it's creaminess, so it's important not to skimp on these!Choosing between mayonnaise and Miracle Whip is a personal preference. Miracle Whip has a sweeter, spicier flavor than mayonnaise., Give your potato salad a taste test, and decide how much salt and pepper you want to add. Remember to only add a bit at a time. It's always possible to add more. Once everything is stirred completely, sprinkle the paprika on top. The paprika completes the potato salad, both in taste and appearance. Keep your potato salad in the refrigerator until you're ready to serve it. This recipe makes about six servings.If your potato salad stays in the refrigerator without being warmed, it should last about 3-4 days. If your potato salad warms up – for example, if it sits out at a barbecue – leftovers should not be kept in the refrigerator any more than a day.