 Check to see if there is an open wound in case you need urgent help. A broken toe is serious and cannot be fixed at home in case it is broken or fractured. You may need a cast, splint or medication. If your toe is cold, numb, tingling, blue or grey, also go to the nearest emergency room. Basically, if anything looks unusual or scares you, it's time to go to the doctor..


Be sure to rest your foot. Don’t walk on it! You may want to elevate your foot above your heart by propping it on a table or stool while you treat it or let it relax. No one wants to wear out an already painful body part.If your injury is from walking, consider getting new shoes or a gel cushion insert. It can be a result of uncomfortable, ill-fitting, or damaged shoes, or exercise. Think about how you might have incurred the injury. Sometimes if this is a chronic condition, a doctor could recommend exercises or surgery.If you just have a small cut, clean it, put antibiotic ointment on it and put on a bandage.
Some pain might just be normal pain from walking in an uncomfortable shoe. If this is the case, just don't wear those shoes again while exercising.;
, Hot and cold temperatures can help alleviate all sorts of pain.You may also consider rubbing your toe since some say a massage helps tired feet. You can use lotion and rub the parts of the toe that hurt to relax and soothe tense muscles.Heat helps soothe muscles and cold is anti-inflammatory and numbing. This will help your toe feel better temporarily and offer you some relief.For these reasons, cold is better to use on a direct injury or discomfort (like if you stubbed your toe), while heat should be used for general discomfort without an obvious cause (i.e. a chronic ache in your toe).
Heat and cold are remedies for many different types of injuries and pain. Remember this for the future!

, This might include over-the-counter fixes like topical creams or ointments or taking an anti-inflammatory drug like ibuprofen.Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs include ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn).While it won't fix the actual problem, medicines from a regular pharmacy or store can help alleviate some of the pain. Remember, if there is a physical problem that looks really bad, seek help outside of your home.


Always read the labels and warnings for medicines.
If in doubt, ask a local pharmacist what type of medicine is best.
Talk to a doctor before giving aspirin to a child or teenager under 19. Aspirin can put your child at risk for a rare but serious condition called Reye's Syndrome.
Some anit-inflammatory drugs have blood-thinning properties, which is not always appropriate for everyone (such as people already taking blood thinners), or should be avoided if you are bleeding. If you take blood thinners, talk to your doctor about which over-the-counter products are acceptable for you to use

