


Web sites are typically the most up-to-date way to find out what festivals and special events are going on in New York. Use a web browser to find New York-specific web sites that list local calendars, festival schedules and details about special seasonal events in the area. Include the type of event you are looking for if you want to refine your Internet search.;
,


TKTS ticket booths are a great resource for a variety of surplus performance arts tickets. They have great last-minute deals on tickets that are between 20 and 50 percent off. These booths are located in midtown, one in lower Manhattan and in downtown Brooklyn. In order to utilize this deal, though, you'll have to be flexible and not mind waiting in line. Since this is such a popular option for tickets, the line is often several hours long.



Ask other residents or tourists what their favorite events are to go to in New York. Discuss the options with the server at the restaurant where you have dinner or the cab driver that takes you to the hotel from the airport. The best way to learn about festivals and special events that are well-received is to talk to people who have actually attended them.



Festivals and other special events will often be advertised in the local newspaper or in other city-centered publications. Pick up the most current copy to get an idea of what is going on while you are in town. Many local newspapers even offer a special entertainment edition toward the end of the week that contains an insert that outlines the activities that are going on around town.



It is your hotel concierge's job to help you find festivals and special events for you to go to while you are in New York. They are paid to stay informed of all of the city happenings and to give you their insider tips. Many times you can purchase admission tickets from the concierge or, if not, he or she will be able to point you in the right direction to do so.
The hotel concierge has the best of two different perspectives on which festivals and special events are the most worth it. They know from being a resident of the city that has likely been to many of these events, but they also know as someone who has a great deal of contact with tourists visiting the city and can get a good idea what the most popular events are to attend.

