 Some parents report being amazed at the seemingly instant improvement they see in their child's sleep after adding a source of white noise to the room. This can drown out any distractions from the rest of the household or mask any random “scary” noises your child may focus upon when trying to fall asleep, such as the house settling or pipes clanking.


You can purchase white noise machines, download free or cheap white noise apps for a tablet, or even just plug in a simple fan.
 If your child isn't relaxed by the noise of a fan or of oceans waves from a white noise machine, he/she may nonetheless respond well to having soft music played. Search for cd's or music apps that play calming, slow music or lullabies.


Classical, instrumental music is a good choice, but be aware that some longer pieces have louder, more “stressful” movements that could wake your child up.
 Lavender oil has a calming effect and is known to help some sufferers of insomnia.If your child likes the scent, then consider spritzing his/her pillow a lavender mist.


You could also consider putting drops of lavender oil into your child's “monster spray” if you're using that trick, as well.
 In general, it's best for our rooms to be dark when we sleep, and it's especially important to reduce the “blue-light” from electronic devices such as alarm clocks, computers, and phones, which can interrupt natural circadian rhythms.Even so, your child may be uncomfortable sleeping in a completely darkened room. If so, you may want to select a nightlight together.
You can also search for nightlights which turn off after a short period (usually 30-60 minutes). These often project scenes onto the ceiling (stars or favorite cartoon characters). You can place it next to your child's bed so that if he/she wakes up in the night, he/she can easily turn it back on.
 The quality of our sleep is directly affected by the temperature at which we're sleeping. If we're too hot or too cold, our REM sleep (the period during which we're dreaming) can be interrupted.There's no one ideal temperature for all people: some people rest more easily with the temperature turned low, while others prefer it to be slightly toastier.Experiment with turning the temperature up or down depending upon how your child reports feeling, and make sure that your child's pajamas are comfortable as well., Your child may have an easier time falling asleep if you allow the family pet to curl up in (or near) your child's bed. So long as you don't think that Fido's presence is interfering with your child's sleep, this shouldn't be a problem.


You may have to get firm, though, and remove the pet if it looks like it is keeping or waking your child up. Switch out the real pet for a fluffy stuffed-animal substitute, and you should be fine.
 If your child is a light sleeper or can't stand going to bed before older siblings, he/she may be on the alert for noises coming from outside his/her bedroom. Do your best to turn down the volume on televisions, radios, and gaming systems, and if possible, make sure they aren't set up immediately outside your child's bedroom door.


If you have dogs that are prone to barking, try to keep them as far from your child's bedroom as possible, or give them a chew toy or treat to distract them at least until your child is more deeply asleep.
Having a source of white noise or soft music in your child's bedroom can also help block noises from outside his/her room.

