 Before you apply for a paid position, put in some time with an unpaid one. Search online or through your school for open internships. Gain working experience to bolster your resume when it comes time for the job hunt. Other benefits of an internship include:References from industry insiders.
Extended contacts with people in the field.
More familiarity with the day-to-day reality of the job.
 Since you don’t have any published games to point to, prepare some examples on your own to submit along with your cover letter and resume. Continue developing personal projects and publish them online in a public Git repository where employers can check them out. Don’t worry about creating whole games. Instead, develop short-and-sweet demos that highlight the specific areas that you want to specialize in.Whatever your demo might be, make it perfect. Don’t try to wow interviewers with something overly complex if you can’t get it right. Showcase something simple and flawless instead.
 This isn’t to say that you shouldn’t apply to positions with established, well-known, successful companies. However, such companies are better situated to offer higher pay and possibly more job security, so expect your competition here to be pretty fierce. Concentrate instead on newer, smaller companies, who, like you, probably have to be less choosy.This isn’t a guarantee that you’ll get hired, but you’re less likely to be up against programming rockstars with way more experience than you.
 First of all, look for job postings on company websites. Then, after you submit an application, brush up on the company. Read their own published profile, as well as any write-ups from outside sources. Jot down any questions that occur to you so you can pose them in your interview.In addition to your technical skills, demonstrating a working knowledge of both the company and the game business at large in your interview should raise your standing among other candidates., Expect to face a lot of competition for each position. Use each and every personal connection that you have with industry insiders to get a step ahead. Find out about potential openings before they’re posted. Ask your contacts to provide recommendations if they have an inside track with employers. Extend your network by:Reaching out through online forums, social media, and professional networks to meet people in the field.
Staying in frequent contact with current or former classmates and professors.
Attending conferences and conventions.
 First of all, keep in mind that with so much competition, you’ll probably face a lot of rejection. Accept it as a given, take it in stride, and learn from it by:Reflecting on your interviews, resume, and demos to identify and improve weak points.
Following up with a thank-you letter or email to interviewers for being considered at all.
Asking for pointers on areas in which they think you need improvement.

