 Surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy remain central to the treatment of many cancers. Although research on T Cell cancer therapy is highly promising, this form of therapy has only recently undergone testing in humans and has not yet received federal approval in the U.S. So, you should make sure you have explored all of the standard treatment options for your type of cancer. Typically, doctors will only let you participate in these trials if all other options have been pursued with no success. Ask your doctor:"Have we explored all available treatment options for my cancer?”
“Do you think we’re at the point where I need to look at clinical trials?”

, Your doctor may have colleagues who are conducting T Cell cancer therapy, so you should ask them who they know and how you could get involved. Try asking:“Who do you know who is involved in T Cell cancer research?”
“Do you think you could help me enroll in a T Cell cancer therapy trial?”
“What are the risks of participating in one of these trials?”

, On a notepad or device, write down all of the possible benefits you can see from participating in the trial. Early research results are very promising on the effectiveness of T Cell cancer therapy.One of the benefits of participating in a trial is that you would be one of the first to benefit from a new and more effective cancer treatment. You may also receive the benefit of extra follow up treatment following the trial. In addition, you would be helping society find a cure for cancer., The downsides of participating in a clinical trial include the fact that the new treatment, T Cell therapy, may not be as good as older cancer treatments. In addition, even if the new treatment is better for most people, it may not be better for your body specifically. Finally, you may experience many specific side effects of T Cell cancer therapy such as cytokine release syndrome and B cell aplasia. It will also be pretty time intensive and emotionally exhausting. , You should weigh the benefits and risks of participating in T Cell cancer therapy trials, and then make an informed decision., If you weigh the benefits and risks and still want to participate in the T Cell cancer therapy trial, you will need to go through informed consent. Your doctor will tell you about all of the specific benefits and risks of the trial. You should ask any questions you have about the trial. Be curious and ask lots of questions about the benefits, risks, side effects and other details of participating in the trial., Find a professional caregiver to help you for the duration of the clinical trial. Although this is not always required by trials, it is a good precaution because of the intensity of these trials.