

A loose player plays many starting hands.
A tight player plays fewer starting hands.
A passive player folds often does not bet or raise unless holding a very good hand.
An aggressive player calls, bets, raises and re-raises. An aggressive player can make a pot big and it will be tempting for the other players to take down the big pot for the money, challenge, or for revenge.;
,

See his hand at the showdown. The loose aggressive player or LAG will often showdown suboptimal or garbage hands.
Notice the LAG player's stack, it will be going thru the ceiling. A loose aggressive player can pull off a triple buy-in increase in minutes. In a no-limit tournament a stack could be tripled but this is not likely in a no-limit ring game, but in a limit full ring game this is exceedingly rare.
Observe the LAG for many hands, everyone has winning steaks.
 The optimal positions are the button, cutoff, middle position, early position then the blinds and these are in descending order., Take notes. Have a hand history on file of the games the LAG was in. Make a video of the LAG.,

Do not be bound by the LAG player label and be aggressive like a maniac. In some hands, keep checking and calling until your opponent checks, a sign of weakness usually, and either bet or check. In this play, keep your investment in your hand as cheap as possible by not raising preflop and flop. Do not use this play against calling stations or players with a hand (your reading skills have to be great).
Disguise your hand by limping preflop. Most of your hands will be not great, limp in frequently, but when you have a great hand disguise it by not being too aggressive with it preflop. Mix things up.
Be aggressive from the beginning. Preflop bet, raise and re-raise. On the flop and post flop bet, raise and re-raise. Be unpredictable either by instinct or by being methodically unpredictable by using a clock's second hand as a clue in how to act.
Be observant. Notice all of the other players on the table and their betting pattern for each hand. Categorize them as tight or loose and passive or aggressive. Notice changes in their play because of tilt and also notice the timing of their moves: do they make their bets quickly or hesitate.
 Do this at opportune situations when you think the board was not helpful to your opponents., Estimate pulling off the bluff to the bluff size and the pot size. Read about bluffing with an internet search., A good LAG must know when to fold. Fold on the flop before it gets costly on the turn or river., Taunt, prod and infuriate the other players to tilt. Professional athletes do this to express themselves and also to increase interest in their event and to drive up gate receipts and pay per view earnings., Limit hold em reading materials are basically tight and aggressive play or tight and passive play oriented., Use simulations and choose hands that are just slightly profitable (a fraction of a penny). Remember the other benefit of playing loosely, to get action you must give action. By playing hands just slightly profitable, you will get action later on your better hands., The button and cutoff are the best positions.
Your table image is intimidating and your stack large.
You are open raising.
You are rested and your concentration very high

,,