 Audrey Hepburn had a 20 inch (50.8 cm) waist so she made sure to buy dresses that cinched at the waist. If your arms/shoulders are your best assets, wear tops/dresses with roused/cinched sleeves. Black, white, and pastel pink should be signature colors (and if your totally serious...the only colors) in your wardrobe. You should NOT wear tube tops, denim, any rough material, anything 1 inch (2.5 cm) above the knee, anything with a neckline over 1-1 1/2 inches below the collarbone, fluorescent colors, or anything that Lady Gaga would deem appropriate. For makeup, the cat eye look (it's on YouTube, look it up) is good or for more conservativeness, just a touch of mascara, powder, and lip gloss will do. Your jewelry should be diamonds, pearls, any stone, silver, and gold. NO plastic preteen jewelry.;
, You don't have to be a total introvert, unless you naturally are, but you don't want to be the center of attention. When you talk, talk soft and delicate as if you were to raise your voice any louder your voice box would explode. Don't kiss and tell. In fact, try to actually BE conservative, not just pretend. That means no wild behavior your grandma, dad, or God wouldn't want you to do. It's very ladylike and when you DON'T talk about things like that and don't engage yourself in those behaviors, you send off a mysterious aura about yourself.
 Clip and polish those nails. Clear coat or pale pink ONLY. Keep your hair styled, trimmed, and neat. If you have long hair, wear it in a bun, french twist, or the half up-half down look. Wash your face two times a day. Keep your teeth straight and white. Pluck eyebrows, shave/wax unwanted hair and apply lotion everyday.
 Extremely low necklines, too short skirts, belly-bearing tops and revealing clothing can make a girl look like she does not respect her body and herself. Shirts with inappropriate sayings, logos or sexual innuendos can make a girl look like she's desperate for attention. Classy ladies are not desperate for attention.
 This shows politeness. If you talk very loudly, it will seem that you're desperate for attention. Being loud in public isn't just obnoxious, but also inconsiderate to the people around you. Listen to what people have to say and always make eye contact.
 Never swear or say racist comments.This makes you ugly on the inside and rude.
 Parents will appreciate a girl who cares more about her education and her work ethic than her nails. This will reflect in how you are viewed by those in authority. Who do you think gets the break when her homework isn't turned in one day? Teachers are harder on a girl who admits to spending two hours doing her nails than the one who is usually consistent.
 If you really want to know who is well brought up and classy, look at how they treat their inferiors (the people below them on the social ladder), not their equals or superiors.
 Classy girls leave their surroundings in a condition at least as good as they found them. Unless they are in a restaurant with wait staff whose job it is to do the clearing up, classy people insist on taking care of their own trash and baggage, not expecting others to pick up after them. And when others do favors for them, while stuck-up or spoiled people assume it's only to be expected and ignore others' assistance, truly classy people are quick to notice and to express their gratitude and their appreciation.
 Read classic literature such as Emily and Charlotte Bronte, Charles Dickens, Sylvia Plath, and other great writers. Study art. Research music theory. Update yourself on current world events. When you apply such knowledge to yourself you will start noticing how much more you engage in conversation with people. As far as maturity goes, keep laughter to a modest level. Don't make sexually themed jokes. Don't act like the stereotypical high school/college girl. Don't go to parties where alcohol is served. If the party gets wild, leave.
 If you have any good skill or kind of talent, such as drawing, or dancing, singing or playing any musical instrument, do not hide it, work it. Let people see how good you are by exposing your pictures, or maybe playing a musical instrument in front of someone. If you're good at acting, look for a part in any play at theater.

