 Most girls use pads during their first period. Pads are easy to use because they do not involve inserting anything into the vagina (tampons and menstrual cups require some extra practice). There are many types of pads. They range in thickness, size, and shape. You may want to buy a few different types and practice using them before your period to see what feels most comfortable for you.You’ll also want to have pads on hand before you get your period just in case you don’t have time to go to the store when your period comes.


Pads are made of soft, absorbent material that covers the panty area just below the vagina. The pad sticks to your underwear and absorbs the blood from your period. You’ll be able to see how much you are bleeding, and determine if it needs to be changed. No matter how light your flow is, pads should be changed every three to four hours to avoid buildup of bacteria and foul smells.;
, Tampons are small, tubular, absorbent and have a string at the end. They go inside the vagina and absorb blood. Unlike pads, tampons cannot be checked for the amount of blood they carry. They should be changed every two to four hours and used no longer than eight hours at a time. Many women use tampons with panty liners (a very thin pad) for extra protection in case the tampon leaks. Athletic girls tend to prefer tampons since they do not inhibit movement and can be worn while swimming.It may take some time to learn how to insert a tampon properly. Be patient with yourself as it can take anywhere from a few months to a few years to get comfortable with tampons.
 You may not want to overwhelm yourself with options for your first period. However, there are ways to take care of your period apart from using pads and tampons. Menstrual cups and period panties, among others, are also ways to take care of your period. All have pros and cons, so it is up to you to decide what works best for your body.


Consider menstrual cups. Menstrual cups are small, flexible cups that are inserted into the vagina. Some cups are for one-time use, and others are reusable. They are often made of silicone or rubber.Menstrual cups are emptied and rinsed as needed, and can be used for up to 12 hours.Cups do not inhibit physical movement and can be worn while swimming. Cups can also take some getting used to. It can take a few cycles for women to use cups properly.
Consider period panties. Period panties are like regular panties, but they are made especially to use when you are menstruating. The material is highly absorbent and can be worn as backup for tampons or cups, or they can be worn on their own. Panties vary in their capacity for absorbency, so you’ll have to find ones that match your flow. Period panties come in many styles and can be washed and reused., You won’t know the exact day or time that you will get your first period. Fill a small toiletry bag with several pads and an extra set of underwear in case you need to change. Carry your period bag with you every day.Consider adding a painkiller to the bag. Some women experience cramps, or pain in the lower back and abdomen, during a period. Read the directions on the packaging and do not take more than is recommended.A hot water bottle or heating pad on the lower belly also help relieve cramps.
Have a backup plan. If you get your period and you don’t have a pad, you can wrap toilet paper around your panties to catch the blood. Try asking a friend or a nearby woman for pads. Most women are very willing to help. Wrap a sweater around your waist if you are worried about visible leaks.
 Light, brownish discharge is called spotting. It may occur at the beginning (and end) of your period. You may feel the discharge in your underwear or see it on the toilet paper after using the bathroom., PMS refers to a series of symptoms a woman might feel before getting her period. Signs of PMS can appear up to two weeks before your period. You’ll have to pay special attention to your body and mood to recognize signs of PMS.


Be aware of sensitivity around your body. Some women feel swollen or tender breasts before a period. Feeling bloated or full in the lower abdomen is also common. This can occur before, during, or after your period. You may feel these physical symptoms or none at all. You will start to notice such changes in your body after several cycles.Notice changes on your face. Sometimes women notice more pimples on the face before a period. This is a normal sign of changing hormones. All bodies are different, so you may or may not experience breakouts before a period.Notice changes in your mood. Some women feel that they are more sad and emotional before their periods. You may feel more likely to cry or have other mood swings as a result of changing hormones., You may or may not feel symptoms of PMS, especially before your first period. If you do feel physical pains like tenderness, headaches, or bloating, you can take an over-the-counter pain reliever to ease the discomfort. Hormonal birth control can also help with symptoms like acne and painful cramps during your period.Severe PMS may be a sign of a more serious condition called Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD). Talk to your doctor if you have severe mood swings, depression, insomnia, or panic attacks before your period. , When young women reach puberty, blood and tissue are released from the uterus through the vagina. Bleeding lasts about three to seven days, but periods can be longer or shorter, especially in the first few years. Most women get their periods every 28 days, but this tends to vary in the beginning.It may seem like a lot of blood, but women only lose between one and six tablespoons of blood each menstrual cycle. Your first period will probably be on the lighter side.Even so, you will have to use something to absorb the blood and keep it from staining your clothes.


Know the age range for getting your period. Young women usually get their first period between the ages of nine and 15.
Know what to look for. Period blood ranges in color and consistency. It may look red, dark brown, or black. Clumps of tissue may also appear in the blood. This is normal., Beginning menstruation is a sign that your body has the capacity to become pregnant. Each month, your ovaries release an egg that travels through your fallopian tubes, toward your uterus. Your uterus forms a soft lining of blood and tissue in preparation for the egg to become fertilized by a sperm and eventually grow into a baby. An egg is only fertilized by coming in contact with sperm. This usually happens through vaginal sex, although there are other ways for sperm to enter a vagina and fertilize an egg. If the egg is not fertilized by a sperm, your uterus then releases the lining of blood and tissue. That blood and tissue is your period.Women who are sexually active should closely monitor their menstrual cycle. A missed period could be a sign of pregnancy.
 If possible, ask your mom and other family members about their first period. If they are biologically related to you, it may give you a sense of the age at which you might start menstruating.Other women can tell you personal stories and details about what to expect. Try talking to a trusted family member, friend, or adult at school. A school nurse or counselor should be willing to discuss the ins and outs of your period with you.


For example, if you want to talk to a woman about her first period, try saying, “Hey Layla, I’ve been thinking about when I might get my first period, and I was wondering what it was like for you.”
Approach your school nurse or guidance counselor with your questions. Try saying, “Hi Ms. Green, I have some questions about getting my period. Can I talk to you for a minute?”

, Do some research about first-time period experiences. There are many websites that are geared towards young women’s health. You can read other girls’ stories and get a sense of what the first few periods might be like.


Good websites give a wide variety of information about sexual and reproductive health, including the risks and benefits of common practices. Websites like girlshealth.gov and plannedparenthood.org have comprehensive information about menstruation.

