 Any small metal can will work, such as those used to package vegetables, or a soda can.Make sure that it is empty, clean, and open on one end. If you are using a soda can, the opening used for drinking out of the can will suffice.
 You will need a second metal can, large enough that the small metal can will fit inside it with room to spare. Any larger metal can will work, such as a coffee can. Make sure that it is empty, clean, and open on both ends.
 Position the holes just below the rim of the open end of the can., These rods will be used to support the small can in the calorimeter. Temperature-resistant glass rods are ideal. If you do not have any, try any kind of sturdy, nonflammable rod.,, You may need to leave the thermometer in the water for some time so that it can get an accurate reading of the water (which may change temperature as it adjusts to room temperature).


Leave the thermometer in the water; you will need it to take another reading later.
, Completely unfold the paperclip so that it forms a single long strand. Insert one end of the strand into the cork. Make sure it can stand upright with the unfolded paperclip sticking up.
 You will only need a small amount of the food. Good choices include a shelled peanut, potato chip, or other high-fat food.
, Light the food, using a butane lighter or other device. As soon as it catches fire, place the cans over it.


Be very careful lighting the food and placing the cans over it so that you don’t burn yourself.
 As the food burns, it will heat the water in the small can that is suspending in the large can.

Carefully watch the food as it burns. If it goes out quickly, before the food burns completely, relight it.
 Record the temperature of the heated water.


Be careful moving or touching the calorimeter, as the cans and other parts may be very hot.
 Weigh it again, and record the measurement.,, If you filled the small can with exactly 100 mL of distilled water, then you already know the volume of water (100 mL). If you recorded the initial temperature of the water, and its temperature after the food was burned, you can determine the temperature change by subtracting the smaller value from the larger.

For instance, if the water in the can was initially 35 degrees Celsius, then 39 degrees Celsius after the food was burned, then you have a temperature change of 4 degrees (39-35 = 4).
 Using the formula and the data you collected, determine how many calories were in the food you analyzed.

For instance, if you had a temperature change of 4 degrees, then the food contained 400 calories (400 = 100 mL x 4, using the formula calories = volume of water x the temperature change of the water)
To determine Kcal of the food, multiply the temperature change of the water by the volume of water in liters.Using the example above, the sample would contain 0.4 Kcal (0.4 Kcal = 0.100 L water x 4)

