 You can watch them at Chorao, Thivim or Quepem in their natural habitat of mangroves. Get a good guide who can show you these reptiles in their natural habitat, either from a boat or canoe. The boats start in the morning at the Cortalim jetty.


Crocodiles are slightly difficult to spot as they look like rocks.;
, Old Goa is full of vintage buildings. This area slightly west of Panjim takes you back into the Portuguese days – convents, museums, churches, very old bungalows and even bakeries form part of the architectural backdrop. Check out the Basilica of Bom Jesus, the Archaeological Museum of Old Goa and the Naval Aviation Museum and prepare to be amazed.
 Rivona, Lamgau and Arvalem caves are worth a visit at least once, as they also happen to overlook the sea. Go with a local who’ll be able to give you some stories and legends that have been passed down the generations as to what happened in these caves. If you’re a group of only girls, ensure that you inform people before going and move in a whole group to ensure your safety.
 Near Bicholim is the Mayem Lake and Champions Yacht club where they have floating tents available and even a floating restaurant. This is worth a visit at least once, just to do something different.
 “Tiatr” is a form of theatre in the local dialect of Konkani. This theatre will give you a better insight into Goan society. Find a Konkan speaking goan to take along and help with translations. These “Tiatr’s” are hilarious renditions and adaptations made using current socio-economic and political issues in Goa. They also include topics such as infidelity, love and sex.
 Goa has a number of ship wrecks and a lot of them are from the Portuguese era. Scuba diving experts and operators in Goa around the Mormugao Harbor offer explorations of these wrecks. This area is full of multi-colored fish, and has a saltwater lagoon. There’s no treasure in the shipwrecks, so don’t go looking for any.
 Ingo’s has a Saturday night market in Arpora where you’ll get loads of things. It’s worth it for the experience – there are live artists, fire eaters, musicians, jugglers and most of the stalls are run by the firangs.
 This one is open on Wednesdays, so plan your trip to be an "extended" weekend.
 Gambling is not that fancy when you’re in India. However, Goa has some famous casino cruises if this interests you It’s not what you see in movies and it’s definitely not like Vegas but fun to go to, dress up and check out. Don’t forget you need to be above 18 to go on such a cruise.
 They tend to walk on most beaches and you can haggle with them. Most of them give a super foot massage. If you’re adventurous enough, you can go for a back massage as well.