 According to the American College of Sports Medicine, healthy adults should establish a regular exercise routine.


Engage in at least 20 minutes of vigorous cardiovascular (cardio) activity 3 days each week to reduce stress.






Substitute vigorous cardio with moderate activity, if necessary. A variation on the 20-minute option is to exercise moderately 5 days per week for a period 30 minutes each time.
Incorporate strength-training exercises. Your exercise regimen should include about 10 different strength-training exercises performed in sets of 10 repetitions, 2 times per week.





;
, If you have not been exercising for some time, reduce your stress levels by easing into a new exercise program. You don't want to jump into a strenuous exercise regimen only to injure yourself, become overly sore and increase your stress.


Start with simple activities. Walk, ride a bike, hike a trail or take a beginning dance class to ease into a new exercise program.






Join a gym. Exercising in a structured environment with workout professionals available to assist you will increase your motivation and commitment to exercise, and may decrease the stress associated with a new exercise routine.
 Increased enjoyment will reduce your stress and take your mind off of life's challenges. Playing a favorite sport or taking a dance class with enjoyable music will increase your sense of relaxation.
 Studies show that exercising outdoors near bodies of water, mountains and greenery improves your mood. Cycling near the water or running on the beach will help to reduce your stress.
 Research shows that exercising with others helps you to feel calmer. Whether or not you are speaking to one another as you exercise is irrelevant. Just the presence of others alongside you as you exercise is known to decrease your stress and motivate you to get a better workout.
 If you are approaching an especially stressful week, allot breaks of 20 to 30 minutes in the middle of the day for exercise. Use the time to walk, run up and down stairs or stretch.



Ask loved ones to remind you to exercise. When life gets busy, a commitment to exercise is often the first to go. Enlist the help of friends and family to remind you to get back on track.






Mark your exercise regimen on your work calendar. Prioritize your exercise regimen by blocking out time for it.
Use online and cell phone alerts as a reminder. A reminder alarm can help you to establish a regular commitment to exercise.







