 The one thing that keeps most people from enjoying poetry is treating it like some kind of math problem. Reading a poem shouldn't be like reading Klingon. Poetry isn't a thing to be puzzled over and "analyzed," it's a thing to be experienced in your guts. It's a thing to hear, and it's a thing to say. Experience poetry, don't worry about "understanding poetry."


This isn't to say poems shouldn't "make sense." Poetry isn't nonsense, but you need not be able to say what a poem "means" to understand it. More important is the effect of the poem, how it makes you feel. Find the music and you'll find the magic.
 What's the difference between poetry and prose? Poetry was written to be spoken. Read poems out loud and pay attention to how they feel, how they sound. It should be an experience that you hear in your body, and it should be something you feel. If you can't feel it, give it a voice.


Reading poetry out-loud will sometimes help you hear things that you might not necessarily see on the page.
 Poetry sometimes makes a whole lot more sense when you hear it out loud than when you read it on the page. Seek out a poetry reading in your area and listen to the poets read. Hear how the words sound and listen to the voices. How does it change the poem as it was written?


Spoken word and "slam" poetry is a variety of poetry in which poets speak their poetry out loud using theatrical skills. The world of poetry slams can be exciting and innovative. Scan local newspapers for these events, or check Brave New Voices for information on annual poetry slam competitions.
Look up videos of poets reading their work and pay attention to the choices the poet makes in reading the work. Is the poem the same? What does the poet emphasize that you might not have noticed.
 School? Fun? Yeah right. Learning about poetry from an experience poet or an experienced reader of poetry, however, can be a thrilling and engaging experience that will wear off on you and make the reading, writing, and study a lot more fun.

