 Luckily, the Cat Suit powerup is available in the very first level of Super Mario 3D world, so you should encounter it very early on. Turn on the Wii U, and select the Super Mario 3D World icon. You will be brought to a title screen; press the + button to proceed.;
, A brief cutscene will begin, laying out the plot for the game. Once the cutscene has ended, press A on any controllers you want to use (up to 4 players can play at once). Once all controllers are registered, select your character, and hit the A button once everyone is ready.
 Once you have selected your character, you will be brought to the world map. The world map is set up like a board game, and the first circle will be the first stage of the first world. When you are ready, press the A button to begin.


You will be transported to world 1-1 Super Bell Hill. After a brief glimpse of the stage, your character will be standing in a green yard, with a small set of stairs and an arrow pointing to the right up ahead.
 Go up the stairs by moving the character with the toggle stick, and follow the direction the arrow is pointing.
 Right by the arrow, you will see a yellow question block. Stand under it and hit the A button to jump, triggering a Cat Bell to come out. Simply walk over to the Cat Bell, and you will be transformed into Cat Suit form!, While in the Cat Suit, your character will run on all fours more quickly than usual. You can attack with claws by using the X button

, After attacking with the X button, hold it down, and your character will begin to sprint. Control your character using the toggle stick (although you will move more quickly than usual, you have less traction, so be careful around edges).
 To scale a wall while in the Cat Suit, hit the A button when facing a wall and push the toggle stick in the direction of the wall. Your character will latch onto it. Keep pushing the toggle stick up, or else your character will begin to slide down the wall.
 While in the Cat Suit, your character can also pounce on enemies midair. If your character is jumping, face the enemy you wish the attack, and hit the X button to pounce on it.
 While in the Cat Suit, characters can also make use of the Cat Wheel. The Cat Wheel is a golden gear with a pawprint in the center. It can be used to unlock hidden stages in a level. Approach it in the Cat Suit and hit the X button repeatedly to twist it.

