 Forge is like a ModLoader that is used by many players who uses mods. In order for the Dragon Egg mod to work, you have to download and then install Forge .


As of now, the current version required for Forge is Minecraft 1.7.2. The installer won't work if you're using a higher version of Minecraft.;
, After installing Forge, download the mod . There are two version you can use, 1.7.2 and 1.6.x.


Click on the link to get the download and then save it in your computer.
After downloading, put the zip file in the .minecraft directory's mod folder, which can be found here:
%appdata%\.minecraft for Windows
~/Library/Application Support/minecraft for Mac OS
~/.minecraft for Linux

, After installing and placing the zip file in the mod folder, start your game like normal. You can use either Creative mode or Survival, depending on what you prefer.


If you're using Survival, you need to obtain the egg first by defeating the Ender Dragon.
 In the old version of the mod, you are required to heat up the egg by placing it in the middle of the magma, but they have changed it recently by playing the egg block on the ground and then right-clicking the item. The egg will hatch and the dragon will appear.
 Use raw fish to tame the dragon. The dragon is modified to act like a pet in Minecraft. They will follow you, protect you, and even sit if you use a bone.


Just like any pet, dragons are vulnerable to damage as well, but you can heal them up by feeding them raw fish and other poultry.
 For you to ride the dragon, you need to saddle it up. Saddles are rare in the game and cannot be crafted, but you can find it in the dungeons, chest, mineshafts, and even trade it with a villager.


Remember that you need to tame the dragon first before you can saddle it up.
 Right-click your saddled-up pet to start riding it.


Unfortunately, the only way to go down is to right-click the dragon, which will cause you and your pet to free-fall from the sky. It's still uncertain if the mods are planning to fix this or leave it as it is.

