 In addition to any physical sensations you may feel, you may be able to see signs that your fillings need replacement. One sign that your fillings may need replaced is seeing holes or dark spots. You may notice these while brushing or flossing your teeth every day. Paying attention for these signs can ensure you get prompt treatment and may minimize the risk of infection in your oral cavity., If you floss your teeth daily, look at the floss in between each tooth. You may notice tears in the floss or pieces of food it may have removed. These can be signs of cracked teeth and/or a filling that needs replaced.Note which tooth either shreds the floss or always seems to have food stuck in it. This can help your dentist better identify which filling needs replacement, but in cases like this an x-ray is almost always a must.
 Most people love the feeling of clean and smooth teeth. You may notice that you have a tooth that never feels smooth even after brushing and flossing. This may be a sign that a filling needs replaced.Keep an eye on the tooth and notice if anything makes the roughness worse or better. If it doesn’t get any smoother, let you dentist know.
 In some cases, you may be able to see when a filling needs replaced. If you notice any physical symptoms, check inside your mouth to see if you have any fillings that are visibly broken, cracked, or missing. Contact your dentist for an appointment to confirm that you need the filling replaced.Wash your hands thoroughly with warm water and soap before putting them in or near your mouth. This can minimize your risk of introducing harmful bacteria into your mouth.
 Even if you can’t see a problematic filling, a chipped or fractured tooth may also indicate that you need a filling replaced. If you have physical symptoms but can’t see any cracked, broken, or missing fillings, check the surrounding teeth. They may have chips or fractures that need the attention of your dentist.Use your tongue to identify any sharp edges or missing structures. Food that gets stuck in daily is also a sign that your old filling needs replacement
Be aware that cracks and chips may be so small that you can’t detect them with your eye alone.Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before looking for chipped or fractured teeth. This can prevent an infection.
 There are different kinds of dental filling material. Each has a different life span. Knowing what kind of filling you have can help you know if it’s time to replace it. Recognize that the durability of the fillings also depends on how well you care for your oral health. If you take great care of your teeth and gums, then your fillings may last longer. The following are different types of fillings and their average life spans:Gold fillings, which can last for up to 15 years.
Amalgam fillings, which are silver in color, can also last up to 15 years.
Composite fillings, made of a material that matches your own tooth color, may need replacing after five years.
Ceramic fillings can last about 7 years.