 The most important thing for healthy plants is the perfect amount of sunlight. Some outdoor plants are sun-lovers, while others prefer more of the shade. If your plants are potted, move them to the right location depending on their species. If you are planting your plants in a garden, make sure they’re in a good spot or else relocate them to a better place which suits their needs.


You can look up the sun requirements for each plant by visiting a local nursery or checking online.
When in doubt, move a plant to a location that gets six to eight hours of sunlight per day.
 Outdoor plants tend to be a bit hardier than indoor plants (because they typically have to be indigenous), but that doesn’t mean that they don’t need plenty of water. Set up an automatic sprinkler system if you can. Water small to medium plants on a daily basis. Water trees and shrubs once a week.









Adjust your watering schedule to the weather. Skip a watering session if you've had significant rainfall, and provide more water in hot weather.
On the flip side, set up a drainage system if your garden plot seems to be flooding or having drainage problems.
Many plants have different watering needs in different seasons. They may need much less water during a dormant winter state.
If you’re not sure how much water your plants should be getting, look up their species online or visit a local nursery to ask.
 If your plants are looking a bit drab, they may not be getting the necessary nutrients from the soil. Visit a local nursery and see what plant food or fertilizer would be put to best use in your yard. You may add chicken manure or compost into the soil as a natural way to provide nutrients for your plants.









If you aren't sure about your soil quality, take a soil sample to an agricultural extension office or soil testing laboratory for testing. You can also purchase do it yourself soil testing kits.
 Weeding is a task few enjoy, but it is necessary in order to properly care for you plants and keep them looking healthy. Pull out all weeds from the roots, and check back on a regular basis to make sure they continue to stay away. It is important to weed regularly, as these unwanted plants can steal valuable nutrients and soil space that your plants need to be healthy.
 Although you may not want to cut back the size of your plants, it is important to cut off dead flowers and branches as well as sickly looking parts of your plants. Typically done after a growing season has finished, use a pair of garden shears to dead-head (cut off the brown flowers and leaves) your plants. If you feel you plants are getting too big, you can cut them back at this time as well.
 Nothing is worse than having a perfectly tended-to garden that gets destroyed by pesky bugs and slugs. Find an organic insecticide to use on your plants, or use predatory insects that eat the plant-eating bugs for an all-natural alternative.


For example, nematodes can be used to eat spider mites and ladybugs can be used to eat aphids - but neither will damage or consume your plants.To keep slugs and snails out of your garden, you can sprinkle crushed egg-shells around the perimeter. If you would rather kill them, a bowl of beer will do the trick.
 A 2–3 inch (5–7.5cm) layer of good mulch will help plants retain moisture, regulate soil temperature, and keep down weed pressure.