 Combine the water, oats, brown sugar, honey, butter, salt, and cinnamon. Let it cool until it is lukewarm, about 10 to 15 minutes. The warm water will help to melt the butter, plump up the oatmeal, and dissolve the honey and sugar., Add the yeast and the flours to the bowl. Stir with a wooden spoon to combine.
 Use a wooden spoon to combine the wet and the dry ingredients until it forms a thick dough.
 You can do this by hand, for 10 minutes, or in a mixer for 5 to 7 minutes.


To knead the dough by hand, sprinkle a clean surface with flour.
Dump the dough onto the floured surface.
Use the heel of your hand to knead the dough together. Use the sprinkled flour to keep the dough from sticking to your hands.
If there are any scrap pieces of dough, clear them with your hand and add them to the rest of the dough. Then, sprinkle the surface with flour again and continue kneading.
Keep kneading the dough until it forms a smooth, round ball.
 Transfer the dough to the bowl. Cover the dough with a towel or a greased piece of plastic wrap. Allow the dough to rise for 1-2 hours. It should double in size.


The dough will be pretty warm due to the boiling water, so it should become nice and puffy after an hour of sitting.
 Use a bench knife or a sharp kitchen knife to slice the dough in half to form two loaves. Shape each half to resemble a loaf.


Tuck the corners down so they’re rounded.
Sprinkle the top of the loaves with some flour.
 Cover the pans with lightly greased plastic wrap or towels. Allow the loaves to rise again until they’re about 1” over the rim of the pans, about 60 to 90 minutes.
 Once the loaves have risen, place them in the oven. Bake them for 35 to 40 minutes.


You can loosely cover them with aluminum foil after 25 minutes in the oven to prevent over-browning.
 The interior of the bread should register 190 degrees F on a digital thermometer.


If you do not have access to a digital thermometer, you can determine if the bread is baked based on the golden brown color.
 Let them cool complete before you slice them. Enjoy your honey oatmeal bread with some salted butter or your favorite jam.


You can store the loaves at room temperature in a well wrapped plastic cover, for several days.
You can also freeze them to keep them fresh longer.

