 The most important thing you can do for your curly hair if you want to straighten it well is to get a really good flatiron. Find one that has multiple heat settings, so that you can experiment and find the heat setting that best straightens your hair.Your flatiron should last about ten years, but you don't want one that has been around since the Dark Ages.
Curly-haired girls will want to look for gold or titanium plated flatiron, because these are better for your hair.;
, You want one that has wider plates that range in size from one and a half inches to two inches wide. This lets you cover more surface area in less time.You should also be wary of the weight of your flatiron. You're going to be dragging it through your hair frequently and straightening takes time. You're not trying to end up looking like a bodybuilder because your flatiron is too heavy.
 When you straighten your hair, especially hair that is thick and curly, you need to wash it first. This prepares your hair for the straighten process. It's good to use gentle products because you're about to put your hair through a process that is tough on it.


Use a smoothing conditioner to get your hair on the right track before you begin straightening it.
 It's best to use a microfiber towel or a t-shirt as a towel. These are gentler on the hair cuticle and lead to less frizz when you have thick curly hair.


Getting your hair to the damp stage before blow-drying it means that you spend less time blow-drying it so that it isn't as damaged as it could be.
 You're looking for something that helps to product your hair while you're straightening. Because of the oils in this product you need to apply it two and a half inches from your scalp.








A little goes a long way, so use only a very small amount (little more than a drop of product).
Apply from the bottom of your hair up, using your fingers as a comb.
If absolutely possible, find a heat protector that doesn't have oils or silicone and can protect your hair from frizz.
 Because you can burn your hair if you try to straighten it when it's wet or damp you need to blow-dry it first. With a round-bristle brush pull your hair as flat and as straight as possible while you blow-dry it.









Alternate between your blow-dryer's hot and cool settings so that you are in less danger of overheating your hair.
Remember that this can take awhile when you have thick, curly hair. You really do want to make sure your hair is completely dry before you start to straighten it.
Keep the nozzle facing downwards as you blow-dry to cut down on frizz.

