 Note their form and tempo.;
, The angles of the arms to the body and the arms not being fully extended are the main form considerations. Do not keep your upper arms to the sides like a cross. Do an imaginary push-up on a bench like you were bench pressing but without the barbell. Without your body weight bearing down on you, note the position of your upper arms, in relation to your upper body, that is comfortable. Do not get into a position that is not natural.
 Record the set and repetition scheme that was used for each session. Include comments in your log. Besides gradually increasing your repetitions over time, give your mind and body enough rest between sessions. Rest at least five days and as much as 20 days between sessions.
 From your observations, you will have noticed that others do push-ups (and bench presses) at a high rate of speed in a pumping fashion. Do a mid range movement where your elbows are not fully extended at the top position. Do not take great pains to lower your body as close to the floor as possible because this will affect your tempo.
 The bench press and push-up are similar, but the intensity of doing push-ups is low. Doing bench pressing with maximum weights requires perfect form, learn from bench pressers to avoid injuries to your elbows, shoulders and wrists. Learn to do push-ups with a quick tempo and with form.
 A short aerobic session of at least 10 minutes will do. Aerobics inflates your lungs and your rib cage is what your chest muscles are attached to.
 Do leaning push ups for your warm sets and do at least a couple of sets but with low repetitions. If your push up goal for the day is 40 for the last set try this:


Do 10 repetitions leaning and somewhat upright on the high step of a stairs. Do this first, easy set fast and be aware of your form.
On your second set of 8 repetitions, lean on a step closer to the ground. Do this set fast and tweak your form - especially at the elbows and shoulders.
The third set of 40 repetitions will be done, as normal, on the floor. Simply blast through this top set, it will be easy provided that you have gradually increased your repetitions over a long period of time. You should feel invigorated after doing this routine.
 Read "Brawn" by Stuart McRoberts on simple progression cycling for strength training and apply this to your exercise routines which may have speed, agility, flexibility and strength aspects. If you are new to cycling expect fantastic results using cycling's methodical and gradual approach to strength and stamina progression.

