 If you want students to participate in your presentation, being critical or dismissive of their questions and comments will not encourage them to participate. A hostile audience will not make for an effective and interactive presentation, so keep these guidelines in mind when responding to your audience:When students make a contribution to the presentation or attempt to answer a question, acknowledge their effort. Mention that they have raised an interesting point or asked a good question. If your audience feels that you have at least acknowledged their attempt, they will be more willing to put themselves out there again and participate.
Even if you don’t think a question or comment is an insightful one or particularly relevant, you can respond in a way that is tactful and diplomatic. For example, “This is a good starting point, but we also need to consider. . .” or “That’s an interesting question, but beyond the scope of what we can talk about today.”

, If you want students to feel comfortable participating and interacting, you need to create a welcoming environment in which they view you as approachable. Follow these tips to adopt a friendly demeanor that encourages interaction and impresses students.Relax your posture and try to un-tense your muscles so you don’t seem stiff or standoffish. This might deter students from participating.
Use a conversational tone instead of an overly formal one. If students see you as someone who is accessible, friendly, and approachable, they will be more willing to participate and interact with the material. This doesn’t mean you should use slang or inappropriate language, but you don't have to pretend you are a snobby aristocrat either.
Move closer to the students instead of standing behind a podium, lectern, or computer. This will help you connect better with the audience and make them feel like they are a part of your presentation rather than just passively watching it.
 If you would like your audience to interact and respond to your presentation, you need to make eye contact with them and signal that you welcome their participation.If you are reading your notes or powerpoint slides instead of looking at your audience, students will be distracted and less likely to engage with your presentation.
 To encourage student interaction and engagement, present different points of view or perspectives on a topic. If you only present one version, students will not have much to talk about or weigh in on.You can emphasize the perspective or view you think is most accurate and explain why, but you will create a stronger and more interactive presentation if you can acknowledge other views exist.

