 The script is the most important part of a movie. It has information about the story, characters, plot and all the things that will happen in the movie. Studying the script thoroughly will you give you an idea about how the set should look. Take detailed notes on the script, making a list of the following:


The setting. This includes the time period, geography, and ambiance.
Crucial background props. What props are named in the script? What parts of the scene do the character need to interact with (a TV, an oven, the blinds, etc.)?
The mood of the script. Comedic and light? Dark and serious? Somewhere in between? This will profoundly impact your color choices.
How many characters will need to fit into the space. If it is too big, the actors can be swallowed by the space, but if it is too small it will be awkward to film in. Remember, you can also use space size as a stylistic or symbolic element.
Will the location need to be designed from the ground up (like a spaceship) or can they be adapted from pre-set locations, such as a house?;
, You must remember that, above all, you are there to contribute to the director's vision for the movie. They may give you some pointers, or they may give you free reign to do what you want. Some directors, like Wes Anderson (Grand Budapest Hotel, Rushmore), have detailed and meticulous approaches to set design. Other just want an unobtrusive, natural looking environment. You should ask about:


Any tone, mood, or theme he/she wants to keep.
Any color palettes that should remain consistent. The movie The Fall, for example, uses deep, contrasting primary colors to distinguish its locations and characters.The budget. How much money do you have on props and set decoration?
Extra props/furniture. Is there anything the character uses that isn't in the script?

, There is a variety of ways to do this, but your basic goal is the same: show the director the "set" before you spend a dime. The most common professional way to do this is through "sketch-up," which is an architectural drawing of the scene, like this one for "Good Night, and Good Luck." This, however, takes a lot of time, and may be counterproductive for smaller movies. You can also try:Photography. Create a small book of photos of props, locations, and rooms found online or in real life, then talk to the director about ways to redesign the rooms in the photos to fit the movie. You can also cut and paste photos together.
Drawing. Simply sketch out the rooms on pencil and paper. You usually want a top down view of the set, listing all furniture, walls, doors, and windows, and a more artistic, cinematic drawing of the room.
Other films. Pull up clips and shots from other movies you might want to emulate, then discuss how you'd change things to make them unique. Showing the director other movies can give a sense of how set design impacts the final film., There are pros and cons to both strategies, and you may use both existing locations and pre-built sets on the same movie. This is the most crucial decision you'll make when designing a movie set, as it will wildly affect the budget, scene, and filmmaking process. This decision is almost always made with the director.



Building a Set: This gives you full control over the set design. Usually, you build a 3-walled room, like a theater stage, then stock it will all of your props and designs. The camera crew then uses the space of the missing 4th wall to film. While the creative freedom is great, set building is expensive and takes a lot of time to get right.

Shooting on Location: This is when you adapt a pre-existing location into a set. It is cheaper and faster, than set building, but comes with its own concerns. You must be sure you have permission to shoot there, and that the set won't be altered or adapted while you're not filming. You also need to be sure that actors, cameras, lights, and sound equipment can all fit, and you can make any changes necessary for the film.
 Though budgeting is usually the least fun part the whole process, it is an essential skill for everyone involved in filmmaking. You do not want to be halfway through a set or movie and realize you've run out of money for an essential prop, and the only way to avoid this is to budget. Go online to check out prices of essential props and think about which ones you can make yourself.


Make sure you've called and checked if there are any fees to use existing locations as well.

