 One of the most positive ways in which you can support your spouse is by informing yourself about diabetes. This can help you to understand not only what she is going through, but may also help you give her what she needs to maintain her health.Speak to your spouse’s doctor spouses about dietary and exercise requirements, including any warning signs of bigger issues for which you should watch.
Consult educational tools online from organizations such as The American Diabetes Organization. You can find articles about the disease, diet and fitness, and joining support groups.Subscribe to magazines or other media published to support and educate persons with diabetes and their spouses.
Take a course about health and diabetics, which could teach you how to inject insulin or identify anaphylactic shock, if necessary.;
, Communication with your spouse should be one of the cornerstones of supporting your spouse. Not only can she tell you about how she is feeling and what she needs, but also if you are nagging her.Be honest with each other at all times. There is nothing about which you should feel shame or guilt around your spouse, especially if you are providing care for her.
For example, if your spouse isn’t eating properly, you can say “I don’t want to nag you, but eating that piece of cake may cause more serious issues with your blood sugar.”Give your spouse time to adjust to any changes in the disease or a diagnosis. Both of you may also need time to cope with anything that comes your way. You can do this by saying things like “This is scary for both of us. I’m really worried about losing you. What worries you most?”, Part of supporting your spouse is to encourage her to follow healthy habits and get treatment when necessary. This can help maintain her well-being and prevent any complications from the disease, such as cardiovascular or eye damage.Ask your spouse the best way you can support her. For example, ask her if you should remind her when she needs new supplies like needles or insulin or if she prefers to take care of it herself.Encourage as much self-care as possible for your spouse, which can give her confidence, you a bit of relief, and enhance your mutual lifestyle.For example, you could encourage your spouse to take her medications by taking yours at the same time of day.Be aware that there is a fine line between encouraging your spouse to stay healthy and nagging her.If there is something serious that you want to discuss with your spouse, it may be better received if the doctor broaches the subject.
 Being diabetic often means making changes to one’s lifestyle. Help your spouse make positive changes by adopting similar changes if you are able. Following elements such as the same diet and exercise plans can help reinforce your spouse’s treatment plan and well-being and may also minimize her feelings of isolation.Get some exercise together, which is good for your health and that of your spouse. For example, if you don’t exercise, incorporate a couple of 30 minute walks into your twice a week and work up to six days a week.Change your diets, swapping unhealthy choices for healthy, whole foods. For example, your spouse may no longer be able to baked goods. If you are both craving something sweet, have a dish of fresh berries with sugar-free whipped topping.Set small goals as you change your lifestyle. This can help ensure that you and your spouse stay on track to managing her diabetes.
 Work in conjunction with medical professions as much as possible. This can help you live with your spouse in a safe, healthy, and harmonious atmosphere.Attend doctor’s appointments and education classes with your spouse. Make sure she agrees to this before you assume it’s acceptable and appropriate to her.You may include a dietician or mental health counselor as a part of your spouse’s care team.Remember you are a part of the team to advocate for the best of spouse and express her wishes or anything else she may be unable to say., Because of excess glucose in a diabetic’s system, she needs to watch her diet, though the disease shouldn’t keep her—or you—from enjoying some of your favorite foods. Getting nutrient-rich, whole, low-sugar foods can help both of you to stay healthy and maintain your weight, which in turn may help relieve some symptoms of diabetes.Eat about around 1,800-2,200 nutrient-dense calories a day, depending on how active you are.If you are trying to lose weight, decrease your calorie intake by about 500-800 calories per day.
Choose healthy foods including: beans, dark green leafy vegetables, citrus fruit, sweet potatoes, berries, tomatoes, whole grains, nuts, and fat-free milk and yogurt.These foods can help ensure you and your spouse get all of the nutrients needed to maintain health and weight and manage diabetes.Aim to fill your half of your plate with non-starchy vegetables such as beets, carrots, cauliflower, squash, snap peas, and asparagus. If you are getting frozen or canned versions, make sure they do not contain any added sugar.Decrease or eliminate the amount of sugar you eat, especially if it is from refined sources such as cakes and cookies. Instead, eat fruits like blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries to satisfy your sweet tooth., Your and your diabetic spouse can plan weekly meals together. Not only can this be a fun activity for both of you, but can help manage your weight, sugar, and may that you’re getting plenty of nutrients.Start off your day on the right foot with a healthy breakfast together. You can choose a variety of foods to make a healthy and satisfying breakfast for both of you such as an omelet with cheese and veggies and a side of whole grain toast and fruit.Some studies have shown that allowing yourself occasional cheat days can help you maintain a healthy diet because you’re not denying yourself anything., Eating at restaurants can prove a major pitfall for many diabetics and their spouses because of processed foods with hidden sugar.Arrange your restaurant trips as a part of meal planning, selecting restaurants that offer both of you healthy food choices.


Ask for substitutions when you can. For example, ask for a salad or extra broccoli instead of French fries.Order desserts with whole fruit or even a fruit platter for dessert.Make restaurant reservations for a time that you won’t have to wait for a long time and run the risk of disrupting your spouse’s blood sugar., It’s also important to your health to stay hydrated. Because of added sugars in beverages, you may find it difficult to know what to drink. Making wise choices can help you and your spouse stay hydrated, manage weight, and control your spouse’s diabetes.The best choices for you and your diabetic spouse for beverages are: water, unsweetened tea, coffee, diet sofa, low-calorie and sugar-free drinks and drink mixes.Consider flavoring water with fruit or lemon.Avoid regular soda, fruit punch, fruit drinks, energy drinks, and sweet tea. These are high in calories and sugar.Women should drink about 9 cups of liquid daily. Men should drink about 13 cups daily. If you are active or pregnant, you may need up to 16 cups of water a day., Both smoking and alcohol consumption can increase your spouse’s risk for complications from diabetes and also harm your health. By either reducing or quitting alcohol and tobacco altogether, you and your spouse can maintain your overall well-being and manage her diabetes.Men should consume no more than 3-4 units of alcohol daily, while women should have no more than 2-3 units of a day.A bottle of wine, for example, has 9-10 units of alcohol.You may want to consider non-alcoholic beer or sparkling grape juice as alternatives to beer and wine.
If you are not able to quit smoking, speak to your doctor about getting treatment to help you quit.
 Regular physical activity can keep you and your spouse healthy and may help manage her diabetes. Incorporate some kind of activity that you can do together daily.Try and get at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.There are many different activities that you can do together including walking, jogging, biking, swimming, or playing tennis.
Regular exercise can help maintain the weight of you and your diabetic spouse.
Your spouse may find that combining cardiovascular exercise with weight training may help control diabetes more effectively than cardio alone., Schedule your annual doctor’s appointments at the same time. Not only can this ensure that your spouse gets regular care for her diabetes, but may also detect other complications of the disease or conditions you could both have.You may want to meet with your dietician and any other members of your diabetes care team at as a couple to see the ways in which you can support your spouse through lifestyle., Living with and taking care of a diabetic spouse can cause you stress that leads to health or other problems for you.Taking measures to manage stress in your life can promote your well-being and may make your living situation more comfortable and manageable.Remove yourself from stressful situations as much as possible, whether they are at work or at home.
 No matter how much care your spouse requires, ask for help if you need it. This may allow you to enjoy some alone time, help share the burden of care, and even give your spouse a break. It’s never healthy for a couple to be on top of one another at all times.You could ask friends or other family members to help out so that you can properly take care of yourself or just get away for a little while to focus on you.
Consider hiring an at-home caregiver a couple of days a week. This will give you a chance to get out of the house. In some cases, your insurance may even cover in-home care from licensed practical nurses.Be honest with your spouse about why you’re getting help. For example, you can say “I love you and taking care of you, but part of that is having time to take care of myself, too.”

, Having time to yourself is an important part of reducing stress and taking care of your own well-being. Schedule regular “me time” to give yourself a break.Do activities that keep you engaged with other people. For example, schedule a weekly lunch or dinner with friends.
Permit yourself to pamper yourself to help you relax and de-stress. You could take a gentle yoga or meditation class or get a massage.
Go shopping or do an activity your spouse doesn’t like, such as kayaking or swimming. Even reading a book can give you a break.You should never feel guilty for taking off some time. Remind yourself this is vital for your well-being., It is common for a caregiver to put her spouse’s needs before her own, which often results in a lack of vital rest. Prioritize getting 7-9 hours of sleep every night, which can help you more effectively cope with caring for your spouse and also reduces stress.If necessary, take short naps during the day.
 Taking care of yourself is an important part of being a supportive partner to a spouse with diabetes. Joining a support group for caregivers of diabetics make help you cope with any stress your feelings or give you constructive ways to deal with issues you are facing.The American Diabetes Organization has different services and programs to help support the caregivers of diabetics. The group also can help you locate support groups in your local area.You can also find support by calling the American Diabetes Organization at 800-DIABETES (800-342-2382).