 If your symptoms are mild, you may not need to take medication for essential tremor. But if your symptoms are severe and getting in the way of your everyday life, your doctor may prescribe medication like beta blockers, anti-seizure medications, and tranquilizers. Speak to your doctor about any side effects of the medications and any issues the medication may cause with medication you are already taking.Another medication that is sometimes recommended for essential tremor is Botox injections. The injections can improve tremors for up to three months at a time, but it can cause weakness in your fingers if used on your hands.
 Your doctor may suggest that you do physical or occupational therapy to help with the tremors. Physical therapy can help improve your muscle strength and control. Your doctor can refer you to an occupational therapist.As part of the therapy sessions, you may use adaptive devices to make doing daily activities easier. Using heavier glasses and utensils, wrist weights, and wide, heavier writing tools can help make living with essential tremor more manageable.
 As part of your treatment plan, you may make lifestyle changes like using the hand less affected by the tremor more often. You may also reduce your level of stress and anxiety on a day to day basis, as this can make the tremors worse.For example, you may take up a relaxing hobby that requires little physical activity, like reading, listening to music, or watching movies.
You can also do deep breathing and meditation to help you relax, without putting too much stress on your body.
 Making dietary changes can make the tremors more manageable. Cut out caffeine and other stimulants as well as alcohol in your diet. Your doctor may recommend a specific diet that you can go on to reduce your tremors.The diet may consist of fresh fruits and vegetables as well as prepared meals at home, rather than prepackaged meals. Your doctor may instruct you to avoid artificial sugar, additives, and dyes, as these can trigger your tremors.
If you live with others, ask them to help you prepare these special meals, as you may struggle to prepare food on your own due to your tremors.
 Your doctor may recommend that you lean on family and friends for support as you deal with essential tremor. You may join a support group to help you cope with essential tremor and hire a caretaker, if needed, to make living with essential tremor easier.Depending on the severity of your essential tremor, your doctor may recommend that you have a live in caretaker or someone, such as a friend or family member, who checks in with you on a daily basis. This may be a good option if you struggle to do daily tasks on your own due to your essential tremor.

