 It is a large part of being a punk. The energy is amazing. You do not have to get in the mosh pit but it is fun to watch. Play safe and have fun. Get to know your local scene, you will probably see the same people and bands at shows over time.
 There are many different types of Punk music, and it is important to remember that not every punk listens to every band here. A lot of Punks focus on one era of this music genre as the style of music has radically changed over time. This is a list of each era of Punk music, and some bands that influenced it.
 Normal punk rock: Ramones, the Clash, Sex Pistols, The Rezillos, Green Day (mostly old), Alkaline Trio, Rancid and Against Me!.
Anarcho-Punk - Punk rock that promotes Anarchism. Bands that are influenced are Rudimentary Peni, Anti-Flag, Against All Authority, Code 13, The Mob, Political Asylum and the Bus Station Loonies
Modern punk - Against Me!, 4th Curtis, Gallows, Dropkick Murphys, Title Fight, etc.
Celtic punk - Punk with some Irish instruments. Eg: Dropkick Murphys, Flogging Molly, the Briggs
Hardcore punk (or hardcore): Faster and more harder punk with vocals usually lacking melody. Eg: Black Flag, Minor Threat, Negative Approach, Necros, The Meatmen, Bad Brains, Gallows, Poison Idea, Suicidal Tendencies (although they are mostly crossover thrash), AFI (early), Conflict, Rise Against, Agnostic Front, Kill Your Idols, etc.
Punk Blues - A subgenre of Garage Rock and Punk Rock. Using acoustic guitars and percussions and harmonicas along with electric guitars, bass, and drums. Bands are Laughing Hyenas, Soledad Brothers, Knoxville Girls, Mule and Pussy Galore.
Beatdown hardcore (or moshcore/beatdown/youth crew/tough guy hardcore) - Hardcore punk made heavier with some more intense, shouted vocals and low-chugging breakdowns. Often traditional metalcore bands (Hatebreed, Converge, I Am War, Earth Crisis, Unit 731, Bury Your Dead) get called hardcore. Metalcore is much heavier than tough guy hardcore and has elements of metal in it. Beatdown bands: Madball, Agnostic Front (later), Youth of Today, Death Before Dishonor, etc. Bands of the genre who have played also metalcore include Terror, Vision of Disorder and Stick to Your Guns.
Oi! - Often misconceived as a racist genre, it isn't. Oi! is far from racism.That is Rock Against Communism. Oi! is a punk genre in the scene of punks and skinheads (not racist ones) that were simple, pub-friendly, treble guitar-based and had some blues-influence. Eg: Cockney Rejects, Sham 69, Skrewdriver (first album; before racism), 4-Skins, the Business, The Exploited, UK Subs, etc.
Crust punk - Fast, insane and metal-influenced punk rock born in the 1980s in England. Bands are Amebix and Electro Hippies. Often bands wore all black, wore black leather and denim, slogans, patches and dreadlocks.
Thrashcore - Fast, insane and blast beats-filled hardcore began in the early 1980s. Bands include DRI, Raw Power and Electro Hippies.
D-beat - Heavy metal influenced hardcore with some metal traits but still pure hardcore. The genre was played by bands like Discharge. The drumming was also extremely aggressive.
Queercore - Hardcore punk that supported homosexuals and gay rights - Bands include the Dicks and Big Boys.
Street punk - Began in the UK82 era (1980s) of punk. It is a hardcore punk style that had catchy choruses, chants, lyrics usually on anti-establishment/rebellion/politics/etc, short guitar solos and usually had bands who wore black leather jackets and clothes, denim vests, lots of studs and patches, skinny or tight jeans, plaid pants, black combat boots and multi-colored mohawks. Bands include The Exploited, the Casualties, Clit 45, GBH, Cheap Sex, the Virus, Street Dogs, etc.
Powerviolence - Most of it is punk. It often has influences from hardcore, crust, thrashcore and grindcore. It is usually extremely chaotic thrashcore with shouting and screaming and usually really short songs. Bands include Iron Lung and Spazz.
Ska punk - Punk with some ska influences - Eg: Rancid, Against All Authority, Operation Ivy and Banda Bassotti
Skate punk - Fast punk rock with lots of guitar riffs, sometimes solos, singing and a raw tone. It is enjoyed by punks and skaters. Bands include MxPx, NoFX, Blink-182 (1992-1997; before Travis joined), Bone Brigade, Guttermouth, Pennywise and was pioneered by Suicidal Tendencies. Bands also often have comedy lyrics.
Melodic hardcore - Like hardcore punk, but has melodic vocals and instrumentation. Bands include Rise Against,Bad Religion, and The Descendants.
Horror punk - A goth-punk style with a dark sound and horror-themed lyrics. Bands sometimes are seen wearing black, big and shock-stylized makeup, all black, leather, studs, and the hair put into devilocks (not to be confused with emo hair). Eg: Misfits, Balzac, AFI (1998-2000), Murderdolls, etc.
Deathrock - Some type of goth-punk music which is extremely dark, atmospheric and has haunting or gloomy lyrics and themes. Bands include Christian Death and Alien Sex Fiend.
Post-punk - Punk, but more complex, introverted and experimental. Bands include Joy Division, the Clash, The Cure (early) Siouxsie & the Banshees, L-Seven and Easy Action (one with John Brannon).
 They aren't punk, but stem from it. A lot of people call it punk while some argue that they aren't.


Emo - A type of music derived from punk/alternative with melody and emotional lyrics. Originally it was short for emotive hardcore, and was influenced by hardcore punk and post-hardcore. It later got reinvented for a non-punk sound and for an alternative/indie/poppy sound. At first it was bands like Rites of Spring, The Hated and Embrace. Later, it became Jawbreaker, Sunny Day Real Estate, Jimmy Eat World, the Get Up Kids, American Football and Drive Like Jehu. Now, it is bands like Senses Fail, My Chemical Romance, From First to Last, Snowing, Red Jumpsuit Apparatus, Thursday, Paramore,Saves the Day,Modern Baseball,Dashboard Confessional and the Used.
Screamo - A subgenre of emo, only harsher and has some screams in it. At first it was bands like Pg 99, I Hate Myself, Orchid (not the metal band) and Saetia. Now it is bands like I Would Set Myself on Fire for You, Underoath, Thursday and Alexisonfire.
Pop punk - A loud pop rock style with power chords and punk influences. It has catchy choruses, pop melodies, happy melodies, usually teenage-tinged lyrics and was influenced by bands like Descendants, Green Day, Ramones, Screeching Weasel, The Offspring and Bad Religion. Bands include Sum 41, Blink-182, Good Charlotte,All,Neckdeep,, Lit, Jimmy Eat World, Man Overboard, New Found Glory, Yellowcard, Motion City Soundtrack, Millencolin, and Fall Out Boy.
Rapcore - An interesting genre that fuses hip hop and hardcore punk, often considered a subgenre of rap rock or nu metal. Bands mainly include Zebrahead, Rage Against the Machine, and Biohazard (though they are mostly a heavy metal band).
Folk Punk - A sweet combination of folk and punk, often using more acoustic instruments ( violins, harmonicas, trumpets, upright bass). Not always as fast paced as a lot of punk genres, and has more of a saddened tone to the lyrics. The Pogues popularized the genre in the late 80's but even still it is viewed as an underground sub-genre. Some great groups include, Andrew Jackson Jihad, Wingnut Dishwasher's Union, Johnny Hobo and The Freight Trains, Ramshackle Glory, Mantits, Neutral Milk Hotel and Charles Manson.
Nu Metal - Heavy metal style with either screaming, singing or rapping vocals. Bands who are in involved are Slipknot (early), Korn, and Molotov (although they do rap metal)

