 Your frontal sinuses are located in the region of your forehead. Rub lotion or massage oil onto your warmed hands in order to help smooth your fingers along your face without friction. Place both of your index fingers in between your eyebrows in the center of your forehead. Using a circular motion; run your fingers from in between your eyebrows out towards your temples.


Repeat this movement 10 times using a constant and firm pressure.
Make sure your hands are warm before beginning this massage. Rub your hands together to create a bit of friction and heat.
 These are your nasal sinuses. Pour a small amount of massage oil or lotion onto your hands and rub them together to warm them up. Use your index fingers to stroke along the side of the bridge of your nose in a downward motion; this will help promote drainage. When you work your way up towards the top of your nose (the bridge), make small circles with your index fingers next to the corners of your eyes.


However, do not touch your eyes, or get oil into your eyes. The oil won't harm your eyes but you may experience stinging.
Repeat this movement 10 times, all the while applying a constant and firm pressure.
 Again, apply lotion or massage oil to your hands and rub them together to warm them up. Using your index fingers, apply downward pressure on each cheek near the outside corners of your nostrils. Using small circular movements, work your fingers along your cheekbones towards your ear.


Repeat this movement 10 times. Again, you should use a firm pressure here to maximize relief.
 The technique is recommended for individuals with sinus problems, a stuffy nose, and nasal congestion. Rub oil in your hands. Use the palm of your hand to rub the tip of your nose in a circular motion, repeating this movement 15 to 20 times.Change directions and rub your nose the other way in a circular movement 15 to 20 times. For example, if you rubbed your nose clockwise for the first 15 movements, rub your nose in counterclockwise circles for the next 15 movements.
 Pour a small amount of lotion into your hands and rub them together. Using moderate pressure, use your thumbs to massage from the middle of the forehead towards your ears. Repeat this movement two or three times.


Place your thumbs on the middle of your nose and begin massaging out towards your ears. Repeat this movement two or three times.
Place your thumbs under your jaw and run your thumbs down along the sides of your neck to your collarbones.

