 The words of the warm-up chant are typically shouted by the leader. They are intended to inspire the group and to warn the opponent that the dance is starting. This part of the chant also gets the group in proper body position. The five lines of the chant are (with their English translation, which is not spoken):Ringa pakia! (Slap the hands against the thighs)
Uma tiraha! (Puff out the chest)
Turi whatia! (Bend the knees)
Hope whai ake! (Let the hip follow)
Waewae takahia kia kino! (Stamp the feet as hard as you can)

, Haka chants have several variations. The Kapa O‘Pango Haka was composed in 2005 as a special Haka for the All Blacks the New Zealand national rugby team.It is often performed by the All Blacks instead of the Ka Mate Haka, and specifically references the All Blacks.Kapa o pango kia whakawhenua au i ahau! (Let me become one with the land)
Hi aue, hi! Ko Aotearoa e ngunguru nei! (This is our land that rumbles)
Au, au, aue ha! (And it’s my time! It’s my moment!)
Ko Kapa o Pango e ngunguru nei! (This defines us as the All Blacks)
Au, au, aue ha! (It’s my time! It’s my moment!)
I ahaha! Ka tu te ihiihi (Our dominance)
Ka tu te wanawana (Our supremacy will triumph)
Ki runga ki te rangi e tu iho nei, tu iho nei, hi! (And will be placed on high)
Ponga ra! (Silver fern!)
Kapa o Pango, aue hi! (All Blacks!)
Ponga ra! (Silver fern!)
Kapa o Pango, aue hi, ha! (All Blacks!)

, The Ka Mate version, a war dance, is another Haka performed by the All Blacks. It was originally composed by Te Rauparaha, a Maori war leader, around 1820.The chant is shouted in an aggressive, fierce voice.


Ka mate! Ka mate! (It is death!, It is death!)
Ka ora! Ka ora! (It is life!, It is life!)
Ka mate! Ka mate! (It is death! It is death!)
Ka ora! Ka ora! (It is life! It is life!)
Tenei Te Tangata Puhuru huru (This is the hairy man)
Nana nei tiki mai (Who fetched the sun)
Whakawhiti te ra (And caused to shine again)
A upa ne ka up ane (One upward step, another upward step)
Upane, Kaupane (An upward step)
Whiti te ra (The sun shines!)
Hi!