 Lemon juice has natural skin bleaching properties, and can help to effectively lighten your acne scars. Simply combine equal parts lemon juice and water and apply this liquid directly onto your scars, avoiding the surrounding skin. Wash off the lemon juice after 15 to 25 minutes or you could put the lemon juice on overnight as a mask.


Remember to moisturize immediately after washing off the juice, as the citric acid in the lemon can be very drying on the skin.
Lime juice, which also contains citric acid, can be used instead of lemon in a pinch.
Since lemon juice has a pH of 2 and skin's pH is 4.0-7.0, this method needs to be used carefully. If left on too long, or not diluted this can lead to significant chemical burns. Citrus juices also contains a chemical called Bergapten, which binds to DNA and allows UV radiation to damage skin more easily, so you need to watch your sun exposure if you have any citrus juice on your skin. Rinse it off before going into the sun, and wear sunscreen.
 Baking soda can be used to exfoliate the skin and minimize the appearance of acne scars. All you need to do is mix one teaspoon of baking soda with two teaspoons of water to form a liquid paste. Apply this paste all over your face and use gentle circular motions to rub the baking soda into the skin, concentrating on the scarred areas, for about two minutes. Rinse off with warm water and pat the skin dry. You could also use the baking soda paste as a spot treatment, applying it directly onto the scarred area and letting it sit for 10 to 15 minutes before washing off.
Some skin advocates suggest foregoing this method. The pH of baking soda is 7.0, which is far too basic for skin's pH. Optimal skin pH occurs between 4.7 and 5.5, which is an inhospitable environment for p. acne (the bacteria responsible for causing most acne). By raising the pH to a more basic level, p. acne is able to survive longer and cause more infection and inflammation. So try this method with care, and stop using it if it's not effective for you.
 Honey is a great natural solution for clearing up pimples and reducing the red marks they leave behind. This is because honey contains antibacterial properties and helps to soothe the skin and reduce inflammation. Raw or manuka honey is the most effective. It can be dabbed directly onto the scarred area, using a q-tip.


Honey is a great option for those with sensitive skin, as honey is non-irritating, and will moisturize your skin instead of drying it out, unlike other treatments.
If you can get your hands on some pearl powder (it can be found in health stores or online), you can mix a pinch of it in with the honey for an extra-effective treatment. Pearl powder is supposed to reduce inflammation and fade acne scars.
 The sap of the aloe vera plant is a soothing natural substance which can be used to relieve many ailments, from burns to wounds to acne scars. Aloe vera helps to rejuvenate and moisturize the skin, encouraging acne scars to fade. It is possible to buy aloe vera products in the drugstore, but the best thing to do is buy an aloe vera plant and use the sap from a broken leaf. This gel-like sap can be applied directly on the scarring, and there is no need to wash off.


For a more intense scar treatment, you can mix a drop or two of tea tree oil (which promotes clear skin) into the aloe vera gel before applying.
 Ice is an extremely simple home remedy which can help to fade acne scars by soothing the inflamed skin and reducing redness. To use, just wrap an ice cube in a clean cloth or piece of paper towel and hold it against the scarred skin for a minute or two, til the area starts to feel numb. Sometimes it can burn.


Instead of freezing regular water, you can freeze some strong green tea in an ice cube tray and use the resulting ice cubes on the acne scars. Green tea has anti-inflammatory properties which complement the cooling effects of the ice.
 Sandalwood is known for its skin healing properties, and is easy to prepare at home. Just mix one tablespoon of sandalwood powder with a few drops of rosewater or milk to form a paste. Apply this paste to the affected area and leave it on for at least 30 minutes before rinsing. Repeat this process daily until your scars have vanished.


Alternatively, you can mix the sandalwood powder with a little honey and use this as a spot treatment on individual scars.
 Apple cider vinegar helps manage the pH of your skin, improving its appearance over time and helping to reduce the appearance of red marks and scars. Dilute the vinegar to half its strength with water and apply it to the affected area every day with a cotton ball until the scars begin to fade.

