 In addition to organizing all your pill bottles in one space, medications should also be organized for daily consumption on a weekly basis. The first step is to compile a list of all medications you are taking, indicating how many times and when they should be taken each day.This will help you organize your medications and remember which ones to take when. It's a good idea to keep this list with you at all times, in a wallet for example.It's also a good idea to give copies of this list to your primary care doctor and regular pharmacist.Include a physical description of each pill on the list. This will make it easier to organize your weekly pills., A pill organizer is a container with at least one compartment per day of the week.This will help you to quickly and easily determine which pills you are supposed to take each day, and whether you've taken your medication for the day or not.


If you live in a home with more than one person taking medication, you can get different colored pill organizers for each person so that it is clear which one belongs to whom.Make sure to keep your pill organizer out of reach of children, who might take the medication or mix up your pills. Either one is a major safety hazard.Electronic pill organizers are available that dispense pills automatically when it's time to take them. These make it easy to ensure you take your pills at the right time, but may be challenging to program for people who aren't technology savvy., Find a way to remind yourself to take your medications at the correct time. This can be as simple as a note on your mirror or a designated alarm clock or alarm on your phone. Or, you can use one of many apps that give you alerts on your phone when it is time to take medication.


Use the method that works best for you. If you have to take medications several times a day and are comfortable with technology, a phone app or one of the many available electronic medication reminder devices may work best., Pick one day of the week that you always refill your pill organizer.Get in the habit of checking how many doses you have left of each medication at the same time, so you can be sure to refill your prescriptions before you run out.


As a rule of thumb, if you have one week left of your medication after filling up your organizer, it's a good idea to reorder.If you buy your medications online, some online drug stores allow you to set up automatic refill reminders.