 Think about what you can do right now to stop feeling apathetic. It’s time to get unstuck from unhealthy habits or patterns. If you’ve been sitting on the couch all day, get up and go outside. Think about what isn’t working in your life currently and what needs to happen to make it better. Get into problem-solving mode and make it happen.For example, if you’ve been playing video games or watching television for hours, turn off the TV and take a walk. If you’re putting off something (like laundry or getting groceries), do it now.
Think about what isn’t working in general. Are you stuck in a rut with your relationship? Do you hate your job? What areas of your life feel stagnant?
If you’re struggling to problem-solve or get motivated enough to create solutions, call up a friend to help you or brainstorm with you. Journaling about whatever comes to mind may also help you to find some direction.
Try doing even just one or two things to get a feeling of accomplishment and prevent yourself from becoming overwhelmed. For larger chores, try breaking them up into a series of smaller tasks. For example, instead of deciding to clean your bedroom, you could do small parts of that task like putting away your clothes, tidying up your desk, making your bed, or vacuuming the floor.;
, Feeling apathetic may result from hitting a plateau or not feeling fulfilled in what you’re currently doing. Combat these feelings by setting new goals and finding ways to continue reaching further. For example, set a fitness goal to start running or lifting weights. Set a personal goal to meditate each day. You can set goals professionally or in school to help you stay motivated and work toward something.If you’re not happy in your career, think about a goal you can set. Maybe you can change positions or jobs, or perhaps you want to go back to school and try a new profession.
Make sure to discuss your accountability goals with your loved ones, and you can also find an accountability partner to help you stay on track with your goals.
 If you feel stuck in a rut, push the boundaries of your comfort zone a bit and try something new. New experiences are important and can help you emotionally and mentally. Trying a new activity can help you enjoy something new. While it might be scary at first, trying something new can help you learn and grow.Try something that pushes you slightly out of your comfort zone. For example, try a new restaurant or cook a new meal. Take a different route to work, try something new with your hair, or pick up a new hobby, like running or painting.
Try to find something that inspires you in some way, whether it be through art and creativity or self-improvement.
 Think about what used to bring you genuine joy. Is it talking to a good friend, eating something delicious, or listening to music? Find something that you know makes you laugh or smile. Even if it doesn’t feel as exciting as it once used to, it can help you deal with your current apathy and at least bring a smile to your face.Focus on social activities so that you can be with friends or make new ones.
For example, if you used to go to karate classes, pick them up again. If you used to sew, find a new project to start on.
If you are struggling with this, then ask your friends and family for help. Ask them what sort of things make you happy.
 Be in regular contact with friends and family. Social support is important for treating depression and being with people who love you can help pull you away from your feelings of apathy. If you feel like your depression makes you want to isolate away from people, maintain regular contact with just a few people. Most importantly, prioritize in-person meetings.Meet up once each week with a good friend or loved one. Go for coffee, take a walk together, or just hang out and watch TV. Prioritize having fun and spending time together.
Be sure to let family and friends know that you are struggling and ask them if they could check in on you.
Try making a rule for a while that you will not turn down any social invitations. This may help to get you out more and doing things, which will be good for you.
 If you notice that you’re often alone or isolated, find an opportunity to volunteer. You can meet new people and make friends that have similar interests as you. Volunteering helps you feel useful and enables you to contribute to something bigger than yourself. Especially if you’re struggling to feel fulfilled, volunteering can help bring a sense of meaning and fulfillment to your life.Think about things you care about (or have cared about) and how you can contribute to them. For example, if you love animals, volunteer at an animal sanctuary or humane society. If you want to help kids succeed, become a Big Brother or Big Sister or tutor children. You can volunteer at a library, museum, or community center.
 Not getting enough sleep can affect your mood, energy, and concentration. When it comes to depression, sleep can make depressive symptoms worse and vice versa. For this reason, it’s important to build good sleep habits that make sleep a priority every night.Go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, even on the weekends. This will alert your body to follow a routine.
Create a calming and relaxing bedtime routine each night. Read a book, take a bath, or sip a cup of tea to wind down from the day.
 Exercise is great for both physical and emotional health. Exercise can increase your sense of well-being, help you feel more energetic, and bring you more relaxation. Exercise has been found to be effective at treating some forms of depression as effectively as medications but without the side-effects! Exercise can help you feel good or can be a distraction from feeling apathetic.There are lots of ways to exercise. Lift weights, go swimming, attend a yoga class or dance class. Try doing your exercise first thing in the morning before you lose motivation. This will help to set the tone for your day and lead to better days.
Keep in mind that frequency is more important than duration. It does not matter how long you exercise as long as you do some form of exercise daily.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. Dealing with stress on a daily basis can help you cope with depressive symptoms and can help to stabilize your moods. Aim for 30 minutes each day, perhaps in the morning before work or school or right before you go to bed.Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation. Do a practice on your own or do it with a buddy.
 Maintaining healthy nutrition is important for your overall health. Eat small, well-balanced meals throughout the day to keep your energy up and to avoid mood swings. Notice what foods make you feel good and which ones drop your energy. Instead of reaching for sugary snacks or beverages for some energy, try eating some nuts and fruit instead.Avoid excessive caffeine and alcohol.
Balance your meals so that you eat carbohydrates, proteins, vegetables, and fruits throughout the day. If you’re not sure you’re eating well, try tracking what you eat throughout the day with a food journal or phone application.
 In your apathy, you may feel drawn to drink alcohol or engage in taking substances. Often, these substances cause more harm than good. While the temporary effects may feel good, they often have long-term consequences that can worsen your depression. Avoid alcohol and substances when you feel apathetic.If you do decide to drink alcohol, do so in moderation and not as an escape or way to cope with your depression. Also, try not to drink every day, even if it is only in small amounts. Make sure t take some days off from drinking.
 If you’re having trouble managing your apathy and depression, don’t wait or put off seeing a therapist. Reaching out for help isn’t a sign of weakness, it shows that you’re willing to make a change. Your therapist can help you identify your symptoms of depression and help you build coping skills to get through difficult times.You can find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or a local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from a physician, friend, or family member.
If you already have a therapist, then be sure to call and make an appointment as soon as your apathy shows up. This will give you the best chance of making a swift recovery.
 Antidepressants and antipsychotics can help treat depression symptoms, including apathy. Talk to a psychiatrist to see which medication may be right for you. What works for one person may not work for another person with the same symptoms, so make sure you talk to your psychiatrist about any concerns you have or side-effects you experience.You may need to try several medications to find the right one for you. Be patient and understand that this may be a process.
 Joining a support group can help you connect with others who also struggle with depression and symptoms of apathy. Support groups allow you to make connections with people who have similar struggles to your own and can help you feel less alone in your depression. They are a safe place to discuss your problems, symptoms, and experiences.Attend a support group to get advice from others who also struggle with apathy. They may have recommendations for what to do or which therapist to see.
 Cultivate connections with people you can lean on when you’re feeling apathetic. Find people you can talk to about your depression. While you may have friends you enjoy doing things with, make sure there are people you can talk to that can offer you support.If you fear becoming a burden to others, remember that many people are honored that you trust them enough to open up to. Even just talking to someone face-to-face can help.
Your support system may include your therapist, support group members, a friend and a family member. Think of who you can talk to and reach out to them.

