 However, after this age, regular handling is essential for bonding with the human owner and for getting the kitten used to humans.;
, This is much less threatening to an animal than coming at it front on.
Place one of your hands with the palm facing upward on the kitten's belly, just behind the front legs.
Place your other hand, again palm facing upward, over the kitten's back to reach under the kitten's belly in front of its hind legs.
Pull the kitten close to you and lift. The kitten will feel securely held, and it is, because you are giving it good support.
 The scruff refers to the loose skin found around the kitten's neck, behind the head. The mother cat uses this area to carry the kittens around. Picking up the kitten from here usually won't hurt the kitten because it doesn't weigh much, provided you do so very gently and only use the loose skin with a gentle but firm hold.For more details, read How to hold a cat (or kitten) by the scruff.
 If you have a cat that is like this, then you'll just need to deal with it as best you can, and only handle the cat for such occasions as needing to move it, taking it to the vet and giving it medication. You can still groom and pet the cat.
 This is much less threatening to an animal than coming at it front on. Anitra Frazier also recommends turning the cat to face away from you before picking it up (in other words, approach the cat from behind).Begin by putting your hand forward for the cat to sniff. This is a sign of respect for the cat and lets it know that you are familiar and calm. Do not make any sudden jerky movements; instead, just rub your fingers and thumb together.
Give the cat a scratch between the ears and on its chin or down the sides of the cheekbones.
Place your first hand behind the cat's front legs, near the armpits.
Lift the cat up, quickly scooping the hind legs up with your other hand, coming in from below. It helps to lift the cat's head up higher than the back part; this will tilt the cat's weight onto your rear-end supporting hand.
Bring the cat gently but swiftly close to your body to provide additional support. This reassures the cat that it has plenty of support and will ease a desire to struggle against being held.
As much as you can, leave the cat's legs free from the hold. This allows the cat to feel free and gives it a sense of being safe and able to get moving if it needs to; it is also reassuring that its free legs will land first as you put the cat back down.
To put the cat back down, tilt the head downward so that the cat can see where it is headed for landing.
 There is debate about the acceptability of this hold for adult cats because if it is done incorrectly, it can hurt the cat. As such, some experts recommend that it not be used at all on adult cats.If using this method, always quickly support the hind end with your other hand, to provide additional support and ease the weight pull.If in doubt, you are best not using this hold at all, and it should never be used on a large, heavy cat as the weight may just make it too difficult to do safely.


If the cat relaxes when you use this hold, this can be an indication that you are doing it correctly and that the cat is tolerating it.
For more details, read How to hold a cat by the scruff.

Be sure to support the cat's hind legs with your hands.
Cuddle with care.
 There are some things that you should never do by way of handling the cat, as they can cause injury to the cat, and possibly to you if the cat retaliates. These include:


Do not ever pull a cat by its tail. If the cat is stuck under furniture or some other place, the tail is not a retrieval device.
Ditto for legs. Do not ever pull a cat towards you using a leg or legs. The cat's limbs are fragile and human strength can easily dislocate the leg.Do not squeeze or hold the cat's paws or forelegs.Cats find this threatening.
Do not squeeze the whole cat. The cat's structure is not designed to be squeezed and the cat can be hurt if you do this.
Avoid breathing in the cat's ears, eyes or nose.To the cat, this is a form of unbearable tickling and the cat may take it as a sign of aggression.
 If you think that it might bite, scratch and struggle, place a towel or blanket over the cat before picking it up. The fact that the cat cannot see can help to calm the cat down.Always have its carrier case close so that you can place the cat straight into it for safety and carriage to the vet.
 Gauge how receptive the cat is to being pick up by the behavioral clues it is giving out. If it appears irritable, unfriendly and not interested in your proffered hand for sniffing, it's probably best to leave the cat well alone until it has calmed down and is more receptive. If you really need to handle the cat for safety reasons, try the towel or blanket approach as suggested in the previous step.
 Cats can sense and read your body language and vibes.If you feel scared, worried or incompetent about handling the cat, the cat will pick this up and will possibly react to your lack of confidence by refusing to cooperate. Be gentle but firm, and have trust in your own ability to handle the cat correctly.
 The cat should recognize that skin and flesh is not a toy for biting. Injury to yourself can occur you if you teach the cat to play with your hands and it then bites them whenever it sees your hands flying about. Do not ever encourage this habit.
 The playfulness is a sign to encourage you to interact through wriggling, tossing, pulling about toys on strings, sticks, etc. It is recommended that you let the cat's playfulness dissipate before trying to pick up or cuddle the cat.
 Also be aware that closer to the time of birth, she may be less likely to be in the mood for cuddling but you can still show affection by spending time with her on her terms, sitting yourself near wherever she chooses to sit.


Some cats won't like being picked up during pregnancy, due to increased sensitivity. Gauge it from your cat's reaction and follow her preference.
 Just be extra careful not to squeeze her belly region or to place any pressure on it. Don't lift her too high; try bending down to her level, then keeping her at a lower level, such as taking her to the couch and sitting together.


Her weight should rest on your arm when held close to your body, so that you're not holding the stomach.
 Ensure that she has a quiet, stress-free location away from all disturbances. No matter where she chooses to give birth, wait until the kittens are all born before moving her and them to your preferred kitten-raising location. If you try to move her too early, she may stop labor and this can be life-threatening.