 The first step toward spending quality time with your significant other is to make your relationship a top priority. A feeling of closeness is one of the most important “ingredients” for a healthy relationship, which you can only find if you spend quality time together.If your girlfriend or boyfriend is, say, number 5 on your list of daily activities, that relationship probably won’t go very far.
If you do find that your relationship is a low priority to you, simply apologize to your girlfriend or boyfriend and start making changes.
If you feel like your relationship is a low priority to your boyfriend or girlfriend, you need to discuss this.;
, If your relationship has not been a high priority, it’s time to make positive changes. Adopt a mindset like the one we all get about New Year’s resolutions. Make sure that you start small and choose only one behavior to change at a time.Choosing only one behavior makes it manageable and prevents you from getting overwhelmed.
Once you have made one positive behavior a habit, you can move on to the next one. Your relationship will slowly but surely rise to the top of your priorities.
Apologize for not making the relationship a priority if it's your fault.
 One positive change that shows your girlfriend or boyfriend that you are starting to prioritize your relationship is making it a weekly goal to spend time with him or her. One way to do this is to choose one night per week as date night.


Pick a night that rarely has other commitments so that you aren’t tempted to cancel plans with your partner, or a night that your partner isn’t usually busy.
 Once you make a plan to spend one night (or day) a week with your boyfriend or girlfriend, stick to it. Don’t ever make plans on that night. Sticking to your promise each week will build trust in your partner.


You will probably find that spending consistent time with your boyfriend or girlfriend makes the relationship a priority in your mind without you even realizing it.
 If you’re a teenager still living at home, you need to inform them of your relationship and your intention to spend quality time with your boyfriend or girlfriend. Ask their permission to spend this time with him or her.


They may say no sometimes because they want you to focus on schoolwork. Tell them that this is understandable but that you would like a balance between school work and your relationship.
If they don’t agree with your relationship, this is another issue and you need to tell your boyfriend or girlfriend. If your parents won’t let you, you will either have to break up or wait until there is no school to spend time together.

