 Before you buy new furniture or try to fit your furniture inside the bedroom, you need to know how the bedroom is set up. Window placement or wall size will affect how you arrange the furniture. Things to consider when you are scoping the layout include:


The measurement of the walls. Use a tape measure to get a precise measurement of the wall space.
The placement of wall outlets and telephone jacks. You will need the electrical outlets to plug in alarm clocks, lamps, televisions, and other devices.
The placement of the cable input. You will have to place TVs wherever the satellite or cable connections are placed in the room, or else drill new holes and move your wires (best left to your satellite company or other trained professionals).
Windows. Take note of which walls have windows, how low they are, and how many are in the room.
Closets and other doors. Look at which walls have doors in them, where the closet is located, and which walls are uninterrupted by doors and windows.;
, Decide which pieces of furniture you would like in your bedroom. Measure those pieces and compare them to the dimensions of your bedroom.You have to determine if your furniture will fit in the room before you start moving heavy furniture inside.
 While you are planning on your bedroom, think about the area around the door. You want to make sure to keep that area clear of clutter. Don't plan on placing furniture in areas that will block the doorway; make sure that the door has plenty of room to open all the way., Sleeping is one obvious activity, but many people spend more time in their bedroom than just at bedtime. Will you watch television or read in your bedroom? Will you get dressed, put on makeup, or fix your hair in this room? Will the bedroom be for one or two people? Is it your bedroom or a guest bedroom? These things will tell you what furniture you need.
 Think about the size of your living space. Do you live in a tiny apartment with a tiny bedroom, or do you have a spacious house with a large, open room? Large bedroom suits might not be practical for small apartments, while small beds and desks might look awkward in a larger space. Match your furniture to the scale of the room and fit into the space you have.
 Some people like modern, minimalist designs, while others like a fuller, cozier layout. Some people like plain walls, while others like lots of photos and pictures. Remember that the bedroom is your space. You want to arrange it so it is functional, but you want to have it reflect your personality, tastes, and comforts.
 Generally the bed is the most important piece of furniture in the room, which makes it the most important for you to arrange. One popular placement of the bed is in the center of the wall across from the door. This makes the bed the focal point of the room.The other good choice for your bed is along the longest wall in the bedroom.If you don't have the room to place it in the center of the opposite wall, or windows or doors prevent that, you can place the bed off-center along one of the walls. You might also want to angle the headboard in one of the corners, but that can take up a lot of space.Another placement of the bed can be between two windows, if you have two windows along one wall. You might want to refrain from placing the bed directly underneath the window, especially if you leave your windows open often during warmer months. This might cause an uncomfortable draft.
Leave enough room around the bed so you can easily get up and down from the bed. If only you sleep in the bed, you can push the bed against a wall. If you share a bed with another person, you want to leave enough space on both sides of the bed so both people can easily get in and out of the bed.
Try not to block the natural light with the headboard., For most people, the dresser is the second largest piece of furniture in a bedroom. Place the dresser directly across the bed to balance out the room.If you have a lot of wall space, opt for a low, wide dresser.


If you are a TV watcher, you can place your television on top of the dresser. The television should be across from the bed if you plan on watching a lot of TV in bed. Placing it on top of the dresser saves you from needing an extra table for the television. If you don't watch TV but read a lot, then use the dresser as a bookshelf.
If you are tight on space, choose a tall, vertical dresser instead of a wide dresser. This takes up less wall space by utilizing height.You may choose to place your dresser underneath a window to maximize space.
If your closet is large enough, or there is limited space in your room, you can consider placing the dresser inside the closet.
 After placing the two larger pieces of furniture, you can start to fill in the room with smaller pieces. Nightstands are exceptionally important. They hold alarm clocks, lamps, books, TV remotes, cell phones, glasses of water, and anything else you might need access to while in bed. The nightstand should be placed on each side of the bed (on only one side if the bed is flush against the wall). Get a nightstand that comes up to the height of your mattress.Nightstands come in all different shapes, sizes, and colors. Think about what you need from a nightstand. Do you want shelves? Drawers? Just a small tabletop? Choose a nightstand that reflects your need.
 After placing these items, decide if there is room for other items. Also think about what other things you need in your bedroom. Do you need a desk to do work at? Do you want a chair to read and relax in? Finish off your bedroom by placing furniture that fits your needs.


Place a desk with a chair in the room. You can buy a flat desk that fits along an empty wall space or under a window, or buy a corner desk that fits snugly in a corner and out of the way.
Put ottomans at the foot of the bed for extra seating, or put a small armchair in the room for visitors to sit on, or you to relax in as you unwind.
Place a mirror in the room. This can accompany a vanity, be placed with the desk, or just hung on the wall.Add bookcases. If you need shelf space for books, photos, and other belongings, place a bookcase along an empty wall.
Create a seating area. In a small room, this can be something as simple as a stool or bench. In a large bedroom, you can have chair or a sofa for your seating area.
 You will not want bright lighting when you are trying to unwind, so consider placing lamps in places where you will be reading, watching television, or relaxing. You might want to mount lights in the ceiling or in the wall.
 If your bedroom is small, think about buying pieces that serve multi-purposes or save space. Try a bunk-desk combination, which has a high bed with a desk beneath it. Or try a storage beds if you don't have space for a dresser.
 Do not have the room cluttered so that there is not ample area to walk around the room or into other rooms. Keep at least two feet between the sides of the bed and the wall or other furniture.