 When people are looking for apps in the app store, they prefer to search some keywords like shooting games, office software, etc. Optimize the title of your app and description so that it can be easily searched.;
, Making an introduction video is a very cost effective marketing strategy, because it constantly increase the conversion rate of your app. Many people prefer to purchase or download an app after watching a video; they are also more satisfied than those who didn't. A video could give the user an effective preview of the app.
 This is free and quite effective as well. You may announce and update the news of your app, your company and your team in your blog and you will be able to build great publicity for your own organization. The reason is simple, everyone love stories.
 Press releases can be costly, but it will spread the word about your app, and thus will increase the number of downloads.
 If you developed a paid app, set it as free for a period of time will boost downloads of your app. Since there are a tons of apps deliver news of which app become free to users everyday. Those apps will help you gain huge publicity and awareness for your app.
 Reading email has become a major activity people do on their smartphones, you can collect users on your website and keep them updated with the news of your app with email newsletters

, Think about how many people around of you usually spend hours a day on social networks like Facebook and Twitter, then you will know the huge potential of them for you to promote apps.
 Many bloggers like to share great apps with readers in their blogs, you may contact them and introduce your app with sincerity.
 Put a link in the signature of your email, the link will useful for your contacts to know your app.
 Some app review sites like Appegges.com and 148apps.com have millions of visitors per month. A lot of people like to choose apps from those sites, and if your app was reviewed by those sites, it may gain more chances to be noticed and downloaded.

