 It is important that you calmly remind them that their fear of fire is disproportionate to their real danger. Be supportive, and encourage them to explain the feelings associated with their phobia. Ask them about their history with fire. Try to understand when and how their fear manifests itself.Avoid shaming the pyrophobe. Make it clear to them that you sympathise with their suffering, and know that their condition is not their fault.
 Explain to the pyrophobe that, while fires may seem dangerous or harmful, they are usually not. They can be controlled with relatively minimal expertise and effort. Encourage them to get educated regarding fire, and fire safety. Offer to help them practice techniques for containing fire, escaping hazardous fires, and treating fire-related injuries such a burns.Remember that a pyrophobe's fear of fire is not rational, and they may continue to show signs of agitation even if they understand rationally that they are in no danger. Be patient: continue to sooth the pyrophobe. Help them remove themselves from the presence of fire if possible.
 Guide them through basic self-soothing techniques like taking long, slow, deep breaths. Help the pyrophobe feel safe by pointing out safety features nearby, such as fire extinguishers or water sources. Remind them that everything is under control.Don't encourage the pyrophobe to remove themselves from the presence of the fire unless they can't be calmed by any other means. Running away is only a temporary solution.
 Seeing someone they trust behaving normally around fire will help the pyrophobe calm down. It will remind them they aren't in danger. Be appropriately cautious and careful, but don't encourage anxiety by being overly focused on safety precautions. Remind the pyrophobe that you are aware of the fire, but not afraid, since you have taken all appropriate steps to remain safe.Cooking over flame, making a campfire, or other useful or recreational activities involving the use of controlled fire are a great opportunity to show appropriate care and behavior.
Always be cautious. Only work near or around fire if you are sure you are competent enough. Fire-related mishaps are dangerous, and witnessing such a mishap can severely and negatively impact a pyrophobe's state of mind.
 Only a mental health professional can diagnose someone with a phobia. In addition, many of the most effective methods of treating the condition (such as exposure therapy or cognitive behavioral therapy) can only be performed by an expert. Consulting with a counselor, psychiatrist or doctor is therefore crucial for treating pyrophobia.