 The chocolate should be kept in its original foil and paper wrapper.If your chocolate is already unwrapped, wrap multiple layers of wrapping paper around it.


If you don’t have wrapping paper handy, try wrapping with newspaper. Though not as pretty, this simple fix will up the difficulty of the game.Be cautious of the presence of nuts in chocolate. If necessary, check the chocolate is nut-free by looking at the label near the nutritional information.;
, This promotes better hygiene than keeping it on the table of floor, and also makes moving the chocolate more difficult, therefore, a funnier, long-lasting game.
 Suggested items are hats, scarves, gloves, or jewellery. If space allows, put the pile within the circle of participants.Increase the difficulty by including a bulky pair of gloves. This prevents easy access to the chocolate by the fumbling players.
 After their turn is over, they should pass to the left of them.If the player rolls a six, they should shout “six”. The objective is to get the highest roll possible in order to get a turn at eating the chocolate bar.If the player doesn’t roll a six, keep the die passing on. Only when a six is rolled does the participant get to try eat the chocolate.
 The player can then attempt to eat the chocolate.The player is only allowed to open and eat the chocolate bar with the knife and fork.


Ensure the player does not attempt to eat the chocolate before being fully dressed. The knife and fork cannot be picked up until all dress up items are put on., When another player gets a six, they shout "six!". The player in the center has to stop and undress. It is the turn of the new player to try and eat the chocolate.The game then continues on.


The dice should never stop rolling. By keeping the dice rolling at all times, the game is extended and there are more opportunities for other participants to eat the chocolate., Each square of chocolate must be cut using the knife and fork. The fork is used by the player to eat the chocolate. The chocolate is eaten one piece at a time until there is nothing left. Each square of chocolate eating in a win.


If you’re concerned about germs, offer each player their own fork., Whoever eats the last square of chocolate is declared winner and receives a prize. This allows all participants to have a shot at a bite of chocolate.
 The person who eats the first square is the winner and gets a prize. The prize can be the entire bar of chocolate, or can be a separate prize and the chocolate could be shared among participants.
 By swapping the chocolate for peanuts and the fork and knife for chopsticks, the difficulty of the game increases.