 Because you will be using glow sticks, which only glow for a certain amount of time, it is best to have everything on hand and ready. Plan the make this polish just before you need to use it, but be sure to include enough drying time. Here is a list of what you will need:


1 glow stick
1 bottle of nail polish (partly full)
Sharp scissors
Strainer (recommended);
, You can use a clear polish or a colored one. If you choose to use a colored one, however, be sure to match it to the color of the glow stick. For example, if you are using a pink glow stick, then use a pink nail polish.


A clear nail polish base will give you the best glow. It can also be applied over a solid-colored nail polish, just like a top coat.
You can use any color of glow stick with white nail polish.
Consider using a clear nail polish with glitter inside it for a sparkly effect.
 You will be pouring the glow stick fluid into the bottle, which will take up space. Choose a bottle that is one half to two-thirds of the way full. If you are starting out with a full bottle, you may want to pour some of the polish out; not doing so may result in an overflow.
 Hold the glow stick between your fingers and snap it briskly. If you are using a long, slender glow stick, such as a bracelet or necklace, you may need to snap it in several places. Be sure to give the glow stick a good shake.
 You may want to do this over a sink so that you do not get glow stick liquid everywhere.
 Hold the cut end of the glow stick glow to the mouth of the nail polish and carefully tip it over. Be careful not to get any of the glow stick liquid onto your work surface or onto your skin; the liquid can stain certain surfaces and irritate skin. Keep pouring the liquid until you either run out of liquid or the bottle becomes full.


Glow sticks contain glass tubes, which shatter when you snap them. If you are concerned about getting glass into your polish, consider placing a tightly-woven strainer over the mouth of the nail polish bottle before pouring in the glow stick liquid.
 Once you have gotten as much glow stick liquid into the bottle without causing it to overflow, set the glow stick aside and close the nail polish bottle tightly. Shake it to mix the two liquids together.
 The glowing polish may take longer to dry than regular polish, however, so you might want to apply it using thinner coats.








For a dark-colored base, you may need three to four coats of polish. For a light-colored base, you may need two to three coats., Adding a coat of clear nail polish after the glow polish dries will protect the color longer.









Note that the effect produced by this technique will not last for the duration of your polish. In fact, it may only last for a few hours, at most.

