 Many people consider it polite to shake hands during introductions. Therefore, it’s usually a good idea to extend a hand whenever you meet someone for the first time. If someone else is introducing you, wait for them to finish speaking before shaking someone’s hand. While you’re shaking hands, offer a greeting such as:


“Hi, I’m Jane. It’s nice to meet you!”
“Nice to meet you, I’m Jeremy.”
“It’s a pleasure.”
“Hi, how’re you doing?”

, If you’re close friends with someone and don’t usually shake hands, it would be awkward to try. However, depending on the formality of the situation, it may be appropriate to shake hands when greeting or saying goodbyes. Some examples of appropriate situations include:


Greeting an older person or family member
Greeting someone in a professional setting
When arriving at or leaving a nice party
When you haven’t seen a friend in a while, Most Western countries use a firm handshake as a greeting. However, there are many countries around the world where there are different ways to politely show respect. If you’re traveling in a foreign country or meeting up with foreign friends, research the greeting etiquette ahead of time. For example:


In Russia, men shake hands with other men but kiss women’s hands.
In South Korea, the senior person initiates the handshake. Use a soft grip while shaking hands.
In Morocco, only people of the same gender can shake hands.
In Turkey, firm handshakes are considered rude. Instead, use a soft grip.
In China, always greet the oldest person first. Bow slightly while shaking their hand. , If you’re a part of an organization, you may need to learn a special handshake to subtly identify yourself to other members. Similarly, you can use popular handshake variations to show that you’re a part of particular cultural group. For example, many people use the homie handshake when greeting close friends. Some other examples include:


The Freemason handshake. This handshake is top secret and used by Freemasons to identify other members of their group.
The Scout handshake. Both Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts shake hands with their left hands when greeting other scouts.The Parent Trap handshake. This handshake, popular with movie buffs, is from the movie Parent Trap.

