 Banjos are a versatile instrument available in multiple flavors. Among the string-options for banjos are a 4-string, 5-string, or 6-string. Choose which one fits you best based on the style of music you are interested in playing and how advanced of a player you consider yourself.


The 4-string or tenor banjo is often associated with dixieland/jazz or Irish music. You can certainly play more than just these styles on a 4-string though. They offer a great choice for beginners, because of the simplicity of the instrument.
The 5-string banjo is the most popular, and most traditional, of all the banjo styles. It is most closely associated with bluegrass and folk styles of banjo-playing, but can be used to play most styles of music. The 5-string banjo is known for its odd fifth string which attaches near the halfway point of neck, a characteristic it inherited from its African predecessors. This is the best option for beginning banjo players, as it offers ease with an extended range of available notes.
The 6-string banjo, or banjo-guitar (banjitar or guitjo) has a banjo body with a guitar neck. It is the least common of these three styles and is most often used by experienced guitar players who want to produce the sound of a banjo while continuing to use their familiar guitar fret positions. It offers the widest range of notes but is also the most difficult to play and is inconsistent with 'regular' banjos, making it a poor choice for first-time students.;
, Banjos come in two main builds, either with an open-back or a resonator attached. The open-back banjo is exactly as it sounds: the drum like cover of the banjo has no back, so it makes a bowl-shape when upside down. A resonator banjo has an attached back and ring of wood which amplifies the sound.


It is best to make the decision on which build of banjo you want after playing both at a local music store. They each offer slightly different sounds because of their construction.
Open-back banjos are most often used by beginners, as they are typically the cheapest option and not as loud. Since they are lighter and quieter, they are often a good choice for learning and practicing. Some traditional banjo songs and playing-styles favor open-back banjos. If you want to play in a bluegrass band, however, an open-back banjo may not be the best choice.
Banjos with a resonator produce a louder, fuller sound, with longer sustain, but are heavier and more expensive. If you are ready and willing to commit to playing the banjo for a long time, you may consider investing in a resonator banjo.
It is said that the heavier a banjo is, the better the quality of the instrument. However, don’t let that deter you from selecting a banjo that might be lighter., The action of the banjo is the distance of the strings to the fingerboard, while the scale is the total length of the strings from the nut to the bridge.


Choose a banjo with a low action to make playing easier. If the action is too high, you will have to press down on the strings which can push the notes out of tune and put uncomfortable pressure on your fingers.
The scale on a banjo can range anywhere from 23”-32”, but the easiest one for beginners to start on is the 26 ¼” banjo. This is neither overwhelmingly long or uncomfortably short, but sits happily in the middle.
 Although the aforementioned items are important to consider when you are looking into buying a banjo, there are a few more options to contemplate. You may consider purchasing a plectrum banjo, which is played with a special pick, or possibly a banjo with a tone ring which enhances the sound. Meet with a local banjo enthusiast or employee at your favorite music store to find out which style fits your preferences.

