 Use 1½ to 2 tablespoons (28.5 to 38 grams) of Nutella per drop. This recipe is enough to make 6 to 7 pancakes, but it might be a good idea to make a few dollops of Nutella in case one breaks.If you can't find any parchment paper, you can use wax paper instead.
If you don't like Nutella, you can try other fillings as well, such as peanut butter or jam.Consider mixing flavors. Try half a dollop of peanut butter and half a dollop of jelly.;
, The disks need to be about 2½ inches (6 centimeters) wide and ¼-inches (½-centimeter) thick. You can use a spoon or rubber spatula to do this., It will take about 60 to 90 minutes for them to freeze. Once they are solid, peel them off of the parchment paper, then store them in the freezer., Measure the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, sugar, and salt. Stir everything together until everything is combined and no clumps remain., Pat down the dry mixture first, then make a hole in the center. Pour the milk into the hole, then add the egg and vanilla extract. Stir everything together with a whisk until smooth. Be careful not to over-mix, or the pancakes will turn out tough and chewy., Place the pan over the stove and add ½ teaspoon of butter. Allow the butter to melt, then wipe most of it away with a paper towel., Leave the rest in the freezer. The next few steps will go by quickly but Nutella melts quickly. If you take all of the disks out, they will melt before you get to use them., You will need to use ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of batter per pancake. If your pan is large enough, you may be able to fit two pancakes., Make sure that the disks are centered. Working with frozen Nutella disks is much easier than working with soft Nutella., This time around, you only need to use enough batter to cover the Nutella disk. Use the edge of a spook or spatula to help spread the batter over the Nutella. Work quickly because the disk will start to melt once it's in the pancake., After about 2 minutes, bubbles will start to form around the edges. Use a spatula to lift the pancake up and check the underside. If it is golden, carefully flip the pancake over., This will take another minute or so. When the pancake is golden on both sides, slide it off of the pan and onto a plate. If Nutella oozes out onto the pan, wipe it off. If you don't, you'll end up with Nutella on the next pancake., After the third or fourth pancake, you will need to add more butter to the pan. Remember to wipe the butter off. You should be able to make at least 6 pancakes, but you might be able to make 7., They taste great with sliced strawberries. If you want to you could even add some whipped cream!