, Set it to give your Sims a very long life span. Also choose only new moons to stop any zombies from eating your Sims. Then give them high free will. This will make all the seasons last seven days, so a week basically.
 Check that everything is correct; if there is something not mentioned, you can adjust it however you like.
 You will have three Sims in total: a human male young adult, a ghost (gender does not matter on this one) young adult, and a human female (age does not matter).


The human male: This will be the main character. You can only play as the other Sims one day a season. Give him normal hair, just as you would see on an everyday person. Give him average clothes and make him a little fat. With his personality, you give him two traits that in your mind are bad, and two traits that are good, according to you. Then randomly pick the last trait.
The ghost will be the main Sim's "imaginary friend". It will be a ghost, so appearance does not matte. All that matters with this Sim is their personality. They must have the friendly trait and the loner trait. Pick one trait for him and the other traits will be randomized.
The female human: This will be a roommate of the main Sim. Give her the first name that is similar to one of your friend's names. Give her the last name of a famous person. Make her hair dyed, give her lots of jewelry, but make her shirt and pants low quality. Her traits must include ambitious, natural-born performer, and hot-headed. If the age you picked for her does not allow one of these, pick something close to any of these traits. If there is one more trait slot left, randomize it. If there are two left, put one trait of the friend that you chose the name from, then for the second one, put a trait of the celebrity you picked for her last name.;
, Instead, buy an empty lot with your remaining money. Build a small basement on the lot and put stairs leading into it in the basement.

Buy an all-in-one bathroom. If you can't, then this is the only time you can cheat money in.
Put a cheap fridge in. That will be the only thing giving your Sim food.
Only one lamp is allowed in the house.


That is the only furniture you can put in until you have 15,000 Simoleons.
 Then put whatever you want in it.
 The male Sim can get any occupation he wants. The ghost cannot have a job. The female must have a profession and not a job.
 The Sims are only allowed to have one each. The male will be able to choose any of his choice. The ghost will have to get something to help its skills or needs. The female will have to get mermadic kelp or friend of the Kraken (Beware if you don't have a big body of water, the friend of the Kraken reward won't help you).
 You can only take in strays if you are still living in the cellar.


If you want an alien for a pet, the only way you can get one is by being romantic interests with them, then you can make them your roommate; or cheat them into your household.
 You may get the pet a food bowl, bed and one toy.
 The male can get married and have as many kids as he likes. The ghost can get married but he must leave the household if he gets engaged. The female can get married but not have kids.
 If a Sim dies, you must kick out the ghost and be on your own; after that, you get a life. Once the ghost leaves you can do whatever you want; it's all up to you as this means that your Sim has finally gotten a life.