 Make sure that at least half of your carbohydrates from complex carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates are made up of individual sugar molecules that are strung together in long, complicated and often branched chains. These types of carbohydrates have more nutritional value than their simple counterparts and are less likely to cause your blood sugar to spike.Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods, such as whole grain bread, brown rice, buckwheat, millet, quinoa, oats, starchy vegetables such as sweet potatoes, corn, pumpkin and squash, beans, peas, lentils, nuts and seeds.
Avoid simple carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include added sugars like glucose, sucrose (table sugar), and fructose (high fructose corn syrup or HFCS). Consuming HFCS has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and obesity.A general recommendation is to have 45–60 grams of complex carbohydrates at every meal.Eat most of your complex carbohydrates at breakfast and lunch. Only have a small portion of complex carbohydrates for dinner.;
, Getting enough quality protein is an important part of controlling your blood sugar.Make sure that any poultry you eat is skinless to reduce the amount of unhealthy animal fats you consume and eat a couple of servings of wild-caught fish each week.


Wild-caught fish such as salmon, cod, haddock and tuna are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids.
 It is essential to eat plenty of non-root or starchy vegetables such as broccoli, leafy greens, cauliflower, and beans. These types of vegetables are low in calories, high in fiber, and nutrient dense.Keep in mind that you can still eat fruit, but you will have to count the carbohydrates as part of your 45–60 grams per meal. On average, a serving of fresh, frozen, or canned fruit has 15 grams of sugar., Water flushes out toxins and helps maintain electrolyte balance. Women should consume about 2.7 liters (91 ounces, or 11 cups) of fluids each day, and men should consume about 3.7 liters (125 ounces daily, or 15 cups) of total fluids.Be aware that this includes water from other foods and beverages, not just pure water.Ask your doctor if you have any special fluid restrictions or needs that you should consider.


Avoid sugary beverages. Sugary beverages will cause your blood sugar to spike, so it is best to avoid these to keep your blood sugar under control.Choose water, unsweetened sparkling water, or unsweetened iced tea instead of sugary soda.
 Reading labels can help you figure out how much sugar is in food and inform your decision of whether or not you should buy that product. Be aware that manufacturers are not required to list added sugars. That is why it is best to choose whole, unprocessed foods as often as possible.Avoid foods labeled with terms like “enriched” or “refined.”

