 For talk radio shows, having a second (or third, or fourth...) person in the studio with you every show makes your job easier in just about every way imaginable. Most importantly, co-hosts offer their own unique personality and thoughts to every discussion you have, ensuring that your own voice and views don't get stale. It also allows you to have friendly debate — the back-and-forth between a pair of co-hosts who can lovingly bicker is often one of the most entertaining parts of a talk show. If you're thinking of getting a co-host, make sure it's someone you get along with and who understands the commitments of the job.


Co-hosts have other benefits, too. For instance, some may be willing to split the cost of airtime with you or help search for and book guests.
 For the listener, some of the fun of listening to their favorite shows is from anticipating, listening to, and even participating in their favorite recurring features. As long as you obey the rules of your station (and, of course, local laws) there's virtually no limit when it comes to what sorts of segments you can run, so be creative! Below are just a few ideas to get you started:


Call-in trivia contests for prizes or recognition
Live or pre-recorded man-on-the-street segments
"100th caller wins" type contests
Soliciting listeners for certain types of stories
On-air creative comedy/improv exercises

, Just because your viewers are likely to appreciate the consistency of recurring segments doesn't mean that you should necessarily shy away from special one-time events and features. Experimenting with new ideas while keeping the basic format and structure of your show intact allows you to continually innovate and surprise your audience. It's also a good way to find new directions for the show to go in — anything that gets an especially good reaction can eventually be made a recurring segment.
 If you notice that certain people seem to call in to the station on a regular basis or that certain guests seem especially popular with your listeners, don't let these people go to waste! Instead, try to create a friendly working relationship with them. Talk to these people off the air and ask if they'd like to become a regular part of the show. Even if they aren't interested in joining the show as a dedicated cast member, they may appreciate being made a "friend of the show" or gaining recognition as an official contributor.


For instance, if one of your callers has a boisterous, outrageous personality and insane political beliefs, you may want to have a semi-regular segment where he calls in and comments on the issues of the day.
 Some talk radio shows, especially those that examine or critique serious topics, are dignified affairs. However, many talk shows are known for the exaggerated, crass, or outlandish characters assumed by their hosts. If your show is mainly interested in entertaining your listeners, consider creating such a character for yourself. The interplay between a crazy host character and a straightman co-host or an unwitting caller can make for great radio.
 No one's radio show is perfect from the get-go. It can take years of experience to develop your broadcast craft to the point that you can deliver a great show every day. During this time, it's a great idea to look to some of the best radio shows and podcasts in the world for inspiration. There's no shame in getting ideas from those who are already successful — they, too, had role models in the world of broadcasting before they became famous (for instance, Howard Stern cites radio host Bob Grant as an influence).Below are a few great radio shows and podcasts you may want to consider listening to:



This American Life — Politics, serious issues, human interest stories

The Howard Stern Show — "Shock jock" style raunchy humor

The Ron and Fez Show — humor, chat

Car Talk (no longer running) — automotive advice

Comedy Bang Bang (podcast) — absurdist comedy, improv

The Bugle (podcast) — news, politics

