 If you don’t know what number to call to report a crime, then try the MC3 at 1-800-225-5324 (1-800-CALLFBI). Also use this number to respond to local or national request for information put out by the FBI., The FBI Child Exploitation Task Force works with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children to investigate missing or sexually exploited children. If your child is missing, a child you know goes missing, or you suspect a child of being sexually exploited, you should contact the FBI immediately at any time of day.Call 1-800-843-5678 (1-800-THE-LOST).
Use the cyber tip line.
Contact the Child Exploitation Task Force officer at your local FBI field office.
Contact the State Department if your child has been abducted and taken out of or into the United States by the other parent.

From the U.S. and Canada call 1-888-407-4747.
From abroad call 1-202-501-4444.


If you need to contact the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, but the need is not an emergency, you can call 703-224-2150 or use their online contact form.
 Both the illegal smuggling of people across boarders and the holding of people as virtual slaves forced to work in prostitution or in grueling conditions are investigated by the FBI and the Human Smuggling Trafficking Center. If you know of human trafficking or are a victim of it:Call the National Human Trafficking Resource Center at 1-888-373-7888.
Contact your local FBI field office.
Submit an online tip.
 Internet crime primarily refers to hacking, online scams and e-mail hoaxes, including advance-fee schemes, non-delivery of goods or services, and business opportunity schemes. You can file a complaint so long as one of the two parties (victim or person that defrauded him or her) is located in the United States. File your complaint at the IC3 site. You will be asked to include:Your name
Your mailing address
Your telephone number
Name, address, and telephone number of the person or business that defrauded you
Website and email address of the person or business that defrauded you
Details on how you were defrauded

,
You have received recent bomb threats.
People are asking about your products but cannot explain what they will use them for.
Potential customers are willing to pay cash for large orders.
Potential customers are unaware of safe handling procedures.
Customers want delivery to a suspicious location.
 The NCDF was set up in the wake of hurricane Katrina to combat fraudulent claims relating to the billions of dollars in federal aid distributed in the wake of the disaster. Since then, the center has investigated fraudulent claims linked to the BP oil spill, hurricane Sandy, and other disasters. If you suspect or have evidence of fraud, waste, and/or abuse related to local, state, or federal disaster relief, this is the section of the FBI you need to get in touch with.


Call: 1-866-720-5721
E-mail: disaster@leo.gov
Write: National Center for Disaster Fraud, Baton Rouge, LA 70821-4909

, If you suspect fraud at your company, you can use this hotline, established in 2003 in the wake of the Enron investigation. The number is 1-888-622-0117.Corporate fraud investigated by the FBI includes:Falsification of financial information, including false entries, fraudulent trades to inflate profits or hide losses, and transaction designed to evade oversight
Self-dealing by corporate insiders, including insider trading, kickbacks, misuse of corporate property for private gain, and tax violations
Obstruction of justice designed to conceal the above crimes

, The FBI investigates corruption at all levels of government from local to state to federal and across all three branches.Bribery is the most common form of corruption, but the FBI also frequently investigates extortion, embezzlement, racketeering, kickbacks, and money laundering, along with wire, mail, bank, and tax fraud.Current areas of focus are corruption along the borders, corruption related to natural disaster relief funds, and election crimes involving campaign finance, voter/ballot fraud, or civil rights violations..

