 There are three types of categories your hair type can fall under: Wavy, Curly, or Coily.


Determining your hair type also depends on your race. Caucasian curly hair is much much much different that African American curly hair. You could also be right in the middle and have biracial hair. Determining what type of hair will be a big help in the process of maintaining it.;
, Avoid shampoos with sulfates, which can damage your hair, and strip it of all it's good oils. Also look for a good conditioner, and deep conditioner. You want to buy something that is hydrating. If your hair is dry, you are going to need a lot of hydration.
 Ripping a comb or brush through your hair is never a good idea. Learning how to Comb Curly Hair is important. Try out a wide tooth comb. These types of combs can easily glide through your hair without ripping or tugging at it. Curly hair can be hard to comb through if you go awhile without combing it. Try to comb it everyday. I know this sounds hard, but it will make combing your hair A LOT easier.
 This step is in conjunction with combing your hair. Right after you comb your hair, put it up in a bun, this will keep your ends from rubbing and causing friction. Keeping your hair in a bun will also make it easier to comb later, because it won't be a tangled mess from dealing with the elements.
 When taking down your hair from your bun, be careful, don't rip the rubber band out your hair. Gently take your hair down. When shampooing and conditioning, be gentle, there is no need to scrub in shampoo, gently cleanse your hair with it. Also try to avoid towel drying your hair. Towels can be rough on your hair, especially if you rub your hair in the towel. Try using an old cotton tee shirt. A tee shirt will be much more gentle on your hair.
, Sometimes products such as mousses and gels can cause your hair to feel crunchy, so you are going to have to test a few to find which one best suits your hair.
 Both will work well.
, Shampooing coily hair should NOT be done everyday.
,, It takes a lot of work, and a lot of patience, but it will be worth it! Keep good care of your hair.

