 The frame is the metal body of the bike, and, unlike the handlebars, saddle, and pedals, it is not adjustable. Thus, buying the proper frame is the most important thing you can do when shopping for a bike. There is a variety of frames available on the market, but the frame shape generally changes based on the type of riding the bike is made for. Know, however, that there are as many different frame configurations as there are bike makers, each with "specialized" functions. However, the general shape of the bike helps determine it's function more often than not:



Road bikes are most often used by commuters, fitness, and racing fitness riding. The frames are usually large, isosceles (all sides the same length) triangles with a top bar, or top tube, that is parallel to the ground. Racing bikes usually have smaller frames, while touring or commuter bikes often have larger frames. Road bike frame sizes are measured in centimeters.

Mountain bikes have a lower center of gravity to keep you on balance riding over roots, rocks, and mud on the trail. The center triangle is more compact, with the top tube angling down, away from the handlebars. Mountain bike frame sizes are measured in inches.

Cruiser bikes have odd, sideways S-shaped or curved frames that allow you to sit nearly upright while riding. The handlebars are high above the seat and the pedals slightly in front of you so that you comfortably cruise around town. Sometimes called "city bikes" or "commuter bikes," these are made for short distances. Fitting these bikes is less about measurements than pure comfort on a test ride.Kids bikes have smaller frames similar to mountain bikes, helping them keep their balance with a lower center of gravity. They are very adjustable to compensate for quickly growing kids. They are usually measured by wheel size.;
, Stand with your feet 6 inches apart, then measure from the inside of your foot up to your crotch, where your leg meets your waist. Think of the seam on the inside of a pair of jeans. You need to measure the distance from the bottom of your foot to where your seat should be. If you are sizing a mountain bike, measure in inches. If you are sizing a road bike, measure in centimeters. For the most precise measurement:


Take a thick, hardcover book and "sit" on the spine as if it was your bike seat.
Still standing, measure to the top of the book from the floor.
 Multiply your inseam measurement, in centimeters, by .67 to get your suggested seat tube (bar reaching from seat to pedals) length.The seat tube is usually, though not always, measured from the top of the tube to the center point of the crankshaft.Know that this measurement is simply a starting point -- you will likely need to make specific adjustments later on.
 Multiply by .62 instead of .67 if you are getting one of these bikes.Some mountain bikers prefer to measure by seat tube length, like road bikers. If your bike shop gives frame size by seat tube length, take your inseam and multiply it by .185. The resulting number is the recommended distance between your seat and the middle of the crankshaft, which is the circular piece the pedal rotates on., Most kid bikes are adjustable, accommodating random growth spurts so you don't need to buy a new bike every year. That said, a child's bike should still fit them so that it is safe and easy to ride.



Child's height is 28-38 inches: 12-inch wheels

Child's height is 38-48 inches: 16-inch wheels

Child's height is 48-60 inches: 20-inch wheels, The height of the seat is easily modified on a bike to fit you, and the right size frame will feel wrong if the seat isn't high enough. You want to have it raised so that, on the bottom of your pedal stroke (one foot is at the lowest point), your knee is slightly bent, not straight. Have a friend or someone at the bike shop hold the bike in place while you get on. Pedal backward, stopping with one foot at the very bottom of the pedal's rotation, and adjust your seat height so that it is slightly bent.It is very rare that the last person who tested the bike needed the same seat height as you, so you must adjust this before claiming the frame is the wrong size.
Make sure you are not shifting or dropping your hips with each pedal stroke, as this will make your foot drop lower than it should and result in an improper fit., There are a lot of measurement out there for finding the proper length between your seat and the handlebars, but they all end with the same advice -- pick one that you're comfortable with. At the end of the day, you'll feel like the reach to the handlebars is right if:


You can touch every shifter and breaks comfortably.
Your elbows are slightly bent.
You can bend from the waist, not the back, to reach down.
In general, casual riders will want closer, higher handlebars while racers want a longer reach., Everyone's body is a little different, and the proportions of your arms, legs, and torso might mean you need a different frame to feel comfortable. Use your inseam measurements to get a starting frame size, then go to a local bike shop and test it out. Then test out a size bigger and size smaller. If you are in between sizes that both feel comfortable, think about your riding style:


Smaller bikes are generally lighter and a bit more maneuverable. However, this difference is negligible, and you might not be able to adjust the bike a size if you find yourself uncomfortable later on. Many mountain bikers and racers opt for the smaller frame.
Larger bikes can make you reach a bit too far, but you can often raise and lower the handlebars to a greater degree, allowing you better customization options if you decide you need a better fit further down the road. Many road bikers chose the larger bike for a more comfortable fit.
 While they are far from perfect, since they cannot possibly account for your unique body type, sizing guides are useful nonetheless for sizing a frame. You can find them online with a quick internet search for "(Mountain/Road/Kids/BMX/etc.) Frame Sizing Guide." Most of them require you to input your height and inseam, as well as your riding style. They then give you a range of frames to try out., Everyone is different, so if you don't feel comfortable riding a bike the "should" fit you, you need to get it re-sized. Test a few different frame sizes before buying, and feel free to play with the seat and handlebars until your find your sweet spot.


Rent a few bikes before buying so that you can get 2-3 days of riding in.
Talk to you local bike staff, even if you might buy a bike online. Let them know about any specific issues you've had and possible reasons.