 This is the yellow box with a white ghost icon on your Home screen, or in a folder on your home screen.


If you have not already installed Snapchat and created your account, please do so before continuing.
;
, Snapchat always opens up to the camera, and swiping down will bring up your Snapchat Home screen.
 This will take you to your Snapchat Settings menu.
 This option will be under My Account, towards the upper-middle section of the settings menu.
 This option will be under Saving at the bottom of the Memories menu.
 Selecting this option lets you save your snaps directly to your phone's camera roll before you send them out.


Select Memories if you only want to save your photos to Snapchat Memories, a personalized album of your favorite Snaps and Stories that you can search and share. Click here to learn more about Memories.Select Memories & Camera Roll if you want to save to both your Memories and your phone's Camera Roll.
 Tap on the back button at the upper-left corner of your screen until you reach your home screen again.
 This will bring up the Snapchat camera.
 Tap the Capture button to snap a photo, or hold it down to record video. This button looks like a large white circle at the bottom of your screen, and it will disappear when you take a snap. Once your photo or video is captured, you can customize your snaps with text, drawings, and stickers.


Tap on the pencil icon in the upper-right corner to draw on your snap. You can change the color by tapping on the color spectrum below the pencil icon. The color spectrum will appear when you tap the pencil icon, and the pencil will display your current color.
Tap on the T icon in the upper-right corner next to the pencil. This will let you add a caption. Your keyboard will appear in the bottom half of your screen, and you will begin typing. Tap again on the T icon to make your text bigger, or to pick a different color.
Tap on the square icon at the top of your screen next to the T icon. This will bring up the Stickers menu. Select a sticker to add to your snap. You can also add a Bitmoji from the stickers menu.
Tap on the scissors icon to create your own sticker. This will let you copy and paste anything in your snap.
See How to Use Snapchat for further tips on creating great Snaps., This is the downward-pointing arrow icon next to the snap timer in the lower-left corner of your screen. Once you tap it, your photo will save to your Camera Roll.

