 Offer condolences through a card can make you feel even more at a loss for words than if you were standing in front of the person. But if you take the time to write a brief, thoughtful note, you’ll be helping a friend or close acquaintance in a time of need. Here are some basic things to keep in mind as you offer condolences through a card:


Don’t use the word “death” or “dead” - say something more tasteful, like “loss” or “passed away”.
If you knew the person who passed away, you can write a brief memory or anecdote about that person—as long as it’s tasteful.
Tell the person who suffered the loss that you’re thinking of him and that you are there to help.
 If you know that someone close to you has suffered the loss of a loved one, then you should communicate your condolences over the phone if that person lives far away. You should call that person to say you’re sorry and sound sincere and talk slowly. Give the person all of your attention over the phone and make sure you’re in a quiet place when you have some time to talk.


Avoid offering condolences through text. If you have a very casual relationship with that person, and he texts you and mentions the loss, then you can say you’re very sorry through this method. But if you know the person suffered a loss and you’re close, take the time to make a phone call instead of initiating contact through texting, which could offend the person with its casual nature.
 Though it may feel strange to give your condolences on Facebook, people now often tell all of their Facebook friends that they’ve suffered the loss of a loved one. This puts you in an awkward position—if the person knows you’re on Facebook a lot and you and the person post on each other’s comments often, then you’re almost being rude by not responding. Here’s how to offer condolences on Facebook:


If you don’t have a close relationship with the person but do post on his wall or comments from time to time, then simply join the masses of other people who have posted something like, “I’m sorry for your loss.”
If you’re a bit closer with the person but not close enough for a phone call, you can send the person a private message saying that you saw that the person lost a loved one and that you’re very sorry for the loss.
Obviously, if someone has posted a status about losing someone and has even written some kind words about the person, do not “like” this status. Even if you just like the sentiment about the person who passed away, this may give the person the wrong message and can be deeply offensive.

