 The speed of kill is very important to managing and eliminating fleas. Don't let a flea problem run unchecked. The longer you wait to treat it, the worse it will become, and the harder it will be to remove all the fleas. Taking care of a flea problem as soon as you notice it is vital to treating your pet's problem., Carpets and area rugs are the areas inside the home that are most likely to become infested. Look for an environmentally friendly borate-derivative powder to apply to your carpets that will prevent fleas from infesting. Clean their crate or bed. Treat any area they spend time in. For small animals, clean the cage or tank and any toys with hot, soapy water. Dispose of any bedding such as wood shavings or newspaper.
 Because fleas can survive in your house, away from their host, for quite some time, it is important to vacuum frequently. Steam cleaning is also an excellent way to treat your home for fleas, as the steam will kill them. Make sure to do one or both of these things the entire length of treatment and after.


Keeping everything cleaned and washed will help prevent fleas. If you do, the fleas won't have the time or space necessary to live and breed.
Dispose of the vacuum bag afterward to prevent reinfestation.
Vacuum cleaners can kill fleas as well as chemical treatments., Fleas can hide in bedding, towels, and clothing. Make sure to wash everything in hot water, to kill fleas and their eggs. Wash drapery and pillows too, as these can also harbor fleas. Soak your pet's bed in hot, soapy water for at least 15 minutes; wash, rinse, and let dry, or dry with a towel. This breaks down the fleas' waxy coating, and they will dehydrate and die.
 If your pet gets fleas, you do not want them to spread it to your entire house. Remember, fleas can live for several months in your furniture, and will quickly 'invade' your pet again given the chance. By keeping your pet off the furniture, you can help control the spread of fleas.
 IGRs, such as Nylar, stop the fleas from developing, thereby breaking the reproduction cycle. This is a blessing when attempting to bring large infestations under control. The most economical method is to buy a concentrate and mix according to the directions that come with the product.


Typically, the application will need to be done twice, at a minimum—about three and a half weeks apart. Often it is advantageous to spray the areas of the house frequented by your pets on a monthly basis during flea season.
IGRs are not poisonous to mammals. This makes IGRs a good option around a house that has kids or small animals such as hamsters.

