 Before you talk with your parents, you may want to prepare and rehearse a small presentation, or pitch. In this presentation:


Include information about specific schools you are interested in, like cost, available aid/scholarships, class size, and location.
Explain why you feel boarding school is the best option for you. "I want to attend boarding school because it will (help me prepare for college, increase my chances to play DI sports, allow me to attend therapy and school, etc.)."
Mention that you've started preparing for the application process. "I've started studying for the entrance exams." "I have a draft of my personal statement." "I've asked my current teachers to write letters of recommendation." This will demonstrate to them that you are serious about applying to boarding school.
Provide answers to your parents' previous questions. "I know you are concerned about paying for the school. The scholarship I qualify for will help cover the cost." "Last time we talked, you mentioned that you didn't want me too far from home. I found an excellent boarding school just a few hours from town.", When your presentation is complete, ask your parents to meet with you. When everyone is settled, ask your parents to hold their questions until the end of your presentation. Take a deep breath and start your presentation.


Provide your parents with additional information, like handouts, brochures, and/or contact information for various school administrators.
 Following your presentation, ask your parents if they have any questions or comments. As they talk, try not to interrupt them.


You may want to take notes. This will help you keep track of all of their concerns and questions., When they’ve finished, start a conversation with your parents. Do your best to answer their questions and provide solutions to their concerns. Continue talking back and forth until your parents reach a decision. If your parents say “yes,” congratulations! You can start applying to boarding school!


"You wanted to know more about the boarding school I like. Would you be open to talking to a representative from the school?"
"I'm not sure how financial aid works either. Can we find someone to explain it to us?"
"I understand that you love watching me play basketball. If I go to this boarding school, I would play five games within a few hours of our hometown."
"Would you be open to a boarding school closer to our hometown?"
"If I improve my current grades, can I apply to boarding school?", If your parents say “no,” ask them what you can do to convince them to let you attend boarding school. Take their suggestions seriously. As you find out more information or meet their requirements, update your parents and ask them to reconsider.