 Send it to either 24 girls (2 per district) or 12 girls (1 per district). Make it seem cool, and like it's actually from the Capitol. Look below for the list of items you will need.;
, If you will have 2 per district make sure you pair up girls randomly. Your partner will be paired randomly as well. This way, things will seem more fair and no one will complain about how they didn't get paired with their friend because almost everyone else didn't get paired with their friends, too. You can get pins and put each person's district on it, and if you do, make sure they wear it from arrival to the end of the games. This way people won't be confused and ask each other something like, "Wait, are you from District 4 again?"

, You will need 4 different rooms:


Dining Hall: fancy dining room your guests will be at right at arrival, dinner, and breakfast.
Training Center: where your guests will prepare for the games.
Arena: where your guests will play the Hunger Games.
Sleeping room: where your guests will be sleeping.
You may want to add additional rooms. The next sections will show you how to set up your rooms.
 The Dining Hall is a long table for all the tributes to eat at and a very important room at the party. Use a dining room as the Dining Hall (if you have one), as it would be best for use.
 Put luxurious things like sofas and plush chairs, again, for that Capitol feel. You can leave an open area (where the guests arrive at) so it's easier to get in. However, if there is another section that leaves to the kitchen, living room, etc, add curtains/close the door.
 It could be a buffet, or you could give them a menu and they can order. This way someone can chow down on something they like instead of nibble on something they think is absolutely gross. Be sure to also have desserts, like cupcakes or ice cream. You could have a glass bowl with peppermints in them, because after a yummy meal, your breath could get a little stinky, and enforce a rule to eat one. Make the decorations very formal and fancy, and to spice it up, serve drinks in a glass (or plastic look-alike) and add lemon to the water.
 This room must be a little bigger than usual. Most people use their garages because of their size and their look. If you are using your garage, be sure to clear out the cars. Get a teacher to train your guests on how to use a Nerf gun, water gun (only use on warm summer nights so the guests won't get cold), tag ball (soft ball that must touch someone in order to get them out, not counting the beholder of the tag ball) and flashlight. You may practice using your water/Nerf gun on targets, and your flashlight or tag ball.
 It is best to do it in your backyard or around your block so anyone can go inside and treat any injuries they get, if they get them. If your backyard is small, ask one of your friends with a large backyard if they could use it.
 Around the Cornucopia, place different backpacks with supplies such as Nerf guns, water guns, tag balls, binoculars, camouflage capes, and bigger flashlights. Be sure to get a bucket filled with water, in case someone needs to refill their water gun.
 The traps will "kill" a tribute (unless they somehow escape) and they can be any type of trap you want, just nothing that could actually hurt them. You can also set up treasure, such as putting a box by a tree and placing something valuable in it (something the tributes couldn't get in Cornucopia.)

, Get tons of bottles sealed with a cork, get a piece of tape or something to put on it, and write "Medicine." Write it a little sloppily, and slightly dirty the bottle. There will be from 1-5 stickers on the inside. Each sticker will represent an extra life they have, thanks to the medicine. You will need at least 10 bottles, and the max is 30. Have the trainer in the Training Center explain everything about the medicine to people.
 Make some silver paper parachutes with a bit of weight on the end. Have a box with each district number on it. Have each of your guests take it in turns to throw a sponsor parachute at and whichever box it lands in or around, gets the sponsor. Each tribute can have 3 to 4 turns. The district with the most sponsors wins a prize.,


Be sure to include a bathroom in the sleeping room, so people can use the bathroom if they need to, wash their hands, and take showers without having to run upstairs to use the restroom.
 Even if you provide juice and soda, be sure to have water too.


Make Cornucopia snacks. Take some wafer ice cream cones and fill them with small fruit pieces and candies. Lay out on a large plate.
Make Night lock pie. Make one pie for each tribute. Fill all but one with strawberry or raspberry or apple filling, fill the one with blueberry filling (pretending it's night lock). Whomever gets the night lock pie has to pretend to die.
 You can decorate it however you want.

