 Think that you are better than other people but do not go overboard. Acknowledge the fact that you will lose at times and there will be people with skills and techniques that are way better than yours.


If you want to be arrogant, try practicing as well to let your skills do the talking. Do stamina training, sit ups for the stomach and push ups for the arms. Adjust your timetable, practice tennis and get your level of fitness up. Tip: Create ingenious names for your techniques. Seriously, does "Super Ultra Great Delicious Mountain Storm" even give you the chills? How about the "Super Great Momoshiro Special?" If you want to be cool and arrogant, stick to your great play and techniques with daunting names. (PS: No offense meant Kintaro-kun and Momo senpai! But seriously, pfft.)





;
, Listen more and try to get it right the first time. It is easier said than done but really, if you want to be like Echizen Ryoma, watch and learn stuffs in one hell of an observation. (You could learn a thing or two from beloved Atobe's Insight and Atobe Kingdom. Brace yourself though as you probably might be awed at the sight of his prowess.
 Do not lose yourself amid any situation. Practice meditation and always focus on keeping your composure. (Oh and by meditation, it means you always have to drink a can of Ponta to keep your cool. Formula: a can of aspartame = damaged brain cells which will lead to a calm state of mind)

, Beat all the challenges that come your way with determination and show that you are not afraid of anything. (Tip: You might want to learn from Rikkaidai's mother-captain, Yukimura Seiichi or from the venerable buchou of Fudomine, Tachibana Kippei. They most certainly embody the essence of high admiration as seen from their respective teams.)

, Like Ryoma Echizen, do not be afraid to take on any challenge no matter what it is or who you might face.
 Study hard o-chibi!

, Remember that you will go far kid. Surpass your senpais and become a real prince of tennis!

, Watch The Prince of Tennis and try to dress and speak like Ryoma. You might want to be careful on speaking like Ryoma though. You do not want your enemies to build up.
 Remember that Ryoma's fave subject is Science not English. (He is just good in English since he was born in America.)

, Ryoma's are: "mada mada dane."

