 Most stings occur when people accidentally step into or sit on a fire ant mound, disturbing hundreds of thousands of fire ants primed to defend their home. If you start feeling stings, the first thing to do is get up and leave the area as quickly as possible.;
, Fire ants clamp onto the body with their mandibles, and are difficult to remove. Quickly pick them off one at a time and drop them on the ground.


You can try brushing the ants away, but if they have already clamped down with their mandibles, they may continue hanging on tight.
Refrain from slapping at the ants, as this only agitates them.
If there's a chance more ants have gotten into your clothes, remove them immediately.
 It's rare to be allergic to fire ant stings, but if you are, you'll need to get medical treatment immediately. Swelling and pain are normal, but if you have these symptoms, get to an emergency care center or hospital immediately:


Hives, itching and swelling in areas other than the place where you were bitten.
Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.
Tightness in the chest and difficulty breathing.
Swelling of the throat, tongue and lips, or difficulty swallowing.
Anaphylactic shock, which occurs in the most severe cases, can lead to dizziness, blackout, and cardiac arrest if not treated right away.
 You allergic reaction will be treated with epinephrine, antihistamines or steroids at the hospital to stabilize your symptoms.


If you know yourself to be allergic to fire ant stings, you might already be carrying an epinephrine shot, commonly called an epi-pen (epinephrine). Inject yourself or have a friend help you, then proceed to the hospital.
 While you're on your way home to get further treatment, hold your arm in an elevated position to help minimize the swelling.
 Gently wash the area to remove dirt and any other debris from the area. This will help prevent an infection.
 This will help to alleviate the itching by bringing down the swelling and numbing the stung area.
 These over-the-counter medicines will help alleviate the pain and itching.
 After a few hours, the swelling will subside a little and a blister will form. As long as you don't pop the blister, the area shouldn't become infected. Avoid scratching it, as this can cause it to break.


If the blister breaks, cleanse the area with soapy water and monitor it for signs of infection.
If the area becomes discolored or starts leaking pus, it may have become infected. Seek medical attention immediately.



After brushing off the ants, immediately rinse the area with rubbing alcohol and leave it wet.
Elevate the area and sprinkle a generous amount of meat tenderizer on the area.This will prevent the effects of the sting from progressing beyond the moment of treatment.
 Golfers sometimes use this method in Florida.


Keep a bottle of liquid hand sanitizer handy in your bag.
Apply the hand sanitizer to the bite area liberally after freeing your skin of ants.
Let it stay in place. This will help alleviate the burn for the time being and the usual symptoms may not kick in for hours, allowing you to continue with your activity.
Take Benadryl or equivalent antihistamine when you get back home.



A paste made from baking soda and vinegar may also work. As can vinegar on its own.,


Be aware that ice can burn skin if kept on it for too long.
 A common product that contains ammonia is Windex or any other window cleaner product. This will minimize the effects of the stings.

