 Squats are a great exercise that not only target your legs but your entire body. Squats are often called the "king of exercise" because they target so many major muscle groups and are easy to do at home without equipment.Stand with your legs shoulder-width apart.
Bend slightly forward, hinging at the hips and keeping your upper body upright.
Keep your weight on your heels and dig your feet into the ground.
Lower your body as if you were going to sit on a chair. Make sure that your knees do not extend past your toes.
Pause when you get to a squatted position and then return to standing.
Repeat the squat exercise 20 times.
There are lots of variations to try once you’ve mastered the basic squat, such as a jump squat where you jump into the air from the squat position instead of simply standing upright.
 Lunges are a great exercise that target all parts of the leg. This is another exercise in which there are many variations.Stand with your feet hip-width apart.
Step forward with your right leg.
Lower your body until your left knee almost touches the floor and your right thigh is parallel with the floor. Keep your upper body upright — your torso should be in alignment with the back leg. The positioning of your upper body will effect whether you are mostly engaging your legs or your glutes.
Ensure that your right knee does not extend past your right toe. If you are unable to lunge low enough without your right knee extending past your right toe, take a larger step forward.
If you have the space for walking lunges, step forward with your left leg and repeat the lunging action. If you don’t have space, return to standing and then step forward with your left leg.
Repeat the lunge exercise 10 – 20 times per leg.
To mix it up, try the reverse lunge, in which you step backward instead of forward, or the side lunge, in which you lunge to the side.
 Jumping is a good way to strengthen your leg muscles and increase your cardio. Jumping can even be incorporated into squats and lunges to combine two exercises and make a bigger impact.Stand with your legs shoulder-width apart and toes facing forward.
Lower your body into a squat or seated position so that your your thighs are parallel with the ground.
With as much power as possible, jump as far forward as you can.
Resume the squat position and repeat the jump 20 to 30 times.
To get the best results and to get your heart pumping, repeat the next jump immediately after you conclude the last one.
 Also known as a single leg squat or a pistol squat, this exercise targets your quadricep muscles, the muscles on the front side of your thighs. This move does require some stability and balance, so ensure you hold your core tight to help you stay standing straight.Stand with your feet hip-width apart and toes facing forward.
Raise your right leg straight out with a pointed foot. Raise it to about the height of your left knee. Pointing your foot isolates your quads and intensifies the work for the front of your thigh.
Slowly bend and straighten your left knee so that your right leg is being raised and lowered in the air.
Bend and straighten your left knee 10 – 15 times and then switch so that your right leg is on the floor bending and straightening and your left leg is in the air. Repeat the exercise with your left leg in the air 10 – 15 times.
 This exercise can be done in many ways, with a machine, dumbbells, or just your own body weight.


Stand on the edge of a stair or step, with your heels hanging over the edge. The balls of your feet should be be solidly on the step. Make sure there's something nearby you can grab if you begin to lose your balance, such as a wall or hand-rail. If you're using a step-aerobics platform, place a chair in front of the step so you can grab onto the back to stabilize.
Lift your heels, shifting your weight to the balls of your feet. You should be standing on the tips of your toes.
Hold for two seconds, then slowly lower your heels, being careful to keep your balance.
Repeat 20 times. Do not bounce — move slowly through your full range of motion.
If you choose to add dumbbells, perform this exercise with your feet flat on the ground, not on the edge of a step. Hold a dumbbell in each hand and simply raise up on your toes, lifting your heels off the ground. Hold, then lower.

