 With a wedding website, you’ll be able to keep all your guests informed about the details of your upcoming wedding. Your website should include the date, time, and addresses of all the events pertaining to the wedding. Wedding-related events might include the bridal shower, wedding rehearsal, the post-wedding reception, and of course the wedding itself.Encourage wedding guests to post their wishes and messages about the wedding to the site.
You can use a social media platform like Facebook to create a wedding events page. Alternately, if you want to get really snazzy with your website and design, you could take advantage of a web publishing platform like Squarespace to help you build a unique wedding website.Make a wedding-specific hashtag that only your guests will use. Encourage them to use it later to tag people at the wedding on social media.;
, Even though the wedding is really all about you, it’s important to thank your guests for coming and show them how much you appreciate them. An easy way to do this is by leaving some gift bags at the hotel where your guests are staying.There are no rules when it comes to what you can and can’t put in your gift bags, but standard items include mints, snacks, and a water bottle.
Think about the personalities of your partner and yourself when adding things to the gift bag. Are there certain items that one of you loves, or always has on hand? For instance, if you always wear sunglasses, you might provide a small pin or magnet depicting sunglasses, or – if you’re going all-out – you could include a real pair of sunglasses for each guest.
 Getting lost en route to the wedding is no fun. If your wedding, reception, or other, related event is in an especially large church or other venue, ensure your wedding guests can quickly and easily get to where they need to be. Include signage that reads something like, “Mike and Jane’s Wedding” accompanied by an arrow.Provide additional signage for branching halls.
You can easily print high-quality signage on a home printer. Many people prefer to use a flowing cursive font for their wedding-related signs.
If you don’t own a home printer, you can get signs printed at a commercial printing business. Contact your local office supply store or printer’s shop for more information.

