 More likely than not, you'll need to pitch your idea again once Hollywood executives bring you in. There are a lot of different stages that need to OK your idea before it gets made, and not all them have time for advance research on your idea. You need to enter ready to knock them out.


You should always prepare your pitch and practice it well in advance. Your idea was revised and honed to perfection, your pitch needs to be, too.
 Development execs hear hundreds of ideas a day, and they are often phrased: "I have a good idea, I'm a good writer, and the world is ready to hear it." While this may be true, you are not defending your art, you are selling it. You should be talking about why they need to buy it. How does your idea benefit them and their viewers? Why is it the right fit for them? Check your ego at the door and become a salesperson if you want success.


This is where your research comes in handy. You need to know what kind of movies/shows the company produces, and who its audience is, to best capture its attention., Your pitch should fit in under 5-10 minutes. These people do not have a ton of time, and they hear a lot of pitches each day. You want to make sure you capture their attention immediately get to the point shortly after. A good structure to consider includes:



A Hook: How do you grab their attention? This is usually with the log-line you developed ahead of time-- the one sentence hook that describes your show or movie and draws people in. A good way to think of this is, "What is the "What if?" of your idea?"The Audience: Who is this show marketed to? How does it fit perfectly into the network or studio's existing audience?

The "Trailer:" Think of any great movie trailer. What are the elements that make you want to go buy a ticket? Come up with these moments, the selling points, for your idea, and use them to paint a fuller picture of your movie or show.

The Budget (Optional): If you are convinced that you know the budget, roughly, for the show/movie, bring it along. Especially if it is low. This shows you know how the production game works, and that you can give a specific dollar amount on the deal. Again, this is only effective if the idea is low-budget., A development exec may like your voice and idea but pass on the show for a variety of reasons. In this event, they will usually ask some variation of "do you have anything else you're working on?" This is not the time to freeze up, it's the time to have a few more ideas in the tank to test out. Never walk in with all of your ideas in one egg basket, as this will severely limit your chances of signing a deal., You may have heard about "getting an agent," but you want a lawyer nearby for the deal. Agents take 10% of the cut and have no legal experience in deal-making, while an entertainment lawyer has vast experience in contract negotiations. Most lawyers will take a nominal fee with minimal participation in any additional revenues. Some will just take a cut of the option money and 5% of all revenues.

