 Use either Edit Mode or Build Mode for this task. It is recommended to use Edit. Log into Roblox, and click "Develop".;
,

You should be in Roblox Studio. Go there to get your necessary Toolbox, Explorer, or any other window needed. To build something, click "View".
 Choose "Toolbox Objects", "Explorer", "Properties", and "Basic Objects." Drag them into the spaces you want them. You can also overlap these windows into tabs like this.
 Express yourself!

You can use the sets that Roblox provides, which include spawns, game flags, bricks, weapons, and the tools used in Building Mode.
You can also add vehicles, but try being serious about your game and not putting random items into the space. You're focusing on people that love your game enough to earn you a badge, right? If you want,you can also subscribe to other Robloxians' sets. Many of them have very nicely built things in them. Don't use too many free models though, and don't be afraid to experiment with bricks, properties, etc.
 After you've finished building,you might want to test the game out. Don't worry, you won't have to save,and exit. Just Press F6 on your keyboard. Don't make changes in this mode, because it will not be saved. Your name will be "Player1" in this mode,so don't be alarmed. Test mode allows you to make models of yourself and/or morphs. Your Toolbox,and everything will still be there.
 Click the "X" or Exit to leave. A Window should pop up looking like this.
 If not already done,click "Active" on your place. The button should turn green., Next to your game, click the Grey arrow next to the gear.

You should be brought to a page that looks like this.
 Change your settings. Decide whether you want the place public (or whether you want to invite only friends to it), stuff like that.
 Throw parties and show your guests to the game. If you have Builder's Club,you can switch the game type to personal server and make a list of people who can build with tools in your place, too!

This might take a few days, weeks, and in the worst case, months. Find a close friend who is online a lot,and ask them if they would like to play your game. If you keep visiting with them,before long, you'll have that badge! Have fun!

