 You will probably be a little nervous the night before your graduation ceremony. This is perfectly normal! However, you will need energy and strength for the day, so make it a point to sleep at least seven hours the night before. Your graduation ceremony is something you want to enjoy and remember, and both of those things will be difficult to do if you’re exhausted.


You will feel healthier and happier if you’re fully rested for your big day.
It’s highly likely that you’ll be posing for lots of photographs on graduation day and you will want to look fresh and rested in them.
 Practice your walk and smile for when you accept your diploma. If you didn’t order professional photos to be snapped as you accept your diploma, your friends and family are sure to be photographing the moment. If you practice how you plan to walk, smile and reach for the diploma, you’ll feel less nervous when the moment comes.


Be sure to stand up straight. Hold your head up high. Avoid fidgeting.
Walk at a normal pace and try to keep your smile natural-looking.
 Many people like to get fresh haircuts and other grooming tasks done on the day of graduation. If this is something you want to do, make your appointments several weeks in advance. Schedule them for early in the day so that you will have plenty of time to get ready for the ceremony without rushing.


Call establishments the day before to confirm your appointment times.
Create a schedule for your day and stick to it. Be on time to your appointments.
 Confirm what time you need to be on site and plan to arrive early. Double check when your family and friends should arrive, as well. Remind them in advance so that they will also be on time and are able to find decent parking and a good seat.


Do what you can to avoid any unnecessary rushing around on the day of the ceremony.
 Many students celebrate after the graduation ceremony by attending a party that evening. Most high school graduates attend a party thrown by the school. If your school doesn't do that, consider throwing a party yourself. Talk to your friends and see what their plans are.


Since a lot of your family is probably attending the ceremony, its a great opportunity to spend some time with them afterward. Plan to have a family gathering or a nice dinner at a restaurant.

