 The key to writing the announcement is to keep it concise. That is, you don't want to be too wordy. Even if you are creating a longer announcement, you should still keep the word count in mind because, as mentioned above, some newspapers may charge more for articles with more words.
 You can begin the announcement one of two ways. In the first instance, you can start with the parents' names, having them announce the marriage of their children. For example:


"George and Loretta Jones would like to announce the marriage of their daughter Jess Jones to Jay Kroner, son of Barbara and Roger Kroner."

, Alternatively, the announcement can be made by the couple themselves, for example: "Jess Jones and Jay Kroner would like to announce their marriage."


However, it is still customary to include the parents' names at some point, for example "Jess is the daughter of George and Loretta Jones, while Jay is the son of Barbara and Roger Kroner."

, Make sure to include the date. Try to include several bits of information in each sentence, such as the location, the date, and the officiant. For example:


"The couple was married on July 17, 2014 in a quiet ceremony at the botanical gardens. The wedding was officiated by Reverend Lisa French and followed by a reception at the community center."

, For instance, you can talk about how you met or where you went or are planning on going for your honeymoon. For example:


"Jess and Jay are planning on honeymooning in Italy." You could also consider something like "Jay and Jess met while volunteering at the local food bank, and their relationship burgeoned over their love of gardening."

, Look for typos and grammatical errors. Take out anything that isn't strictly necessary. Have your partner read over it, both to check for errors and to make sure the wording is acceptable to him or her. Also, check to make sure it follows the newspaper's guidelines, including the word count.


Keep in mind that the paper will likely edit it again for content and style.

