 All scene kids have rad hair, girly or not. If you don't choose to give it the girly image, then maybe a shorter cut would work. Scene kids love hair dye, instead of dying it pink or orange, blue and green would be more tomboy-ish.;
, Jerseys and band t-shirts can work. If you want your boy clothes to seem a little more scene, wear accessories and dress a little more colorfully.
 Eyeliner is usually all people need, it brings out the eyes. If you don't want to wear too much makeup your can go for the natural scene kid look just like lee lightning does. Eyeliner can be applied in many ways, it doesn't matter which one you choose, as long as it's applied well. It's a good idea to carry eyeliner everywhere with you.
 Pink converse would be girly. Blue, gray, black or any with designs would be good. High heels wouldn't give you a tomboy appearance either. However, high heels are acceptable for formal occasions.
 People don't seem to notice it, but girly girls laugh a tad more differently than tomboys. Stay down to earth (don't cry over a broken nail, or an eyeliner smudge, etc).
 Love everything, don't diss the stuff you don't like. Especially in music, scene kids tend to listen to bands like Cobra Starship, The Academy Is..., Panic! At The Disco, etc. However, they're also seen listening to hip-hop and pop music. Always listening to emo bands, will obviously make you seem emo and not scene.
 Once again, a scene kid is not an emo kid. Emo kids are known for being depressed and dark. To make sure you don't give away that image, smile and laugh.
 This can mean getting a Myspace, Buzznet, Facebook, Live Journal, etc. There are many websites out there. This step is optional since many people might not be allowed to for safety concerns. However, if you do get/have a profile, pictures of you being scene would be nice.
 Sure, you can stand in the back and smile, or just make a kissy face, but scene kids often have unique poses when it comes to photography. Standing in front of a mirror and showing off hair is fairly annoying to people, and it's also too common. Pictures of you being goofy with your friends, or writing something on your hand and showing it off (hopefully it's appropriate) can work. You need to be creative when it comes to posing.
 This too, is optional as many people won't be allowed. Piercings have been a part of the scene culture for as long as the stereotype has existed. Over doing it with many piercings can be a little un-pretty sometimes. Even a simple nose ring can work. Piercings that scene kids tend to have are septum, eyebrow, nose, lip, labret and monroe.

