 Tightly tucked sheets and blankets can press down on your toes and put more stress on your calf and foot muscles. This is increased pressure can lead to muscle cramps. Sleeping on your back also increases the likelihood of putting pressure on your toes.Try sleeping on your side with your knees slightly bent to prevent cramps., calcium, magnesium, potassium) in your diet. Consuming too little of these minerals may be contributing to your recurring muscle cramps.However, research has not confirmed that eating a diet rich in these minerals can prevent muscle cramps.


Eat foods that are high in potassium (bananas and oranges) , magnesium (green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains), and calcium(dairy, broccoli, kale) in order to obtain these beneficial nutrients.
 Drink plenty of fluids. The amount of fluids you need depends on your age, gender, activity level, climate, and any medications that you are taking. On average, women need about nine cups of fluids per day and men need 13 cups of fluid per day.Listen to your body. If you are thirsty, you need to drink some fluids, preferably water.
If you exercise, you will need to drink an extra 1.5 to 2.5 cups. If exercise lasts more than an hour or you sweat a lot, you will need to drink more than that.Sports drinks with sodium are only needed for long bouts (at least 60 minutes) of intense exercise.You will also need to drink more water if you live in or exercise in very hot and/or humid climates.
 Stretch before and after you use your muscles for an extended period of time. Regular stretching lengthens your muscle fibers and allows them to contract and tighten better.Well conditioned muscles are less likely to cramp.


Focus on the muscles in which you usually get cramps. If you typically get cramps in your calf muscle, stretch your calf muscles daily.
 Statins, long-acting beta agonists, and diuretics can cause muscle cramps. If you are taking one of these medications, talk to your doctor about the cramps you have been experiencing. Do not stop taking your medications without informing your doctor. You do not want to put your health at risk.Statins are used to treat high cholesterol.Examples of statins include atorvastatin (Lipitor), fluvastatin (Lescol), pravastatin (Lipostat), rosuvastatin (Crestor), and simvastatin (Zocor).Diuretics are used to remove fluid from your body and are often prescribed to treat high blood pressure.Common diuretics include bumetanide (Bumex) and furosemide (Lasix).Beta-blockers are used to treat high blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythms. Common beta-blockers include atenolol (Tenormin), carvedilol (Coreg), metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol), propranolol (Inderal), sotalol (Betapace), and timolol (Timoptic)., There are no medications that are safe, recommended, and proven to treat muscle cramps. Self-care remedies are usually done to treat muscle cramps. However, a few drugs may possibly be effective. These drugs include carisoprodol (Soma), diltiazem, gabapentin, orphenadrine (Norflex), verapamil, and vitamin B12.More research is needed to determine the effectiveness of these medications, but it is worth discussing the option with your doctor.
Avoid taking quinine. Quinine interacts with other medications and can cause serious side effects., Although muscle cramps usually resolve very quickly on their own without any sort of medical treatment, you should consult your doctor to address underlying medical problems. If your cramps are severe, do not go away after stretching, or last a long time, you need to see a doctor.Also see a doctor if your cramps are associated with leg swelling, redness, skin changes, muscle weakness, or are not happening for an obvious reason such as exercising or dehydration.