 Several states offer a license that is good for one day and you can apply directly to the county clerk's office.Notary publics are allowed to officiate weddings in some states without additional ordination. Check to see what is allowed in your state.


If you are planning to start an officiating business, you're required to actually become an officiant or hire one.;
, While each state differs and laws change, many states expect that you're over 18 and have completed an officiant program. Residency requirements vary, but all states require that you are part of an organization with the authority to officiate.


Some states have more stringent rules, such as:

You must be a minister in an organized church in the same state.
You have to provide a letter of good standing from the organization you represent.
You must be a resident of the same state., Registration rules vary widely by state, with some states always, sometimes, or never requiring officiants to file. There are also states that don't require official registration, but ordination documents must be available to government offices.Registration is mandatory in:

the District of Columbia
Hawaii
Massachusetts
Ohio
West Virginia
Louisiana
Minnesota
Nevada
Oklahoma
Virginia
Connecticut


Note that sometimes registration is required for non-residents of the state, whereas residents don't have to file., You'll submit an application that usually contains a letter of good standing from someone within your congregation or community and your ordination credentials. You may also be required to pay a small application fee.


If you become ordained online, you may want to pay for an officiant package that includes your printed, signed, and sealed officiant certification. Many programs even offer to include the letter of good standing and provide extra information to the county clerk.
 You'll typically need to wait a few days before your application is processed. If it is accepted, then you are allowed to begin officiating.

