 Often children, especially younger ones, will give you warning signs that they're going to try to avoid school. A big part of this will be listening to the hints the child gives that they may try to avoid school. Another part will be paying attention to other clues they give you.


For example, listen for indirect statements like, “School’s going to be boring,” as well as direct statements such as, “I don't want to go to school” that indicate they're going to resist school.
Look for signs like unspecific illnesses that spontaneously occur. For example, if the night before a test, your 4th grader develops a stomachache that they're sure will prevent them from going to school but won't affect them going to the park in the evening.
 Even though the child’s antics may make you want to lose your cool, don’t. Your disposition about the child not wanting to go to school can play a major influence on how the situation goes.Maintaining a positive attitude can help encourage the child to go to school and help you remain calm. It also helps you focus on coming up with strategies to get the child to go to school, rather than reacting to them.


Speak calmly, but firmly, to the child about going to school. You might, for instance, say, “Going to school isn’t negotiable, but we can talk about how to make it a better experience for you.”
Avoid yelling or threatening them. For example, don’t scream, “You better get ready for school, or else!” Instead, remain calm.
Remind yourself that this is a temporary situation that you can and will work through. You might tell yourself, “I don't have to get upset. This is temporary. I can stay calm.”

, While you don’t want the child to experience any serious negative consequences because of their resistance to school, dealing with the natural consequences of missing school can be a valuable lesson.Remind the child about the work they'll have to make up, the fun they may miss out on, and the effect it could have on their grades, attendance record, and other activities.


You might say something like, “Remember, though, that if you miss school, your coach won’t let you attend practice. And, if you don’t attend practice, she won’t let you play in the game.”
Or, you might try, “Since you’ll have make-up work you'll need to do on top of your regular homework, I don't think you'll have time to hang out with your friends tomorrow night.”
Or, you can tell them that they will have additional chores at home, and their TV or game time will be restricted.
 Sometimes it can be helpful to offer the child a small reward for going to school.This isn’t a method you want to use every day, but it can be useful every now and then to help motivate a child to go to school.


For example, if your daughter doesn’t want to attend the first day at her new school, you might offer to buy her a new outfit to help boost her confidence.
Or, for instance, you could prepare a special activity for a toddler that gets upset when their parent drops them off for the first few times.
 Often children want to stay home because they imagine all the fun things they’ll do. One way to deal with a child not wanting to go to school is to make being at home during a school day unappealing.Doing this can encourage the child to go to school because it seems more fun than not going.


Let the child know they'll still have learning to do. For example, you can contact their teacher and get their assignments for the day and have them work on it at home. Or, you can develop your own work for them.
Restrict the use of games, electronic devices, and play time for the day. You can say, “If you aren't well enough for school, you're not well enough to play.”

, This provides structure and routine for children and helps them know when to expect. Especially for younger children, your consistency can give them the reassurance and security they need to go to school without incident.This means being consistent with your insistence that they attend school and not encouraging or allowing them to miss school without a good reason.
It also means being consistent in terms of picking them up on time each day or having arrangements made for when they arrive home.

