 Identify the cliques at your school, and then make it a habit to interact with all (or most) of them. Don’t limit yourself to one crowd! The key to being a social butterfly is being able to flit from one situation to another with ease, so the more groups you are friendly with, the easier that becomes.


Being friendly with a variety of people expands your social circle greatly and provides opportunities to attend all sorts of different events. This leads to meeting even more new people!
Put yourself out there and you will see results.;
, Being a social butterfly doesn’t mean you always have to be the person to initiate every conversation. By putting yourself in the spotlight, people will learn your name and recognize who you are. This often leads to them starting conversations with you instead of the other way around!


Participate in class. Join or start a club. Run for student council. Put yourself in situations that cause other people to notice you and they will.
Being in the spotlight provides plenty of opportunities for interaction with others and can introduce you to entirely new groups of people.
 Everyone has a group of people they usually sit with at lunch every day, but lunch can be a great time for socializing. You don’t have to abandon your usual set of friends, but after you chat with them awhile and catch up, excuse yourself to go say hi to other people.


Don’t just wander up to random tables for no reason, of course! Have reasons to initiate conversations and then stick around for a chat or short, light-hearted exchange with their group if it feels natural to do so.
A reason for approaching a group can be as simple as asking one of them about a homework assignment. Don’t make it complicated, and keep the exchange casual.
Don’t stick around longer than a few minutes and definitely make a quick exit if any awkward silences ensue.
 You can talk to new people until you’re blue in the face, but your social circle won’t truly expand until you start developing your relationships with new friends. Make plans with a new pal to see the movie you talked about at lunch last week, or ask someone from class if they want to study or do homework after school.


Whenever you get an invitation from someone to hang out or go to a particular event, make every effort to do so. You can’t say yes to every invitation all the time, but if it’s feasible, get out there and socialize!

, Keep up with what’s going on at school and try to make it out to a variety of different events so that you can meet a wide range of people. Attend a basketball game, volunteer to help organize prom, check out the theater group’s new play – no matter what you choose to do, it’s inevitable that you will meet new people, create bonds, and widen your social circle. Before you know it, you’ll be that social butterfly that you’ve always envisioned yourself to be.

