 After all, this isn’t your friend telling you about his or her day. It is a trained salesperson who deals with dozens of unfriendly customers every day. In fact, simply hanging up rather than yelling or making rude remarks is nicer in a sense. You may not be comfortable hanging up on someone with no explanation. However, after you have tried it once, it will become less awkward for you.


The salesperson may call back, thinking the call was simply dropped. Don’t pick up the phone, and he or she will likely get the message.
 If you don’t want to hang up without an explanation, give one at once. The longer you are on the call the more motivated salespeople become. Tell him or her you aren’t interested, then hang up. This may still feel a little rude, but again, you are not friends.


As soon as you realize you are being called by a salesperson state, "I'm sorry, I do not accept 'cold calls.' Thank you, goodbye."
If he or she has already stated what product or service is being sold, you can personalize it. Say, for example, “I don’t need to buy a vacuum cleaner right now, I already have 2.”

, An easy way to get out of these conversations is to tell him or her you’ll be considering a new vacuum cleaner, for example, in the next year. Tell the salesperson you will make contact if you decide you need assistance. Many salespeople will be happy to know that he or she will get another shot at the sale later.
 If you are bi- or trilingual, use the other language, insisting that you don’t speak English. If your accent is good enough, or the language is obscure enough, it should be pretty foolproof. Even if you aren’t convincing, it should buy you enough time to derail his or her sales pitch and hang up. And it is also kind of fun.For example, saying “yo no hablo inglés” (Spanish) will work if you have a good accent. However, the risk here is that this is a common second language in the US, and the salesperson may suddenly jump into his or her pitch in Spanish.
If you speak a less common language like Czech, uttering a few phrases and using a confused voice will make it easy for you to hang up.
 Cell phones all now have call waiting, so this is a viable excuse for anybody. Tell the salesperson you’re getting an important call and need to hang up. He or she should understand and say goodbye, but if the salesperson presses the issue, just hang up. , If you tell a salesperson that you are not interested, but then continue to receive phone calls, you may request to be put on the do not call list. Once you are on the company's list, the law protects your right to no longer be contacted by any salesperson working for that company.
 Sometimes frustrating salespeople cross the boundary between what is appropriate and what is inappropriate. If he or she says something inappropriate, or threatens you in some way, report his or her actions to a manager. Ask to be connected with a manager. If he or she refuses or dodges the issue, hang up and get the customer service number off the company website


Make sure to get the salesperson’s name. Also, jot down some details to tell the manager when you are connected while they are fresh in your head

