 To fireproof your home, you can make sure your driveway is accessible to firetrucks, get rid of old appliances, make sure your electrical wiring is safely installed and declutter your home. You should also have a fire plan for your family, which should include details on where to meet when the family exits the home.You should make sure every room in the house has two clear exits, such as a window that can be opened and a door.Make sure that you know where fire extinguishers are located in your home and also how to use them properly.;
, Knowing CPR, the Heimlich maneuver, and to call 911 immediately will allow you to help the situation as much as possible instead of being shocked and panicked.You should also make sure you have some basic medications in your home, as well as a first aid kit. Familiarize yourself with any specific medical conditions or allergies in your family.

If a family member has a severe allergic reaction to nuts, for example, you should know where the epinephrine injectors are located and have your doctor’s phone number on speed dial. If your family members have specific food allergies, you should also make an emergency preparedness kit that addresses their medical needs, including medical supplies for with food allergies, safe food, and water., Have you considered the natural disasters that may impact your community? Depending on your location, you may be vulnerable to any number of natural disasters, such as floods in coastal areas or blizzards in northern regions. To be prepared for an emergency situation, you need to be fully aware of the natural as well as nuclear and other man-made disasters that could impact your region.If you live in Canada, you can learn about the risks impacting your region at the following website: https://www.getprepared.gc.ca/

If you live in the United States, you can learn about the risks impacting your region at the following website: https://www.fema.gov/emergency-management-agencies


, There are often everyday situations like walking home or getting stuck on the side of the road that could turn into larger emergencies if you aren’t careful. It is useful to know the basics of self-defense to be better prepared in emergencies where someone may try to harm you. Some basic self-defense rules are:

Avoid routines that could easily be followed
Make sure that someone knows where you are and when to expect you.
Carry an object, such as a whistle, that’s capable of making a loud noise., Contact your local emergency management center or public health department to find out how notifications are disseminated in your area. Some possible emergency communication channels to keep an eye on include:Emergency texts
Emergency phone calling systems
Social media platforms of official health or emergency centers
Road signs
Sirens and speakers in your neighborhood

, Learn about the sounds and signals associated with different levels of risk in your neighborhood, such as signs to indicate forest fire risk or sirens to indicate evacuation.If your neighborhood has an emergency siren that signals the need to evacuate, you should learn what it sounds like.
If there is an emergency phone calling system, you could phone your local emergency management center to make sure your number is on the system.
 Stay informed about the risks of natural disasters, weather, nuclear or other social or man-made disasters in your region. For instance, you could sign up for text message alerts from your local weather station or social media alerts from the public health or emergency center in your area.Listen to the news to stay up to date about other risks, such as war or nuclear related risks.

