 This is because, in chronic pancreatitis, the pancreas is damaged and is thus unable to release the usual quantities of digestive enzymes. This makes it challenging to successfully digest and absorb food and leads to malnutrition and weight loss. Here are some ways to differentiate the weight loss of chronic pancreatitis from weight loss associated with other medical conditions:


Unintended weight loss is also one of the hallmark signs of cancer. The difference with cancer, however, is that it may be associated with other symptoms such as night sweats, shortness of breath, and/or pain in the affected area of the body. The weight loss of chronic pancreatitis is associated with abnormal stools, but rarely any other symptoms.
Unintended weight loss may also be experienced as a result of bowel disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease or Celiac disease. Both of these conditions lead to troubles with absorption through the gut, resulting in the weight loss. Celiac disease can be tested for by measuring tTG-IgA in the blood, and following up with a biopsy if the first test is positive.Inflammatory bowel disease can be tested for with blood tests for anemia (low red blood cells) and stool tests for blood in the stool, as well as a colonoscopy (a scope inserted in your colon) to examine the state of your bowel wall.People with cystic fibrosis may also have unintended weight loss, because cystic fibrosis leads to challenges with the pancreas that resemble those of chronic pancreatitis.Cystic fibrosis can be diagnosed with a sweat test.Cystic fibrosis may actually lead to the development of subsequent pancreatitis, as the two conditions are linked.;
, The stools are also sometimes foul smelling and difficult to flush. The stool abnormalities are again due to digestive problems, resulting from insufficient amounts of digestive enzymes released from a damaged pancreas. Other medical conditions that may present with abnormal stools include:


Other bowel diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, etc. These can be tested for with a combination of your medical history, blood tests, stool tests, and a possible colonoscopy.
Abnormal stools may also result from problems with the liver and/or gallbladder.These can be screened for with blood tests.
 This may radiate through to your back, and it may worsen in relationship to eating (particularly fatty foods) or drinking (particularly alcohol); however, although abdominal pain is present in the vast majority of cases of chronic pancreatitis, there are some people who present with no pain, which can make the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis a challenge. Other medical conditions that may present with right upper quadrant abdominal pain include:


Liver and/or biliary tract diseases, which can be screened for with blood tests.A muscular or soft tissue injury.
Other gastrointestinal or bowel diseases, which can be assess for with blood tests, stool tests, and possibly a colonoscopy.
 Note that, if you are experiencing all of the above symptoms that are suggestive of chronic pancreatitis (unintended weight loss, abnormal fatty stools, and upper abdominal pain, in addition to possible nausea and/or vomiting), chances are that you do in fact have pancreatitis (as opposed to another medical condition). This is because, while each symptom on its own is relatively non-specific (and may be caused by a number of medical problems), the constellation of all of them together paints the picture of likely pancreatitis.


Note, however, that you will need to proceed with a series of diagnostic tests and evaluations to confirm (or rule out) the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis.
It is not a diagnosis that can be made on the basis of symptoms alone; rather, symptoms are used to guide your doctor when they have reason to suspect that you may indeed have pancreatitis.
 If you have been a heavy drinker in your life (consuming multiple drinks daily for several years), this greatly increases the chance that the symptoms you are experiencing are the result of chronic pancreatitis (as opposed to another condition).
 Specifically, the stool test looks for elevated fat levels in the stool, which points doctors in the direction of a pancreatitis diagnosis.
 An IgG4 blood test can also aid in the diagnosis of autoimmune pancreatitis; however, in general, blood tests are not especially useful in the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis., A CT scan or MRI may also be useful, and/or an MRCP or ERCP where they insert a tube through your throat down to your pancreas to assess for potential blockages and/or signs of pancreatitis.


The specific imaging test that is best for you will vary on a case-by-case basis, and your physician will be able to guide you in terms of what specific tests to receive.
 Many people with chronic pancreatitis suffer from ongoing abdominal pain. The pain may be worse with eating and drinking, and it may be exacerbated by certain foods in the diet (such as fats). If you are struggling to get your abdominal pain under control, it may help to receive pain medications.You can opt for over-the-counter pain medications such as Acetaminophen (Tylenol). Adults can take 500 mg every four to six hours as needed. Another option is Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), adults can take 400 – 600 mg every four to six hours as needed.
Alternatively, if over-the-counter pain medications are insufficient, your doctor may offer you stronger prescription pain medications, such as narcotics (for example, Codeine or Morphine, depending on the strength of pain relief needed).
For episodes of extreme pain relating to pancreatitis, some people need to be temporarily hospitalized and given pain medications and fluids via an IV until their symptoms stabilize. If this occurs, people are generally advised not to eat food orally until they are feeling better; instead, calories can also be administered via the IV.
 If you have been diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis, it is wise to consult a nutritionist to help you create a meal plan that is high in nutrients and low in fat (as pancreatitis can lead to troubles digesting fats). Adhering to a specially designed meal plan can help your body to absorb the nutrients it needs so as to avoid (or minimize) malnutrition and unintentional weight loss that often accompany chronic pancreatitis.Try having five or six small meals throughout the day instead of three large meals. Space these meals out as evenly as possible.
 In chronic pancreatitis, the damage sustained to the pancreas over time results in a significantly decreased production of digestive enzymes. This is what leads to malabsorption and subsequent malnutrition, as your body is unable to absorb the nutrients it needs to maintain healthy weight gain and the summation of nutrients that your body needs to function optimally.Digestive enzymes need to be taken prior to every meal, in order to aid with the digestion of each specific meal.
They may also be helpful in treating the pain caused by pancreatitis.
 In addition to producing and releasing digestive enzymes, another job of the pancreas is to secrete insulin, which serves to regular your blood sugars. In chronic pancreatitis, damage to the pancreas may lead to insufficient insulin production, and resulting diabetes. If you have been diagnosed with concurrent diabetes (at the same time as your pancreatitis, which happens for many people), it is key that you receive insulin supplementation to keep your blood sugars in a normal range and to avoid the potential long-term complications of diabetes., Because alcohol consumption is one of the major risk factors (and potential causes) of chronic pancreatitis, it is key to limit (or ideally avoid) alcohol consumption if you have indeed been diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis. Refraining from smoking can also help to manage your symptoms of pancreatitis, and to prevent them from getting worse., Indications to proceed with surgery include the following:


Gallstones — if a gallstone is causing a blockage leading to pancreatitis, this can be removed surgically.
A bile duct blockage — if a duct is blocked and this is the cause of your pancreatitis, the duct can be opened up and even expanded surgically to relieve the obstruction and alleviate your symptoms.
Significant fluid or inflammation in or around your pancreas — this can be cut out surgically to improve your condition.
More extensive surgery can be done in severe cases of pancreatitis, but the risks involved are higher.
Surgery is also used to to treat chronic pancreatitis that has been resistant to conservative medical treatment.

