 Wear it in a loose, wavy tumbling style. Try hot rollers, a wide barrel curling iron, or else just wash and wear if you happen to have naturally wavy hair. Try to get a lot of volume too. Experiment with different methods and modern tools and products, see what works best for your hair.;
, Add some highlights, go a shade darker-whatever will make you feel more confident and beautiful.
 OR, if you've got paler skin, work it! Don't forget to use SPF all the time, especially on your face, since sunburn (and premature wrinkles!) isn't sexy.
 Brigitte Bardot had large hazel-brown ones, but every eye color is pretty-as long as you know what looks right on you. If you've got brown eyes, purples look great. Green and hazel eyes look nice with darker greens & browns. Blues look pretty with navy. To get Brigitte Bardot's eye make up, use liquid or gel liner (preferably in black) and line your eyes with it adding a wingtip. Make it a skinny line on the inside (close to your nose) and then thicken out. This is a cat-eye. If you want, you can wing it out past the end of your eyes. This is really pretty and flattering if done right. You may also want to do smokey eyes-blend black, gray and a lighter gray on your eyelids, then line your eyes with black.Remember, with these looks, try to keep the rest of your face bare (at the most, a little foundation, concealer, light blush, and a light lip gloss-try to keep it nude.)

, If you have thin lashes, try false eyelashes or eyelash extensions which you can get at a salon.
 Study BB photos to perfect this look. Her brows were not too thin, not too thick and a few shades darker then her hair.
 If you already have lush, full lips like BB, just wear a simple tinted pink lip gloss or a pearly pink, peach, or neutral lipstick & liner. If you have thin lips, look into a neutral liner or lip augmentation. If lip injections are not your thing, try one of the new plumping lip gloss products on the market or experiment with different types of lip liner. Whatever you do, stick with a natural color on the lips, BB rarely wore red lipstick or intense colors. Her focus was always more on the eyes.
 She was feminine and simple and liked little black dresses, lace, polka dots and minimal jewelry.
 Go for a classic pump, or perhaps an open toe, a medium thickness of heel or maybe a strappy sandal. Avoid anything over 3 inches (7.6 cm), such as 5 inch (12.7 cm) clear platform stripper heels!

