 Place the rice in a fine mesh strainer and rinse for 30 seconds or so under cold running water.


Make sure that the strainer is made from as fine a mesh as possible. If the gaps between the wires are too large, you could end up losing an unfortunate amount of rice as you rinse it.
Note that you may not always need to rinse the rice, and this is somewhat of an outdated practice. Rinsing is a cleaning process and is a necessary step if you suspect that the rice has been imported or handled roughly in bulk storage. If the rice is a fortified, domestic product, however, you probably will not need to worry about rinsing it.
 Transfer the rice to your rice cooker and let it soak for about 45 minutes in 2 2/3 cups (580 ml) warm water.


Soaking is beneficial because it reduces the stickiness of the rice. It also helps the rice expand into long, thin grains.
You can soak the rice up to 3 hours, if desired, but 45 minutes will often be enough.
 As the rice soaks, add the quinoa to a fine mesh strainer and rinse for 30 to 60 seconds under room temperature running water.


While rinsing rice does little more than clean it, rinsing quinoa has added benefits. Rinsing the grain removes a protective coating known as “saponin.” This coating can cause the grain to have a bitter flavor note, so removing it prevents much of this bitterness from coming through.
As with rice, you need to make sure that the strainer you use is made from a fine mesh to prevent the grains from falling out as you rinse them.
 Stir into the water and rice so that the grains of quinoa and grains of brown rice are evenly distributed throughout.


Both the quinoa and the rice grains should be submerged under the water in the rice cooker basin.
 If your rice cooker has a brown rice setting, use that. If it only has a timer, set the timer for 30 minutes.Cover the rice cooker before starting it and leave that cover on for the duration of the cooking process.
The rice and quinoa may need a total of 40 minutes to finish cooking inside the rice cooker. Check after the first 30 minutes, and if the grains still seem tough and the content of the basin are still somewhat soupy, cover and set the timer for another 10 minutes.
Understand that each rice cooker varies by make and model. Always follow the instructions for your particular rice cooker when preparing brown rice medleys, even if they vary from those presented here.
 After the timer stops, open the lid and scoop the brown rice medley out into individual serving dishes.

