 Point the toe of the shoe away from you. The holes farthest from you will be called the first eyelets, and will successively count up from there. With the shoelace on the outside of the shoe, insert the ends down into the first eyelets on both sides.






;
, Pull both ends of the shoelace to their full length. Tug on whichever side is shortest until they are of an even length.You now have your first bar.
 Take the right end of the lace in your hand. Run it along the underside of the eyelets and then bring it up through the second eyelet on the right side. Do not skip an eyelet. You should not be able to see the shoelace between the eyelets.
 Pull this same right lace straight across the shoe to the left side. Push it down through the second eyelet on the left side and pull it out until taught.
 Take the left end of the shoelace and run it along the underside of the eyelets on the right side, skipping the second eyelet (which you have previously laced) until you reach the third eyelet. Bring it up through the third eyelet and pull until taught.
 Pull the left lace straight across the shoe and push it down through the third eyelet on the right side. Pull until taught. You should now have three bars.
 Take the lace that is now on the left side and run it along the underside of the eyelets from the second eyelet to the fourth, skipping the third eyelet which you have previously laced. Bring this left lace up through the fourth eyelet on the left side and pull through until taught.
 Pull the left lace straight across the shoe and push it down through the fourth eyelet. Pull it through until taught.
 Repeat steps 5 through 8 until you reach the last eyelets nearest you. Remember:

each time you run the lace beneath the eyelets you will skip one that has already been laced before you pull it up through one
when you pull a lace across the shoe it will go down into the eyelet directly parallel to the one it came up through.
 Once you've reached the last eyelets, once again ensure that they are even. You may have to do a bit of adjusting further down the shoe., Repeat all of these steps in exactly the same way for your second shoe.