 Ask questions in class that show the teacher that you’re paying attention. If you’re confused about something, ask for some clarification.Try to avoid asking questions just for the sake of it, but do your best to have a genuine interest in learning more. When you do your assigned reading or other homework the night before, consider writing down a couple good questions to ask the next day.
For example, if that day’s class is about the Boston Tea Party, ask something like, “Why did the Sons of Liberty dress up like Mohawk warriors when they destroyed the tea?”;
, Learning and using new words is an easy way to make a teacher think you’re smart. A word of the day calendar or app is a great way to learn new words. Try entering a new word into a search engine to find examples of how to use it properly in a sentence.Most dictionary apps, like Dictionary.com's app, have word of the day options. Consider games such as the 7 Little Words app to have fun while building your vocabulary.You don’t need to use big words unnecessarily, but using a new word in a way that clearly makes your point is a sure way to impress teachers. For example, maybe you've seen the words symbolic, defiance, and harbinger on your word of the day app. You could say in class, "The Boston Tea Party was a symbolic act of defiance that proved to be a harbinger of the American Revolution."

, Show the teacher that you care about what’s going on in the world and that you think about what you’re learning outside of class. Pay attention to what’s going on in the news and think of ways that story might apply to what you’re learning in school.For example, in your class on the Boston Tea Party, you might bring up a news story you saw about taxation. You might raise your hand and talk about how taxes were involved in that historical event and continue to be an important political topic.
 Do your best to go above and beyond and learn material on your own. If you know you'll be learning about the FOIL method in math class next week, teach yourself about it prior to class. That way, when the teacher asks if anyone knows what FOIL stands for, you'll raise your hand and say, "It's how you multiply two binomials: First, Outer, Inner, Last!"

, Remember, you don’t have to speak to show that you’re participating in class. Don’t slouch in your chair, nap during class, or text and play on your phone. Instead, make eye contact, take notes, and nod your head when the teacher makes a point.