 Using a pen or pencil, make a dot for the center of your web, then 9 dots around it forming a circle. Make sure that each of these dots is an equal distance from the center. You should have something that looks like the face of a clock.Work small. The dots should only be an inch (2.54 centimeters) or so from the center dot. This stitch is a type of embroidery stitch, and is often used as a filler.
 Thick, chunky thread, such as pearl cotton works great for this part, but you can use any type of embroidery thread or floss you want., Starting from the back of your work, pull the needle and thread up through your first outer dot. Next, bring the thread down through the center dot and out through the back of the fabric., Bring the needle back up to the second outer dot. Push the needle through the fabric, and out the front of your work. Bring the needle back down through the center dot. Keep doing this until you have connected all of the outer dots to the center dot.
 You can use the same color of thread, or a different color. You can also use a different type of thread, such as cotton floss.<refhttp://www.needlenthread.com/2006/11/ribbed-spider-web-stitch-video-tutorial.html</ref>


, It does not matter between which two spokes you start., Slide your needle under the first spoke, then pull the thread through it. It should end up between the next two spokes. Make sure that the needle does not go through the fabric. Pull the thread taut., Pull the thread back towards the first spoke. Push the needle under the spoke, and pull the thread through it. Give it a gently tug. Once again, do not push the needle through the fabric.This will create a loop around the first spoke.
 Pull the needle unde rthe second spoke. Bring it over the spoke, and then back under it. Proceed onto the next spoke. Keep doing this until all of the spokes have been connected.From time to time, use the tip of your needle to push the loops and connecting lines towards the center. Sometimes, the connecting lines will slide askew, and this will keep them neat, tidy, and even., You can also end the connecting lines halfway or even two-thirds of the way.


Consider switching colors every few rings. This will give your web some more variation.
 Pull the thread though the fabric, right next to your last spoke. Tie the thread into a tight knot, then trim off the excess.