 Look for tiny worms that look like wiggling rice, along with webbing in either food containers or the pantry. You should also notice cast off skins. Check your corners and in the dark areas of pantries for moth worms and cocoons.The worms will grow to about ⅔-inch size (1.7 centimeters), and they have a black or brown head.
 Kitchen moth worms enter your home inside food. After you bring home an item that contains moth eggs or larvae, the moth worms quickly spread to other foods. Go through your pantry, checking items for signs of infestation. You may notice the moth worms, egg casings, or webbing.Foods that the meal moths prefer include cereals, flour, grains, birdseed, dried fruit, candy, pet food, dried herbs, nuts, and powdered milk.
Even if you don’t see any moth worms or casings, webbing means that the food is infested.
 Moth worms cannot penetrate the seal of a plastic bag, so you can prevent them from spreading by putting the infested food in bags. Throw away the items as soon as possible. Don’t allow the infested foods to sit around since it’s possible that you may not have properly closed all of the seals., Unfortunately, most of your food will need to be thrown away. Any food that the moths would normally eat, such as grains or cereals, should be thrown away. If you have any food that is in a container that you cannot wash, then you will need to throw that food out as well., The moths like to lay eggs in the crevices of items, so you may still have active eggs on your items. To avoid a reinfestation, wash these items well in warm, soapy water.Check crevices such as jar lids or flaps on items wrapped in plastic.
You can also kill moth eggs and larvae that may be on the food by putting the food in the freezer, microwaving it for 5 minutes, or baking it at 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius)., If you have any shelf liners, then you will need to remove them and throw them away, as they can harbor eggs or larvae. If you plan to place new pantry liners, wait until your infestation is completely gone before putting them down. Otherwise, you may have to replace them again if the moth worms come back., Use a hose extension on your vacuum cleaner to vacuum out any visible moth worms and crumbs. Vacuum in the crevices and corners, if possible, because tiny worms and eggs tend to hide in the darkest spots.
 First wipe down all surfaces, including the pantry walls and ceilings, with a soapy rag. Follow with a mild bleach solution. You can either make your own or purchase a cleaning product that contains bleach. Afterwards, spray the shelves with plain white vinegar and wipe everything down.To mix your own bleach solution, add 1 part bleach to 9 parts water.Don’t forget to scrub down the corners well.
 Run the containers in a hot dishwasher if you have one. If not, wash them out thoroughly by scrubbing them in a bath of hot soapy water. Finish by applying a vinegar rinse. You need to follow these extra precautions because a single moth worm hiding in one container could re-infest the entire area.
 Prevent a reinfestation and the contamination of new foods by storing your food in airtight containers.

When you buy grains, flours, or meals, you may want to store them in the freezer for a week to kill off any eggs that may already exist on or in the product.
You can also refrigerate items until you use them.