 First, know that a balance sheet must always balance. That is, in the end, total assets must equal total liabilities plus owner's equity. Put another way, equity must equal the difference between total assets and total liabilities (Assets - Liabilities). Equity serves the same purpose at net worth does in the personal balance sheet.Businesses usually have to produce balance sheets as a part of annual reporting, but may also need one prepared to show potential lenders or investors., In the left column, you will be listing the assets. In the right column you will list your liabilities at the top and equity underneath it. You can also list all the information in one column, with assets, liabilities, and equity in that order from top to bottom.Official business balance sheets all follow the same format.Try searching Google for "balance sheet template" to find a downloadable or printable balance sheet that you can fill out with your financial information. You can also create your own using a spreadsheet program. Additionally, some accounting programs will create balance sheets for your business, if you've chosen to invest in them.
 In order to create your balance sheet, you will need to have the current values of your assets, including account balances, cash balance, inventory value, and the market values of any investments, land, equipment, and other assets. You will also need to gather all of your liability balances, including any salaries owed, loan balances, and amounts owed to suppliers and utility companies. For equity, you will need to include any money contributed by the owners or investors in the company and a measure of retained earnings (profits reinvested in the company).Much of this information can be found in past financial statements and in the business general ledger.


Keep in mind that this information will have to all be from the exact same date. For example a balance sheet for December 31st would total all balances through the end of business on that day., Assets are your company’s resources. These include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, land, buildings, equipment, and more. These will be recorded at the top of your straight line balance sheet or on the left side of a columned one. A classified balance sheet breaks down assets into the following categories:


Current assets. This includes cash (any money in bank accounts), accounts receivable (money owed to you), office supplies, inventory (even incomplete items), securities (stocks and bonds), prepaid expenses (like prepaid rent or utilities), and anything expected to be received or used up within a year.Fixed assets. These assets, also called long-term assets, are the revenue-producing items owned by the company, including land, buildings, machinery, vehicles, furniture, and any other objects that are expected to last longer than a year.You should subtract depreciation from these assets so you have an accurate picture of their worth. This reduces overvaluation of assets.For more information, see how to calculate depreciation on fixed assets.
 Liabilities are your company’s debts. These include salaries owed, loan payments, and accounts payable. These will be recorded either under assets or on the right side of the balance sheet, depending on which balance sheet style you are using. They are split into two categories:


Current liabilities. These are anything due within the next year, such as accounts payable (to suppliers or other companies), taxes, and payroll. It can also include the portion of long-term debt due within the next year.
Long-term liabilities. This includes loans, mortgages, and leases that will be repaid more than one year from the date on the balance sheet., Owner's equity is how much the owners or stockholders have invested in the company. It also includes retained earnings, or net profits that are kept within the company. These will be recorded below liabilities, regardless of which balance sheet format you are using., At the bottom of each major category (assets, liabilities, and equity), sum each line item to get a total. Use the balance sheet equation (Assets=Liabilities + Equity) to check if your amounts balance. If they do not, this means that you've overlooked or incorrectly reported some part of your balance sheet. Go back and check to see if you can locate your mistake.


In some cases, you may be unsure what you have contributed or retained to the company. In these cases, just subtract liabilities from assets to get the owner's equity., One you have a completed balance sheet, you can analyze it to determine certain important metrics that measure the financial health of your business. Specifically, there are four simple ratios that can be calculated from this information:


The current ratio is an approximation of a business's ability to pay its current debts. Find the current ratio by dividing current assets by current liabilities. Values over 1 are considered stronger and those under 1 are considered weak.The quick ratio, or "acid test," determines a company's ability to pay its current liabilities with its most liquid assets. This is found by subtracting a company's inventory from the sum of its cash and cash equivalents and dividing that total by it's total current liabilities. Generally, results between 0.5 and 1 are considered healthy.The debt-worth ratio analyzes a company's dependency on debt. This measure is calculated by dividing owner's equity by total liabilities. In theory, no one result is better or worse here, but a business with a higher debt-worth ratio may be considered over-reliant on debt financing.The fixed-worth ratio determines how much the company has invested its own money in tangible assets. This is calculated by dividing total fixed assets by owner's equity. A low ratio means a smaller investment in fixed assets and thus, less risk in case of business failure and liquidation.