 For either a first or second degree injury, medical care is not typically needed. You can treat these injuries with RICE, a mnemonic for the steps treatment. Step one is to rest the injured area.Take a break from exercising until you can move the muscle without pain. Do not participate in any sports until you are feeling stronger. This should not be any longer than two weeks. If significant pain persists beyond that, make an appointment with your physician.
You should still be able to walk and/or move your arms. If you cannot do this, then your tear may be severe. You should see your healthcare provider.;
, Apply ice, either in the form of a bag of frozen peas or crushed/cubed ice in a protective plastic wrapping. Wrap the ice pack in a cloth or thin towel before you use it. Apply the ice to the affected area for 15 to 20 minutes every two hours for the first two days after the injury.The ice will decrease the internal bleeding (hematoma), swelling, inflammation, and discomfort.
 You can also wrap the injured area with an ace bandage to protect the area for the first 48 to 72 hours. Be sure to wrap it snugly, but not too tight.To wrap the affected area, start wrapping at the furthest point from your heart and move inwards towards your body. For example, if your injury is in your bicep, then start wrapping near your elbow and move upwards towards your armpit. If your injury is in the lower part of your calf, then start wrapping your leg near your ankle and move upwards towards your knee.
Be sure you can still fit two fingers between your skin and the wrap. Remove the wrap if you notice any signs of decreased circulation, such as numbness, tingling, or paleness in the area.
Compression will also serve to protect the area from re-injury.
 You can also elevate the injured limb above your heart to help reduce the swelling. Place the limb up on some pillows and lay down. Make sure that you are in a comfortable position.If you can't get the injury above your heart, try to at least keep it parallel to the ground.
If you are still feeling a great deal of throbbing, try raising the limb higher.
 For the first 72 hours after you tear a muscle, it is important to avoid doing certain things that can make your injury worse. The activities you should avoid can be represented by the acronym HARM, which stands for:Heat. Don’t use a heating pad or take a hot bath.

Alcohol. Don’t drink alcohol because this can increase the bleeding and swelling. It may also cause your injury to take longer to heal.

Running. Don’t run or do any other strenuous activities that might worsen your injury.

Massage. Don’t get a massage or massage the injured area because this can cause more bleeding and swelling.
 Eat foods that contain a lot of Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Omega-3 fatty acids, zinc, antioxidants, and protein to speed up the healing process. Some foods that would help include: citrus fruits, sweet potatoes, blueberries, chicken, walnuts, and many more.