 More people today than any other time in history don't qualify for a bank issued credit card. This might be to poor choices when they were younger, medical bills that trashed their credit, or a variety of other reasons both in and out of their control. Thankfully, an entire industry has cropped up to serve these people by offering affordable, easy to use, prepaid credit cards.;
, All prepaid credit cards are branded as one of the "big three" - VISA, Mastercard, or American Express. But not all merchants take all of those cards. Speak to the store or website you want to pre-order your game from and find out what cards they take. This will save you the headache of buying a card only to find out it's not accepted where you want to use it.
 Game purchases, like everything else, often have taxes associated with them. So a game that's priced at $59 might actually be closer to $67 by the time taxes are added. Since you're going to need to have enough on your prepaid credit card to cover the entire costs of the game, find out how much it will be with taxes. You should be able to find out an exact price from the merchant you plan on pre-ordering from.
 Grocery stores, pharmacies, and even many corner gas stations and convenience stores now sell prepaid credit cards. Once you know what card you want to buy (VISA, Mastercard, etc), go to one of those merchants and purchase your card for at least the an amount that will cover the costs of the game. Most cards allow you to buy any amount you want on them and that becomes the final cost of the card (plus a fee sometimes). All you need to do in most cases is hand the card to the checkout person and tell them how much you want to put on it. Pay them with cash or a check and you now have a working credit card that you can use to pre-order your game.
 Go back to the store or site you're going to pre-order your game from and do it! You now have a credit card that will be treated no differently than any other credit card being used to pre-order this game. Pre-ordering your game should be a quick and easy process. Now, all you have to do is sit and wait on your new game!

