 If you think your child’s shoes are what are causing your child’s foot pain, consider buying padded insoles for your child’s shoes to make them more comfortable. The insoles will help to raise your child’s heels and can relieve basic foot pain like soreness or stiffness.If your child complains about foot pain when wearing the same pair of shoes, discard the pair of shoes and replace them with better fitting shoes. Make sure your child wears proper running shoes when playing sports or spending time outdoors so their feet are well supported during any strenuous activity.
 If your child is feel throbbing pain in his feet after a day of exercise, you may try R.I.C.E.: Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. This will likely help to resolve any immediate pain for several hours or overnight. To practice R.I.C.E:Allow your child to rest their feet and legs by avoiding any physical or strenuous activity.
Apply an ice pack wrapped in a towel, or a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a towel, to their feet by tucking it under their heels. Keep the ice on for 20 minute intervals, and wait 10 minutes between each interval before placing the ice back on their feet.
Wrap a compression bandage, such as an ACE bandage, around both of your child’s feet to keep the swelling down. The bandage should be snug but should not cut off the blood circulation to your child’s feet.
Elevate your child’s feet by placing them on a pillow or several blankets. This will help to reduce any pain or swelling.
Use an over-the-counter pain medication if needed. Pediatricians commonly recommend ibuprofen for temporary pain relief.
 If you try home treatments and your child’s foot pain persists, make an appointment with your family doctor. A pediatrician or orthopedist can often treat foot pain. In some cases you may be referred to a foot and ankle surgeon or a podiatrist.A podiatrist will help to identify the cause of your child’s foot pain and is specially trained to treat the growth plates, bones, and soft issues in a developing child’s feet.
 If your doctor diagnoses your child with athlete's foot, she may write a prescription for an anti fungal cream or powder. Your child will need to treat his feet with the anti fungal product for about four weeks, and continue to treat his feet with the product one week after the skin condition appears to go away so the fungus is fully removed.You should also switch your child's socks to absorbent socks that wick away moisture from his feet. This will prevent the growth of new fungi that can cause athlete's foot. He should avoid wearing shoes made out of non breathable material like vinyl, as this can lead to excess moisture on his feet and the potential growth of fungi.