 Romance books range from sugary sweet and innocent to saucy and erotic, and not every reader will enjoy both degrees. Talk with your members to determine what level of heat everyone feels comfortable with. Alternatively, you can start by selecting the heat level you would be most interested in reading and aim to find members with the same tastes.
 Romance books generally fall under a specific sub-genre. If you want to keep things focused and simple, select one sub-genre and stick to books that fall into that category. Generally, when most people think of a straight-forward romance novel, they think of contemporary romance. These books take place after World War II and involved realistic characters and scenarios.
 To make things a little more interesting, mix up your sub-genres every now and then. You could start with a contemporary romance before switching to a historical romance. After that, you could branch into paranormal romance, romantic suspense, inspirational romance, or any other sub-genre.
 The goal of your club is to read romance books, but not every romance book is completely fictitious. Give your members a refreshing look at reality by occasionally selecting a book based on a true romance.
 Think of Jane Austen or the Brontë sisters. The books these authors wrote describe romances that have resonated with readers throughout the ages. Reading a classic here or there pays homage to these early pioneers of the romance genre.
 Plenty of romance books make the bestseller list. If all else fails, simply choose a romance book that everybody’s talking about. The outside interest in the book may spark even more interest inside your group.
 Your members may appreciate your willingness to take their opinions into consideration. You can either take turns choosing, or you can each offer up a suggestion and take a vote.
 Even though you should usually read the same book in order to facilitate more discussion, you can occasionally change things up by each selecting a cheap paperback romance of comparable lengths and compare notes. Compare the characters, setting, and plot points to determine what works best out of each book.

