 Popular recipes use Chinese noodles and carrots, bell pepper, and onion to make veg noodles, but these key ingredients can be changed.Almost any veggie can be used in this recipe.Pick a few of your favorite veggies to serve with the noodles.
Popular combinations include mushrooms, onion, and zucchini; carrot, red bell pepper, and potatoes; or even green bell pepper, green onions, and baby corns.
Only use 3-4 types of vegetables.
Whole wheat noodles are a healthy alternative to regular Chinese noodles.
Garlic and ginger are also commonly added to veg noodles, but depending on your preference, you may choose to avoid these strong flavors.
Some people also enjoy adding chili sauce or powder to veg noodles. This will make them spicy.;
, It’s easy to lose track of spices in the pantry, so before you go to the store, check for salt, pepper, coriander, and masala powder. These are the key to the flavor of veg noodles, and you most likely have a few of them already.


Make sure you also have soy sauce and cooking oil; if not, you will need to purchase these as well.
 This will help prevent multiple trips to the store. Include every item.


one package of Chinese noodles
1 medium carrot
1 small to medium green bell pepper
1 small white onion
2 garlic cloves
½ inch ginger
soy sauce
coriander
masala powder
oil (any kind)
salt and pepper
chili sauce or powder

, Most popular grocery chains have an ethnic food aisle, but some may not. This aisle will have the Chinese noodles you need along with the masala powder and coriander.
 Your package of noodles will say specifically how much water is required, but 4 quarts is average.Add a pinch of salt.Leaving the lid on the pot will make the water boil faster.
 Note that this time will vary, so check the box of noodles for instructions. In general, once the noodles are soft and pliable, they are done.


Keep an eye on the noodles. If the water begins to overflow, turn the heat down.
Stir the noodles occasionally if they are sticking together.
Remove the lid if the water is boiling very rapidly.
 Rinse them with cold water to avoid sticking, and set the noodles aside.
 Roots like carrots and potatoes will need to be scrubbed, while mushrooms will need to be rinsed thoroughly. Make sure every veggie is clean and free of dirt.
 This mostly applies to onions since they have layers of skin, but some people like to peel their carrots and potatoes as well.
 You don’t need to chop the veggies perfectly, but smaller pieces will cook faster.


Chop the garlic and ginger, too. Unlike the veggies, these ingredients must be chopped very finely. Eating big chunks of garlic and ginger can be off-putting.
Use a sharp knife. A dull knife makes chopping veggies more difficult.
Use a large cutting board.
 Once the oil starts to bubble, add the garlic and ginger. Let these cook for a minute or so before adding all the vegetables.


Stir often so the veggies are fried evenly.
After 5-7 minutes, taste the vegetables to make sure they are cooked. If not, keep frying them.
When they are done, turn the heat down to low.
 Move the noodles from the colander to the frying pan, then add 2 tablespoons of soy sauce. Stir the pan over low to medium heat for about 5 minutes.
 Add salt, pepper, coriander, masala powder, and any other spice you desire, like chili powder.


About 1 teaspoon of each spice is average, but you may like the dish more salty, spicy, or bland.
Stir the dish after every spice is added. This will help coat the veggies evenly.
Taste the dish frequently. Use a fork to try a tiny portion of the dish; when the spices taste good, you’re done cooking.
