 Acidophilus is a good bacteria that helps to break down food in your colon and protect against bad bacteria. Clinical studies have found that acidophilus suppresses the growth of pathogens such as bad bacteria, or substances that can cause disease, in the digestive tract. Acidophilus is a probiotic that can be used to manage gastrointestinal conditions, reduce antibiotic-induced diarrhea, aid digestion, and help with other conditions such as lung infections or skin issues. In addition to the small intestine, acidophilus naturally occurs in the vaginal area and may also be helpful in controlling bacterial infections and yeast infections. In addition to acidophilus, there are many other probiotics available, some in the Lactobacillus species.


However, Lactobacillus acidophilus is the most commonly used probiotic.Other studies are being done to see if probiotics are effective for lactose intolerance, helping the immune system, and other conditions.;
, There are very few side effects of acidophilus. The most common one is gas. Acidophilus is generally safe to use if used appropriately. Other side effects of taking acidophilus include diarrhea and nausea. These usually go away after the first few days as your body adjusts to the probiotics.Seek immediate medical attention if they last for more than a few days.
 Dosages of acidophilus can vary depending upon your condition. In addition, some supplements are made with more than 1 strain of lactobacillus that may not be compatible. She will be able to tell you what has been proven to be the most effective supplement for your condition. It is always good to talk to a healthcare professional before taking supplements.


Make sure you talk to your doctor before using probiotics if you have a weak immune system, are pregnant, breastfeeding, or have previous GI issues.
Inquire with your doctor for how best to take acidophilus if you or your children are suffering from ulcerative colitis, rotaviral diarrhea, necrotizing enterocolitis, colic, or lung infections.
Do not take acidophilus if you are taking Sulfasalazine for ulcerative colitis. Studies have shown there is an adverse reaction.