 Treat all people with respect, especially women. You if you do not treat women with respect, you will not be able to respect yourself.;
, You never say derogatory things about women, especially when a women is around. Women are not sex objects, nor is their worth as human beings dependent on sex appeal. Dehumanizing women is an easy way to make them avoid you.


Talk respectfully about other women in the presence of a lady (and when women aren't there).
Take aside a male friend who says rude things about women, and explain to him that his behavior isn't cool.
 Holding doors, helping with a coat, and offering to carry heavy things are all ways to be polite. Do this not because you think women are weaker, but because you want to make her feel special and valued.


A good rule of thumb: if you wouldn't do it for a male loved one, don't do it for a lady you love.
Do acts of kindness without expecting anything in return.
 Truly listening is an important skill that will allow you to respect and understand her better. Find out what she thinks and how she feels.
 Don't gripe about her weight, the size of her chest, the color of her skin, her disability, whether and when she menstruates, or the way she likes to dress. A woman's body is the way it is, and it isn't your place to judge it.



Compliment her looks if you feel like it. Try giving a compliment about her insecurities (beautiful freckles, incredible wide hips, cute autistic stimming) to help her love herself.
 Women may be told that they are too emotional, or that their feelings are invalid (e.g. they must be on their period). Treat a lady's feelings as natural and valid.
 Just as you value her emotions, give her the opportunity to show how much she cares about yours. Be honest about how you feel, and let yourself be vulnerable or cry if you need to. You are equals, and both of you should feel free to express emotion.
 Feminists focus on gender dynamics, and how men can be great allies to women. Try becoming a feminist ally and finding ways to reduce sexism in your life.
 Women are people and deserve the same respect as any other human beings.

