 People in healthy, happy families have good communication. This begins with being open, honest, and polite to one another. Talk about everything from how your day went to your future aspirations so that you can better get to know each other.If you don't like something that they do, make sure to tell them. The more that you communicate, the less you'll have to guess what is on their mind because they will freely tell you.


Start by saying "Hey how was your day?" when you see family members when you get home.
You can communicate disapproval by saying something like, "Jimmy, I know that you like to play games, but you need to limit it to three hours a day. It's cutting into your homework time and it's not good for you."
Don't be afraid to tell your parents the truth if you've done something wrong. If they find out, and you didn't tell them, the consequences may be worse.
 Hearing someone out and truly listening to someone's problems strengthens your relationship with someone. Unfortunately, many people have never learned how to listen truly to someone else. Active listening involves giving them time to talk, acknowledging their problems and emotions, and trying to offer meaningful feedback.Silence is sometimes the best way to get someone to admit their mistakes. People will typically work problems out verbally when explaining something.
Don't act judgemental when someone is admitting or confessing something to you. This will prevent them from being open and honest in the future., One of the best ways to avoid an argument is to disengage in whatever conversation is making you angry. Disengage in a non-confrontational way and tell them that you will talk to them later. This will give you the time to cool down, and time to think about the situation.Say something like "I need to cool down right now, but I do want to talk about this later. Do you mind if we talk about it in an hour?"
Make sure to revisit the point of conflict once you calm down. Do not totally avoid it or resentment could grow.
 As a child or teen, there are rules and regulations you should follow. Elders have more life experience and will likely know more about a situation than you. Speaking in a snide, sarcastic, dismissive, or angry tone is disrespectful, and many parents will get mad.Children and teens should learn from older people's mistakes and try to absorb as much information as they can.


Speaking in a negative way creates a negative environment which will hurt you in the long run.
 If you are teen or child, realize that much of what your older family members do is in your best interests even if it doesn't seem obvious at first. Their priority is to keep you safe, happy, and successful, and this may include forcing you to do things that you don't like to do. As an adult, remember to set guidelines for younger family members, but also try to relate with them. You don't have to be their best friends, but understand that they have a similar emotional range, even if different things trigger their emotions. Even if an issue may seem silly to you, fear, depression, anxiety, and anger are all emotions a younger family member could feel.