 Line two baking sheets with parchment paper, then set them aside for later.;
, Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the cocoa powder, baking powder, and the salt. Stir them together with a whisk, then set the bowl aside.
 Place a medium-sized saucepan with a heavy bottom on the stove. Add the chocolate and 2 tablespoons (30 grams) of butter. Turn the heat up to low, and let the two melt, stirring occasionally with a whisk. Once they melt, take the saucepan off the stove so that it can cool off a little.
 Place the rest of the butter into an electric mixer. Beat the butter by itself on medium to high speed for 30 seconds. Add the sugar and continue being, scrapping the bottom and sides of the bowl occasionally.


You can also use a handheld mixer or a food processor.
 Beat the mixture well after each egg you add, scrapping the bottom and sides of the bowl.
 Pour in the melted chocolate, then add the vanilla. Beat it into the butter until the color is consistent. Next, pour in the flour, and mix it in using a low speed setting. Keep mixing until the color and texture are consistent.
 Use a small scoop to drop small balls of dough onto the baking sheet. Each ball should contain about 2 teaspoons of dough. Space each ball 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) apart. This will give them room to spread.
 They are ready when the edges are firmed and the tops have cracks. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for about 5 minutes, then move them to a wire cooling rack with a spatula to finish cooling.
 Place the butter into a mixer. Add the powdered sugar, vanilla extract, and milk. Beat them together until the mixture is creamy.If you don't have a mixer, you can use a large mixing bowl and a handheld mixer, or you can use a food processor fitted with whisks.
 Take a cookie, and spread about 1 tablespoon of the frosting on the flat/back side. You can do this with a butter knife or cake decorating spatula. Place a another cookie, flat-side-down on top. Lightly press the two cookies to seal them together, but not so much that the frosting squishes out. Repeat this step for the rest of the cookies.The cookies must be completely cool before you add the frosting, or the frosting will melt.

