 If you are at a bus stop just wait for a bus with the name of the city, or the name of a city that is past the city you're headed to. Be sure to ask the bus driver's helper if that bus is going where you expect it to. They don't always. The second way to catch a bus is to simply stand on the side of the road and wave one down. If they aren't full they will stop and pick you up. If they are full they will keep going, don't give up, you'll eventually find one that will stop.;
, Every passenger who gets on will do this, it's expected. In Panama the correct greeting is "Buenas".  You will get a collective Buenas back from the passengers already seated on the bus.
 If you cannot find a seat go up front and the driver's helper will give you the jump seat in front of the entrance to the bus. Be prepared to get up and down as people enter and leave the bus. When more people leave then get on go find a seat in the back.
 His helper takes it later in the trip. Usually shortly before you arrive at your destination. And the amount it costs can vary. A trip from Coronado to Albrook in Panama City can cost anywhere from $2.00-$3.25, it all depends on the assistant. Don't argue about the cost if it's changed from the last time you rode, just pay. Arguing will not help when you're in Panama.
 Once you forget, they are gone forever.
 The ticket center is downstairs from the food court. Before you can get to the concourse you must by a metro-card. They are very inexpensive, a few dollars, but you must have one to get to a bus. The cost to pass is .10 cents. You can use one card for multiple people traveling together. Once you've purchased your metro card you need to purchase your actual ticket. Find the window with the name of the city you are traveling to. There will hopefully be a ticket agent there (there isn't always), and you can buy the ticket at the window.
 Do not match the number on your ticket to the ones by the buses, they do not match. Instead, follow the ticket agent, he is the bus driver's assistant for the trip. When you get on the bus say "Buenas" to everyone again and find a seat. Hold on to your ticket because it won't be collected until you are almost at your destination. And be sure to let the assistant know where you will be exiting so he can remind the bus driver, otherwise you will end up going on a longer trip then you planned initially. Don't be embarrassed if that happens, you are not the first one to do it, and you'll remember for your next bus ride.

