 There are a several variations of cabbage-soup based diets. Choose a diet program whose cabbage soup recipe looks most appealing to you.


Most typical cabbage soup diet recipes have a variety of vegetables, large quantities of cabbage, water or broth and tomato juice.Some recommend different seasonings or provide seasoning suggestions to help make the soup more flavorful or palatable.
Since most cabbage soup diets suggest eating large quantities of this soup, you may need to make several batches or one very large batch of soup.
 Depending on the particular cabbage soup diet you follow, you may choose to replace all or just some of your meals with your cabbage soup.


Some diets suggest that you only eat a mixture of fruits, vegetables and your soup for the first few days. Then meat and other foods are slowly added back in.Other diets suggest completing swapping out two to three meals with cabbage soup for the first few days and then adding back other foods slowly.
In addition, some of the diets suggest eating the cabbage soup prior to a small meal to help fill you up on the low calorie, vegetable-filled soup.
 If you're allowed to include some meals on your cabbage soup diet, choose lower calorie, nutritious meals to complement your diet.


Meals should range between 300 – 500 calories total. This will depend on what diet you're following and your total daily calorie allowance.
Be sure to include lean protein, fruits, vegetables and whole grains. These foods together will make up a balanced meal., In addition to being a healthy choice, many cabbage soup diets don't allow for any other beverages outside of sugar-free, decaffeinated liquids.Most health professionals will recommend that you drink between eight to 13 glasses of water daily.Stick to allowed beverages during your diet. These typically include: water, unsweetened decaf tea and coffee, 100% cranberry juice or 100% tomato juice., Some of the cabbage soup diets promote very low calorie and very low carbohydrate diets. This is especially true in the first few days. Some side effects or uncomfortable symptoms may occur because of this.Typical side effects include: headaches, dizziness, weakness and trouble concentrating.Generally, these symptoms will go away once you're eating more normally or add more foods back to your diet.
If you're symptoms worsen or are affecting your daily activities, see a doctor immediately and discontinue the diet.

