 You will need two different colors, one of the outside of the hat and one for the inside. Consider using cotton for one side and canvas or denim for the other.;
, You will need to cut one circle out of each fabric. This will be the top of the hat.You will be using ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowances. If you have a very small head, you might want to cut a smaller circle. If you have a bigger head, you'll need to cut a bigger circle.
 You will need two 12 by 3-inch (30.48 by 7.62-centimeter) rectangles for each fabric. You should have four rectangles total.If you want a taller hat, make the rectangles 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) wide instead.
If you cut a bigger/smaller circle, then cut each rectangle so that it measures half of the circumference.
 You will need four identical pieces total, two from each fabric. The pieces need to be 3½ inches (8.89 centimeters) wide. They need to be 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) long along the inner curve and 18 inches (45.72 centimeters) long around the outer curve.If you want a wider brim, cut the arches 4½ inches (11.43 centimeters) wide instead.
If you cut a bigger/smaller circle, match the inner curve of the brim to the length of your adjusted rectangle.
 If your fabric is thin, you might want to add interfacing. Cut the interfacing ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) smaller than your pieces, then iron them to the wrong side of the fabric. You only need to do this for the inner or the outer fabric pieces, not both. , Pin the two outer rectangles together, right sides touching. Sew up both of the narrow ends using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Repeat this step for the two inner fabric pieces.
 Pin the two outer brim pieces together, right sides facing in. Sew along just the narrow, straight ends. Use a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Repeat this step for the two inner fabric pieces.
 Place one of the body pieces on the ironing board with the seam facing you. Use your iron to spread apart the seam. Press the seam open and flat. Repeat this step for all of the seams on all of the body and brim pieces.
 Pin the top edge of the outer body piece to the outer edge of the matching circle. Make sure that the wrong sides are facing out. Sew around the edge using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Repeat this step for the two inner fabric pieces.
 Pin the inner edge of the matching brim all around the bottom edge of the body piece. Make sue that the wrong sides are facing out, then sew using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Repeat this step for the two inner fabric pieces.
 Turn one hat right side out; leave the other one as it is. Tuck the first hat into the second one so that the right sides are pressed together and the wrong sides are facing out., Sew using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Leave a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) wide gap for turning.Remove the pins as you sew.
 Cut a notch every ¾ inch (1.91 centimeter) to the seam around the top of the hat. Cut a notch every inch (2.54 centimeters) to the seam around the outer edge of the brim. The notches need to be just under ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) so that they don't cut into the stitching.You don't need to cut notches into the seam between the body and brim pieces.
 Shape the hat so that one piece is tucked into the other. If you need to, use a skewer or knitting needle to help push out the seams along the brim.
 Tuck the edges of the gap in by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) so that they match up with the rest of the brim. Press the brim flat with an iron when you are done., Sew ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) away from the outer edge of the brim., You don't have to do this, but it will make your hat look more professional. Simply topstitching around the brim for 4 to 5 more rows. Leave a ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) gap between each row., Again, if you don't have to do this, but it'll give you hair a nice touch. Topstitch around the top edge of the body part, ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) away from the seam. Next, topstitch around the bottom edge of the body part, also ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) away from the seam.