 Try to avoid mulling over your mistakes or failures. It is important to be kind and compassionate to yourself. Although you may feel bad about how things have turned out in some area of your life, it is necessary to learn from them and move on with future projects and goals.If you find yourself ruminating on all of the mistakes you made in a failed romantic relationship, you may want to stop chewing over or repeating these mistakes in your mind. Repeating negative thoughts about yourself or a relationship can be a way to get stuck. If you find you are not getting any new insights into why the relationship failed or about yourself, you may be better off shifting your attention to your current life circumstances and future plans., Think about your life in the future such as two, five or ten years. Imagine your future life and the things you hope to have achieved in your work and relationships. From the perspective of your future self, consider whether the event or experience you are currently struggling with will still matter. Perhaps you are being too hard on yourself.For example, perhaps you missed an important meeting and lost a client to another company. Perhaps you will be able to find new clients in the coming year or two and this event will only look like a minor setback in a few years.
 It may help to talk to a friend about the things you are struggling with or being hard on yourself for. If you find it difficult to gain perspective on things, they may be able to help. You can lighten the burden by sharing your difficulties. Your friendship may even bring some laughter into your life, which also helps to lighten the load.You could invite a friend for a coffee or drink. Tell them about your struggles and see if they can offer a different perspective. Perhaps they will be able to see the situation in a different light.
You could go see some standup comedy or a film with a friend. Before or after the event, you could open up to your friend about your current situation. See if they can offer some perspective.

