 A strong volleyball club starts with a strong coaching staff. Your volleyball club's staff could include a head coach, trainers, strength and conditioning coaches, managers, directors, IT personnel, and marketing and communication employees. Put out ads to fill the different positions and make sure to get experience and recommendations before making your choices.If you are trying to start a recreational or smaller club, you won't need as much staff.
 Volunteers make the core of many volleyball clubs. Volunteers can help coach the team, referee, assist with administrative tasks or can tutor students.Talk to local schools and see if they have any students that would be interested in volunteering. Use your social media presence to ask for volunteers and post flyers at school campuses to advertise your volunteer positions., If you want your club to be officially recognized you'll have to register it with your National Governing Body or NGB. Being affiliated with a NGB will also give you access to professional referees, insurance, access to leagues, and access to funding sources. Search online to see what the NGB is in your country, and follow the steps for registration.In England the NGB is called Sports England.The NGB in America is USA Volleyball., Each team within your club should have a minimum of 8 players and a maximum of 15 players. Advertise tryouts for one of your teams through posting flyers and word of mouth. Refer to your league manual for the guidelines you must follow for tryouts. Slim down the potential candidates and build your first team in the club., Once your staff, players, and volunteers are in place, you can start holding practices and competing with your new team. Make sure that you have coaches who are experienced and can build a comprehensive training regimen.
 Once you've gotten enough practice to compete, it's time to register for leagues. If you are playing amateur children's volleyball, there is likely a local or state league that you can join. Once your team is proficient, you can start to consider joining national or international leagues.Leagues in the U.S. include the USA Volleyball Junior National Championships, the USA Premier Volleyball League, and the USA Volleyball Adult Nationals.

