 Whatever food you find, be sure to prepare them before storage or use. Some handy things to bear in mind include:


If the food is wet, allow it to dry before storing or it will risk rotting.
Wash dirt and debris off food before cooking or eating and remove any parts that are unsuitable for consumption or blemished. Allow for drying of any washed foods before storage.
You may need to remove outer shells, husks or other layers of protection prior to storage or use but what you remove is dependent on the food found.
Some foods will perish quickly, such as berries, so they need to be either eaten fresh or quickly turned into jams, preserves or sauces for longer term storage.;
, Mushrooms are a typical find in the fall season. Chanterelles (also known as "forest gold") are found in a number of forest locations but their whereabouts is often a carefully guarded local secret!Other mushrooms usually around in the fall include giant puffballs, ceps, oyster mushrooms, hedgehog fungus, field blewits and horse or Portobello mushrooms (these latter have many poisonous look-alikes, so be careful).Mushrooms can be eaten simply raw in salads, cooked in butter or made into soup, pate, risotto, vegetarian burgers and more.


See How to pick mushrooms for more details on collecting mushrooms and How to cook with mushrooms for more ideas on what to do with them.
 Apples are ready for picking during the fall season and there are plenty of varieties. Finding apple trees for foraging depends on where you live but there are plenty of apple growers who are happy to open their orchards for self-picking for a small fee, so you can still take advantage of gathering your own under those constraints if you can't find wild-growing trees.
Once collected, there is an abundance of things you can do with the apple in your cooking, including making apple pies, apple crumble, applesauce and even making cider from them.


See How to use apples for more ideas.
 These ripen for autumn harvesting and are often found growing in the wild. Crab apples make delicious crab apple jelly or chutney, while persimmons are delicious eaten when ripe. Plums can be eaten as they are or turned into puddings, cakes, jam, chutney and even wine.


Crab apples: How to make crab apple jelly.
Plums: How to cook plums, plum chutney, How to make an eggless plum cake, How to bake a plum cake, plum jam and How to store plums.
Persimmons: How to eat a persimmon.
 There are various berries ready for picking in the fall. Depending on where you live, these include blackberries, wild cherries, lingonberries berries, elderberries, sloe berries, mulberries and sea buckthorn.
Wild cherries are smaller than their domesticated counterparts but avoid the very bitter ones as these can contain trace amounts of cyanide.Berries can be turned into pies and tarts, jams, jellies, sauces, chutneys, smoothies, puddings, desserts and baked into cakes and cookies.
And don't forget to add them homemade ice cream!


See How to forage for blackberries for more information on getting them in the wild. Some recipes include How to make a blackberry pie and How to make a blackberry cobbler.
Sloe berries can be used to make sloe gin.
Be aware that the leaves and stems of elderberries are toxic and some people also suffer adverse reactions to eating the raw berries.Wear gloves when picking and cook the berries if in doubt.
 Many nuts and seeds ripen in the fall and provided you get to them before the squirrels and other local wildlife does, you can stock up your larder with some delicious finds. Just be sure to take only what you need and leave plenty for the animals who rely on these energy-packed sources of food.
You can always rely on "foraging" by picking-your-own at a nut grower's farm.



Walnuts and pecans: These nuts can be hard to find in the wild, depending on where you are but they can be found more often in parks and gardens. For more ideas, see:


How to make pickled walnuts, How to cook black walnut meat, How to make walnut paste and How to keep walnuts.

How to shell pecans, How to toast pecans, How to make pecan crusted blackened catfish and How to make pecan pie.



Hazelnuts: These are usually found August to October, on hazel trees. They can be harvested from the ground but only if the squirrels haven't beaten you to it. They're best enjoyed fresh, added to granola (muesli) or baked into cookies or muffins.
Hazelnuts can also be ground into a flour for use in baking breads, cakes and nut roasts and roasted for eating as they are.
Acorns and sweet chestnuts: Just be sure to collect the right ones as some acorns are dreadfully bitter and only sweet chestnuts are edible, not any other type of chestnut. Acorns are best turned into flour (see How to make acorn flour).
Pine nuts: in some places you may be able to get the edible pine nuts but be aware that birds and wildlife also enjoy these treats and may have removed them before you! A tree net can reserve you a choice tree or two, though! See How to roast pine nuts and How to shell pine nuts for more information.
 Wild herbs and greens are a good source of leaves, seeds and remedies for the expert forager. Many are found all year round, while some are better in autumn or only available then.
Again, it's important to know what you're picking but provided you're certain, there are lots of possible options growing in the wild, including:


Dandelions: these can be collected for their leaves for salads and tea and their roots for roasting and turning into dandelion coffee. The roots are best in autumn while the leaves are best in spring but they are available all year round.See the following for recipes: dandelion wine, dandelion greens, dandelion coffee and dandelion tea.


Dill and fennel: Collect the seeds for use in cooking through the winter and the leaves and bulbs can be eaten too. You can also try making dill bread, dill pickles, roasted fennel and fennel and nashi pear salad.

Burdock, chickweed, purslane are some of the other plants you'll find growing in the wild that can be used in salads, dips, sandwich fillings and cooked dishes.
 Rose petals and rose hips are ready for picking in fall and if you have rose bushes in your own garden, you won't have far to look for them.
For rose hips, they are best collected after the first frost, while rose petals can be collected at any time before they fall.


How to use rose hips in cookery

How to make rose petal jam, rose tea, rose butter.
For rose petals that have already fallen to the ground, gather them for making potpourri, rose scented balls or beads and other rose crafts.
 If you're a hunter, various places have hunting seasons open during fall. This can be a good means to stock your freezer with fresh game meat that will keep you going through the winter.



How to hunt and cook a rabbit, How to eat wild rabbit and How to field dress a rabbit


How to go deer hunting, How to dress a deer and How to fry deer steak

How to hunt

How to eat roadkill.

