



Viruses and infections. If we have a cold, our body will automatically raise its temperature to kill all viruses and bacteria.

Too much exercise. If we exercise too much, our body temperature will raise and we will start sweating a lot.Sweating is a body’s natural way of cooling down.

Taking certain medication. Our body temperature can rise as a side-affect of some medication we are currently using. There are many drugs that cause elevated body temperature.

Illness. Certain diseases can be responsible for high body temperature.

Improper cooling. Our body temperature can rise if we do not wear appropriate clothing or if we stand in the sun too much.

Dehydration. If we do not drink enough water, our body will eventually become dehydrated so you won’t be able to sweat. If you can’t sweat, your body will not be able to cool itself down and your body heat will increase.;
,



Excessive sweating. We sweat because our body is trying to cool itself down that way. If we sweat a lot, that means that our body temperature is higher than normal. This is most common during or after exercise.

Cramps. Cramps are a result of body being dehydrated. When the body can’t produce any more sweat to cool down, you start to get dehydrated. One of the most common symptoms of dehydration are cramps.

Headache. Headache is another symptom or dehydration. This is why when you have a fever, you can also experience mild to severe headaches.

Weakness. When your temperature becomes higher than usual, you could have pain in your muscles and joint and you could feel weakness in your body.
 Drinking water is the best solution for high body temperature. Water will enable your body to produce more sweat which will eventually cool you down. Remember that fruits and vegetables also contain water so they are a healthy way of reducing body heat.
, Alcohol and coffee both cause dehydration which can be the cause of high body temperature.
 Too much sodium can cause elevated body temperature.
 You must use herbal teas with caution because they can have certain side-effects.
 This is a quick way of reducing body heat.

