 If you want to dress like a traditional assassin, you should cut the sleeves off of a white hooded sweatshirt. The "hoodie" will be worn over a button-down shirt to create the Assassin's Creed hood and tunic.


You can also decorate the hoodie using brass studs, patches, or any bits of "assassin" flare that you may have around the house.;
, Put the shirt on as you normally would, but do not button it all the way to the top. Instead, leave the top two or three buttons undone.
 Fold the bandana or handkerchief in half diagonally and wrap it loosely around your neck. When the bandana or handkerchief is tied, you want it to drape over your throat.


Red and white are the colors that are typically associated with the "Assassin's Order," but that is not a rule.Feel free to use any color scheme that you like.
 The bandana or handkerchief should be tucked in so that it covers the area of the chest that has been left exposed by the shirt.
 Do not zip it all the way up, however. Instead, leave it partially open to expose the bandana and the collar of the button-down shirt that you are wearing underneath.
 Although this is not absolutely necessary, it will add to the overall aesthetic of your assassin costume. Wrap the sash around your body so that the loose ends come to drape freely to one side your body.


If you do not have a sash, you can use a bright colored t-shirt. Since you will not be able to wrap it around your waist, simply fold the t-shirt in half and tuck the the sleeve-end into one of your belts so that it drapes freely to one side of your body., Don't thread the belts through any belt loops. Instead, wrap the belts around the base of the hoodie and over the sash so that they are fully exposed. The more belts the better.


Assassin's are known for carrying an array of weapons and tools on them at all times.This, of course, required them to craft their own holsters, pouches, and pockets.
A small-sized hip or "fanny" pack would make the perfect accessory pouch for an assassin.

