 Most of us probably do this anyway, but make sure that your phone is within reach. You never know when you may need to use it for your escape. Always keep it in the same place, so you know exactly where to find it. That could be a particular pocket in your pants or your bag.
 Since your phone is not making any noise, you will want to take the time to pretend you notice it buzz or light up. Take a second to look at the screen as you would normally to see who is calling and decide whether to answer.
 Now that you have your phone in your hand, you will want to silence the ringer and alerts. If your phone rings or sends alerts while you are pretending to talk on it, your cover will be blown. It is helpful if you already have your phone set up with no vibration in silent mode. This can be done in your volume settings.


iPhone has a silencing switch on the top left corner about the volume controls. You will see a small amount of red underneath the button to confirm that it is in silent.Android requires a series of steps from the settings screen to get to “total silence” mode. Swipe from the top of the screen using two fingers, then swipe down again to get to Quick Settings>Do Not Disturb>Total Silence.If you anticipate you may be faking a phone call to make an escape, you may want to set your phone to total silence in advance.
 Answer the phone as you normally would had you seen the name of the caller on caller ID. Picture in your head who it is you are talking to and it will help you find a tone of familiarity. Greet them as you normally would, whether that is a simple, “Hey!” or calling her by name, “Hey Morgan! What’s up?”

, The easiest way to do this is by doing very little. Avoid the urge to fill in the silence by talking too much. You don’t have to create a full dialogue here. Remember, a large part of talking on the phone actually involves no talking. Listen, and feel free to follow it up with quick reactions which also make the call seem important. Sound invested in the call.


Faking a call to get out of a socially awkward situation could be as simple as :

”Really?”
”Oh, no!”


If you are faking a call because you feel you are being followed or are in danger, say things which imply that the caller is in range to help you.

”Oh, I see you!”
”You’re so close!”
”Yeah! I’m almost there.”



, Match your body language to the conversation. If you are pretending that something the caller is saying seems surprising, make sure that is reflected in your face by raising your eyebrows. Acknowledge the person you are trying to avoid with a quick nod or hand gesture to suggest an apology and that you need a minute.
 Pretend to hang up your phone as you normally would. Make an apology to the other person and let them know that you have to leave. Don’t worry about making excuses regarding why you have to go, and don’t take too much time talking about it. It is urgent and you really need to leave, so leave.

