 A legal separation gives you the time away from your spouse that you may need to work out problems. It is different than a divorce because you remain married. The benefit of a separation is it gives you a legal way to work out custody and child support while you are living apart, as well as how your property should be divided up. Nonetheless, if you work out your problems, you can go back to a normal marriage., While getting a divorce is a life upheaval, staying in an unhealthy marriage can be detrimental to self-esteem and mental health. Some studies have shown it's better to get out of a caustic relationship and work to improve your own mental health than to stay.Understand an unhappy marriage can lead to depression. One study, which involved data from 5,000 adults, showed that the quality of your most important relationship is a good predictor of developing depression. Meaning, if one of your closest relationships, including your spousal one, is in bad repair, it puts you at risk for developing depression., You may find that you have a good reason for getting a divorce. If you are unhappy in your marriage, you will likely find that you are a happier person once you get out.You might consider a divorce if your spouse had an affair. While some couples overcome infidelity, others never recover from it. If you find that you can't forgive your spouse for what he or she did even after months or years, you may want to consider a divorce.You've grown in different ways. Sometimes, when you grow into full-fledged adults together, you take different directions. If you find you and your spouse can't agree on much of anything anymore because you are just too different, it may be best to divorce.Your partner is bad at finances and won't change. Of course, everyone makes bad money choices sometimes. However, if your partner is so bad that it is causing stress on your marriage or is bankrupting your family, you may need to get out of the marriage, especially if you've expressed concern but your spouse is unwilling to change.Think about the kids. Many unhappily married couples stay together for the kids. Divorce is hard on kids, but it's also true that being unhappily married can be hard on your kids, as well. Your kids know you're unhappy, and if you're constantly fighting, you're putting stress on them, anyway.