 It can be romance, adventure, action, comedy or a mix of everything.;
,, This cannot be stressed enough.
 If you don't have an objective, then your story will probably be spiraling into all different directions, and your readers will be completely lost.
 For example, if you summed up a story titled 'Death Note', it would probably be something like, 'A cursed notebook causes a young man, who is being chased by a private detective, to kill criminals of the world.' If you can do this, writing the story will be a breeze.
 If your setting is make-believe, then make sure you think of some history that happened there and some areas around it. If it's a real place like Japan, wiki it and see your results. Use some of that information in your manga.
 Make a protagonist and an antagonist, and state their likes and dislikes, fears, and especially their history. Remember, all characters should be 3-D, not 2-D. What this means is that make the character do things unpredictable. Maybe they have an oddity about them? For example, maybe they're clumsy or have a really bad temper or obsessed with their hair? It's completely up to you. Remember, your characters basically make the whole story. Every story has at least one main character and one person or thing who opposes them, as well as a supporting cast. Give everyone different appearances so that you can distinguish them at a glance. This can be especially useful if you're not that good at drawing. Making characters really challenges your creative side, but can be really fun!

, If you're not that good at drawing, then try to find someone who is. You could write the story, and the other person could draw it out. Many mangas have been written like this, including Death Note. But, your story has to be really good if you want a really good artist. And, also, make sure you do not to suddenly change the plot line or else your artist might get stressed out from all the drawing and re-drawing he/she has to do. And you probably don't want that, right?

, Many people use mangas as a How to Draw manga. Its always good to get into a manga, or into the thought about a manga, before you work. Just don't copy. That would be plagiarism.

