 When deciding on what to write about think, "What do you know? vs. What do you want to know?" Call to Write suggests that you write out a list of about 10 topics (people, places, or organizations) and rate what is interesting and what is not. Some possible topics include, but are not limited to, local celebrities, non-profit organizations, and even every day people.;
, At this point you want to choose your subject and do a little research to find out what you do not know. Another part of this step is determining feasibility. Writing about a subject that will be difficult creates an environment that hinders the fun of learning for both yourself and the readers.
 In this step you want to reach out to the subject you have selected to write about outlining your project, intent, and what you want from them. It is important to be very professional. Be very appreciative and make their experience with you a breeze. Call to Write reminds its readers to be prepared for the rare "no" answer. Thank the person for their time and move on the your second choice from your list in step one.
 Once you have locked down a subject you need to agree on a time and place to meet. Ask your subject what time works best for them so that you can accommodate their schedule. Important Tip: When scheduling an interview make sure to have it be in a public setting. I.e. - a cafe, a park, etc. While your subject is most likely trustworthy, they are not someone you know well and your safety as a young writer is a priority. Also, if meeting in person is difficult for your subject video calling is a great alternative.
 Now that your interview is scheduled, you need to write the questions you will ask. Call to Write states that a writer must remember their purpose and ask questions to get the information needed for a relevant, useful profile. The questions you ask leave an impression on your subject and should be to the point and not miscellaneous.
 When it comes time for your interview, dress presentably and show up early to get a feel for your location and not waste any time. Ask your questions, engage in the answers and get the information you want to write an amazing profile. Recording the interview, if okay with the subject, is advised as to not misquote anyone or anything.
 Though only a recommended step, some research after the interview can clear up discrepancies. It is likely you will need to look into some answers your subject gave in order to fully understand the information you have obtained. You are done with this step when you have completely comprehended everything you know about your subject.
 This step is very straight forward. By this point you have all your information so it is time to put fingers to keyboard. Make sure to have read examples acclaimed profiles to have an understanding of the genre. Genre-awareness is essential.
 Though peer review is the best way to spot errors in work, reading the profile aloud to yourself should help you work towards the final draft. If it sounds wrong or seems like it is missing anything then it probably is. Remember to make your points clear and give distinct insight and detail.
 You did it. With Call to Write as your Bible, you have successfully written a profile. Publish and share your work - be proud of your writing.

