 The hand ranking system is the same as in the casino game. If you know ordinary poker hand rankings, the only difference is that a straight is worth more than a flush. Here are the full rankings from highest to lowest:


3 of a Kind. All 3 cards have the same point value or the same face printed on the card.
Straight Flush. The 3 cards are in sequential point value and of the same suit.
Flush. The 3 cards are all of the same suit.
Straight. The 3 cards are in sequential point value.
Pair. Any 2 of the 3 cards have the same face point value.
High Card. The 3 cards do not match any of the groupings above. The highest value card is the value of the hand.
 Decide whether the Ace will only be used as the highest card in the deck, or whether it may be alternately be used as a 1 when forming a straight.


In order to play with any other additional "house rules", every player must agree to them before the game begins.
 You can decide who deals first randomly or through mutual agreement.


Deal these cards face down and clockwise, starting with the player to the dealer's left.
Players may look only at their own card.
 Play moves clockwise from that player. Before the first bet has been made, each player has three options:



Open the betting. The player places any amount of money (or other wagered items) in the center of the table (in the pot).

Check. The player does not bet at this time but is still in this round.

Fold. The player withdraws from the current round. She takes no more actions until the next hand is dealt.
Note: If every player checks, skip straight to dealing the next card.
You may wish to agree on a minimum or maximum bet.
 The players now have three options:



Call. The player matches the amount of the previously made bet, placing that amount in the pot.

Raise. The player matches the amount of a previously announced bet, and adds an additional amount of money to it (their choice).

Fold. As before, the player withdraws from this round.
 Deal the cards face down to each player, starting with the player to the dealer's left.


Each player should add the new card to their (now 2-card) hand and keep them secret from other players.
 Repeat the wagering process until all of the remaining players have called or checked.
 This final card is added to each player's hand.
 Each remaining player has the option to Call, Raise, or Fold until a full circuit of the table has Called.


If all but one player decides to Fold, the remaining player wins the pot.
 Players lay their cards face up on the table. The winner is determined by the hand ranking. (See hand rankings listed earlier).
 The player with the highest hand is be the winner. If two players have the same type of hand, whoever has the highest ranked card wins.


The one exception comes up when comparing two hands of pairs. In this case the highest pair wins, not the highest cards. (For example, a 4-4-6 beats 2-2-10).
 The player to the previous dealer's left shuffles together all the cards and begins the next round.
 A player may walk away at any time or the players may mutually decide to stop. There is no required number of hands that must be played.

