 For example, if your team is brainstorming about how to sell a certain product, provide each team member with a copy of the product and then ask them to “go find” other items that convey or describe the product.

Break your team into pairs of two or play the game with individual players.
Provide either the actual product, prototype/model or a photo/description of the product. For example, if you're trying to sell cars, you probably won’t be able to give each team member a vehicle during the exercise.
Allow team members a certain amount of time to find items and parameters of where to look. You may want to limit the search to the office or within office property. Also, since this game could go on for hours on end, keep track of time and allot each team up to an hour, for example to search.
Suggest that for each descriptive item found, the teammate must write a short statement or draw a visual depiction as to why that item best describes or promotes the product. For instance, if you're brainstorming about how to make dog food seem healthier, you could gather some of the wholesome ingredients and write about or visually depict how real food, not byproducts are in this dog food.
Ask each teammate or team to create a display making use of his or her items. Give teams creative freedom as to how they’d like to display items, such as using display boards, tables and any other fun tools. Another approach is a visual demonstration using mime, imagery, improvisation or skits (a little "talking" could be permitted but only if it is like a play, not like a meeting discussion––improvisation can force participants to use rhyme, singing and gestures rather than the usual talk).
Request that everyone walks through the room to see what other team members have found. Suggest that individuals take notes surrounding each display which they can use later to come together as a unit to discuss. Doing so could take the brainstorming session to a new creative level. For the visual demonstration, simply have observers make notes as and when they like while watching, for later discussion.;
, Sometimes the best ideas can be derived from a film. Consider having an inspirational movie night or week (depending on your team size and amount of time) to pull brainstorming ideas from beloved films.


Ask each person to suggest one or two films that they feel best describes the topic at hand. Films should be easily accessible on DVD and can be viewed at work or at a team member’s home. Make a few rules before viewing movies, such as film ratings and length so that no one brings in a lengthy, inappropriate film.
Over the course of an evening, few days/afternoons or a week, host movie watching event. Request that the person who suggested the film(s) write a quick synopsis of why this film was chosen for the brainstorming project.
Provide each participant with a sheet of paper and a pen to write about why they believe the film inspired or did not inspire them as they're watching the movie.
Request that each participant provide two to three ideas derived by watching the film on how to sell or promote the topic.
Collect and maintain a file of the ideas and participant’s thoughts. When the team has watched all of the films, have the group review the entire file and begin a collaborative idea writing session based on the thoughts produced by watching the films.
 The idea is to write a collaborative story based on a particular topic with the goal of reaching a new creative height. Each participant is given directional goals and writing parameters prior to the writing session.

The team leader begins the story by writing the initial sentence. This sentence will set the tone for the story, however as the story travels from participant to participant, it is expected to morph and develop. The initial sentence could begin something like: “Once upon a time there was a lonely bottle of mustard who was lost on a shelf in the grocery store” (in the event selling mustard was your charge).
Without speaking, the team leader will slide the story to the next participant who must write a specific number of sentences that build upon the initial statement. Be sure you designate how many sentences each participant should write.
The last person to contribute to the story arrives at a conclusion and passes the story to the team leader.
Without showing anyone, the team leader makes enough copies of the story for each participant and distributes the completed story to each participant.
The participants should read the story in its entirely and then arrive at a statement that describes the story.
The team leader collects all of the statements and then the group reviews the statements in order to arrive at a creative slant or way to promote or sell the item.
 This brainstorming session may not specifically lead to answers on how to sell a particular item, but may serve as an icebreaker for a hard core brainstorming session to follow.

Gather several household/random items such as a hat, spoon, mixing bowl, dust buster etc. Provide several envelopes, pieces of paper and pens for each participant.
Set the items up on individual tables within a room. Allow for enough space between items and possibly try to match the same number of items you have as participants (for example, if you have 10 people in the brainstorming session, find 10 household/random items).
Ask each participant to stand in front of one item with a piece of paper and a pen. Request that the participant study the item for a few minutes, taking in its features.
Ask each participant or team to write down five adjectives that describe the item. Suggest that instead of thinking deeply about which adjectives would work best, to just write down words that quickly come to mind.
Give participants a certain amount of time to write down their words and then ask everyone to move to a new item until everyone has describe each item in the room.
Request that each participant or team place their piece(s) of paper in the envelope and place the envelope either in a hat or on the table. Mix up the envelopes.
Invite a participant to randomly select one envelope. The group should study the word list and then have to find the item in the room that is being described.
 Hand out art smocks and easels with paper and paints/markers to each participant. Tell them to paint several images that come to mind when particular objects, words or anything else is shown to them.


Tell each participant that artistic ability is not being judged. They are free to paint, draw, squiggle, doodle, etc., however they like, whatever comes to mind. In fact, they're not to delay, as it's their initial ideas that count most.
At the end, pass the images around the group to gauge other people's thoughts and to see what new inspiration arises as a result of the images team members have drawn or painted.

