 The classic way to surprise your loved one on his or her birthday is to throw a surprise party. You can even share the responsibility. Have one friend bake a nice cake, one friend, or all your friends, make a card, and one friend make decorations.


Make sure to consider what your loved one likes. Decorate the party in a theme that reflects his interests. Make sure the cake is his favorite flavor. If he has a favorite drink and snack, make sure the party has that.
 Make a day of fun for your loved one. Think about what he loves to do, where he loves to eat, and where he loves to go. Make a schedule and give it to him so he sees what you have planned. Or keep each new stop a surprise and make them wait in anticipation as you move from one place to the next.Take him to his favorite diner for breakfast pancakes, pack a picnic lunch to eat at his favorite park, and take him to eat at his favorite sushi place for dinner.
Spend the morning taking a hike, the afternoon playing miniature golf or paintball, and the night watching a double feature at the drive in. Let your imagination run wild as you fill the day with things he will love.
If his actual birthday is a bad day to do this, make it the weekend before or after. You can also make it a week or weekend of fun instead of just a day!
Make it a 12 days of birthday celebration. For the 12 days leading up to the birthday, give him a note, a card, a letter, his favorite candy bar, or even an activity. Spread out the fun instead of putting it in one day., Surprise your loved one with a themed box filled with everything for a perfect night. Or if you are away from someone, use it as a themed birthday care package filled with things you'd give them in person, along with inside jokes. This can be tailored to anyone. Try a romantic themed one for your significant other, a game themed one for your best friend, or a princess themed one for your daughter.


Try a movie night box filled with popcorn, movie theater size candy, a soft drink, a blanket, and your favorite movie.
For a romantic box, try massage oil, bath robes, scented candles, bubble bath, body scrub, massage oil, body lotion, love notes, and chocolates.For a birthday themed box, place birthday cake Oreos, cotton candy, and cupcakes. Decorate the flaps on the box with birthday messages and stickers.
 Set up a picnic at a park, at the end of a hike, or in a field. Decorate the area with balloons or Chinese lanterns, but since you're outside, you can keep the decorations minimal. Spread a blanket, and pack a basket full of all her favorite foods.


To surprise your friend, suggest going on a hike, for a walk, or just for a ride. Take her to the same place you have the picnic set up, and keep it a surprise until you just happen upon the blanket, basket, and balloons., Maybe your loved one has always wanted to go to Disneyland, on a movie tour, or to the beach. Arrange it so he can miss work or it falls on a weekend. Pick him up early in the morning and surprise him with where you end up.


If you both have the time, make a weekend out of it. You can plan a weekend trip with the person but keep the destination secret. You might also pretend you are going one place but then surprise him with the real destination., Instead of a surprise party, take your special someone out to dinner and have friends and family be waiting on her. Or have the friends and family show up for dinner at your house. This is a simple, yet nice surprise for the birthday girl.


You can have the guests bring gifts, treats, or birthday wishes with them.You also can host the dinner as a potluck, with each guest bringing a dish they prepared for the birthday girl.
 Surprise the person you love with a limo to chauffeur him around all day. Have it pick him up for work, then from work. Make him feel special by letting him ride around in style all day long.


When the limo picks him up from work, have it filled with friends and family, ready to go to dinner or a fun activity.