 Tap the Pet Manager app icon in your home screen to begin. Alternatively, you can launch the app from the app drawer with a tap as well.;
, In the main screen, you will see four buttons that you can tap. Tap the pets button, which has the paw print icon, to see your pet roster.
 If you have not tried this app before and have not entered any pet information, the list will be empty. Add a pet by tapping the plus icon in the upper right corner to bring up the pet registration menu.
 The Edit Pet menu will appear. The first line is for the pet’s name, so tap on it to key in its name.
 The second line is a text box with an inverted triangle at the right that, when tapped, will show you a list of species (like Dog, Cat, Rabbit, and even Horse) to choose from. When you find the species of your pet, simply tap to register it. Enter the breed of your pet in the third line, right below the pet species drop-down menu.


If the species is not listed under the drop-down menu, you can tap the text field to the left of the inverted triangle and key in the species of your pet.
 Tap the inverted triangle right below the text field for your pet’s breed to choose the gender. Select a gender by tapping on it in the drop-down menu.


Enter the pet’s birthday in the line right below the gender drop-down menu. You can scroll up and down the month-day-year selection to enter the date.
You can set birthday reminders by tapping on the box beside “Set Birthday Reminder” below the birthday line.
 Tap the “Change Photo” button below the birthday line to select a photo to use for the pet. You will be brought to your Gallery app, where you can browse through your photos and tap on the picture you want to use for the pet.
 Finish your pet registration by entering the color of the pet’s features under the “Change Photo” button, and adding his Vet, Breeder, and other miscellaneous contacts in the fields below.
 Do this by tapping the “Save Pet Details” button at the bottom of the screen.


You can add multiple pets by tapping the plus button at the upper right corner of the My Pets menu again right after you saved the first pet’s details. There are no limits to how many pets you can have.
 You will be brought to the pet roster, where you can choose the pet whose photos you want to add.
 Scroll through the roster if you registered several pets to find the one you want to add photos of. Tap on a pet to select it.
 The gallery app will launch, where you can choose photos of your pet to use. Tap on a photo to add it, and then add a caption at the bottom of the photo in Pet Manager.
 On the main app screen, tap the lightbulb (reminders) icon beside the paw print button for My Pets. You should then be brought to the My Reminders screen. Here you will see the closest reminders for your pets, and should be empty thus far.
 Tap the plus icon in the My Reminders screen to add a reminder. You will then see some fields that will help you register a reminder for your pet. Tap the Reminder category drop-down box in the first line and select a reminder category in the list, such as social, vet appointment, and grooming. Tap the drop-down menu in the second line to choose the pet, and then enter the date in the third line. Enter the time in the fourth line, and then type in notes in the last line.


To let the app alert you when reminders are up, tap the box below the notes line, beside “I want an alert,” so that the app will set an alarm at the time of the reminder.
 You’ll find this at the bottom of the Edit Reminder screen.
 On the main screen of the app, tap the magnifying glass icon labeled “Find.” Here, you will see a number of options for finding establishments that cater to your pet’s needs.
 Options like nearest pet stores, vet clinics, rescue centers, and so forth will be listed in the “Find Pet stores and shops” screen as buttons. Tap on one and the app will direct you to the establishment of your choice.
 After tapping an establishment, you will see the integrated Google Maps app that will show you the locations of your selected establishments as red pin icons in the map.
 At the bottom of the main app screen, you will see a heart icon with an ECG wave running across it. This is the Health button. Tap it to access your pet roster.
 In the roster, you will see all of your registered pets in Pet Pal. Tap on a pet’s name or photo to take you to its Health Details screen, and you will see the buttons that will let you add to the pet’s diaries (Weight Diary and Medical Diary).


Diaries are there to let you keep a record of notes whenever it gets a checkup or when you weigh your pet.
 In the Health Details screen, choose between the two diaries at the bottom of the pet photo and name. When doing a periodical weight reading, tap the “Weight Diary.” If making a log of its periodical medical checkup, choose “Medical Diary.”

, Both diaries will have similar fields into which you need to input information. The first line has a drop-down menu that will let you choose the type of record. Choose between “Weight Record” and “Medical Record.”


The next line will let you choose the pet that the record is for, so tap the drop-down menu to see the list of registered pets, and then tap the pet you are entering the record for.
The third line is for the date of the diary entry. Tap the “Choose a Date” line to bring up the Android date input, and scroll through the Month, Date, and Year rows. When you’re done, press “OK” in the lower right corner to enter the date.
The last line is a field for notes. You can tap the field to bring up your on-screen keyboard to type in reminders and points that your veterinarian needs you to remember.
 Once everything is finished, simply tap the “Add Health Record” button at the bottom of the notes field.
 Once the entry has been saved, you will be taken back to the pet roster under the Health screen. Choose the pet whose diary entry you wish to edit. Then choose the kind of diary in which the entry is placed. You will then see the list of entries in the “Weight/Medical Diary” screen.


Tap the entry to see the notes under the entry’s date, and tap the “Edit” button on the lower left to bring up the Diary Entry composition screen.
Delete an entry by pressing the “Delete” button on the lower right corner, and then tap the “Yes” button in the pop-up.

