 There are a number of quick ways to get rid of your car for guaranteed cash. However, the amount of money you'll make using these methods is minimal. Only sell your car to a scrapyard, parts lot, or dealership if you either have a car that doesn't work, or can't bear to wait any longer to get rid of it.
 The quickest way to get rid of a car that's a complete wreck is to sell it to a scrap metal company. These businesses pay a flat rate per car, regardless of its condition. However, they also do you the service of coming with a tow truck and hauling away your old car themselves, which makes it a tempting proposition if you've got a rusted out hunk of junk gathering weeds in the side yard.


Pay rates vary between operators, but you can typically expect to get no more than $100 out of your car if you sell it to scrap junkers. Don't ever pay for them to come to you.
 Junkyards full of stacked cars and mean-looking Rottweilers are becoming more and more a thing of the past. In their place are user-friendly, organized yards where dead cars with parts that still work can be picked over to fix other cars of the same make and model. Franchise operations such as Pick-n-Pull make offers based on their estimate of the parts value of your car, so you can expect to get more than you'd get from a scrap hauler as long as your car is mostly in good condition. On the down side, you often have to get the car to the junkyard yourself in order to get paid.


Selling to a parts yard is an ideal way to get rid of an older car with one or two problems that would be very expensive to fix at a shop, such as a busted alternator or timing belt. If you live close enough to the lot, the company might send a tow truck for you; otherwise, you'll probably have to pay for a private tow.
 Car dealerships often have good deals on used cars that you can make even sweeter by trading in your car as part of the down payment on your new ride. Dealerships tend to offer a decent chunk of change when you sell your vehicle as a trade-in; on the other hand, they aren't as likely to buy from you if you don't plan to also buy something from them.


Dealerships strongly prefer that the car you trade in is in good working order. They'll buy a car with minor problems (such as drained air conditioning), but they usually balk at cars that won't start or run.
Dealerships will usually give you an okay deal on your trade-in, but sometimes you can haggle an extra hundred or two out of it.

