 As you attempt to recover, you may be tempted to dwell on the fact that recovery is taking longer than you want. Instead of concentrating on this, switch your focus to what you can control. Paying attention to this, rather than the negative, can help you feel encouraged, which may help you become more patient.


For instance, focus on the positive changes you make, such as consistently taking your medication, improving the way you take care of yourself, and the advances you make towards your recovery.
Set small, achievable daily goals and revisit these often to keep you in the present moment. Have long-term goals too, and revisit these every few months.
Make a list of the achievements you’ve made so far, and you’ll likely see how you’ve improved drastically in some areas. Look at this list whenever you feel discouraged, and you’ll see that progress is being made, no matter how slowly is it achieved.;
, Mental illness is often still considered to be taboo. Because of this, you may be scared or hesitant to share how you are feeling with others. However, you can start to let go of the sense of stigma by carefully selecting a trusted friend or family member and talking to them about your condition. Their supportive and understanding reaction can give you a lot of courage.


Unfortunately, this can hinder your recovery because you won’t get the help you need. Get rid of this fear and anxiety by becoming more educated about your illness and joining support groups. Doing so will help you to feel better.For example, if you're worried about people seeing you visiting your therapist, don't. Keep in mind that your therapist is in business because lots of other people in your area need help, too. You should actually pat yourself on the back for having the courage to get help.
 You’re more likely to get frustrated and impatient about your recovery when you only focus on the end of your journey. Instead, get your mind off of the end game, and start paying attention to what you’re experiencing while you get there. You’ll likely have a whole new appreciation for yourself.


Those in recovery often learn a lot about themselves. For instance, they learn what their strengths and weaknesses are, their triggers, ways to cope, and how they respond during stress and moments of uncertainty. Recovery often makes patients stronger and more resilient to adverse situations.Chronicle the ups and downs of your recovery in a journal. This can help you see patterns in your mood and sleep and also help you track your thoughts. A journal is a useful tool to take with you to doctor's appointments, also. Plus, you will feel terrific when you look back over a span of time and see how much you have progressed.
Ask your therapist, friends, or family for their input on how you have grown and progressed. It is extremely helpful to hear how you are doing from outside sources.
 Fighting a mental illness isn’t something you can do completely on your own. Confide in those you trust, and ask for their help during this time. Also, attend support groups, whether online or in person. Additionally, make sure you visit your therapist and doctor regularly. With their help, you can get through this.Call up a friend and say, "I really need someone to talk to about some stuff I've been going through. Are you willing to listen?" Or, you can simply ask for company by saying "I've been feeling lonely lately. Want to grab lunch one day this week?"

, Exercising can alleviate some of the stress you feel, and can help you maintain focus. It can also help you to feel better about yourself. Eating and drinking the right things can also improve your mindset.


For instance, avoid drinking too much caffeine, as it can make you feel anxious. Drinking alcohol and taking illegal drugs may not only interfere with your medication, but can cause you to become paranoid or even angry. Maintaining a healthy lifestyle is key in recovering from mental illness.Eat a diet of nutritious foods like fruits and vegetables, lean protein, whole grains, and low-fat dairy. Drink plenty of water. Exercise for about 30 minutes on most days of the week and aim for 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night. Start by meal-planning and grocery shopping to ensure a well-balanced diet. Create a weekly exercise schedule to ensure that this gets done, as well. Leaving these up to chance significantly decreases the likelihood that they will get done.
 You’re going through enough right now; you don’t need any added stress during your recovery. Where you can, eliminate the unneeded drama and sources of anxiety. Doing so can help you focus on what’s more important: yourself.


For example, if your job causes you anxiety and you are able to find a new one, do so now. If your home life is unstable, look for somewhere else to live. Remove toxic friendships and cease contact with unsupportive family members. Doing so may be difficult at first, but will likely be beneficial in the long-run.Learn how to say no as well. This is not the time to take on new responsibilities that can cause stress. Table these until you are further along in your recovery.
 Stress can cause a relapse of symptoms that results in a hospitalization or an increase in your medication dosages. By learning to keep stress at bay, you can enhance your recovery and help your body and mind heal. Schedule these into your week by using a calendar and setting aside specific times for relaxation techniques. Experiment with when they are most helpful for you and don't be afraid to make changes.



Deep breathing is a relaxation technique you can practice anywhere, at any time. Simply breathe in through your nose for several counts. Hold the breath briefly. Then, release the air from your mouth for several counts. Repeat as needed.
Progressive muscle relaxation involves contracting and relaxing the different muscle groups in your boy so that you can become more aware of when certain body parts are tense. Start at your toes and work your way up, tensing for a few seconds and then releasing the tension before moving on.
Meditation seems challenging to many, but there are so many varieties based on your preferences. You can perform walking meditation, mindfulness meditation, or the traditional approach of sitting and repeating a phrase or mantra as you breathy deeply., Unlike physical illnesses, mental illnesses aren’t typically resolved simply by going to the doctor and taking medication or completing physical therapy. Recovering from mental illness is an ongoing process, similar to managing a chronic medical illness. Tell yourself and those around you that they’ll need to understand it will take time for you to get back to yourself, and they will need to be patient and supportive.


Unfortunately, some of the people who were close to you before your illness may not stick around during your recovery. Since mental illness is invisible, it’s often difficult for those around to understand that although you may look fine, you actually aren’t. They may not understand that you aren’t always able to act and do the same things you did before your illness took place, and may not maintain the friendship because of it.In turn, don't be afraid to end friendships or set boundaries with people who are not supportive. Your success in recovery may depend on it. Your therapist can help walk you through making these decisions.
 In this case, recovery is more comparable to remission. This means that although you are feeling better, there’s a high chance that the problems will return. You’ll also have to take steps every day to keep yourself healthy.For instance, taking your medication every day, going to therapy, sleeping enough and making your doctor appointments are crucial to recovery.
 For some, recovery means returning to their life before the illness occurred. For others, it could mean getting out of the hospital and going back home. It could also mean being able to go to work again. Realize that recovery is all about improvement, not necessarily getting completely better.Have an honest conversation with your therapist or doctor to determine what recovery will look like for you. They can help give you an idea of what to expect. Sometimes it's a "new normal."

