 At the end of the bankruptcy proceeding, the bankruptcy judge should sign a discharge order.You should have received a copy. Go through your papers and find it.;
, If you didn’t receive a copy, then you can get a copy of your discharge order on PACER here: https://pacer.login.uscourts.gov/csologin/login.jsf?appurl=pcl.uscourts.gov/search. You need to have an account to use PACER, which you can create by clicking “Need an Account?”


If you aren’t the debtor but a creditor, then you can also get a copy of the bankruptcy discharge order. Bankruptcy records are public, and you can get a copy of the order on PACER as well.
 The discharge order doesn’t list which debts were discharged. Instead, the discharge order is only a few paragraphs.However, by law, your discharge order discharges debts listed on your schedule unless those debts were not capable of discharge, so you should get a copy of your schedules on PACER if you don’t have them.


For example, a debt secured with property (such as a home mortgage) is not discharged in bankruptcy.
Unsecured debt (like credit cards or medical debt) will be discharges. If those debts appear on your schedule, they are discharged.
 You might have forgotten to put an unsecured debt on your schedule. In some Chapter 7 bankruptcies, the discharge will still discharge those debts, even if unlisted.Typically, an unlisted debt will be discharged in a Chapter 7 if you had a “no asset” case, meaning the trustee didn’t have to sell assets to pay your unsecured creditors.
In a Chapter 13, the unlisted debt probably is not discharged.
If you forgot to add a debt, then you should meet with an attorney to discuss. The law might be different depending on where you live.
 Creditors might still call you after you receive your discharge. They might be upset that you took bankruptcy, or the original creditor might have sold the debt to a debt collector who is unaware of your bankruptcy. If someone calls to ask about a debt, then tell them it was discharged and give them your case number (which you can find on your discharge order).Of course, you should double check that it was discharged. If the creditor is calling about a secured loan that you reaffirmed in bankruptcy, then you need to pay it.
Also, make sure the creditor isn’t calling about a loan you took out after you filed for bankruptcy. Bankruptcy eliminates debts incurred before you filed, not after.
 Bankruptcy law makes it illegal for debt collectors to contact you about a discharged debt. Read the backside of your discharge order, which states this explicitly. Accordingly, if the debt collector continues to contact you, then you need to send them a letter telling them to stop. Format the letter like a standard business letter and include the following:your case number
the filing date
the date you received your discharge order
a demand that they stop the collection action
your signature

, Once you finish the letter, make a copy for your records. You should include a copy of your discharge order as an attachment. Remember to copy both sides, since the back side tells debt collectors they can’t contact you. Then send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested., The debt collector might not take “no” for an answer. In that situation, you need to contact a lawyer. The debt collector is violating not only bankruptcy law but possibly the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and state debt collection laws.


Schedule a meeting with a lawyer. If you didn’t use a lawyer to file for bankruptcy, then get a referral to one by contacting your state or local bar association.Discuss whether you should sue the debt collector and what kinds of compensation you could get.
If you win, you could get attorney’s fees.This should make getting a lawyer easier for you.
 You should wait three months after your discharge and then request a copy of your credit report from each of the three major credit reporting agencies (CRAs)—Equifax, Experian, TransUnion. You are entitled to one free report every year. Instead of ordering individually from each CRA, you can order all three at once by doing the following:Call 1-877-322-8228. The reports will be mailed to you.
Visit annualcreditreport.com and make a request. The reports should be emailed to you after you submit your request.
Complete the Annual Credit Report Request Form available here https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf. Mail the completed form to Annual Credit Report Request Service, P.O. Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.

Remember that non-discharged debts should still show up on the report.
 You should contact any CRA that has erroneous information and ask that they investigate. You can make this request at the website for each CRA:


Experian. Visit the dispute page at http://www.experian.com/disputes/main.html and click “Start a New Dispute Online.”
Equifax. Visit the credit investigation page at https://www.ai.equifax.com/CreditInvestigation/home.action. Click on “Get Started.”
TransUnion. Visit the credit reports dispute page at https://www.transunion.com/credit-disputes/dispute-your-credit. Click on “File a Credit Dispute or Check Status Now.”

, Even if you report online, you should probably also report with a letter. By sending a letter, you have a hard copy of the communication, which can clear up any confusion that may arise. The Federal Trade Commission has a sample dispute letter you can use, which is available here: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0384-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report.


Remember to send attachments, such as a copy of your schedule with the debt listed and a copy of your discharge order.
Mail the letter certified mail, return receipt requested. Hold onto the receipt since it is proof that the CRA received the letter.
 The CRA typically has 30 days to respond. They will contact the creditor and ask them to investigate. If the creditor acknowledges the error, then the CRA will fix it. At the end of the investigation, you will receive a written response.