 You will need two playing cards, preferably from the same deck. Use a ruler to measure the length and width of the playing cards. This will help when sizing the paper later.


Example: Uno cards measure 2 and 3/16 by 3 and 7/16 inches.
 Make sure that all of the edges are lined up. Measure out the length of the playing cards, making a mark where the measurement ends. If possible, use a paper cutter to cut the pages into strips where you marked the length of your playing card.


If you don’t have a paper cutter, use scissors to cut strips of the paper that are the same length as your playing cards.
 By doing this, you should create rectangles of paper that are exactly the same size as your playing cards. Repeat the previous step and this step on 10 more sheets of paper until you have as many sheets as you would like to have in your little notebook.Try not to exceed 50 pages, as this will make your notebook very thick and hard to bind.
 Place a playing card on top, and one on the bottom with the design you want facing outward. Tape the edges together so that all of the edges are as even as possible. Once all of the edges are lined up, Place large binder clips on the sides and bottom of the stack. The clips on the sides of the stack should be as close to the top as possible.
 Once your rubber cement is mixed, spread a good layer of the cement along the top of the stack. This is what is going to keep the notebook together. Cover every inch of the top, making sure you haven’t missed any spots. Make sure that none of it drips down onto the face of the playing cards.You can also spread a small amount on the very tops of the side edges. This will help to make sure that the notebook doesn’t break open when you flip the pages over.
 Once it has dried, apply another layer. You will need to add multiple layers to make sure that the glue is bonded strong enough so that the notebook doesn’t fall apart. Generally, around five layers will do. Once you see that the glue is drying on the edge, rather than soaking into the paper, you have reached the final layer.
 This piece of paper will be the binding of your notebook. Cut it so that it is a little longer than the width of your notebook and about one inch wide. Turn the pad of paper upside down so that the top is positioned in the exact center of the piece of colorful paper.
 Put glue on to the colorful strip and hold it down so that it lies folded along the top, back and front of the notebook. Hold it there for at least 20 seconds so that it stays in place., You may have some extra colored paper hanging over the sides of the notebook. Use scissors or a craft knife to cut these edges away.
 Your notebook will need a little time to bind together before you can start using. Placing it under something heavy and flat will help the glue to bind to the pages and make sure the notebook dries flat and straight.

