 If you are an inexperienced horse handler, this environment is not one you will learn or benefit from. A bad-tempered horse can be very dangerous, and training it requires skilled handling.


If you own the horse and do not wish to sell it, send it to a reputable trainer.;
, Horses can sense your fear, which can make the horse nervous or poorly behaved. Speak in a calm, quiet voice, and avoid flinching, shouting, and other anxious behavior.


If you are sweating nervously or your heart is pounding, stay back. Watch the horse from a distance and take slow, deep breaths to relax yourself. Think happy, calm thoughts. As you calm down, approach a couple, slow steps at a time.
 When the horse calms down or responds to your commands, reward it by patting its neck or shoulder, speaking in an encouraging tone, and giving it a treat. This will teach the horse to stay calm in order to get the reward.


This applies whether you are riding the horse or standing near it.
 If you don't feel comfortable around a horse, have your friend or trainer ride in front of you. Since horses are herd animals, your horse will naturally want to follow the horse in front. This is especially important when you're practicing a new skill.


Too much of this can make a horse "herd bound," which may be a concern if you plan to take the horse to shows.
 Spend plenty of time talking to your horse and interacting with it so it gets to know and trust you. Set aside time for relaxing activities, such as grooming or a lazy grazing day.


As a more experienced owner, you can gain the animal’s respect with calm, consistent ground work, including exercises on a longe line and with free rein. This is a long process that requires an experienced and certified trainer, even if you have intermediate experience.
 The horse may be misbehaving because of an injury or another source of pain. If the behavior appeared recently, or if you cannot determine the cause, have a licensed professional perform a full physical examination.

