 Are you doing it for fun? For a sociology / psychology experiment? Going on a talking strike until you get what you want? Sick with laryngitis and want to recover as fast as possible? Trying to win a bet with your friends? Whatever your reason, you need to know why you are making this commitment.;
, Before you start your silent day, specifically plan activities which will avoid people who are likely to either keep trying to talk to you or to get upset when you don't chat with them.

Do not attempt this on a week (or work) day. At least not at first — whether you can or wish to keep this up for multiple days is up to you. However, if you're going to make this your new norm, starting on a busy day is probably not a good idea.
It is best to schedule your day of silence when you are off work and have nothing else planned for the day. While your friends and family will likely be supportive, or at least understanding, those you do not know as well will likely be less accepting.

If you are doing this for The Day of Silence, know that it is always on a Friday, so you will have to find a way of communicating with teachers that doesn't involve talking (and / or let them know ahead of time). Therefore you should do it on the weekend, so you won't have to worry about the teacher calling on you.
Silence doesn't necessarily mean isolation — choosing not to speak is your business, but try not to shut out the rest of humanity, as this could make people more likely to try to force you to speak.
 Now that you and they know why and when, they will usually be happy to oblige you, and will not attempt to engage you in conversation, making your job much easier.


Whether you tell them in speech or writing is up to you, but letting them know is just common courtesy.
 Watch a movie, read a book, or listen to music (but resist the urge to sing along).


Singing along with the music defeats the purpose of silence — if you're having trouble resisting the urge, try listening to classical or jazz music, which is typically instrumental.
 Go into the woods or along the beach or across the prairie. As you stride along, consider the joys and pleasures and blessings that are part of your life. Study your surroundings, the earth, the sky, the foliage, the wildlife. Be at peace, be silent, reflect.
 Another option could be to use sign language if you know it.
 These come in handy in case you truly need to communicate.


If you have to be silent, better express it in writing. Writing is a powerful way for people to communicate when silent.
 By talking to yourself in your head, you resist the urge to talk out loud. Talking to yourself in your head isn't considered talking. However, if you want to remain completely silent, then remember your reason of silence. If you remember your reason, you remember to not say a single word. This is not talking, not even in your head. You are just "seeing" or picturing your memories and the world before you.


To fulfill this step — cutting your mental chatter — it helps to clear your mind.

