 Also, when you are older you will look back and cherish the times you had together.


Plan a trip together, even if it’s just a few hours to an antique mall in the next town over.
Have a regular date, rituals, and traditions.Have breakfast together every Saturday or meet up for a movie once a month.
If you live with them, take a few minutes to just sit and talk with them before you run out the door or after you come in.
You shouldn’t devote every minute to your parents, though. To be happy and healthy you have to have your own life also. Don’t feel bad when you do things without them.
 Studies suggest that it makes parents happy to know that their children are happy.Become a good daughter and let them know when things are going well for you.


If you have shared something upsetting with them, be sure to let them know once things are okay.Send your parents pictures of your happy times if they can’t be there to take part. Video chat with them when you have something special to share so that they can see your joy.
You don’t have to share every little thing that happens. It’s okay to keep some moments of joy to yourself.
 You can become a good daughter by letting your parents know the people in your life.It will make them feel closer to you and possibly get a better understanding of you as a person. They don’t have to or need to meet every associate that you have, but you should let them meet the people that are important to you.


So what if your father "magically" pulls out a coin from behind your friend's ear, don’t be embarrassed.
Understand that your parents may not like everyone in your life. That’s okay. Sometimes personalities just don’t mesh. Sometimes your parents are just worried that the person is not good for you.
If your parents don’t like your friend(s) then try to understand why and look at the situation from their perspective. Know that your parents only want the best for you.
 You might think that having your parents help you out with child care, money, or even a project makes you a bad daughter. However, research indicates that parents are happier if they can support you in some way and if their help allows you to live a happier life.Although you may not need their help, accept it when they offer. It makes them feel useful and involved in your life.So, if your dad wants to help you with your project, then let him.
Or if your mom gives you a new set of cookware, accept it graciously and use it to cook dinner for her.

