 There are different styles of clothing to wear. Here are just a few samples to inspire you:

Option #1: Bikini bottom and top with see through skirt, sunglasses, and flipflops or sandals (optional- straw hat or beach hat).
Option #2: Daisy duke, bikini on top, sunglasses, bare foot, and shimmer lotion.
Option #3: A bikini- bottom and top.
Option #4: Super loose open back shirt or sweatshirt, jean shorts (with thin fashionable belt), and bikini under.;
, If you live near a beach, you might consider wearing your bikini top under your regular shirt and letting the straps show. Otherwise classic attire would be Bermuda shorts, graphic T's, bright colors (such as turquoise, hot pink, and yellow) and flip-flops.
 Remember to include:

Sunscreen (SPF of at least 35, best if at least 50)
Chapstick (clear)
Makeup towel wipes (just in case)
Water bottle, to stay hydrated (try adding lemon or cucumber for more flavor)
Beach towel
Sunglasses
Slip on t-shirt and shorts
Hat
Hair band/hair ties
Sandals/flip flops
Bag for seashells (optional)
Watch.
 Consider the following:

Classic loose and messy french braid or regular braid.
Messy top knot bun (with sunglasses).
Loose beach waves with your hair out and free.
 You don't need to have blond hair to look like a California beach girl. Use Sun-In or lemon juice to put in your hair before you go outside; this will gradually help lighten your hair. This is fine for goes for blonds and brunettes. You can do it all over or in streaks. Red hair and darker hair is fine too, the beach doesn't discriminate.
 If you have dark makeup on or bright blond hair when three days ago you had brown hair, it does not look natural. Stay true to your hair color. If you are accustomed to wearing dark make-up, like a lot of Cali beach girls, then be sure to purchase it in waterproof.
 Add some chap-stick, a coat of clear/light pink lip gloss, and a small amount of black eyeliner (optional). Keep it looking clean, so go easy on the eyeliner.
 Brush them at least twice a day, and make them look naturally white (remember to smile). Floss daily, use mouthwash, and carry around mints for fresh breath.
 Wear lots of sunscreen whenever you go outside. Exfoliate and wash your face regularly. If you can, get a natural tan or at least make it look natural. Keeping your skin acne free is also a necessity.
 Don't be so caught up in how you look that you fail to enjoy the activities on offer, from swimming and building sandcastles to boating and rescuing stragglers in the ocean., Learn to love life. Stay positive and live life to the fullest!

