 When your body gets infected with a virus, it works overtime to keep functioning while also fighting off your infection. Because of this, it's important to rest. Take a day or two off work or school and do low-energy activities like watching a movie or sleeping in bed. Resting will allow your body to focus all of its energy on overcoming the virus.Other low-energy activities you can do if you can’t sleep include:


Reading a book, catching up on your favorite TV show, listening to music in bed, and calling someone on the phone.
Be aware that antibiotics are not effective against viral infections and that, in general, you need to simply rest and allow your body to combat the virus.;
, Viral infections generally lead to dehydration (as a result of water lost through mucus production and fever). When you become dehydrated, your symptoms will get worse; it's a vicious cycle that you should try to break out of by drinking plenty of liquids. Drink water, tea, natural juice, and drinks with electrolytes to stay hydrated.Try to stay away from alcohol or caffeinated beverages, as these types of drinks can actually dehydrate you further., Viruses are contagious, which means that you can actually pass the virus to others, making them sick as well. Being around other people can also put you at risk of being exposed to other microorganisms like bacteria, which could make you more sick than you already are.Take at least two days off of work or school to avoid getting other people sick.
If you absolutely have to go into work or school, wear a mask to prevent others from becoming infected.The mask will prevent contagious particles from spreading through the air, especially if you are coughing or sneezing.
 This will help you to sleep better, and a better quality sleep equates to improved healing capacity. Be sure that your humidifier is clean to prevent any air contamination (such as with molds) that could potentially worsen your symptoms rather than improve them.
 Not only does sucking on something help to ease throat pain, but many lozenges also contain local anesthetic to slightly numb your throat and to further reduce pain.


Gargling saltwater (a quarter to half of a teaspoon of salt in one cup of water is recommended) is another way to ease the pain of a sore throat.
 While viral infections are generally not super dangerous, they can be to people who already have a weakened immune system or chronic respiratory problems such as asthma or COPD. If you have cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, or another immunity disorder, you should talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a viral infection.