 If you worry about it too much in the week or so before you get the shot, when it actually comes you'll be even more scared. In order to avoid this, try not to think about the shot in the time leading up to it. Distract yourself with friends, games, or even homework - do anything rather than think about the shot.


If your parents made the doctor's appointment for you, ask them not to tell you about it - when the appointment is or whether you'll be getting a shot. This way, you won't be able to worry about it that far in advance.;
,  This can be a parent, sibling, other relative, or friend. Ask them to talk to you about other things and distract you throughout the appointment and especially just before the shot. Squeeze their hand if it helps you release your anxiety. Having someone you're close to will help you feel better and relax throughout the experience, but make sure to choose someone who will help you relax, rather than making fun of you or stressing you out.
 There will be a sharp pain for less than three seconds, and then it will be over. It may be slightly sore for a few days, but it won't hurt much. Realize that it's only a small amount of pain for a huge benefit, so it will be worth it. Expect and accept a small amount of pain, and you will get through the shot much more easily.
 Breathe in and out, focusing on drawing the air all the way into your body and then pushing it all the way out. Count your breaths if that helps you relax and focus on your breathing. This will help calm your body down so that you will feel less nervous and stressed.
 If you've fainted during or after shots before, or if you're worried about fainting, tell the doctor. They may have you lie down on the table or sit in a comfortable chair while they administer the shot, and they can keep an eye on you for a few minutes after the shot to make sure you're okay. Make sure they know that you're nervous so that they can help calm you down or take any necessary precautionary measures to keep you safe in any situation. 

, Before giving the shot, the doctor will clean the area where you're getting the shot with some alcohol. This is the scariest part because you know you're getting it soon.  If you look at the bag of needles they will look super sharp and menacing, so turn your head away. Focus instead on your friend or family member that you brought with you, and talk to them to avoid looking at or thinking about the upcoming shot.
 Look at your parent or friend, read a poster on the wall, or just look straight in front of you, but don't look at the needle and don't watch the doctor administer the shot if you're at all nervous about it. Clenching your muscles can make the shot hurt more and can cause a much stronger relief reaction just after the shot, so avoid this by making sure to relax your muscles. 

, Move your arm around throughout the day to keep it from being sore. Keep an eye on it the next couple of days to make sure everything is going as planned, and call your doctor if you have any questions or concerns.

