 Your local and/or campus bookstore will be holding a buyback at the end of the semester. Find out how much they'll give you for each book as well as how much they're selling the books for. Write these numbers down. You can also get a quote from an online bookstore or two.;
, You'll have the best chance of selling books that are going to be used in the next semester. You can usually find this out at the bookstore, or you can ask your professor or check the class web page. Some books that won't be used again on your campus may be used at another school. If this is the case, you might get a better price if you try to sell the book online.
 You are competing with local bookstores, online sellers, and even other students. Evaluate the prices and buying options available--include considerations such as shipping costs and the condition of your book compared to others. Price your book higher than the lowest online offer, yet lower than the used book price the bookstore is offering. If you want to sell really fast, set your price lower than any other option. Just remember to keep your price high enough above the bookstore's buyback price to compensate for your time and any advertising expenses.
 This can easily be done in most word-processing software programs using text art, or you can make one by hand and photocopy it. Put a big, bold headline such as "Book for Sale" or "Buy My Book". Include detailed book information, such as author, title, ISBN, edition, publisher, copyright date, and price of the book. Include what course it is used for, and describe the condition of the book (e.g. good shape, minor shelf wear, some highlighting). Provide your contact information, such as a campus email address or phone number. Make it easy for a potential buyer to contact you by making the bottom edge of your flyer a section of tear-off tabs with the book title and your contact information (History Book, James@college.edu).
 Print off several copies, at least a dozen. Locate places on or around campus which are high traffic areas and which have a bulletin and/or announcement board. Examples include the campus cafeteria, departmental offices, and the student activities center. Get approval from the administrator of the bulletin board before you post your flyer; otherwise it may be removed. Make a list of the locations where you post your fliers so that you can take them all down when your book is sold.
 If you're able to inexpensively place an ad in the paper or, better yet, place a free ad, do so. Include the same information as you did on the flyer, but shorten it if you have to.
 Once you are contacted, you will need to meet the potential buyer to sell the textbook. Decide when and where. Pick a public place that is safe and convenient for both of you. Be sure to tell them what payment options you will accept.
 When a buyer contacts you, be polite, and make arrangements to meet. Bring some cash in case you need to make change. Bring the book. Meet the buyer, accept their money and give them the book.
 Be a good citizen and don't waste other people's time. You also probably don't want to continue to get calls or emails about a book you've already sold.
