 Go to the library and pick up books about the country itself, the rituals, the food, and the language. Learn a few lines of introduction just to get started. It is essential that your child understands the extent of the change in culture. The more the difference, the more time your child will need to prepare and learn. By educating in advance, you are minimizing the feeling of confusion, and in some cases, anxiety.;
, Symptoms of culture shock include headaches, diarrhea, nausea, insomnia, irritability and anxiety. If you feel that your child has culture shock, be compassionate and show patience. Allow your kid to express feelings, even if they seem negative. You cannot help if you don't allow your child to be honest about these feelings. Shutting her down will also create a feeling of resentment that will only enhance her culture shock.
 This will help your child find a sense of familiarity that relates the educational part to home, thus creating a connection that is secure.
 For example, maintain the same bedtime schedule and rituals so that your child can connect with home through the familiarities. You should also introduce new rituals that, in contrast, allow your child to connect to the new environment. Joining home rituals with new rituals will allow your child to transition into the new culture without losing touch with what's comfortable.
 So along with their blankets or stuffed animals, consider bringing along a couple of family pictures, a couple of small toys, and a book. Again, these items will remind your children of home and make the transition into a new culture easier to tolerate.
 You want her to slowly create her own bond with the new location so that it is not alien to her for long. Practice the language, if applicable, and encourage your child to learn more. Just don't force her if she is not ready to be a part of the new culture.
 Try to enjoy the culture change yourself and allow her to accept the new culture in her own time. If she sees your interest and curiosity, and she is not being forced to do the same, she is more likely to open up and become tolerant of the situation.

