 You may have only a short time to escape. Act quickly, utilizing your planned route. Head to designated shelters during flood warnings. When emergency services tell you to leave, listen to their instructions. Some people think they can ride out the storm, but keep yourself safe by taking proper precautions.


Leave everything behind. Don’t stop to move valuables. Grab your emergency kit and go.
 Whether you are on foot or have to abandon your car, higher ground is your best option. Get away from areas with storm drains, streams, creeks, or rivers. If you’re stuck at home, head for the roof.
 Water up to your ankles is enough to be dangerous. You cannot see how deep the water is the rest of the way. Six inches (15.24 cm) of water is enough to reach the bottom of cars and cause stalling. 12 inches (30.48 cm) will float away most vehicles. Never try crossing standing water.Keep in mind the motto, “Turn around, don’t drown.” When you’re in doubt about water depth, don’t risk it.
Children should always be kept out of the water. It can get very deep or fast, and it’s difficult for even adults to escape once caught in it. The water also will be very dirty.
If you have to go through water, bring a stick. Use it to measure the water’s depth and feel for stable ground., Moving water is never safe to approach. The current is usually stronger than it appears and even a slight current is strong enough to carry off adults and vehicles. Most flood deaths come from people trying to drive through water. Don’t risk it..


Don’t drive around barricades. They’re there for your safety.
If your car does get stuck in water, open the windows, breaking them if you have to. Once water enters the car, you’ll be able to open the door and escape., Turn over on your back instead of fighting the tide. Keep your feet positioned upstream, using them to push away from obstacles floating with you. Try to find something to hold onto, such as a strong branch or roof. Once you do this, point your feet downstream and yell for help.Never go under debris. Keep your head above water and avoid the debris or pass over it.
Yelling for help makes it easier for rescuers to spot you. Wave an arm if you have the strength. Don’t give up until someone comes for you.

