 It’s best to start your seeds about six weeks before the last frost hits. For many regions, this will be in mid-February or early March. Adjust the timing based on your area’s typical weather patterns., Buy a seeding tray at a garden center. These come with multiple small containers, and they can be used to start several plantings., Buy special soil mix meant for sowing seeds at your local gardening center or online. Fill each container about ¾ full with soil. Add enough water to make the soil moist., Pour chamomile seeds into an empty bowl. Use your finger to pick up several. Put about six in each container by scraping the seeds off your finger with your nail. Cover them lightly with just a little bit of soil.You should still be able to see the seeds through their covering.
 Mist the seeds with water from a spray bottle right away. Continue checking on the seeds each day to make sure the soil stays moist, but not soaking. Spray the seeds as much as you need to keep the soil moist, probably about once per day.You can keep the seeds covered with a loose sheet of plastic wrap if you’re concerned that the soil isn’t staying moist enough. The plastic will trap the moisture. Leave space for air circulation, and be sure to remove the plastic entirely as soon as you see any sign of green., Ideal growing temperature is between 65-85℉ (18.33-29.44℃). During the day, put the plants in a sunny spot that’s set at the higher temperature. At night, make it a little colder. This will imitate the natural warm and cold cycles of the outdoors., (5.08 cm) high. This will leave only one healthy seedling in each container. To thin the chamomile seedlings, cut the seedling off at ground level. Don't pull the seedling out by its roots, as you may disturb the roots of the chamomile plant you're keeping., Do what’s called “hardening off” the chamomile. This prepares them for life outside. Start by putting the plants outside in a covered area for a few hours per day. Increase their outdoor exposure by a few hours each day for two weeks.Do this only when the weather cooperates. If the temperature drops or rises suddenly or there are strong winds, keep the plants inside to protect them. Gentle breezes, however, are good for the little guys.
Alter the plants’ sun exposure as you go, giving them less and less shade over the course of the two weeks. Be sure to keep the soil moist during this time.
Keep the plants indoors at night while hardening them off.
 This should be about six weeks after you started the seeds. Gently loosen the soil and remove the plantings from their containers, placing them in holes double the size of their root balls about 8-10 inches (20.32-25.40 cm) apart. Fill the holes back in with a mix of soil and slow-release fertilizer.Water the plantings about an hour before you transplant them. Then gently mist them once they’re in the ground.
Make the holes deep enough so the base of the leaves is at soil level.

