 Punch that tree to the ground. If you spawn in a desert, get out immediately. Once you have as much wood as needed, proceed onward.;
, Use it to make a stone pickaxe and other tools you may need. During your day, time is essential. Mine twenty cobble. Keep your wooden pick. you're going to make good use of it soon.
 Kill any animals you see. Don't forget to eat.
 Find a mountain or something, and start digging into it. If you can't find a mountain, then dig into the ground. Never dig straight down.
 Start smelting your food and iron. Use your coal as fuel.
 While your food and iron are cooking, grab your pick and start mining. If you mine into a cave, immediately block off the tunnel. Who knows what might be waiting for you in the cave.
 Take your iron and craft tools with it. The tools will come in handy, as you will not want your tools to break. Any extra iron may go towards a set of Iron Armor, Wait 10-15 seconds after the sun has rose before running out of your temporary base. This ensures that all zombies and skeletons are dead. Exit sprinting. Sometimes a creeper might be waiting for you outside that door. Creeper explosion to the face will probably take you out.
 Make sure you know your coordinates. A bed now would be nice.
 Make sure you have some torches with you. An iron pick will be very helpful. Bring a stack of torches to light your path ahead. Make sure you bring a lot of torches, as you don't want to run out of torches quickly. Aim for a minimum of 3 diamonds.


Done mining? Time to get out. If you're a risk taker, you can dig straight up. Every time you stop, make sure to place a torch. Falling gravel can suffocate and kill you. Also, be aware of hazards such as lava or water.
 Make a diamond pick and a bucket. A bow might be nice. Keep all the arrows you can find. Fill the bucket with water. Now go find a lava pool and pour water on it to make obsidian. Mine ten or fourteen obsidian (depending on if you want the corner pieces or not).
 Try to enchant your diamond pickaxe with Efficiency or other enchantments you want. Enchant your iron tools and armor with level 1 or 2 enchants.
 Use that 10 obsidian you have to do so. Find a blaze spawner and kill a few blaze. Make sure you have ten or so blaze rods. Go back to the overworld.
, When you have 15 ender pearls, go back to your house and craft some ender eyes.
 Before you jump in, always make sure you have a lot of arrows. At least 4-5 stacks.
 First, take out all the Ender Crystals on the obsidian pillars. Those heal the dragon. You can shoot arrows at them or punch them, but they blow up when destroyed and will most likely kill you. This is the hard part.


Now all you have to do is lob arrows at the dragon. Fairly simple.
Collect the egg and go back to the overworld. Pushing the egg with a piston will break it. Making it fall on a torch will also work.
 It will be very hard! Make sure you have some nice diamond gear with some good enchants. Potions are good but not necessary.


Go to the nether and murder a few wither skeletons. Get at least 3 wither skulls. This will take a while. The wither skeletons hurt, and the if you aren't careful, the wither effect will kill you.
Get 4 soul sand. Then get to the overworld.
Make sure you spawn the wither away from your house. It will blow up a lot of things.
Spawn the wither in by placing the soul sand in a T-formation and the three wither heads on top.
Run for your life, the moment you place the last head. Once the wither's health bar is full, the terrain around it will blow up. Shoot it with a bow. Once it gets down to around half health, it becomes immune to bows. Smack it with your sword a few times to finish it off.
 After this, you've pretty much finished. There's not much you can do after this.

