 Measure 2.5 inches on all sides of the square. Using sharp scissors, cut two even 2.5 inch squares out of the poster board., Fold one of the squares in half from corner to corner to make a diagonal line across the middle. Use the fold as your guide to cut the square into two triangles.Keep one of the triangles and set the other aside.
 Place the square on your work surface so that it is in the shape of a diamond with the corners on the top, bottom and sides. Cut a strip of duct tape longer than the square from corner to corner. Line the bottom of the strip of tape along the center of diamond so the tape will cover the top half of the diamond. Press it gently in place., Pick up the diamond and cut the extra tape from each corner. Make the cut upward in a straight line from each corner so that the sticky side of the tape will match the shape of the top of the diamond with no excess overlapping the diamond when it is folded over., Take each side of the tape and fold the sticky side over the edge of the diamond. Press the tape gently onto the poster board and stick it to the back of the diamond so the top half is completely covered., Flip the diamond over and cover the other half with tape. Be sure to trim the tape so that all of the poster board is covered and no excess tape is leaving a sticky surface.
 Place the tape sticky side up on your work surface. Pick up the triangle you will be working with and line it up on the tape with the tip of the triangle at the top of the strip of tape and the bottom of the triangle slightly above the bottom edge of the tape. Press the triangle onto the tape., There should be a small amount of exposed sticky side of the tape under the bottom edge of your triangle. Fold this over the bottom edge and stick it the the triangle to create a clean, covered edge.
 Cut the tape away by making a straight sit from the corners of the triangle straight up. This should leave just enough tape to fold over without leaving any exposed stickiness.Do not fold the tape over the triangle. This will be folded over the diamond instead to create a pocket.
The uncovered portion of the triangle will be the inside of the pocket.
 Place the square on top of the triangle. With the back side of the square facing up, match one corner of the square to the top of your triangle. Fold the excess tape from the triangle over the square and press it gently to secure your square to your triangle., Open your book to the page you would like to mark and fit your triangle pocket over the corner of your pages. Close the book back up and you’re ready to come right back to that page later.