 You will only be able to apply to take the exams, if you pass all of the following eligibility standards:


You must be 18 or older.
You must have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber. This may be proven with wage stubs, tax returns and certifications by other master plumbers. Up to 3 years of that experience may be provided with proof of a qualifying degree. You should also have at least 1 year of experience as a foreman.
You must pass a criminal background check. Not all people with criminal records will be denied. This is at the discretion of the licensing board. You must submit your fingerprints.
You must be able to prove your financial stability. This may be provided with bank statements, FICO credit scores and/or tax returns. You will be required to show proof of a bond.
You must have both property damage insurance and public liability insurance. Although the amounts are determined by the board, they generally require that you have a bodily injury policy up to $100,000 and a property damage policy up to $25,000. You are required to provide worker's compensation insurance for all employees.;
, These 2 designations are available to Florida plumbers who pass the above qualifications in most places in Florida. The type of license can limit your ability to practice your trade.


If you only plan to practice plumbing in 1 small locale, then you may choose to become a registered plumbing contractor. You will need to contact your local licensing agency or clerk of court office to see if they offer this type of license. If they do, you will be required to take and pass a local competency examination in lieu of the state license exam.
If you want to be able to work on plumbing jobs throughout the state of Florida or in more than 1 locale, then you should apply to become a certified plumbing contractor. You will be required to take the state license examinations.
 These are separate applications on the Florida Department of Business & Professional Regulation website. If you do not meet all of the qualifications, such as financial stability or liability insurance, a partner or business may be able to provide these requirements.
 Go to myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cilb/apply/rf-new.html to apply for a registered plumbing contractor license. Go to myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cilb/apply/cf-new.html to apply for a certified plumbing contractor license.
 Fill out the application. Submit all required documentation that shows you meet the eligibility requirements.
 This fee will be between $209 and $354.
 Enclose your documentation and the application fee.
 Go to myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/servop/testing/documents/exam_applic_pack.pdf. You will find exam application dates and examination dates in this packet.
 These are usually given over the course of a 2 day period, in 4.5 hour segments. The cost of the exam is $135.
 You have 4 years from the date of your original application to pass the plumbing finance and trade examinations. You are not limited in the number of times you can take the exam.


Changes can be made to your original application during that 4 year period. You will need to fill out a Request for Change form and pay $20 for each change.

