 Ingrown hairs on the face happen more commonly in men after shaving. To help prevent this from occurring, avoid using any products that contain alcohol when you shave.Products that contain alcohol can dry and irritate your skin, which may lead to ingrown hairs.
Use a natural moisturizing shaving product based on plant oils or other hypoallergenic substances. This will decrease the chance that the product will irritate your skin and make acne worse.
 Another way you can prevent ingrown hairs from occurring is to use a very warm or hot washcloth to hydrate your face before shaving. The water will soften your facial skin and hair and make your facial hair easier to cut. If your hair is easier to cut, you will have less risk of irritating your facial skin, and a straight cut across the hair will decrease the risk of ingrown hair.Keep the warm to hot washcloth on your face for three to four minutes. If you need to keep adding hot water to keep it warm, do that.
You can also shave after you get out of a hot shower.
 Applying your shaving oil or cream the proper way can help soften the hair and get the hair ready to shave. The motions should be against the grain. This will ensure that the oil or cream gets to the base of the facial hair. You also should leave the cream on for a few minutes before shaving.Use light, gentle strokes while shaving, especially when shaving areas that have acne.
Make certain your razor has a sharp blade. Replace old razors often with a new razor blade or new razor as needed.
Moisturize your face after shaving using a natural moisturizer to avoid chemicals that may irritate your skin.
 Topical retinoids, low dose corticosteroids, topical antimicrobials, and alpha-hydroxy acids may help lessen the instances of ingrown hairs. You can also ask your doctor about topical eflornithine, which can slow the growth of facial hair.
 If you want to permanently remove the hair or if you have chronic ingrown hairs, consider laser hair removal. It is a quick treatment that works on short hair and can deliver permanent results. It can, however, also be costly, require multiple treatments, cause scarring or blistering, and be painful.Talk to your doctor or dermatologist about this possibility.


There are some at-home laser treatments on the market, but you may not want to experiment with these on your face, as you could cause damage without really realizing it. Leave the laser therapy to the professionals — your safety is work the extra cost.