 If possible, use a toothpick to poke a small hole or indentation into the bead before you bake it.


The indentation should be centered over the position you plan to drill a hole through.
This indentation can serve as a guide when you start drilling into the hardened, baked bead later.
If you forget to make the indentation before you bake the beads, you can still poke a hole into the bead just after it bakes, while the clay is still warm and partially soft. You will need to use a rigid metal pin or needle instead of a toothpick, however.
If you are working with polymer clay beads that were baked long ago and cannot create any indentation, consider at least marking the spot you want to drill a hole through with a pencil or marker.
 Since polymer clay is such a soft material, you should not use a power drill or power rotary tool to create a hole. All you need to use is an unpowered drill bit.


The drill bit should be about as small as the size of the desired hole. This means sticking with drill bits 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) or smaller.
Common drill bits should suffice. There is no need to use a harder bit material.
 Place the bead in a small patch of toy putty or poster putty so that it will remain still during the drilling process.


Alternatively, you can hold the bead with pliers or in between your fingers. Since you will not be using any power tools, it should be safe to hold the bead.
A small clamp could also be used, but it usually isn't necessary.
 Position the drill bit directly over the indentation. Use your fingers to twist through the bead, continuing at a steady pace until the bit pierces through the opposite side.The drill bit should be straight and perpendicular to the guiding indentation previously created on the surface of the bead.
Make sure that you are twisting the bit straight through the bead. Apply as little pressure as possible and avoid forcing the bit through the bead.
Alternatively, you can hold the bit still while twisting the bead onto it.
If you are unable to twist either the bit or the bead by hand, you could use a manual crank-style hand drill to ease the bit through. Do not use any power tools, however.
 After drilling a hole into the bead, remove the bit and examine the hole to make sure that it is complete and even.


At this point, the process is complete.

