 Make the house a shoe-free zone; removing shoes and socks at the door should become standard routine. This has the added benefit of keeping floors clean.;
, After about two weeks, they should be able to play around the neighborhood and visit their friends' houses barefoot without issue.


Most children who have worn shoes will initially run striking the ground heel first due to being accustomed to wearing rigid, over-padded shoes which have a downward tilt towards the toe. A couple weeks of barefoot running will correct their gait and encourage them them to land properly on the forefoot and balls of the feet.
For cleanliness, keeping a bucket of soap water and towel by the door is sufficient to keep your interior pristine. You will find bare feet are supremely dirt-resistant, and track in far less outdoor debris than shoes!

, After two months, you can try taking them on family hikes. Many trails exist in Germany and Switzerland for the express purpose of hiking barefoot. Taking along pair of thongs in the backpack for them in case you run across rough terrain would be a prudent measure., At this stage your child's feet will be tough enough for optimal performance on most surfaces, and you can start taking them on excursions to the store and library. Contrary to many public conceptions, there are no legal health standards against letting customers go barefoot.

Regardless of the "No shirt, No shoes, No service" signs, it has been observed that most people do not have a negative response to barefoot children. If it becomes an issue, carrying an extra pair of sandals wouldn't be amiss.
 If you homeschool and/or live in a warm climate, it's safe to donate the remaining pairs of shoes and socks at the end of six months.


If you deal with bad weather or need to send them to school with shoes, you'll want to hold onto some!
Some climates are in-conducive for allowing children go barefoot all year. In these instances, you may want to look into getting your child minimalist footwear, or loose fitting moccasins with flexible soles and lots of interior padding. Socks should be thick and warm, being neither too loose or too tight. Avoid synthetic material, and shoes with a rigid sole structure.
A good indicator of whether it's too cold for bare feet is the need for mittens. If your kids don't need gloves, chances are they won't need shoes! In areas averaging 60 degrees in winter, it's perfectly safe for children to go barefoot indefinitely.







