 A good way to learn about babies is to spend some time with one. If you know someone who has a baby, you can ask them to teach you how to care for them. This supervised visit will show you how to treat babies while letting you play with one at the same time. You might ask your friend or relative to teach you:


How to properly hold a baby.
How to give a baby a bottle.
How to play with babies.
 Babies cry for a number of reasons. They might have a wet diaper, or they may be hungry. While you should always try to satisfy the baby’s needs, sometimes it may seem as though the baby is crying for no reason. There are a few tricks you can try:


Swaddle the baby.
Hold the baby.
Give the baby a pacifier.
Make a shushing noise or use a white noise machine.You can ask other parents for their favorite tips or consult a baby care guide.
 Diapers are an essential part of baby care. If the baby is a newborn, you may even have to swaddle the baby. You can practice both skills on a doll before you have to change a real baby.


To swaddle, form a blanket in a diamond shape. Fold the top corner down to form a triangle, and lay the doll so that its shoulders are lined with the flat edge. Take one top corner, and bring it across the doll’s body to tuck under it. Take the bottom corner, and tuck it into the first tuck. With the last corner, bring it across the body, and tuck it in near the neck. Do not ever cover the baby’s face while swaddling.To change a diaper, remove the old diaper. Wipe off the doll with a baby wipe. Slide the diaper through the baby’s legs. Pull the diaper’s tape over the front of the diaper to secure it., While infants can become sick quickly, not every sniffle is an emergency. Knowing when to call the doctor is an important skill to develop. It can also help give you peace of mind when you are caring for the baby. Some things you might want to look out for include:


Red or bleeding umbilical cord area.
Change in appetite, such as refusing to eat for several feedings in a row.
Diarrhea.
Rash.
Eye discharge.
Instead of dribbling spit-up from their mouth, the baby may project vomit.
For babies younger than three months, call the doctor for any fever. For babies older than three months, call the doctor for a fever above 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38.9 degrees Celsius)., SIDS is a rare occurrence when a baby passes away with no explainable reason. While the causes are uncertain, there are certain things you can do to reduce the risk of SIDS. These include:


Place the baby on their back to sleep.
Do not smoke or let others smoke around the baby.
Check the baby to make sure they are not too hot or too cold while sleeping. If they are sweating or hot to the touch, remove some blankets.
Tuck in the blanket below their body. Make sure that the blanket is no higher than their shoulders. There should be no bedding or bedclothes on the baby’s head while they sleep.