 Ask at the seafood counter whether or not the scallops being sold are wet or dry. If they're wet, they've been treated with a chemical (sodium tripolyphosphate) that helps the scallops absorb moisture. Dry scallops haven't been treated so they're fresher, easier to sear, and have a sweeter, brinier taste.Avoid wet scallops since the chemical can make it hard to sear the scallops and the chemical leaves a fishy aftertaste.;
, If you're unable to talk with someone at the seafood counter and are purchasing pre-packaged scallops, you will still need to find out if the scallops are wet or dry. Most labels will clearly state if the scallops are wet or dry. But, if the label doesn't say, check the package for milky white liquid in the bottom. If you see this liquid and the scallops look opaque or really white, they're probably wet scallops.If you don't see any liquid and the scallops plump and clearer, they're most likely dry scallops.
 While some markets will remove the little flap of muscle that connects the scallop to its shell, others won't. Check over your muscles to make sure these little flaps are all removed since they can be tough. To remove the side muscle, simply pinch it and pull it away.You can throw away the side muscles or save them to make a fish stock. If you accidentally miss a side muscle, it's safe to eat.
 Take a paper towel and blot any excess moisture from the scallops. Season the scallops with a little salt before you're ready to start pan frying them. The salt can also help draw out extra moisture from the scallops.Try to get the scallops as dry as possible since this will help create a golden brown sear.
 Place the olive oil and butter in a nonstick pan over medium-high heat. The butter should melt slowly. If it sizzles, turn down the heat a little. As soon as you see the butter begin to smoke, your pan is ready for the scallops.You could also use a stainless steel or cast iron skillet. Your pan should be large enough to hold all of your scallops in a single layer. Extra space will also help excess moisture cook off.
 Place the scallops in the pan starting at the edge and working in a circle. Make sure that you give them a little room when you place them in the pan. Avoid moving them once you've set them in the pan.Starting with the scallops in the edge of the pan will help them cook evenly since the scallops closer to the pan will cook faster.
If you run out of room in your pan, simply pan fry the scallops in two batches.
 Let the scallops pan fry over medium-high heat for 1 1/2 minutes. Do not turn them or move them around while they're cooking or they won't sear properly. After 1 1/2 minutes, use tongs to gently flip them over and cook for another 1 1/2 minutes undisturbed.You don't need to check the scallops for browning while they're cooking. Checking frequently can actually prevent them from developing a golden brown crust.
 After a total of 3 minutes cooking time, your scallops should be done. They should have about 1/4 inch of crust on both sides and be opaque in the center. Serve them immediately with the rest of your meal (like salad greens or pasta).If you hold the scallops on low heat while you prepare the rest of your meal, they can become tough and rubbery. This is why it's important to have other parts of your meal prepared and ready to serve.

