 Someplace on your microfiber furniture, there should be a small tag with a letter or letters. This small code will explain how you are to clean your microfiber furniture.”W” means you must use a water-based solution.
”S” means you must use a solvent-based cleaner.
”S-W” means you can use either a water-based or solvent-based cleanser.
”X” means you can only use a vacuum. (No water or solvent-based cleansers of any kind).;
, If you are lucky enough to find a “W” tag on your microfiber furniture, you can use most cleaning solutions (or even soapy water). However, by and large, most pieces of microfiber furniture will bear an “S” tag. If you are not able to locate a tag on your furniture, you should treat this like an “S” tag to avoid damaging your microfiber., Once you have determined which types of cleansers are appropriate for your furniture, you can select the right product for you. Many of your options will be products you already have at home. Alternatively, store-bough cleansing solutions will be available at many grocery stores and home improvement stores.Water-based cleansers include: gentle soap, mild dish detergent, carpet cleaner, and upholstery shampoo
Solvent-based cleansers include: rubbing alcohol, clear alcohol like gin or vodka, and dry-cleaning solvents.
Once again, if you have an “X” tag, do not use water or solvent-based cleansers.
 The first step in cleaning your furniture is to remove particles, dirt, and hair using a vacuum. If your furniture has removable cushions, remove these and vacuum on all sides of them, as well as underneath. If you own pets or if your furniture is particularly dirty, you may need to go over it with a vacuum more than once.Use an upholstery attachment to lift out dirt as best you can.
If you do not have an upholstery attachment, you can use a dry bristle brush.
 Once you have selected the appropriate cleaning product for your furniture, it is a good idea to do a spot test to ensure that this product will not cause damage or stains.


Dab a bit of cleanser onto a sponge or washcloth, and apply it to an inconspicuous location.
Wait 15-20 minutes for this area to dry.
If there is no stain or spot, you can go ahead and use this product.
 Whether you will be using a solvent-based solution--like rubbing alcohol--or a water-based one--like dish soap and water--place this cleanser into a bottle with a spray top. Then, mist one area of your furniture piece., Select a sponge that is either light-colored or roughly the same color as your microfiber furniture to reduce color transfer when scrubbing. Using a vigorous motion, scrub the furniture where it has been misted. You should be able to see dirt and stains coming off onto the sponge. When you finish with one area, mist and repeat someplace else., If any wet spots remain after scrubbing your sofa, use a blow dryer to eliminate them. This will reduce any chance of stains on your furniture.Use the blow dryer on its lowest, coolest setting.
Hold the blow dryer 6” away from the fabric.
 In order for microfiber furniture to look its best, it needs to be “fluffed” after cleansing. Otherwise, this fabric can become dull and stiff.After your furniture is clean and dry, grab a dry bristle brush.
Rub the fabric in a circular motion all over the furniture.
You should be able to watch the fabric become fluffier and more attractive as you go!

, Once your sofa, chair, or ottoman is clean and dry, use a spray-on fabric protector to help keep it that way! These products are available at most grocery and home improvement stores.Holding the can upright, keep the nozzle about 6” away from the fabric.
Release the spray using a slow, sweeping motion. Allow to dry.
Add a second coat. Remember: two light coats are better than one heavy coat.
Reapply after every cleaning.

