 Make sure that when you work with acid the room is well-ventilated so that you don't get sick from the fumes. Also, you'll want to wear a pair of rubber gloves, a face mask, and eye protection. Muriatic acid is highly dangerous and could cause serious medical problems if you get it on your skin or inhale it.If you get the acid on your skin or eyes, flush it with water for at least 15 minutes before seeking professional medical attention.
If you inhale the acid, go outside to get fresh air before seeking medical help.
 This method is perfect for smaller chrome items but could damage other materials if they come in contact with the acid. If you can, make sure to detach the chrome from any plastic or any other materials that it's attached to before moving to the next step.
 You can purchase muriatic acid at most hardware and pool stores or online. Once you get the acid, carefully pour it into a plastic or glass container so that it's high enough to completely submerge your chrome.If you are using the acid to dull chrome rims, make sure to dilute it in a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part acid to prevent damaging your car's paint., Let the chrome sit in the acid for up to 30 minutes. During this time, you should see the chrome finish begin to dissolve off of the metal. Once it has sat in the acid, you can remove it with your hands as long as you're wearing rubber gloves., When you remove the chrome from the acid, it will have a film over it. While still wearing your gloves, use another pair of gloves like a rag to rub down the film. Do not use cotton to wipe down your chrome or the acid may destroy it., Place your chrome under your faucet and rinse it under cold water, until all of the acid has been completely removed. Dry down the wet piece of chrome with a rag once you're done rinsing. The chrome piece should now be duller., Once you completely rinse and dry down your chrome, it may still not be as dull as you want it to be. To remove the remaining shine, submerge your chrome back into the acid for another 30 minutes to an hour before rinsing and drying it off., Do not dispose of your acid by putting it down the drain because it can cause damage to your piping. To neutralize the acid, pour a one-pound (453.59 g) box of sodium bicarbonate and an equal proportion of cold water until the acid stops fizzing. Once the acid stops fizzing, you can pour it down the sink.Pour the water into the acid slowly to prevent splashback.

