 To start the look, find a space away from mirrors. Mirrors seem like they would be helpful to the process, as they allow you to see what you're doing. However, mirrors can actually provide more confusion. You will be watching mirror images of your hands, which can cause you to reach for the wrong strands of hair. It's easier to braid your hair without relying on a mirror for guidance., To start, comb out your hair gently to remove any tangles. Once your hair is smoothed and combed through, comb all your hair backwards and away from your forehead.If you have very long hair, drape it over your shoulder so you start with your hair all on one side.
 Reach to the crown of your head. Pull out a large chunk of hair. Separate this chunk into three sections of roughly even size. Hold the strands in place between your two hands.One strand should fall entirely in the right hand, another should fall entirely in the left hand, and the strand between them should be held by both your right and left hand.
 You start a French braid by braiding the first three sections you separated. Take the strand you're holding in your right hand. Cross this over the middle strand. The right strand is now your new middle strand. The middle strand is now the right strand., Take the strand you're holding in your left hand. Cross this strand over the middle strand.Be sure to cross your left strand over the middle strand that was once the right strand. Do not cross the left strand over the former middle strand.
 Pull on your strands to bring your braid together. This should tighten the knot-like structure you just crated. This will help keep your braid in place as you continue to French braid., Use your fingers to keep your hair separated into three different strands. Carefully transfer all three strands to your left hand. Make sure to keep them separate using your fingers even while holding them with one hand., Use your free right hand to gather a section of loose hair near your right ear. You are going to be incorporating new strands into your braid. This section should be the same size as the sections you're holding in your left hand., Use your right hand to pass the strand you just made into the current right strand. Push the sections together to make a bigger, thicker right strand., Use your right hand. Take the new right strand and pass it over the middle strand. Pull the braid slightly to secure., Take all your hair and transfer it to your right hand. Use your fingers to keep the sections separated into three distinct strands., On the left side, you will repeat this same process again. Make a new strand on the left side of your head. Incorporate it into your existing left strand. Pass this new left strand over the middle strand. Then, transfer your hair to your right hand.This is the start of a French braid. You will continue this pattern until you reach the end of your hair.

