 Cher's dress style was definitively preppy, polished, and clean.Luckily, the essential items for a good, preppy styled wardrobe haven't changed too much over the years. If you invest in them and wear them regularly, you'll have taken your first step in the right direction. These include:Feminine blouses
Opaque tights
Blazers
Thin sweaters
Feminine headbands
Mary Jane heels
Pearl jewelry and/or statement necklaces
Sheath dresses
Skirts in A-line, skater, or pencil cuts
Ballet flats
Stylish pea coats or cape-style coats
Patterned cardigans
Skinny belts
Skinny colored pants

, Cher had money, and if you listened to her talk, it was obvious that it mattered to her what brands she was buying. Some of the best-known preppy labels include Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren, and J. Crew.However, other high end fashion labels like Burberry, Versace, Gucci, and Chanel are also synonymous with quality design and high price tags. They would have been exactly the kind of thing that Cher would have bought.Because designer clothing can be very expensive, it may not be within everyone's means to shop these brands at full retail price. Try saving your money and buying during sales times and/or buying from upscale second-hand clothing stores.
 Plaid is a very preppy print. It's also a very Clueless print: 53 different plaid patterns were used throughout the course of the film. So whether it's your skirt, pants, blazer or blouse, you can't go wrong if it's plaid.Sometimes you can even find plaid accessories, like a phone case, headband, or even shoes.
Plaid comes in a variety of colors, as items for both men and women, and can be worn with anything from denim to tights or maxi skirts.A sharp, bright plaid pattern is a great way to help an otherwise boring outfit pop.
 Even if you can't invest in brand new clothing from designer labels or choose not to dress preppy, you should always try to look your best. If you watch Clueless, Cher never left her house looking sloppy, dirty, or messy. Keep your hair well-maintained, your makeup flawless, and your clothes clean and tailored to fit you.

