 The train derailing is a place where there a many train carts just sitting there. These are obvious places for campers, and snipers alike. They provide both cover and a somewhat invisibility check. Further on back are some barge-crates which again are ideal for campers, so if you go in this are(especially during Free-For-All) watch out for campers.;
, These buildings are filled with nifty yet hidden spots for snipers to hide so watch your back, and be sure to do a full clearing whenever you go up into one. For starters, there are three buildings all lined up in a triangle. The building that is at the point of the triangle, is greeting spot to be killed by snipers. Other than that, there is really nothing in there. The building that is on the right side, is the bigger building that features numerous ground coverage, along with offices that provide cover, and four different sniper spots. Along with a in-ground walk way to a building on the other team's side of the map, or your side. Depending on your starting position.Now the building on the left, has the most conflicts to occur in it that I've seen. It is the middle one in spaciousness, but it has two broken down cars, an office building(with a ladder leading up to what most lower leveled people do not know, is an upper deck to the building that can be probable position for snipers, and can also lead out onto the roof for a good sniping spot, and good viewing point for optional reasons.
 There is a hill that is also a very good sniping point to locate at, seeing is it is inflated tall weeds and a view split trees right down the middle, making this a breathing ground for snipers, but if one is blessed enough from the opposite team, they can get themselves quite a few kills if they get to the hill.
 There are also two silos that provide camping coverage and as well as running coverage. You can easily lose a tail chaser if you manage to weed through the silos.
 There are also some electric grids over on the far side, or west side, and they provide instant protection, and without resorting to a camper either, so you can freely hide behind these and not be a camper.
 There is also a little building that is near the train derailing where assault people tend to flock, and wait for enemies to run by on the walk path below. But be careful when you're in here, cause the walk way from the right hand side building leads into hear, and also people will shoot back from the walk path below, and the door is open behind you.
 Before the little building there is a small office, where there is not much cover, but it is dark and provides protection, unless one has the night-vision on.
 In the deep part, past the hill is a power plant that is seldom used, considering not many people hide behind there or ever go back there, except when first spawning and then never spawn back there.

