 This app resembles a tuft of grass atop a block of dirt.
 It's in the middle of the screen.

Minecraft PE will place your phone or tablet in landscape mode, meaning you'll need to hold it horizontally rather than vertically.
 This will load your last-saved position in the world.

You can also tap Create New near the top of this page and then tap Generate Random at the top of the following page to customize a new world's settings. You'll tap Play on the left side of the screen to launch this world.
 To build a fishing rod, you will first need to build a crafting table. The total list of resources needed is as follows:


Two blocks of wood - Chop two blocks from any tree trunk. You'll use these to create wooden planks, which you'll then use to make the crafting table and the sticks for the rod.

Two balls of string - Kill spiders. Spiders can typically be found in the shade or in caves, though they actively come out at night. If you choose to fight spiders at night, make sure you have a safe place to which you can retreat.
 To do so, tap ... in the bottom-right corner of the hotbar that's at the bottom of the screen., It's the multicolored box icon on the left side of the screen, just above the tab in the bottom-left corner., You'll see a wooden box icon on the left side of the page; this is the wooden plank icon. Tapping the 4 x button on the right side of the screen will create four wooden planks from one block of wood. All told, you should now have eight planks., It's the icon in the left side of the page that resembles the icon on the tab you're currently using., Doing so will create a crafting table and add it to your inventory., It's in the left-hand window., You should now have four sticks in your inventory; you only need three to create a fishing rod., It's in the top-left corner of the screen. Doing so will exit your inventory.

If you don't see the crafting table listed in the hotbar at the bottom of the screen, first tap the inventory tab in the bottom-left corner of the screen, then tap the crafting table icon to place it in your hotbar.
 It should be in your hotbar., Doing so will place the crafting table on the ground here., This will open the crafting table interface, from which you can select and create your fishing rod., It resembles a stick with string looped in front of it; you'll see this icon near the middle of the crafting table window., This button is on the right-hand side of the screen. Doing so will create your fishing pole and add it to your hotbar if there's room; otherwise, the fishing pole will be added to your inventory., It's a brown app with a green tuft of grass atop it., Make sure that the game you load is in Survival, not Creative.

You can also create a new game if need be. Make sure you're in Survival mode if you do so.
 To build a fishing rod, you will first need to build a crafting table. The total list of resources needed is as follows:


Two blocks of wood - Chop two blocks from any tree trunk. You'll use these to create wooden planks, which you'll then use to make the crafting table and the sticks for the rod.

Two balls of string - Kill spiders. Spiders, which drop string, can typically be found in the shade or in caves, though they actively come out at night. If you choose to fight spiders at night, make sure you have a safe place to which you can retreat.


If you've changed the default key bindings, you can press Esc, click Options, and then click Controls to review your computer's Minecraft controls.
 It's the two-by-two grid of squares in the top-right corner of the Inventory window., You should have a stack of two blocks of wood with which to do so.

If you chopped your two blocks of wood from two different types of trees, you'll have to turn these blocks into planks separately of one another.
 This icon will appear to the right of the quick crafting area once you drop the wood blocks in., Doing so will place each of your four planks in each box of the crafting area.

On Mac, you'll use two fingers to click if you're using your computer's track pad.
 It's to the right of the crafting area., It's the row of boxes at the bottom of the screen. This will place your crafting table in your hand.

You may have to scroll up or down with your mouse to select the table.
 This will close your inventory., Doing so will place it on the ground in front of you., This will open the crafting window., Simply click the stack of planks and then click any box in the bottom or middle row of the crafting table's interface to do so., This will halve your stack of planks and place the second half above the first, which will allow you to craft sticks., It's on the right side of the crafting area. You should now have sticks on your cursor., To do this, you'll right-click the bottom-left box in the crafting area, the middle box, and the top-right box. You should have a diagonal line of sticks after doing so., Doing so will select the string., To do this, you'll right-click the two empty boxes on the far-right side of the crafting grid., It's to the right of the crafting area. Doing this will craft your fishing pole and place it on your cursor., You can also click your hotbar to have it as an equippable item.,, Doing so will take you to Minecraft's main menu., This game must be in Survival mode.

You can also create a new world in the tab to the right of the current one.
 Doing this will load your game.

If you're creating a new world, instead select Create New World.
 To build a fishing rod, you will first need to build a crafting table. The total list of resources needed is as follows:


Two blocks of wood - Chop two blocks from any tree trunk. You'll use these to create wooden planks, which you'll then use to make the crafting table and the sticks for the rod.

Two balls of string - Kill spiders. Spiders, which drop string, can typically be found in the shade or in caves, though they actively come out at night. If you choose to fight spiders at night, make sure you have a safe place to which you can retreat.
 Doing this will open the crafting menu., Since the crafting menu will automatically load to the wooden plank option, doing this will craft eight wooden planks in total., The stick icon is one item right of the plank icon. Doing this will create four sticks, of which you need three for the fishing rod., It's three spaces over from the stick icon. You should now have a crafting table in your hotbar., Doing so will exit the crafting menu., You can select the crafting table by using your controller's shoulder buttons (the buttons above the triggers). Your crafting table should now be on the ground in front of you.

If your crafting table ends up in the inventory and not in your hotbar, first press Y or the triangle button, select the crafting table and press A or X, and move it to your hotbar.
 Doing so will open the crafting table interface., This will take you to the "Tools and Weapons" tab of the crafting table., It's six spaces to the right of the space on which you start when you open this tab., Doing so will craft your fishing pole and place it in your hotbar if there's room for it.

If there isn't room, your fishing pole will be placed in your inventory.

