 This will take away any sweat and oil that has built up over the night. It will also wake you up a bit more as well as give you a shine-free face for the morning. When washing your face, never use soap, unless it is specific soap for face washing. This is a mistake that many girls make. Normal soap that we use to wash our hands and body can irritate the pores on the face and help acne and pimples get started! When washing your face, use a special facial cleanser or even just water and a cloth, which will be enough to keep the loose skin, oil, and dirt to an acceptable level.

Don't worry about aggressively removing oil or other matter from the surface. Acne is a problem of excessive oil production and clogs within pores, not a problem of surface obstruction of pores.
Do not forget the sunscreen, whether summer or winter ,sunscreen is a must. Even in winter the sun's radiations affect your skin.So start young and you will age with great skin.;
, This is important especially if you have chapped lips, but even if you don't, it's still a good idea, just to keep your lips looking smooth and kissable., If you have dry skin on your hands, put some hand cream on in the morning. Just make sure that you don't put on too much, since it will make your hands oily and slippery., If your face gets really oily, buy some special tissues that remove excess oil on your face (available from Mary Kay as well as other companies). Don't wash your face during the day! (More on that later), First, cleanse your skin. Buy a facial cleanser. They help remove dirt, oil, and other pore-blockers. Most cleansers will both cleanse and exfoliate your skin, which are two steps in the '5 Steps to great skin'(more on that later as well)., For teenagers, this is something that can help you have beautiful skin if done right, or give you loads of acne if done wrong. Make sure when you're buying a facial moisturizer, that...

It's actually a facial moisturizer, and...
It's lightweight. Lightweight means that it's not heavy and oily, so it won't add to the oil on your skin or clog your pores. This is very important!

,, If your legs are dry from shaving them, moisturize them. The moisturizer you buy for your legs doesn't matter. Just don't use a lightweight moisturizer on them because it won't help. If your hands are dry, this is a great time to apply lots and lots of hand cream, since it has hours and hours to soak into your skin., You have a great skin care regime! Repeat from step 1 to 8 everyday for great-looking skin!

