 Schools and daycares notify parents if a child has head lice infestation. Begin to monitor your child's hair and clothing for lice.Under a bright light, use a fine tooth comb to comb through the hair for adult and nymph (baby) lice and their eggs (nits). Look for light brown, yellow, white, or tan seed-like objects.Pay special attention to the area around the ears, hairline, and nape of the neck. It is easier to spot nits in those areas. Itching in those areas can also be a symptom of lice.You may also find small red bumps or sores in the scalp.
Inspect your child's bedding, towels, and any clothes worn in the last two days for lice.Remind your child to avoid head-to-head contact and sharing of personal items.
Continue checking until the lice infestation at school is over.
 Clothing, bedding, and any other items the infested person wore two days before they began lice treatment should be washed in hot water and dried on high heat as well. Items can also be dry cleaned or sealed in plastic for two weeks.Vacuum the floor and furniture, especially where the person sat or lay. Lice survive less than one to two days once they fall of a person so vacuuming these items is enough.Stuffed animals should be put in the dryer on high setting.Note that lice do not live on pets., It is not necessary to keep your child home from school or daycare if another child has lice. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that healthy children should not be kept home from school if he or she has head lice infestation or if another child at the school has head lice infestation. It is completely safe for children to finish the school day, be treated for lice, and go back to school the next day.The AAP has encouraged schools to change their policies that ban children with head lice infestation from attending school. No child should miss school because of lice., Some over-the-counter hair products claim to repel lice. However, these products are usually not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, and the safety and effectiveness of them is unknown. It is better to use proven methods to prevent lice than use these products.Head lice prevention products are usually more expensive than typical hair products as well and need to be used repeatedly. This can end up becoming an expensive solution without any guarantee that these products will work.