 Before you close a secured credit card, you should make sure that you have rebuilt your credit to a place where you can borrow using unsecured cards. Generally to take out an unsecured line of credit, you need a baseline credit score of at least 650.If your score is above 700, you likely are qualified to use most credit cards available on the market.If your credit score is still below these levels, you should hold on to your secured card a bit longer before making a switch.


Many secured credit cards include your credit score on your monthly statement. You can use your statements to know when it’s a good time to switch.
If your secured credit card statement doesn’t include your credit score, you can get a free credit score and report from the three largest credit bureaus once a year. Make your credit score request at annualcreditreport.com.
If you’ve already checked your credit score from the agencies in the last year and still aren’t sure what your current score is, you are also entitled to a credit score report each time you apply for a new card. As a general rule, you will need about one year of good behavior on your secured card to rebuild your credit and take out an unsecured card.
 If you’ve made payments on time and limited the spending on your secured card, your lender will want to keep you as a customer once you are ready to switch to an unsecured card. You may be able to migrate your card from secured to unsecured, without having to do an application. Call the number on the back of your secured card, and ask about your options for converting your credit card.


Ask the bank about the specific details of the unsecured card you will use, such as the interest rate and whether or not there is an annual fee. You should also ask whether you can keep your same account number on your new card, so the good behavior on your secured card will stay on your credit history as long as possible. Ask your lender whether or not this is an option for your account.
Your bank may offer you the option of staying on a secured credit card and having a increased spending limit, so your spending can exceed your deposit. This is called a partially secured credit card, and may be a good option if your credit score is still too low to get an unsecured card. If you can qualify for an unsecured card, there is no reason to keep your savings tied up in a secured card.If your credit score is strong enough to move to an unsecured card, don’t be afraid to tell the bank that. Tell your lender that you plan to switch to an unsecured card whether through them or otherwise, and find out the very best solution the bank can provide.
 To set up a secured credit card you have to make a cash deposit of your credit limit to the lender. This ensures that the bank won’t lose the money you spend, and encourages the bank to lend to you when you have a low credit score. Once you’ve rebuilt your score and closed your account, you get your deposit back! The bank will probably hold your deposit an additional 30 – 90 days after you close your account, just to ensure that no additional charges come in after you close your account. After this period expires, the bank will pay you back your deposit, less any less fees or unpaid outstanding balance on your card.To get your deposit back as quickly as possible, you may need to bug your lender. When you call to close your account, you should ask for how long it will be until the bank returns your deposit, and how they will return it. Make sure the bank has an up to date address on file to send a check, or instruct them to deposit the funds in your checking or savings account, if you have on with that lender.If the bank gives you a new card to use on your unsecured account, wait until you have received the deposit on your secured card and then cut that card up and throw it away. This will make sure you don’t accidentally try to use the card.
 It is just as important to make payments on time and balance your spending on your new unsecured card as it was on the secured card. Remember to always make your payments on time, and never to use more than 1/3 of the amount you are approved for on your credit line. Your credit line isn't protected by a deposit anymore, so monitor your spending to make sure you don't end up with a large balance you can't pay off. This will ensure your credit score keeps improving.

