 Never carry your Social Security number card—memorize your Social Security number to reduce the risk of losing the card.Shred documents that contain your Social Security number when they are no longer needed. Store documents you must keep, such as tax returns, in a safe or secure file cabinet.
 If others ask you for your SSN, ask them the following questions. If the other party cannot answer these questions, do not give them your SSN.Why is my number needed?
How will my number be used?
What will happen if I refuse to give my number?
Will you share my Social Security number with others?
May I see your privacy policy?
How will my Social Security number be stored?

, Only the following entities are likely to require that you provide your social security number: If you have questions about why they have asked for your SSN, ask. You can also request to use an alternate identifier, such as your driver’s license number.Employers
Federal and State Tax Authorities such as the Internal Revenue Services or Franchise Tax Board
Banks, lenders and insurers
Other government-funded programs like workers’ compensation or unemployment insurance programs
Schools and medical providers

, Many people may try to “phish,” or fraudulently obtain, your SSN by phone or email. The best way to avoid these scams is to never open or respond to emails from people you do not know or recognize. Do not respond to emails requesting personal or sensitive information, such as SSNs. Reputable businesses and agencies will not ask for this information in an email.Unsolicited calls from businesses or agencies asking for your SSN or other sensitive information are usually scams. If you did not contact the company or individual who is calling you, do not give your information.
Emails from U.S. government offices, such as the IRS or the Social Security Administration, will come from an email address ending in .gov. These emails should always direct you to .gov web addresses. Do not click on links in emails claiming to be “official” that do not take you to a .gov web address.Phone calls or emails claiming to be from the IRS are always scams. These phishers will often threaten you with deportation, fines, or arrest if you do not provide your SSN and other information. Alternatively, they may say they need your SSN to provide a refund. This is not true. Never provide this information.Report all phishing attempts claiming to be from the IRS to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration via phone at 1-800-366-4484. You can also report IRS phishing online at the Treasury Department’s website.
You can also report these scams to the FTC using the same process outlined for reporting identity theft. The FTC links have options for scams.
 You are entitled to a free annual credit report. The only Federally authorized website for free credit reports is annualcreditreport.com.If you believe that your identity was stolen you should immediately order free credit reports.
Beware of other websites that claim to offer “free” credit reports, scores, or monitoring. In many cases, these websites only offer a free trial, and charge hefty subscription fees to your credit card to continue to service. These programs are often difficult to cancel., Use reputable anti-virus software programs (such as McAfee, Norton, and AVG) and install anti-malware software. Keep these programs updated. Update security patches for your software and operating systems. Make sure your anti-virus and firewall programs are active before accessing financial or business websites that may require you to share your SSN.


It is a good idea to password-protect your computer if you are using it in a public location, such as an office, school, or coffee shop. Lock your computer if you step away.
 If you need to share your Social Security number online for financial or business purposes, protect your identity! Look for websites that begin with https -- the “s” indicates that the website is secure. Online banks and retailers should always have HTTPS protocols in place.


Use a private, password-protected wireless internet network when you share sensitive data such as your SSN. Public wireless internet networks, even those protected with passwords such as coffee shop networks, are open to everyone. These public networks make it easy for cybercriminals to access your sensitive data. If you have to use a public connection make sure that you delete the history and cookies on the browser and quit the program once you finish.
The IRS or Social Security office will never email you to ask for personal information.Do not give out your SSN over email.
 Passwords and pin codes are easily stolen. Never use your SSN or other personal information, such as a birthdate or mother’s maiden name, as a password or pin code.Change passwords on your computer frequently. Do not re-use passwords.
 Storing documents that contain your SSN on your computer, phone, or cloud storage could expose them to theft.If you must store these files, encrypt them or protect them with a password.
 You can file a fraud alert with your credit reporting company (TransUnion, Equifax, or Experian) for free.You may also wish to consider investing in an identity theft protection service. These services charge fees and can help you expedite the process of preventing, reporting, and stopping identity theft. They may also offer services such as reimbursement and legal representation.