 If you have an adult travel partner, then split up the various aspects of planning and preparation. One of you can handle creating packing lists. The other can start contacting hotels and looking into entertainment options. If you are the only adult travelling, then create a to-do list of all items to complete pre-trip.In this early planning phase, you may want to visit the Family Travel Association website. This free site provides tips and guidance for how to safely travel with an extended family.;
, It is best to start off slowly when travelling as a family. If possible, create a list of all of the destinations that you are interested in and visit the easiest ones first. This usually means going to locations where they speak the same language as you and your family. You may also want to prioritize the comfort of your children, which can eliminate some nature-based trips.If you are taking a trip that focuses on a hobby, such as surfing, just make sure that the location offers age-appropriate options for your children as well., Think about what your kids like and dislike, what they enjoy and what they avoid. Pay attention to their personalities as well. If your child is more shy and reserved, then a trip that pushes their boundaries too much could backfire. If your child loves learning new languages, then going outside your native language could work well., If you will travel with a baby, then look into a quality baby carrier, sling, or backpack. You may also want to get a lightweight collapsible stroller. For safety, you may also want a good car seat to use on the airplane and in cars as well. A fabric high chair and collapsible crib are other items you can consider.Be aware that some car rental agencies can offer car seats, but the quality and condition of these seats can vary widely. Make sure to get more details before travelling., Go the CDC or NHS website for an updated list of suggested vaccines. The recommendations and requirements will vary according to your country of destination. Make sure to check these lists well in advance, as it can take months to get all of the required vaccines in some situations.If you are in a rush, you may want to consider going to a travel clinic in your area. It is also generally a good idea to get the vaccinations listed in both the required and recommended categories.Make sure to carry copies of the official vaccination records for all of your children when travelling. This will help you to avoid any issues with entry or exit into your destination and origin countries., As you start to consider your trip, take a look at your passports. It is a good idea to travel with passports that are valid for at least three months after your return. You may also need passports for all of your children, including infants, so check the age restrictions for your origin and destination countries. If you need new passports, make sure to apply for these months in advance.Make sure to carry paper copies of your family’s passports with you. It is also a good idea to scan your passports or other identifying documents and attach them to an email to yourself prior to leaving.Child kidnapping is a significant world problem and many countries will restrict the movement of families without the correct documentation. Get a notarized letter with both parents' signatures showing that you are okay to travel with your children for the dates of the trip., You will naturally move slower when you travel as a family, so to lessen the burden on your back and to keep yourself moving, minimize the number and weight of your bags. Forego the heavy strollers and opt for the light collapsible ones. Plan to do laundry on the trip. Don’t pack duplicate clothing items unless absolutely necessary.It can be tempting to add a number of items in the period right before you walk out the door. Resist this urge by creating a final packing list and following it carefully.Pack your carry-on bags with enough clothing for a few days in case your other luggage gets lost. This is especially important when it comes to kid-friendly necessities, such as diapers.