 From grocery shopping to picking up dry cleaning to getting the car washed, chances are that you run a lot of errands during the work week. Make a list of all these customary after-work assignments, as well as those specific to the current week, such as shopping for a birthday gift or purchasing window treatments for the living room. Then, make a note of where you need to go to complete each errand and how much time it will take.


Keeping distance from your home and between each errand in mind, group together as many errands as you think you can do in a day. If there’s more than a day’s worth, split up the errands into Saturday and Sunday to-do lists.
 Before you run to the grocery store, take care of any other purchases at specialty stores or general merchandise retailers. That way you won’t have refrigerated goods in your car while you’re trying to run into Target or pick up some special ingredients for your stir fry.
 Instead of running to the bank every lunch time or after work, take care of all your banking needs at once. Calculate how much cash you’ll need through Friday and withdraw it all at once, and gather together all checks which you need to deposit so you can do it at the same time. This will save you cash withdrawal fees and precious minutes from your day, as well as help you stay on top of your spending and budget.


Many banks offer mobile apps you can download onto your smartphone. You can’t withdraw cash from them, but you can deposit checks, check your balance, transfer money, and pay bills, saving you some valuable time at the end of the week., In order to get grocery shopping done for the whole week, you’ll need to make a detailed plan of what you’re going to eat each day. Write down the meal as well as any ingredients you need to purchase, and all ingredients you already have.


There are many free or low-cost meal planning mobile apps, such as Yummly, Anylist, and Pepperplate, so take advantage of these resources if you’re feeling overwhelmed with thinking about your meals ahead of time.In order to make your shopping trip more efficient, cluster your ingredients into helpful categories, such as produce, meat, spices, and dairy. You can even use a grocery list mobile app, such as Anylist or Paprika, if you don't want to make your own., Purchasing a week’s worth of groceries rather than stopping into the market on an ad hoc basis can save you valuable time during the work week. It can even help you stick to a healthy and balanced diet. So, once you’ve got your meals and required ingredients listed, purchase them at your local shop or superstore and stock them in your cupboards and refrigerator.


Buying in bulk can make your shopping trip easier as well as more affordable, so consider visiting a warehouse club for items such as toilet paper, rice, cereal, and oats.This can be a more difficult task if you don’t own a car, but it’s not necessarily impossible! If you live within walking distance to a market, buy a folding wheeled cart that you can use to haul your groceries home from the store. If you need to take some form of transport to the store, consider taking the bus there and then getting a taxi or ride-sharing service on the way home.

