 Try to beat the level as fast as possible. Depending on if it's a 2D or 3D stage, you may have to go for a certain possible time record.


If it's a 3D stage, then aim for two to four minutes (depending on how long the stage is, of course). If it's a 2D stage or an extremely short stage, aim for thirty seconds to over a minute.
Remember that dying multiple times and starting from a check-point does not reset the timer and only adds up to the amount of time you wasted dying in the level.;
, Earning a lot of points to get a better score also improves your rank tremendously, as getting a simple fast time alone won't get you an S rank (unless you can beat the level beyond the recommended time records). To gain points, you can beat enemies, do combo attacks, take grinding rails, drift properly...pretty much anything you do required to beat a level can get you points.


Remember to also earn as many bonus points as possible by Color Wisps, finding Red Star Rings, or performing Quick Steps. Whenever you earn bonus points, the upper right corner of the screen will tell you in blue letters.
 Collect as many rings as possible and bring them to the end of the level with you to score a perfect S rank. If you acquire many rings but lose them before reaching the end, you will not get points for that. Do not hesitate to collect any rings and don't worry about wasting time collecting them, as it will make up for your slow time. Make sure to avoid losing rings from enemies, hazards, or even death.


As long as you get at least over 100 rings, you should do fine and achieve an S rank.
 Make sure that you do not lose any lives at all when beating the level. You must be perfect in every way, so losing even one life will drop your rank from S to an A (not that A rank is bad or anything). Avoid losing your lives (even one) by passing check-points, avoiding bottomless pits, having rings at all times, knowing how to overcome hazards and obstacles, defeating enemies, and speed-boosting.


Try to avoid getting hit as well as losing lives. Getting hit not only shows how much you suck at the level, but also makes you lose rings and precious ring points (that later add up to your score at the results screen).
 This is the most important thing to do in any video game in general to become good. Try to find alternate routes, collect hidden goodies, use expert techniques for the right situation, destroy all enemies, and so on.


You should also try practicing and training in older levels by repeatedly playing them again and again to get better at the game. Backtracking is one of the most important things to do to increase your skill level in any video game.
 Completing all the levels in Sonic Simulator (which can be unlocked via Red Star Rings) will unlock all 7 Chaos Emeralds. This leads to Super Sonic, which can get you an S rank in the normal levels just by activating and staying in that form alone!

