 When an employee you supervise brings an ethical issue to your attention, you have the moral and professional obligation to hear what that employee has to say.


If the employee explains the issue to you verbally, request a formal written report. The additional paperwork might seem like a pain, but it should help protect everyone involved, including both you and the whistle-blower.
Do not allow your personal and professional relationships with the involved parties affect your judgment. You may think well of the person being reported and poorly of the person doing the reporting, and your instinct might be right when all is said and done. Until you straighten things out, though, you need to treat the complaint as potentially valid and act accordingly.
 After receiving the initial report, you need to collect all of the facts from scratch. Don't take anything for granted.


Talk with other employees who might have information to share. Review written reports, computer records, and security footage associated that may shed light on the issue.
If your company has a department dedicated to addressing matters like these, make sure that the department is informed. You'll need to work directly with that department during the investigation.
 Ask yourself which people are directly involved and which are indirectly affected. You will need to concern yourself with both groups when taking corrective action.


From your perspective, the parties directly involved will include both the employee who reported the issue and the employee or employees mentioned in the report.
Parties indirectly affected can include other employees, other supervisors, customers, stockholders, and more. Even though these persons have no control over the issue, you will still need to keep their needs and standpoint in mind.
 Draw a definite conclusion on which ethical principles have been violated. In some instances, there might be more than one principle involved.


If your investigation proved the initial report true, you'll need to evaluate the actions of those reported. Possible ethical violations could include, among others, violations of power, respect, honesty, professional competence, or integrity.
If your investigation proved the initial report false, you need to evaluate the actions of the reporter. Ask yourself if the report was made in honest error or if the reporter violated the ethics of honesty and respect by making false accusations.
 Think of different ways to solve the ethical violations committed. Keep in mind that solutions need to address both short-term and long-term needs.


Evaluate your options based on how well they actually address the issue and how well they fit into any internal procedures already established by the company.
Try to predict any consequences that will result from each of your options. Consequences can be good, bad, or a mixture of both. When choosing which option or options you'll implement, choose those that have the greatest positive consequences and least significant negative consequences.
 Depending on the overall nature of the issue, you might need to ask for support within the company or outside of the company.


Support within the company can come from your own supervisor (when applicable), human resources, or other departments you work with closely.
Support from outside the company can come in the form of ethics experts. Lawyers and legal authorities—like the police—may need to be contacted if the ethics violation was also illegal, but for less severe matters, an ethics expert might be a counselor or adviser., Short-term solutions will usually require you to sit down with the parties directly involved. Depending on the circumstances, you may need to meet with each party separately or meet with them together in conference.


When an ethics violation was reported in confidence by an external party, you will need to meet separately to protect the identify of the reporting party.
If the violation itself involved multiple conflicting parties, you may need to sit down with all parties in conflict at the same time.
Take appropriate disciplinary measures. Those who violated an ethical principle should be disciplined for it. Make sure that the consequence fits the severity of the violation, though.
Offer counseling and support. If the incident caused trauma or other difficulties to one or more parties, find out from them what sort of support they need to heal.
 Oftentimes, ongoing ethical issues or those that affected a large group of people will result in the implementation of ethics training.


The specifics will vary from situation to situation, but overall, you should aim to make sure that each current and new employee is aware of the ethical issue and how it should be handled.

