 Before you can know how much money you’re going to need to save up for a car, you have to decide on a few things. Figure out if you want a new or used car, and what kind of car you want based on what you'll primarily use it for, as that will also affect price. You can either decide on the exact make and model right away or leave those specifics for later, as you may change your mind. However, you should choose the type by asking yourself:


Do you want an eco-friendly car, something more compact, or larger like an SUV?
Do you want a car that's fast with a big engine, or gets great gas mileage?
What are some features you want and will enjoy, and how important are safety features?
Are you just going to and from work or school? Do you plan on taking road trips? Maybe you need a vehicle that has plenty of space to haul things around in. Knowing the answers to these questions will make saving up for a car much easier.;
, There are several different ways to purchase a car like buying it in full, leasing it, or financing it. Before you know how much money you'll need to save up, you should decide what kind payment method suits you best.If you have good credit you can get a personal loan from an institution like a bank.
Hire purchase is another option that's like getting a loan, but it comes from the dealer. You usually have to put down between 10% to 20% for a deposit and then make monthly payments until you pay off the rest of the vehicle.
You can also lease the car which means you make monthly payments on the vehicle for a set duration of time., Now that you know what type of car you want it’s time to calculate how much you’ll feel comfortable spending on your vehicle; whether you’re making monthly payments, or trying to save up to buy your car in one lump sum.
 Knowing exactly how much money you make each month and how much you spend will give you a great idea of what you can do without, and how long it will take you to save.


There are plenty of online tools, like this one which will help you figure how much money you’re working with.
Research other finances you’ll need, remember that you’re not just saving up for a car, you’re also saving up for the insurance and tax. It’s also a good idea to have a little leftover for any repairs, especially if you’re buying used., Having a date to look forward to will help you manage your monthly budget and give you an incentive to stay honest in saving and budgeting.


Perhaps you need the car by a certain date. Maybe you’re going away to college or university, or moving to a new city, or you got a job that requires you to drive more; having a date in mind will help to make saving up for a car a top priority and keep you from spending on things you don’t need.
 If you do this already, you’re a step ahead! Whether you use a notebook, or an app on your phone or computer, jot down everything you purchase from food, to clothes, to bills.


This will give you a very clear idea of everything you buy, and show you what you’re spending money on that you don’t need. Maybe you go out to eat several times a week. You’ll quickly get an idea of how much you can save for your car when you see what the unnecessary expenses are.
 Now that you have an idea of what your income is versus your expenses and when you want the car, you can create a schedule that will help you start saving right away.



Tell your bank what you’re saving up for and they can help you find the best type of savings account for your needs.
 Sometimes the old methods are the best. Having a savings account is great for paychecks, but you need somewhere to put your extra change as well.


You’d be surprised how much money you can save up with spare change. Whenever you use cash, take the change and put it in your change jar.
 Now that you know how much you need to be saving, make it easy on yourself and put a percentage of each paycheck directly into your savings.


If you have direct deposit this can be automated by telling your payroll department to put a portion of your paycheck into your savings instead of putting it all into your checking account.
 Not spending on what you don’t need can be hard, especially when it means you can’t go out with your friends, but by sticking to your plan and your budget you’ll be able to save up for a car much faster and you’ll feel better in the long run.


Stay motivated and keep encouraging yourself to save by printing out a picture of the car you want and putting it in your wallet. This way every time you go to buy something you'll remember what you're saving up for.
Make a playlist of your favorite driving songs and keep your eye on the prize by not listening to it until you get your car.
If you really want to encourage yourself to save, try walking places. See how much longer it takes you to get somewhere, and the next time you're tempted to purchase something you don't need you'll remember how inconvenient it was to have to walk.
 It may not be as glamorous, but buying generic will save you money quickly, and using coupons is a great way to get what you need at a good deal.
 This part is a bit less about actually saving for a car and more about helping you save. Even if you know what kind of car you want, and how much you need to save, it’s nice to keep tabs on deals from different dealerships and see what your best financing options are.
 Actually go look at the vehicle you’re saving up for. Seeing it in person will make it more tangible and give you the motivation to stay diligent in your saving.


Take it for a test drive. Actually experience what it feels like to drive the car. This will not only help you to know if this is truly the car for you, but it will also help you to keep from unnecessary spending. When you’re tempted to buy that new outfit, or go out to eat, remember how you felt driving your car.
 Find several dealers around town who offer the make and model you’re looking for and get a quote. Be honest with them that you’re shopping around and that you've have been talking to other dealers to get the best price. Dealers want to sell their cars and if they know there’s competition you can find a great quote.


Don’t let a lower quote affect your savings plan. You might find a cheaper deal on the car you want, but that doesn't mean you should save less. Any extra money you save will ensure everything goes smoothly.
Having some extra cash will allow you to make a larger down payment. Prepare you for any possible repairs, or even buy you those first couple tanks of gas.
 There are several ways to not only calculate expenses but to also help you with getting a great deal and knowing what your best options are.


Some sites have plenty of other helpful tips to ensure that once you’ve done all that hard work of saving, you get the great car you deserve.
 Saving up for a car doesn’t just have to come from only spending less money.


Hold a yard or garage sale to sell old clothes, items, and furniture you don’t need or use anymore.
You can also sell old electronics on eBay for some quick cash.
 Tell your manager that you're saving up for a car and would like to get more hours. Or, offer to cover any shifts that your coworkers have conflicts with.
 If you have a job that pays you a salary, or you don’t get enough hours at your current job, consider getting a second job. This won’t be the most fun way to spend your time, but it will make saving for a car easier and faster, and you’ll thank yourself for all of your hard work when you’re behind the wheel of your new car.


If you’re a teen trying to save for a car, ask your parents or your neighbors if there's any extra work for you. Do some babysitting, dog walking, or even yard work.

