 Try something you wouldn't normally read – experiment with genre fiction like sci-fi, romance, horror, mysteries, or thrillers. Magazines are also entertaining, and will keep you up-to-date on the current happenings in the world.


Ask your friends and family for suggestions. Read their favorite book, and maybe you'll understand them a little better.
Humorous books are a great idea – laughter will help keep your spirits up.
 Playing games on your phone, tablet, or GameBoy will provide great entertainment for hours. Try different games than you usually play – you might find some new favorites.
 Music is one of the best ways to get in touch with your inner self. Crank up the volume on your headphones and indulge in your favorite bands. It will make you feel more centered, calm, and confident., The occasional movie or TV show is a good way to entertain yourself when you're stuck in bed. You can watch the TV in your room, or stream shows on your laptop. Try not to watch TV all day, though, or you may wind up feeling tired and frustrated.


If your room has wi-fi, plug a streaming stick into the TV's HDMI port and binge-watch a whole season of a favorite show. You can plug headphones into a Roku remote, which is nice if you are sharing a room.
Watch interesting documentaries about subjects you want to learn more about. It will give you things to talk about, when visitors stop by.
Google lists by film critics, of classic movies that everyone should see at least once. You might discover a new all-time favorite.
 There are podcasts on any subject you can imagine, and a lot of subjects you hadn't even thought of. Google podcast recommendations, and try a few new titles each week. Listening is an entertaining way to pass time, and you might pick up a new interest or hobby.


Podcasts are also good to listen to while you do something with your hands, like knitting or drawing.
 Try learning new hobbies or crafts that you can do in the hospital. Perhaps you could try something new that challenges you a bit, if you feel able. Pick up a simple hobby such as drawing or knitting. Try to pick a hobby that does not require much physical activity; after all, you don't want to injure yourself in the hospital.

