 Acting is an art and a craft that requires lots of skill and technique, and classes are a great place to learn the basics. There are also acting camps that you can go to in some cities, and these will dedicate even more time to teaching you how to be an actor. Acting classes are also beneficial for children who want to get into film acting, because they look good on a resume and are a good place to network.In class, you'll learn things like how to:Be confident and overcome shyness and stage fright
Project your voice and have a good stage presence
See things from different perspectives so you can bring characters to life;
, Like with any job, actors need to have a resume that highlights their acting experience and capabilities. You can gain this experience from drama clubs, community theater, school productions, dinner theaters, and even church productions.Many of these sources put on multiple plays every year, so check back often to see if they are auditioning for roles. Even if there's nothing available in terms of acting roles, you can always get involved by joining the crew.
You can also get experience and get comfortable on the stage by taking part in improvisation nights, talent shows, and open mic nights in your city.
 There are a number of ways that acting for film is different from theater and other kinds of acting. To become a successful film actor, you need to learn and practice the different skills that are unique to the craft.


Whereas some actors get stage fright, others freeze up in front of the camera. Getting comfortable working in front of the camera will take some time, but just remember that the producer, director, and fellow actors are your live audience. Try to focus on them instead of the camera.
With film acting, there's a delicate balance between making sure the camera captures your body language and facial expressions while also acting naturally and as though the camera weren't there.
Your interactions and dialogues with other actors also need to be as natural as possible. Practice this by rehearsing various roles, characters, and dialogues with friends and colleagues in your time off.Because most film making means taking multiple cuts for each scene, you also have to be patient and have the stamina to consistently deliver excellent performances, even when you're re-shooting the same scene for the twentieth time., There's nobody better than an experienced actor to help set you on the right path, because this person has already experienced exactly what you're going through. Ask around at your community theater or drama club to see if there are any established actors who might take you under their wing.Mentors can give you pointers, introduce you to others in the industry, teach you tricks of the trade, give advice about where to find roles, and help you hone your craft.
 When you major in acting, drama, or theater at college or university, you'll get a performance-based education that teaches you about the history, techniques, and theories of different acting types. Post-secondary education in acting can help you get a job because it:Gives you hours of rehearsal and performance time
Teaches you how to make characters your own
Teaches you how to research to make roles authentic
Shows your dedication and patience
Can help you find connections in the business
Can make you a better actor

, It’s not always possible to jump into the entertainment industry and get a job as an actor right away. Many of the famous actors out there today got their start by working in the industry and on-set doing things other than acting.


Apply for jobs doing stunts, on the crew, or as a prop person.Look for full-time jobs, internships, mentorship programs, and apprenticeships in the entertainment industry.You can also look for administrative and assistant positions at production companies.
 Sometimes your connections in the industry can be just as important as any talent that you have, so the more people you know, the easier it will be to get an acting job. Ways to meet people include:Through work
At parties and social events
At auditions, on sets, and in acting classes
Through social media

, The two main film centers in North America are Los Angeles and New York, and thousands of films are shot in these cities every year.Thanks to the number of films being produced in these cities, you'll have a much better chance of getting an acting job here than in a small town where films are never made.


Other cities in the U.S. where lots of movies are filmed include New Orleans, Albuquerque, Pittsburgh, Austin, Atlanta, and Boston.Canadian cities that are popular filming and production locations include Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal.A few international movie cities are Paris, Prague, Madrid, London, Barcelona, and Sydney. India and Nigeria are also huge producers of movies, and plenty of films are shot on location in Morocco., Because acting is such a physical and appearance-based profession, it’s important for actors to have headshots available when they're trying to get a casting call or make new connections.


Headshots are eight-by-10-inch photographs of the head and bust. You should spend the money to have them done by a professional photographer, and you should be well-dressed, kempt, and look professional when you have them done.Once you have your headshots, always staple one to your resume and give it to the casting director any time you audition for a part.
 Having an agent isn't strictly necessary to land roles, but an agent’s sole job is to help you find work, and this can facilitate you finding your first few gigs.


Check online to see if there are agents in your area taking on new clients. Just be careful about the agency you join. Agents make money when they find gigs for clients, so don’t accept help from someone who wants a membership fee., Extras are the background actors in movies, so they don’t usually have speaking parts. However, it’s sometimes a paying gig and it can get you exposure, and there are famous actors out there who were discovered while working as extras.


To find work as an extra, check publications, casting calls, newspapers, and the internet to see if there are any nearby movies being filmed that require help., If you live in a smaller town rather than a major movie production hub, there's always a chance that your city will be chosen as the filming location for a big movie. Otherwise, look for art houses, colleges, and other production studios nearby that might require actors from time to time, and audition any time there's an opportunity.


To find out about possible roles, check local and community papers, bulletins, theaters, and colleges.If a large production does happen to be filming in your city, contact the casting company to ask about auditions for parts or extras., Auditions are tough and nerve-racking, but unless you're a big-name actor, it’s usually the only way you'll get a part. Like everything, auditions take practice, and the more you do, the easier it will be to make a good impression when you're auditioning for bigger roles.


Audition for any role you can, no matter how small the part or how low-budget the film. It doesn’t matter if you don’t want the part—audition practice is invaluable, and the role could end up being a good opportunity.
When you go for the audition be prepared by knowing your lines, scenes, the basic storyline, and the character you're playing., When you're first getting started in the acting industry and haven't yet made any sort of name for yourself, you need all the exposure you can get. This means taking on any acting job you can get, no matter how silly, low-budget, or unsuccessful the movie is.


The more auditions you do the more roles you'll get, and the more parts you have, the more likely it is that you'll get noticed and be given more opportunities as an actor.