 Before a union can file a petition with the NLRB, it must show sufficient interest in unionization among workers in a designated group. At this point, you potentially have the most power to persuade your coworkers that unionization is not appropriate in your workplace.The union must specify the group of workers, or unit, it will represent. An appropriate unit is a group of workers who share similar interests and generally perform the same work.
Depending on the size of your workplace, there may be several potential units – but you would only belong to one unit. The unionization of other groups of workers in your workplace has no direct effect on you, since that union doesn't represent you.
If the union cannot get a substantial number of employees interested in unionization, it typically won't be granted authority by the NLRB to hold an election. You can stop unionization before it even starts by convincing your coworkers that unionization is not in their best interests.
Point out the costs of the union to employees. In addition to regular dues employees will be forced to pay, strikes can result in significant wage loss that you can't do anything about as a worker in a unionized workplace.
Workers face other costs in terms of a loss of individuality and loss of control over their own relationship with their employer. Since promotions in unionized shops typically are based on seniority, workers will lose the ability to rise in the workplace by virtue of their own hard work.;
, If your coworkers are interested in unionizing, their first step is to gather signatures on a petition, which they will submit to the NLRB. The NLRB cannot conduct an election to certify a representative unless a petition is filed requesting one.The NLRA doesn't specify a number of signatures required, but it must be a substantial number of employees that are interested in unionization and want to hold an election to certify a representative.
If you don't want your workplace to be unionized, don't sign this petition. You also should encourage your coworkers not to sign the petition. Tell your coworkers that the union will cost them money, and they will lose the ability to bargain with your employer individually for better wages or hours.
You can also point out the costs to each employee that will begin from the moment the NLRB approves an election.
 A union can gain certification by having employees sign authorization cards stating that the person who signed the card authorizes the union to be his or her representative.The union can be certified if the union gets a majority of their coworkers, or 50 percent plus one person, to sign authorization cards.
In other words, if there are 500 workers in the group seeking unionization, the union must get signed authorization cards from 251 workers.
Keep in mind that pro-union workers typically approach their coworkers one on one to request signatures on authorization cards, so you may be asked more than once.
If you don't want your workplace to be unionized, don't sign one of these cards. You also may want to talk to your coworkers and attempt to convince others not to sign authorization cards.
Point out to your coworkers that a secret election would be preferable to union recognition by authorization cards. Particularly if the union is pressuring your fellow workers to sign cards, you might mention that these pressure tactics indicate how little respect the union has for the free will of workers to make their own decisions and control their own relationship with their employer.
Even if one of your coworkers has already signed an authorization card, he or she can sign a letter, card, or other document rescinding that authorization.
If the union gathers authorization cards from a majority of the workers in the group, it can present these cards to your employer and ask your employer to voluntarily recognize the union. If your employer refuses to voluntarily recognize union representation on the basis of the cards, the union will petition the NLRB to conduct a secret election.
 Write down your specific points or arguments against unionization and provide blanks for coworkers to sign your petition. You have the right to circulate this petition among your coworkers and submit it to your employer, union officials, or the NLRB.If you get significant support on your petition, you might consider holding a meeting or rally with anti-union coworkers. Your meeting would help everyone get on the same page with their arguments against unionization.
In your petition, point out that unionizing would cost employees money directly out of their pockets, as well as decreasing flexibility and control over their jobs and their livelihoods.
You might also want to reach out to any nearby workers in your industry who have successfully fought the unionization of their workplace. Invite them to speak at your workplace or get tips on how to combat unionization.
Keep in mind that any activity to campaign against unionization must be done on non-work time, such as during breaks, and in non-work areas such as break rooms or the parking lot.
National organizations such as the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation have websites with resources on your rights, and on fighting unionization in your workplace.
 The other method of having a union certified is a secret election. The NLRB will hold an election in which each employee in the group has the opportunity to vote for or against unionization.You may have multiple options, depending on whether multiple unions are competing to be the representative of your group.
Generally, you have the choice of either choosing a named union as your representative, or choosing "no representation."
If you vote "no representation," this means you do not want unionization.
If more than 50 percent of the workers in your designated group vote "no representation," your workplace will not be unionized.
However, if 50 percent of the workers in your group vote for the union, the union automatically will become your exclusive representative in collective bargaining.
While you don't have to become a member of the union, you still are represented by it and cannot negotiate individually with your employer regarding employment issues such as wages, hours, and working conditions.

