 Before running the race first you must understand the rules.


The 3200M relay has one of the biggest groups of runners in a track meet.
Just like a 400 meter relay runners start in the same place, the starting triangles are usually blue, yellow or white. After the first runner completes the first lap the official puts the next set of runners in order by place, such as first or second.;
, Decide the order in which you and your teammates will be running. The best way to decide on this is:


1st runner (1st Leg) -2nd fastest runner
2nd runner-(2nd Leg) -4th fastest runner
3rd runner (3rd Leg) -3rd fastest runner
4th runner (Anchor) -1st fastest

, The 4x800 relay is usually the first race in a traditional track meet. With that being said, it is important that you and your teammates begin to get your bodies ready for the race, you can do this by.


Running 1-2 laps around the track
Stretching arms and legs
Practicing baton hand offs between team members
Hydrate (water, Gatorade, etc.)

, Before the race begins the officials will call for all 4x800 teams.


If you or any of the other runners on your team miss the first call don’t worry, the official will call for teams 2-3 times before the race begins.
After all of the teams are gathered the official will assign each team a lane number, usually lanes 1-8.
The number you are given will determine the lane number in which the 1st leg runner will start in.
 This step is simply for the first leg of the relay race.


It is important to understand that when you are the first leg of the relay team you have to run your first lap in the lane you were assigned.
After the first lap the officials will let you know that, it’s ok to cut into the first lane after passing the first curve going into your second lap.
 When receiving a handoff for the 4x800 relay it is important to use an open handoff stance.


This is when you or a teammate stands parallel to the track lines of their lane to receive the baton.
This is important because it helps you gauge the distance between you and your teammate, you are also able to control which hand you hold the baton in.
 Sound simple enough, right? Actually, it’s not as simple as you would think. Like in any other race there is a technique for running an 800M.


It is important to focus on yourself, the 800M is an endurance race.
When running try to keep your own pace, trying to keep up with everyone else will throw you off your game.

