 If your child is having difficulty, set up a meeting right away with their teachers, the administration and anyone else necessary to take care of your child's needs.;
, Beanbags provide deep pressure to your child's nervous system, which helps them relax more quickly and become calmer. If the school refuses to purchase or provide one, offer to let any child who needs it use it so that they can justify the expense. If necessary, go to the school board. It is a very important part of your child's education and special needs, and the school is already getting additional funding for your child.
 The place should be quiet and peaceful, and the child should be able to access it by themselves. This allows your child to have a safe spot they can use throughout the year to help them deal with overwhelming stimuli. Here are some potential locations:


A corner of the room, partially closed off by furniture
An adjoining room
Next to the secretary's desk. Talk to the school secretary: some secretaries don't mind having the corner by their desk, and might even talk to your child as they calm down.
Consider whether your child needs adult supervision at all times.
 Stim toys, books, and coloring books are examples of things that can occupy the child as they calm down. (The article How to Make a Calming Down Corner has more ideas.)

, Once the teachers can recognize it, they can help your child recognize it, and they can bring the child to the safe spot before a meltdown can happen.
 Your child should be able to leave class whenever they feel that they are overwhelmed, and they should never be prevented or penalized because of it. The safe space not only helps avoid meltdowns, but helps your child learn how to monitor their feelings and make decisions about their needs.
 Explain it in a cause-and-effect manner: "When you start to feel overwhelmed, you can tell a teacher that you need to use the safe space, and then you can go there until you feel better."

, Leaving a stressful situation helps, but it's best to know other self-calming strategies to be used in addition to the safe space. Your child would benefit from knowing:


Strategies they can use in a classroom (deep breathing, counting in head, fiddling with a small stim toy)
How to access stim toys to calm them down
How and when to tell a teacher that they are overwhelmed
How to tell when they are overwhelmed (see How to Avoid Meltdowns for tips on this)

, Ask them about their day as usual, and if they mention being stressed, ask what happened and how they handled it. As you listen, take note of whether the faculty are being supportive, and whether the child finds the corner helpful.

