 For most people, washing your hair twice a week is adequate.The longer, thicker, curlier, and more processed your hair, the longer it can go between washes.
If your hair gets oily very quickly and you must wash everyday, use a lightweight or "everyday" shampoo, as these contain milder detergents than others. Alternately, you can try soap nuts.;
, Always use a good conditioner after you shampoo. Conditioner will provide moisture for your hair, while making it softer and more manageable. It will also make your hair easier to brush out after the shower, thus causing less damage. Only apply conditioner to the ends and mid-lengths of your hair, otherwise your hair will look greasy.


Use a leave-in conditioner at least once a week. Leave-in conditioners penetrate deep into your hair cuticles to heal them more completely.
Try using a leave-in conditioner spray after you shower. The spray will make your hair more pliable and easier to detangle.
Every so often, try using a deep conditioning treatment. You can use deep conditioning treatments like olive oil, argan oil, avocado oil or coconut oil.
 Wet hair is more susceptible to damage than dry hair, it is more elastic and more likely to break. Since hair is most fragile when it's wet, you shouldn't rip a brush through it after washing. Instead, you should spray some detangler on it, and then use a wide-tooth comb to remove tangles and minimize breakage.


Remember to start from the ends up, not from the roots down.
Once hair is dry, avoid unnecessary brushing, combing or handling.
Using your fingers to comb through your hair while wet can cause damage and hair loss. Make sure to wait until after your shower to comb out any tangles.
 Pick a shampoo and conditioner combo for fine, greasy, dry or colored hair, and stick to it! No matter what type of hair you have, there’s a specialist product made to care especially for you.
 As hair is more fragile when wet, roughly towel drying hair can cause damage. Rubbing wet hair with a towel can rough up the cuticle (outer layer of the hair), causing more breakage and leading to frizzy or fluffy hair.


Instead of rubbing, trying blotting your hair with a towel to remove excess moisture.
Invest in a super absorbent towel that you can wrap around hair after washing.
 Frequent use of a hair dryer can dry out hair, causing breakage and split ends. Try to limit your use of a hair dryer as much as possible, let your hair dry naturally instead. If you do use a hair dryer, don't hold it too close to your hair, as this will cause your hair to burn.


Always apply heat protection spray or serum to hair before drying.
Try using a cooler setting on the hair dryer, to minimize damage.
Invest in an ionic hairdryer. An ionic hairdryer emits charged particles that can cut drying time in half (minimizing heat exposure) and encourages the hair cuticle to lie flat.