 Getting yourself organized will help you a lot in improving your job performance.Use a calendar, agenda, planner, or some other system to keep track of meetings and other important dates. Refer to it often.
Use containers, folders, dividers, and other organizational supplies to keep your files, supplies, and other materials organized.;
, Missing deadlines, being late to meetings, or late to work on a regular basis can have a negative impact on your job performance.So improve your job performance by improving how you make use of your time.


Give yourself enough time to get to work on time each day. Plan for traffic, accidents, getting gas, and other things that could make you late.
Use timers, alerts, and alarms to remind yourself of time limits, deadlines, and important upcoming events.
When you are completing reports and other deliverables, think about the time it will take to finish them. Allow for interruptions and small problems.
 So improve your job performance by creating deadlines for tasks and deliverables.


If the task has a real deadline, set one for yourself that is a day or so before the real deadline.
This will give you time in case there are any last minute changes or corrections needed.
Set reminders and check-ins for the deadlines so that you can stay on track with meeting them.
 Responding to each message as it comes not only interrupts your work, but can also take up valuable time.Instead, improve your job performance by organizing and prioritizing your messages.


Schedule specific times to check your email and other messages. Respond to urgent messages during that time and prioritize the others for response later.
For example, you might check your messages first thing in the morning, after lunch, and at the end of the day.
You could respond to important emails when you do your first check and less urgent messages at lunch.
 You can improve your job performance if people feel that they can rely on and relate to you. It will make them more likely to support you and your efforts to improve your job performance.Form friendships with people outside of your immediate area. Having friends in various departments can come in handy.
Be cooperative and dependable when you have to work as part of a team or group.
 Paying attention to the details of instructions, directions, updates, etc. can help you improve your relationships at work and your job performance.So learn to focus on understanding and processing what is being said.


During meetings and briefings make an effort to focus on the topic at hand.
Take notes and ask questions to make sure you understand everything.
When it’s possible, remove any distractions so that you can focus on listening. Cut electronic devices off and give the speaker your full attention.
 One quick way to improve your job performance is to simply sit up straight.Some research suggests that improving your posture while you are sitting at your desk can improve your mood and heart rate.


Every few minutes, check to see if you are slouching. If you are, then sit up straight.
Elongate your spin, relax your shoulders, and hold your head up straight.

