 If you are planning on a budget, then hostels are a great choice. On average, a hostel will cost anywhere from 18 to 40 euros/night. The farther you go east, the cheaper the prices are. Many hostels offer free WiFi, clean linens, and breakfast. However, not all of them do. Make sure to check the amenities each hostel offers before booking.Additionally, because some hostels have lower and upper age limits, check out the hostel's age limit before you book your stay.
The cost of a hostel will typically depend on the popularity of the hostel and the size of your room; for example, a private room in a Parisian hostel will cost more than a shared room in a Croatian hostel.
 Couchsurfing is another affordable way to travel around Europe since it is free most of the time. It is also a great way to meet locals and find out about local events and activities. Visit a site like couchsurfing.com. You can browse the available couches in the area you will be staying in.There is a large network of couchsurfers in Europe, so it is a relatively safe and affordable way to backpack through Europe on a budget.
 Camping is another affordable option. However, you will need to pack or buy a tent and basic camping supplies if you want to try this option. The average cost of a tented space at a campsite ranges from 9 to 15 euros. Alternatively, you can try a camping service. Sign up for the service, find a host, and pitch your tent in their backyard for a flat fee of 4 to 10 euros. Some hosts may even offer amenities, like a shower, during your stay. Look for these services at sites like campinmygarden.com, gamping.com, and airbnb.com.
 House sitting is a great option if you are staying in a city for a week or two. You will be able to stay at a local’s residence for free in exchange for maintaining and watching their house. Sign up for a service, find a house, and contact the owner. Make sure to read over the agreement and sign any documents before booking.Look for these services at sites like mindmyhouse.com, housecarers.com, and luxuryhousesitting.com.
 Vacation apartment rentals are pricier than hostels and couchsurfing, but they are still affordable. By staying in a vacation apartment rental, you will definitely have more space and privacy. Sign up for a service, find a rental, and book it. It is that simple.Look for vacation apartment rentals at homeaway.com, airbnb.com, vrbo.com, and flipkey.com.
 Staying at hotels is the most expensive option, but it is a great option if you feel like being pampered for a night. Stay at a hotel for one or two nights throughout your trip.See if you have any points saved up on your credit cards. This is a great way to get some discounts on hotel stays.

