 Many people who find themselves unable to finish a self-help book believe they already know what's being said. If that were true, you wouldn't be asked to read the book. Even if you know the material, perhaps your execution is poor. Consider that you need a refresher course.


Read about the author to discover their credentials. Most publishers won't waste money printing the work of a quack. Once you know where they are coming from you may be better able to appreciate what they are saying.
 Depending on why you are reading the self-help book, you will likely have ample time to read it. Wait until you need to have it read "tomorrow" and you will likely be unsuccessful. Plan out your reading schedule so you won't have to read more than you can understand.


Consider reading a chapter per week or each day. Most self-help books are read for understanding rather than pace. The goal is to learn the principles rather than finish the text.
 Practicing the principles in the book can give you real-world benefits that make the reading seem profitable.


Write the principles you are learning on note cards. You can review those note cards throughout the day. This will help you remember to try to implement the principles throughout the day.
 If you are reading for someone else (e.g., a spouse or counselor) you may want to discuss the book with them. Chances are that they will be very happy to help. Especially if they were the ones asking you to read the book in the first place.
 Some self-help books end their chapters with homework. If you think reading the material is a chore, this extra work will probably infuriate you further. Focus on understanding the principles and skip the homework unless you think it will be interesting or enlightening.


Some self-help books require some extra work. You likely don't have to complete all the recommended homework but don't skimp on what's important. If there are self-evaluations or tests on which other parts of the book rely, try to complete those. Instructions to write down your feelings or thoughts at the end of a chapter are often supplemental time-fillers you can ignore in a pinch.

