 It is usually found throughout Australia (except for Tasmania) Oceania, (New Guinea, Solomon Islands) and in Indonesia, Southeast Asia and China.If you live anywhere in these areas, you can ask locals for their knowledge about the extent and location of these centipedes.;
, These centipedes usually range from dark blue-green-brown to orange yellow with black stripes. The underside and legs are yellow. The antennae are usually yellow too, but sometimes these are found in darker colors.
 Giant centipedes usually have long and flattened bodies, 25 or 27 body segments, and 21 or 23 pairs of legs. They measure around about 16 centimeters (6.3 in) in length.
 They usually look like large pinchers at the bottom on the head.
 They are solitary, terrestrial, and nocturnal, so you probably won't see them running all about during the day.  Giant centipedes can be found in dry and moist areas.
 As their name indicates, the Peruvian giant centipede (also known as the Amazonian giant centipede) lives in parts of South America and the Caribbean. They prefer tropical or subtropical areas and are most common in St Thomas, Grenada, Jamaica, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, St Martin, Trinidad, and the northwestern regions of South America. You can check for their popularity in your area.
 These insects are usually very large, being among the largest of all centipedes, ranging in length from 9 to 12 inches. Their body typically consists of 21 to 23 well-marked segmented areas with a pair of legs on each segment. The head is covered in a shield, from which protrudes a pair of sensitive antennae. Near the head is also located a pair of modified legs with sharp claws called forcipules. The body is a coppery orange to maroon color with black bands, and the legs (and underbelly) are yellow, as its name suggests.
 These centipedes are jumpy and can move very quickly if disturbed, and can climb most vertical surfaces. This centipede is known for its extreme aggression when looking for food and can kill and eat most small animals such as birds, lizards, and mice. They are nocturnal and usually hide during the day.

