 If you can, ignore the bully when they say or do something to you. If the bully fails to get the reaction they want from you, they may lose interest and leave you alone. The following methods can help you ignore a bully:


Try to walk away when they come up to you before they say or do anything. Pretend that you are walking away from a friend so your body language (which you’re probably unaware of) doesn’t make it look like you’re scared.
Think about something else, like what you’re going to do with your friends this weekend or what you have to do for homework.
Come up with a sentence you can repeat to yourself when a bully approaches you that will keep you from being afraid. Try saying something like, “He’s just another kid. He eats, sleeps, and lives the same way I do.”, You can also use visualization to help keep yourself calm around a bully. This means that you picture things in your head that make you feel safe and protected. Here are some visualizations to try:


Build a wall around yourself in your mind. When the bully says something mean, just picture their insults bouncing off the wall you’ve created.
You can also try visualizing the bully in a funny way. For example, visualize them with three eyes or dressed in a silly outfit. This can help them seem less intimidating., When a bully says or does something mean to you, telling them in a confident voice to stop might help. They are probably not expecting you to stand up for yourself so this might be enough to make them lose interest and stop bullying you. If you find yourself in a situation where you’re being bullied, simply yell “Stop!” and walk away from the bully. Don’t turn back around no matter what they say., Bullies often keep picking on someone because the way they react makes the bully feel powerful or superior to the other person. If you can react to their comments like it doesn’t bother you (even if it really does), the bully might leave you alone because you aren’t reacting how they want.


For example, if a bully tells you your shoes are ugly, just start laughing and say, “I know they are!” Then walk away from the bully without saying anything else.
Some other lines you can use when a bully says something mean to you are: “Whatever!” “I’m not sure why you keep saying these things about me, but I don’t care,” or “Wow, did you come up with that all by yourself?”Making these kinds of comments can help to defuse the situation and take some of the power away from the bully.
 It is really important that, no matter what, you walk away after you show the bully you don’t care. By turning around and walking away, you’re taking the power away from the bully. You won’t be giving them the reaction they want so they’ll lose interest in picking on you., No matter how much they are bothering you, don’t ever hit, kick, or punch a bully. This is the reaction they want from you. In addition, you might get in trouble for hitting them, even if they started it. You should also keep from saying mean or hurtful things back to them. It might seem like it’s okay to be mean to someone if they have been bullying you, but bullying is always wrong and never justified.