 This strategy will help open up moves on the board, since candies will continue to fall down onto the screen and improve your odds of creating special candies. On level 91, you must clear an average of 1.5 jelly squares with every move., Vertical striped candies will allow you to clear the jellies above at a faster rate, while also improving your odds for cascading matches, which are matches automatically made by candies falling down onto the screen.


Make striped candies by matching four candies of the same color in a row. A striped candy wipes out all candies in the same row either horizontally or vertically, depending on the direction in which the stripes on the candies are facing. To make vertical striped candies, the last candy must be moved into the combination in an upward or downward direction. To make horizontal striped candies, the last candy must be moved left or right to make the combination.
 In many instances, you may be unable to pass level 91 as a result of struggling to clear candies in corners given your limited options for candy matches in this position.Save up as many lollipop hammers and “free switch” hands as possible to use in the event you have one or two jellies remaining in corners on level 91. Boosters such as these can help clear jellies that are difficult to reach if you only have one or two moves remaining.
 When combined with a striped candy, a color bomb will turn all candies of the same color into striped candies that will detonate and clear all other candies located in the same rows and columns.Make color bombs by matching five candies of the same color in a row. If you already have a color bomb on the playing board, try not to detonate it until you can match it with a striped candy, if possible.
 In level 91, the bottom row of the playing board consists solely of meringue blockers. When detonated, horizontal striped candies will wipe all candies from the same row, which will help you clear double jellies even sooner within 30 moves.

