 Take time to relax your entire body and focus gently until the body becomes present to you.
 You should spend your time relaxing any blockages and imagining all your energy channels are opening. When you feel ready, move to the next stage.
 Essentially you are looking for general stillness in the body, but the whole body is, naturally, in a state of flux and movement. You are looking for the stillness within the movement.


A classical metaphor used in Taoism and Chan Buddhism is "still, flowing water". This ancient metaphor describes nicely what you are aiming for, it is a state of letting go that you become still, with the flow of time, energy and space happening without your interference, but with your complete acceptance and love.
This comes into Taoist philosophy as a "returning to the source". Again like Buddhist philosophy (which is why Buddhist and Taoist meditations can and often are used side by side), all things come from the Tao, which is nothingness or voidness, and this emptiness contains the whole universe. Returning to the source of this energy will not only replenish and heal but lead towards enlightenment. This is because the mind is fundamentally void and clear, and it is simply manifestations we see, feel and interact with, and these come from the emptiness - the Tao. When you deeply understand this, you will not be troubled by thoughts or feelings as you know they are simply manifestations, but you can return to the source; that beautiful, peaceful emptiness and stillness and you know nothing can contaminate your mind. It's also used in the old Taoist riddles and Zen koans of the original mind or nature.
 This is an advanced practice that may not immediately show itself to you until you are well developed in gentleness and kindness. Stay as long as you wish.
 Thank the universe and allow your heart to be filled with a gentle gratitude while you rest for a minute with your eyes closed. Then gently move your body, rub your face and head to stimulate energy and open your eyes.


Use this practice to create serenity as by knowing that the source of everything and nothing is within you, then many of your troubles can seem much smaller - even irrelevant - than they were before.

