 7.5"x9" Graph paper Moleskin or Piccadilly notebook are good choices.;
, Example: Design Garage

, Add to it whenever possible throughout the entire process (Usually good ideas come to us at random times so always have your notepad at your side for quick brainstorming).


Example: Garage To Do List: 1- Get rid of junk 2- Reorganize all boxes 3- Sweep entire floor 4- Etc

,,


Example: (Q)What would the space be used for? (A)Parking cars, storing sports equipment, working on car repair... (Q)What items would you store in it? A-Sports equipment, dry food, tools, car parts, paint... (Q)Who would be using the space and what would they be doing? (A)Dad would park his car, use tools, store garden supplies...Mom would park his car, leave work clothes in designated area.



Example: (Q)What would you need to change? (A)Keep floor clear, have a place to keep EVERYTHING in the garage (no unsorted items),... (Q)What habits do you need to end? (A)No more cleaning out car and leaving items in a box in the garage, no more tracking mud in from outside,... (Q)What habits do you need to start? (A)Only leave the garage at the end of each day with 5 goals written down in my project notebook, have a regular weekly cleanup time,... (Q)What can you do to keep yourself more accountable? (A)Have a weekly reward that I give myself for keeping the garage clean enough to pass my wife's cleanliness standards, have my wife look over the garage every week,.
 Once they are done read each others ideal situation and each write out a list of how you can help the other person experience their own ideal situation.
 How often should it be cleaned? How often should it be organized? Who uses the space? What the space will and will not be used for?.
, Be realistic here so that you can meet or exceed the goals that you set for yourself.


Now you've planned well to help become very efficient and effective when you reorganize your space. You're going to need 3-4 hours to dedicated time to start off on this venture. Grab what you need to be comfortable being there for several hours including: drinks, snacks and music. You want to be comfortable and not distracted.

