 When you are not at work or are otherwise busy, organize activities to do with your dog to keep her from getting bored. These activities can range from playing games to outdoor exercises.Spending time with your dog is a great way to keep yourself physically fit while at the same time allowing your dog to enjoy the active lifestyle that she is naturally inclined towards.;
, Try to take your dog for a jog or walk at least once a day. This will keep both of you fit and will allow your dog the physical activity that she craves while at the same time exploring the outdoors. The ASPCA encourages taking a variety of routes and visiting new places ‘so that your dog can experience novel smells and sights.’, Traveling with your dog is another great way to keep your dog from being bored while spending time together. Depending on how much time you have, this could be as short as a car ride (which dogs love) to the supermarket or even an extended vacation.


Before going on an extended holiday with your dog, bring her to the vet and ensure that all her vaccinations are up to date. Keep her shot records with you and remember that you require a health certificate for airline travel.Buy a crate for your dog. Crates keep dogs safe during travel by automobile and are required for travel by plane.Make sure your dog has proper identification in case she gets lost from you during a vacation.If traveling by car, be sure to keep your dog safe and healthy. This means you should avoid car sickness by letting her travel on an empty stomach. In addition, keep your dog safe by not let your dog ride with her head out of the car window. Make frequent rest stops, and do not leave your dog unattended in a closed vehicle, especially in the summer, as temperatures in a closed vehicle can get extremely high. Check with your airline, cruise carrier, train line, or bus service as to their rules on canine travel because not all of them allow it and each may have particular rules that apply to such travel.
 Playing games together will keep both you and your dog active and, therefore, healthy. Doing so will also have a positive impact on your relationship with your dog.
 Play tug-of-war with your dog. This game is useful because it allows your dog ‘an outlet for her natural canine urges to grab and pull on things with her mouth.’A helpful guide from the ASPCA on how to teach your dog to play this game is available here.
 Play fetch with your dog. This game is good if you do not wish to exert yourself a great deal while at the same time wish to give your dog a good workout.A useful guide on how to teach your dog to play fetch is available here.
 Play hide-and-seek with your dog. This game will exercise your dog’s mind because it will encourage her to look for you. This game also offers your dog the chance to exercise her sense of smell.A helpful guide on how to teach your dog to play hide-and-seek is available here.
 Play find-it with your dog. This game is similar to hide-and-seek except your dog in this game will be looking for items that you hide from her for the purposes of this game. Hide treats for your dog in your choice of hiding spots (e.g. behind furniture legs) and instruct your dog to find these hidden treats. This game also encourages your dog to use her powerful sense of smell. The ASPCA notes that offering your dog the opportunity to use her sense of smell ‘can really wear her out!’, Play chase with your dog by tying one of her favorite toys to a rope and allowing her to chase the toy as you twirl it in the air or drag it along the ground. You can also purchase toys from your nearest pet store designed specifically for playing chase with your dog.