 Take uncooked rice and toor dal (thuvaram paruppu - in tamil) in 4:1 ratio and soak them in adequate amount of clean water for about 15 minutes. After soaking, filter out excess water and make sure that you have the correct proportion of water (the mixture should not be like floating on the surface of water). This step is crucial as it determines how watery or hard your Urappu Adai is. A good Urappu Adai should not be too watery or too hard. Ground the above said mixture with a help of a rice grinder. Keep grinding until the mixture turns into slightly fine paste. Keep this paste in a separate bowl.;
, Take handful amount of small onion and two big onions and peel off their skin and shred them into small pieces with a vegetable knife.  Take, approximately, 10 curry leaves and add this to the mixture. Mix this mixture to the grounded mixture of rice and toor dal uniformly with the help of a ladle (karandi).
 Take Seven or Eight Pieces of Red Chilies (Depending on your tolerance towards Hot-Spices) and separately grind them into fine paste with the help of a mixer. Take handful of fennel seeds (Perunjeeragam in Tamil) and partially grind them. Mix the chilli paste and fennel seed paste mixture together to the rice-toor dal + extra ingredients mixture with the help of a ladle (Karandi). Make sure that you mix them completely. Now the mixture of making Urappu Adai is ready.
 Turn the stove on and pour a spoonful of sunflower oil on the toasting pan and distribute the oil evenly. We are doing this to make sure that the Urappu Adai - Paste mixture doesn't get stuck on the pan. Wait until the pan gets hot enough.Take adequate amount of Urapu Adai paste in a ladle (karandi) and spread it evenly in the form of a disc on the toasting pan. Pour oil in the sides and on the top. Keep toasting on one side until the toasted side gets brownish in colour. Take a cooking spatula (thosai karandi) and flip the Adai disc to the other side.Like before, wait for the side to get brownish. (Don't pour oil this time, as we already had poured adequate amount of oil).It's time to take out the adai. With help of the spatula, raise the adai from the sides and place it in the plate.The adai will be hot and bisecting it will help to cool off the dish.
 The dish can be served with either coconut chutney (paste) or coconut - ginger chutney to help enhance the taste!

