 Missing a menstrual period is the most common sign of pregnancy. It is important to note, however, that not all missed or delayed periods are the result of pregnancy. Also, some women may experience mild bleeding during pregnancy. If this is the case for you, consult your doctor about what level of bleeding might pose a concern. If you have missed your period, evaluate whether this may be due to non-pregnancy related reasons such as:


Gaining or losing a great deal of weight.
Non-pregnancy related hormone problems.
Fatigue.
Stress.
Recently ending a prescription for birth control pills.Breastfeeding.;
, Ten to 14 days following conception, the fertilized egg attaches itself to the wall of a woman's uterus. This process can cause minor spotting and cramping. This is called implantation bleeding, and it is easily mistaken for premenstrual symptoms. If you suspect you may be pregnant, keep track of these symptoms and watch to see if they develop into a full-fledged menstrual cycle. If they don't, you may be pregnant., Many women begin to experience an increased volume of white, milky vaginal discharge almost immediately following conception. This harmless discharge is caused by an increase in the growth of the cells lining your vagina, and may continue throughout pregnancy. Often, women experience varying levels of discharge over the course of a normal menstrual cycle. If you notice changes or a new degree of persistence in the level of discharge you experience, you may be pregnant.Contact your doctor if the color of your discharge changes and is accompanied by a smell, pain, or an itching or burning sensation; these symptoms are signs of a yeast or bacterial infection and they may also indicate an STD like trichomoniasis, gonorrhea, or chlamydia.
 Your basal body temperature -- your temperature when you first wake up in the morning -- rises during the last two weeks of your menstrual cycle and then drops once your period begins. If you've been tracking your basal body temperature as part of an attempt to get pregnant, watch to see if your temperature remains elevated. If it does, it may be a sign of pregnancy.