 The road to recovery may require you to go to some couples therapy to help your relationship. There will likely be some unresolved issues that you and your partner need to work out. If you can't work them out on your own, seek a professional counselor or therapist to help with your relationship.


This will show your partner that you are willing to do everything you can to repair your relationship., There may be certain situations, places, or substances that trigger your addiction. This will vary from person to person, but these are the things that may cause you to relapse into your addiction. Talk to your partner about what these triggers are, how you've taken efforts to get triggers out of your life, and how he can help you avoid them.


Explain why these things are your triggers. If your partner understands why these things trigger you, he may be more willing to help you avoid them.
For example, if you have a substance abuse problem, having alcohol in the house may be a problem. You may also need to avoid bars or clubs.Tell your partner, "I know you like to have wine with dinner, but this isn't an option for me right now. I cannot have these things in the house because they will tempt me to relapse."

, When you are working through addictive disorders, you will need as much help as you can get to avoid a relapse, especially at first. Ask your partner if you can rely on her to be someone you can call when you need help avoiding relapse.


You may have a sponsor that will help you with this, but it is nice to have someone you love and trust to help you as well. The more help you have, the greater chance of beating your addiction.
Since your partner will be with you more often than other people, she will be a constant person for support.
Having someone you are accountable to that you love and respect can also make fighting your addiction easier.Ask your partner, "If I find myself on the edge of a relapse or in the need of extra support, can I call, text, or come find you to talk me through it?"

, There are many support groups specifically for families and partners of those with addiction. Tell your partner about these groups so he can seek support from people who are going through the same thing.


These organizations will also help your loved one learn about what it is like to have an addictive disorder and how he can help you cope and recover. It will also help your partner take care of himself and his needs while helping you, too.
There may be local organizations in your area for your partner. You can also look for a local chapter of SMART Recovery for family and friends of those with addictive disorders.

