 Avoid speaking to someone who's accused you of psychological or emotional abuse unless those conversations can be recorded in some way.


When you do have to interact with them, do it over email or text message whenever possible so you can maintain a record of the conversation.
Keeping records of conversations keeps the person from claiming you said something that you didn't say.
Keep conversations cordial and business-like, and try to stick to the topic rather than discussing emotionally fraught issues in which your words could be twisted. For example, if your ex-husband has accused you of psychological family violence, and you need to talk to him about exchanging your kids, stick to that and avoid talking about your relationship.
If your accuser has an attorney, such as for a pending divorce or custody action, you should communicate only through the attorney rather than communicating directly to your accuser.;
, Disrupting access prevents your phone or other devices from being used to send threatening or abusive communications to your accuser.


If someone has falsely accused you of abuse, you can no longer assume that anything is safe or off limits. Protect your valuables and your personal information to prevent the person from damaging your life any further.For example, if your accuser has access to your phone, she may send threatening messages to herself from your phone number and later accuse you of having sent them., Understand that your accuser may convince these people to testify against you – especially if the two of you have friends in common.


If your accuser later talks to someone with whom you've shared negative or insulting comments, that person may interpret those comments to mean that the things your accuser is saying are true.
Make sure you've talked to family and friends about the situation and that everyone who needs to know understands what's happening between you and your accuser. While it may be difficult to share what you believe to be private matters with friends or family members, talking to them first may help ensure your accuser can't talk to them and turn them against you., If someone has falsely accused you of psychological family violence, you should seek legal assistance as quickly as possible.


If you don't already have an attorney, search online or use the state or county attorney directory (typically available on your state or county bar association's website) to find an experienced family or criminal law attorney who specializes in domestic violence defense.
Even if you've not been criminally charged, a criminal defense attorney may have preventative strategies that can help you avoid going to criminal court.Most attorneys offer free initial consultations. Talk to several before you decide who you want to hire.If you're concerned about your ability to pay attorney fees, check with your local legal aid office. Even if you don't qualify for their services they may be able to put you in touch with more affordable representation, such as attorneys who charge based on a sliding-fee scale or offer installment payment plans., Since you may not be contacted for your side of the story, it can help your defense to be proactive and make yourself available to anyone investigating the case.


If you and your accuser have children, it's more than likely that he or she has contacted your state's child protective agency and filed allegations there as well.While the investigation is pending, you may be forbidden to see your child. You may not be contacted or provided with documents related to the investigation. As unfair as this seems, the child protective agency must look out for the best interests of the child, and its first priority is to protect the child from potential abuse., Although it can be easy to get angry or defensive and shut down, being open and cooperative will help expose the falsity of the claims against you.


If there are children involved, you can expect a caseworker from the state agency to investigate the allegations against you. The caseworker may inspect your home if your children lived with you, and may request that you undergo psychological evaluation or take parenting or anger management classes.If you're asked to take any classes, such as for parenting or for anger management, make sure you schedule and attend those classes as soon as possible.
 You should have your own copies of any documents either you or your accuser files with the court.


If your accuser files any papers with the court, such as a petition for divorce or for a restraining order, make sure you are properly served with a copy of those papers.
 If your accuser manages to get a restraining order or other temporary order against you, follow its terms even if you don't agree with it or think it is unnecessary.


Very little proof often is necessary for someone to get a restraining order against you. Courts tend to err on the side of caution in keeping someone safe who says they are in fear of an abusive person – even if you're later able to prove he or she was lying.For example, if your accuser was able to get an order prohibiting you from contacting her, abide by the terms of the order and do not contact her for any reason. If you need to communicate with her, do so through the courts or through her attorney.In some situations you may be ordered to attend counseling or therapy sessions, or undergo treatment for domestic abuse or anger management.Even if you know the allegations are false and believe this treatment is unnecessary, it's important to keep your appointments as ordered.
Keep in mind the therapist or other professional you're required to see may become a staunch ally if they realize the allegations were false and that you didn't commit the acts of which you were accused.
 In any court hearings, character witnesses as well as any eyewitnesses to interactions between you and your accuser will be crucial to your defense.


In any hearing, including restraining order hearings, you have the right to present your side of the story and call witnesses to testify in support of your claims.Talk to people who not only know you very well but who also know your accuser and have seen the two of you together. Neighbors also may be good witnesses – if you're on good terms with them – because they frequently see you at home.
If your accuser has mentioned any specific incidents, you definitely want any witnesses who were present to provide a third party account of what happened.
 If you are summoned to court and don't appear, your accuser may be awarded everything he or she asked for by default.


In most states, if your accuser seeks a restraining order against you, he or she will get a temporary order that lasts until the date of the hearing, in which both sides can be heard. If you don't appear in court, the judge most likely will make the temporary order permanent.Keep in mind you can always agree to the restraining order with no contest, but even if you decide to do that it generally looks better for your defense if you show up to court and tell the judge that in person rather than simply not appearing., Filing a restraining order against your accuser in response to his or her request for a restraining order against you can put an end to continuing false allegations.


Especially if the psychological family violence claims against you arise in the context of a divorce proceeding, it may benefit you to file for a restraining order against your accuser before he or she files for one against you.If your accuser has already filed for a restraining order, filing one yourself can provide an extra layer of protection for you. If the two of you cannot legally communicate with or come near each other, it will become much more difficult for your accuser to create new allegations against you.
 The more inconsistencies you can find, the more dishonest the allegations appear.


If your accuser has questionable character or is prone to lying or exaggeration, you can use these traits to your advantage.Witnesses can corroborate your statements that your accuser is not a trustworthy person or is not mentally stable.
Copies or recordings you have of your communication with your accuser also can reveal inconsistencies or inaccuracies in the claims made. This is why it's important to keep copies of any emails or texts you send or receive, and try to avoid non-written communication since it can't later be proven in court to the same degree of certainty.
If you have any evidence that your accuser has motive to lie, this also should be brought up in court. For example, if you are in the midst of a contentious divorce and custody battle, your spouse may believe she can get preferential treatment regarding custody by accusing you of psychological family violence or other abusive behavior.