 If you value your friendship and do not want it to be over, look for simple ways to improve it.Perhaps, for instance, your friend has ditched you and the rest of her friends in order to be with her boyfriend. Even though this is her fault, make an effort to understand her and let her know that you’re still her friend. Invite her to lunch or a shopping trip, and let her know that you miss her company.Of course, improving the relationship should not be a one-sided affair. Look for signs that your friend, too, is putting an effort into maintaining a strong friendship with you. For instance, if your friend agrees to make time to meet up, this indicates that he or she is still interested in a friendship but has, perhaps, been too busy with work and other duties.
 Friendship often means letting bygones be bygones. Is the offense your friend committed totally unforgivable? Or is it something which, in a week or two, will start to lose importance? While a given act or comment might seem truly heinous at the time, take a step back from the situation and try to put your friend’s behavior into a reasonable context.


Do not make excuses for your friend. If they did something wrong, they should admit it and apologize. Friends who do not take responsibility for their actions are not good friends.
Forgiving your friend does not mean forgetting what they did. While it would be wrong to constantly bring up a past sin, you should keep you friend’s bad behavior in the back of your mind at all times and be on the lookout for similar behavior in the future. Their disappointing behavior might be part of a larger pattern.For example, if your friend said they were going to pick you up from school and then never did, you might rightly be upset with them. If they said they were asleep and didn’t hear the alarm clock go off, their behavior might be forgiven as a fluke. However, if they consistently don’t follow through on promises they make, and consistently have a lame excuse, you should be confident in your decision to end the friendship.
 If your friend tries to pressure you into spending all your time with him or her, and does not respect your boundaries, they might be clingy. Clingy friends form unhealthy attachments with others and can be very annoying and difficult to deal with. You don’t have to end your friendship with a friend who is clingy or overbearing, though.


Explain to your friend next time he or she offers to come over, or invites you to hang out, that you are a bit burned out and just want to stay in. Do not reply promptly to texts or messages you receive from a clingy friend, and be firm when announcing your decision to stay in (or go out) alone.Even if your friend is not particularly clingy, you might feel fed up with them for some other reason. If you and your friend are constantly hanging out and doing everything together, or if your friend is just always asking you to hang out, you might start yearning for some privacy and alone time.
Your break from your friend can last as long as you want it to, from one day up through one month or more. Give yourself the space you need.
If your friend does not respect your need for a break, or becomes hostile when you suggest a break, think about ending the friendship altogether. A friend who does not respect your wishes is no friend at all.

