 Whether the toddler wears diapers, pull-ups, or regular underwear, these are the most important things to pack in the diaper bag. By the time the child becomes a toddler, most parents have a general idea of how often they need to go, so they can usually estimate how many diapers to pack in the bag.


It is a good idea to pack more than the estimated amount, just in case they're needed. If the toddler is new to wearing pull-ups, you should definitely pack a few extras. However, if the toddler rarely has accidents, packing just a few pull-ups should work out fine.
One or two spare pairs of underwear should be sufficient for toddlers that are completely toilet trained.;
, A container of wet wipes is also a good thing to pack in the diaper bag. There are even flushable wet wipes which are great for toddlers that are not efficient at wiping, even if they can use the toilet.
 Just in case the toddler has an accident, it is a good idea to pack at least one full set of clothing which includes a top, bottom, and socks. Even though it might not seem necessary to pack an extra top and pair of socks, it is better to have them handy rather than ending up with a half-dressed toddler.
 This could be anything from diaper rash cream to prescription medications that might be needed while you are away from home. If you pack a prescription medication, it is important to pack it in the original labeled container from the pharmacy so that it is easily identified and the proper dosage information is readily available. Having the medications in the original container also supplies the adult with all of the necessary information if the child develops a reaction. Other medications you should consider packing include:


Child-friendly acetaminophen or Ibuprofen to treat fever.
Antihistamines or decongestants to relieve most symptoms of common cold.
Medication for vomiting.
Calamine for itchiness.
Saline nose drops to loosen mucus.
Antibacterial ointment for cuts or scrapes
Sunscreen for kids (at least SPF15) during outdoor activities
Hand sanitizer to keep hands clean and to avoid the flu.
Bandages and antibiotic cream for wounds.
 You should pack plastic or Ziploc bags for emergency storage. You can use these to store leftover food which your toddler can eat later, or to keep any wet or dirty clothes separate from the bag's other contents.
 This is used to check your toddler’s temperature if you suspect that he has a fever. You can check your toddler’s temperature using a portable ear or temporal artery thermometer, they usually provide a pretty good estimate of the toddler's temperature.


However, an underarm thermometer usually provides the most accurate results. On this kind of thermometer, a reading above 100.4 °F (38 °C) usually indicates a fever.
 Toddlers often become cranky and difficult to handle when they get too hungry or too thirsty. No matter how long you plan to be out of the house for, it is always a good idea to pack a snack and a drink.


This is true even if the outing is a trip to a restaurant for a meal because it may take a while to get the food and it may be too hot to eat right away.
 Pack the food into small travel jars or Ziploc bags to so you can throw them away after eating. The snack should be easy to eat by hand and the pieces should be bite-size. An example of an easily packed snack is dry cereal.
 To avoid spills, the toddler’s drink should be stored in a leak-proof sippy cup. The snack can be stored in a small plastic bowl or a zippered plastic bag.
 This is necessary if you do not want to use the spoon in the restaurant that you are dining in. Some parents also bring disposable or washable placemats to put on top of the restaurant table to prevent germs and make the clean-up easier. .
 Packing a favorite toy or a small stuffed animal can help to prevent a toddler meltdown when things don’t go their way. Some toddlers also like to have their favorite small blanket with them when they are away from home.
 Comfort items to pack in the diaper bag might include anything that keeps the toddler entertained, provided they are not too big or heavy to carry in the diaper bag and that there are not parts that could get lost.


Some examples of good toys to bring would be an electronic tablet with age-appropriate content, a magnetic doodle board, or small toys.
Things like a doll with changeable clothes and shoes would not be a good idea because the pieces could get lost.
 Another form of distraction could be a book that your child can look at, even if she doesn’t know how to read yet. You could also let your child look at an e-book on your own tablet or kindle.
 Organizing the diaper bag by designating pockets or areas for certain items will help you to find a particular item quickly and possibly avoid a toddler meltdown.


If there are not very many pockets, zippered plastic bags can be used to group similar items together.
In fact, a few extra zippered plastic bags can come in handy to hold used diapers until they can be properly thrown away.

