 Kittens are often hyper because of their overactive hormones. You can try appeasing this with cat pheromones such as Feliway. These are typically used to deter cats from spraying unwanted areas, but it can also be used to calm you kitten down.


The spray contains the chemicals naturally produced by cats, which is why is helps to calm them. Feliway is available in wipes, sprays, or diffusers., When your kitten is overly hyper, she may try to jump on furniture she isn’t supposed to. To deter this behavior, try a motion detecting spray such as the "SssCat" unit. The spray will emit a gush of compressed air whenever your kitten gets near an area she isn’t supposed to.


You can also try attaching double-stick tape to surfaces as well. The stickiness will irritate your kitten and deter her from being on that surface.
Although it is a popular method, using spray bottles of water as punishment only occurs when you are around. This can be less effective because your cat may associate the punishment with you, which can make the kitten grow fearful of you.
While your cat is learning to not jump on tables and countertops, put all food items away so she can’t get to them., A hyper kitten may manifest her energy by scratching on your furniture, walls, and other stationary surfaces. To keep you kitten from scratching these things, you need to have plenty of appropriate scratching surfaces. Scratching posts should allow them to stretch outward or upward, so buy different kinds in different shapes and sizes.


Different kittens will prefer different surfaces, so try a few to find out which she likes best.
Make the scratching posts prominent in familiar places in your home. Make other places, such as couches and other furniture, less attractive by placing double stick tape on them., You may want to spend all your free time with your new kitten, especially when you first get her. However, kitten need space and time to themselves. Give her time to sleep, play, and look out the window. If you continually bother her, she will hide to avoid you.


Learn to understand your kitten’s cues, which will signal when she’s tired of playing. This can include attacking you then running away to hide to cries of distress.

