 In order for a dog collar to function effectively, it needs to fit properly. To ensure that you make the right size of collar, your first step is to measure your dog's neck. The best method is to use a cloth tape measure.Measure around your dog's neck where the collar should sit. Then add 2 inches to the measurement. This is the size you should make the collar.
If you do not have a cloth tape measure, you can use a piece of string. Cut the string, and then use a ruler to measure it.
The width of the collar is also important. Large breeds should wear collars that are 1 inch in width. 3/4 inch is appropriate for medium dogs, and small dog collars should be approximately 1 inch in width.;
, When making a collar, you should be aware that different dogs have different needs. For example, if you have a large dog who has trouble obeying verbal commands, you will need a very sturdy collar. If you have a small dog, you will have a little more flexibility. Think about what you need this collar to do: is it to control your dog, or is it just to help guide him when you're out walking? Consider the needs of both you and your dog.Standard collars are known as "flat" collars. Typically, they will fasten with a buckle or snap. It should fit snugly, but you should be able to fit two fingers between the collar and your dog's neck.
Dogs with small heads do best with a Martingale collar. For example, if you have a greyhound, you will make a collar that has two metal rings with a length of material between them. The leash will fasten to the rings. This is useful for dogs who try to wiggle out of their collars.
 You will need several things in order to make a functional dog collar. You will need a sturdy piece of webbing material. Nylon works well. Purchase about 1 yard--this will be more than enough, but you want extra in case you make an error.You will also need to purchase dog collar hardware. You should get a clasp (also called a buckle), a D ring, and an adjuster. You can buy these items online and at many large superstores.
Purchase fabric to cover the webbing. Cotton works well, as it is easy to cut and clean. You will also need thread.
A sewing machine is very useful for this type of project. If you don't have one, ask a friend to borrow one. If that's not possible, a needle and strong thread will work fine. You will also need an iron.

