 Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) problems, which can cause tinnitus, can be successfully treated with chiropractic approaches,, TMJ problems are thought to promote tinnitus because of the proximity of muscles and ligaments that attach to the jaw and the hearing bones. A chiropractic treatment would consist of manual manipulation in order to re-align the TMJ. The chiropractor might also manipulate the vertebrae of the neck in order to decrease the symptoms of tinnitus. Chiropractic adjustments are not painful, but they may cause some temporary discomfort. The chiropractic treatment may also include the application of heat or ice and specific exercises.Chiropractic treatments can also help with Meniere’s disease, another relatively rarer cause of tinnitus., A recent review of studies of the success of acupuncture for tinnitus concluded that there was some cause for hope. Acupuncture techniques would vary based on the underlying cause for the tinnitus. These techniques also often include traditional Chinese herbs.More studies are needed to assess the effectiveness of acupuncture on improving tinnitus.
 Aldosterone is a hormone found in the adrenal gland that regulates sodium and potassium in the blood.One study found a tinnitus patient with hearing loss to have an aldosterone deficiency. When the patient received bioidentical aldosterone, the patient's hearing was restored and the tinnitus went away. , There is a relatively new approach that may be useful for some. The idea is to find the frequency of the particular sound in your ears and masking that specific frequency with specially designed sounds.


Your ENT or audiologist may have recommendations about these treatments.
You may also find these treatments available online for a fee through websites such as Audionotch and Tinnitracks. These services walk you through testing for the specific frequency of your tinnitus and design a treatment protocol.
There have been limited studies on this approach, but they do appear promising. 