 APA requires citations inside parentheses in the text of an essay, compiling them in an alphabetical References list at the end of a document. While you're writing an essay, it's important to cite information so that you avoid plagiarism (a form of cheating).


Place a parenthetical citation at the end of every sentence containing information you didn't know before doing research.
An in-text citation using APA will simply have the author last name (or title if no author) followed by the year it was published. No comma between name and year. For example: (Richards 2005) Richards is the author last name, and 2005 is the year.
If you have an author name (or title if no author) but no page number, simply use author last name (or title). This is common when citing websites.
APA document formatting is very important. APA papers are divided up into 4 sections. The citations of a research paper using APA appear in the References section, the last portion of an APA document.
 Write down copyright information as you go for every piece of research you glean from. Write it down for every source you look at with a note to jog your memory--you'll be surprised how many ideas you you start to paraphrase, unable to remember where you got that idea.


To form APA reference page citations, you will need such information as author name(s), date published, website URL, date you accessed the website, title of work, and so on., The list of references should be alphabetized and set to hanging indent, just like MLA style format.


For example, the format for an APA reference of a scholarly journal article is as follows: Author last name, First initial. (Year published). Article or chapter title. Journal or book title, Issue number, page number range.The format for an APA book reference looks like: Last name, First name. (Year.) Title of Book: Capital letter also for subtitle. Location: Publisher.
The format for an APA website reference looks like: Author, A.A. First name, & Author, B.B. (Date published.) Title of article. In Title of webpage or larger document or book (chapter or section number). Retrieved from URL address

, Double-space your document, and title the references page "References" at the top-center of the page.


Capitalize the author's last name and first initial, followed by a period.
Only capitalize the first word of a journal article title, unless the title contains a proper noun (called sentence case). Titles of books should preserve the published capitalization.
Capitalize the city of publication, and use correct state abbreviations for states. Also capitalize the name of the publisher and end the reference with a period.
The title of larger works, whether a book, journal, website, or magazine, is in italics (or underlined if handwriting), as is the issue number that appears right after the title. Titles for shorter works like articles and chapters should not have any indicative punctuation in an APA entry.A period should end all citations.

