 This part won’t be too hard. If your baby’s diaper is filled, change it! If your baby’s diaper is wet, change it! A soiled diaper will smell, so it won’t be hard to tell when it’s time for a change. Wet diapers can be a little more challenging. Set a timer and be sure to at least check their diaper every two hours. If you notice it is wet before then, however, change it then.


A baby should never be left in a soiled diaper for long, as this can lead to a wide range of health problems. Plus, it isn’t very sanitary for you! Very full diapers will leak and you probably don’t want poop in your carpets.
 Diaper changing is very simple but if done incorrectly many problems can occur. Leaks, chafing, and pinching can result from an improperly placed diaper.Follow a few simple guidelines to be sure that you are keeping yourself clean and your baby happy.


Place your baby on the changing area, flat on their back. Do not leave them unattended in this area for any period of time and try to always have at least one hand on them to keep them from rolling away.
Open the soiled diaper but do not take it all the way off.
Clean your baby thoroughly with the appropriate wet wipes. Do this similarly to how you would clean yourself.
Place the dirty wipes in the diaper and then, lifting the baby’s lower body up by the ankles, slide it out from under them. Roll it up and throw it away.
Take out a fresh diaper, open it completely, and then slide it into position. Be sure that it is facing the correct direction.
Close the diaper and check that the elastic around the legs is properly fit and is not too tight or pinching your baby.
 Diaper rash is a common skin irritation that results when the baby’s skin cannot get dry, is rubbed too hard by the diaper, or when your baby has other health problems. It is often a result of not being changed enough or wearing a diaper that is too small, though it is easy to get diaper rashes and you should not feel bad if your baby gets one.Combat diaper rash with the appropriate creams or powders when changing your baby’s diaper and change their diaper as soon as it is soiled.
Make sure that diapers and your baby’s clothing fit, watch for dietary or product changes (as your baby may have an allergy), and be aware that antibiotics can make your baby susceptible to diaper rash. Seek help if the rash has not healed in a few days.
 Babies do not sweat like adults and so will not have to be bathed as often. Give them a bath once a week or after a particularly bad diaper. Use products that are labeled for babies and bathe them in a sink or baby bath. Never leave them unattended when they are in the water.Sponge bathe infants until their umbilical cord has fallen off and any circumcision is healed.
 Babies may not have teeth, but once they are a few months old you may want to start them brushing anyway. This will stimulate their gums and can help encourage teething.Get baby toothbrushes, which are basically rubber brushes, and gently brush their gums once every few days.

