 Craft or office supply stores sell paper that has adhesive on one side. It's usually lined with a paper backing that you can peel off when you're ready to use the sticker.


Alternately, you can buy tacky sticker sheets. These sheets allow you to place a picture to the glue, then peel the sticker off, transferring the glue to the back of the sticker. This is great if you want to use sticker sheets with pictures you already have or those cut from magazines.Buy paper that fits the specifications of your printer.
If you don't have a printer, you can still use sticker paper by drawing your own designs on the surface of the paper or cutting out pictures from magazines and books.
 Design the stickers on your computer or use markers or a pen to draw directly on the surface of your sticker paper. You're only limited by the size of the paper - if you want, you could make an 8 1/2" by 11" sticker!









Design stickers on your computer using Adobe Photoshop, Paint, or another program that allows you to draw. You could also simply save some photos from your personal album or the internet to use as stickers. When you're finished, print the sticker designs onto the sticker paper.
If you have a physical photograph or drawing that you want to make into a sticker, you can scan it onto your computer or upload a digital photo. Format this file on Photoshop. Paint, Word, or Adobe Acrobat, then print it onto the sticker paper.
Draw directly on the sticker paper with pens, pencils, or even paint. Just make sure you don't get the paper too wet, or it may interfere with the adhesive.
 Use scissors to cut out the designs you printed or drew. Cut simple square shapes or use scrapbook scissors to give the designs interesting edges. Space all designs of stickers at least 1/8 an inch apart to prevent cutting accidents.









When using tacky sticker sheets, simply pull back the protective liner, revealing the glue. Place the back of your sticker to the glue. Press down to make sure the sticker adheres to the glue. Then, peel the sticker - the glue will now be on the back of the sticker. Stick on any surface. You will need to use the sticker right away because there is no protective cover on the back.
You can cut slightly wide to leave a white border around the image, or you can cut it close. More advanced sticker creators sometimes leave no border and cut with an Exacto-knife.
 When you're ready to use the stickers, peel away the paper protective liner and stick them to the surface of your choice.








