 You can further narrow the results by adding keywords such as, “science fiction,” or “romance,” if you have a genre preference. There may not be a local online book club; if not, look at the websites listed below to find a book club that appeals to you:


BookCrossing. This book club has a unique approach that many book lovers find intriguing. As the website name suggests, you select a book to send around the world so that other readers can enjoy it. Log in to the site and enter a book online, then download, print and attach a label and donate the book. Future owners of the book can log in for discussions with you and keep sending the book on its way.






BookGlutton. This is a true social reading experience. Sign in via Facebook and start inviting friends to join you. This virtual book club enables you and your friends to meet inside any chapter of a virtual book, and you can also make notes and comment on paragraphs—just like you would do in a real book.






The Copia. This online reading group directs you to read reviews and join discussion threads. You can also purchase a digital copy of the book you are interested in reading.






Goodreads.Find other people who share your literary tastes on this site. Goodreads will also analyze your reading predilections and suggest reading lists for you.






Shelfari. This popular website allows you to create your own virtual bookshelf collection, as well as connect with other readers to discuss your favorite reads.






LibraryThing. This website has more than 1 million users and bills itself as the world’s largest book club. In addition to joining and discussing your favorite books with scads of people all over the world, this site allows you to catalog your own book collection. You can catalog books from Amazon, the Library of Congress and more than 600 libraries from around the world. (You can enter 200 books for no charge, but as many as you like for a nominal annual fee). LibraryThing is also available in more than 20 languages, and allows you to track your favorite authors.





;
