 No one will subscribe to a channel without any content on it. If you want to get people to subscribe to your channel, it's important to start regularly posting videos. Create a schedule and stick to it.


Have set times for uploading, and let people know when you release new videos. Work video-making into your schedule regularly. If you've got every Thursday afternoon free to make videos, then release a video every Friday.
Be consistent. Try to stick to your schedule as much as possible. People will unsubscribe sometimes, if your channel sits dormant for too long.;
, Most people subscribe to channels that feature specific and unique content that they enjoy. If you want subscribers, it's important to make your channel as specific as possible. Do you make cooking videos? Reviews? Vlogs? ASMR videos? Pick a theme and stick to it.


Most people don't subscribe to channels with totally random home videos thrown up. Even if you want your channel to feature different kinds of videos, it's still good to have some sort of basic theme. Maybe it's humor videos, or just content for kids. Whatever the case, it's good to have a topic in mind.
If you want to make, say, both gaming videos and cooking videos, consider starting two different channels to feature those videos. It's likely you'll end up with more subscribers for each separately, than both together.
 The most successful YouTube users are usually pretty high-energy. People like to be entertained, so it's a good idea to put on your best and most energetic face when you make videos. You need to look like you care about the topic you're discussing.


Take some time to make sure you look good on camera. You don't have to have movie-star looks to be successful on YouTube, but it helps to clean up a little before you record videos.
Not all videos need to be super-enthusiastic. If you're recording affirmation videos, or vlogs of political commentary, it might be better to be kind of quiet. Match your energy level to the video you're making.
 People subscribe to channels that provide content they can't find elsewhere. If you want to get more subscribers, your channel needs to include videos that can't be found on other better channels. Even if you're a big fan of the NeedleDrop's music reviews, or Jenna Marbles humorous vlogs, it's important to find some way to specialize, or improve upon the content you like.


Maybe you like music and want to review new records. Cool. Pick a specific genre to get even more specific and appeal to a particular audience. NeedleDrop's got the full-indie spectrum covered, but maybe you just review K-Pop, or death metal.
 Let people know what your channel is all about by recording a channel intro video that will play when someone clicks on your channel. These videos are usually short, provide a brief introduction to who you are and what you do, and invite people to subscribe for more.

