 The hocks are the rabbit equivalent of an ankle joint, and the area that's affected is the length of the paw from the hock to the tips of the toes. To check your rabbit, gently roll the rabbit onto its back so that you can see the underside of the rabbit's back legs.Take care not to force the rabbit over, as this can damage their spine.
You may find it helps to cover the rabbit's eyes with a towel as this has a naturally subduing effect.
It's a good idea to sit on the floor when checking your rabbit, just in case they wriggle and you let go.;
, There is a sliding scale of severity from fur loss right through to full thickness pressure sores with secondary infections.In its mildest form, the rabbit may lose the fur on the surface in contact with the ground, and the skin may look slightly red.If the problem has progressed a bit further, the area may become puffy or swollen, the skin may be obviously reddened or even cracked or scabby.
Even further, it can develop into a sore or ulcer form. An ulcer is when the surface of the skin breaks open, often in response to pressure, such as is the case with bed sores., Unfortunately, once the surface of the skin is broken, this provides an entry route for bacteria and infections. To check for this, look for a weeping discharge, often consisting of pus, from the sore.The area may smell unpleasant.
Usually there is significant swelling and large areas of skin loss from the lower surface of the limb.
Once the discharge is cleaned away you may even be able to see underlying structures through the gap in the skin, such as tendons or ligaments.
 This rabbit will be very uncomfortable and reluctant to move around. Unfortunately this worsens the problem because the rabbit spends longer in one spot, which may be damp and contributing to the sore hocks. Thus a classic vicious circle develops.In some cases the infection spreads into the joints or even the bones. This is very painful and the rabbit will be reluctant to move. When it does move, it will be with an abnormal gait or a limp.
The pain and discomfort may also stop the rabbit from eating.
 Keep the rabbit's claws short, so that the foot lies at a normal angle. Also give the rabbit a deep bed of soft straw, so that the injured area is cushioned a bit.


Be sure to keep the rabbit's cage or hutch clean as well. If the hock injury was caused by the rabbit sitting in urine, clean the area and make sure it is no longer sitting in its filth.
 If you discover your rabbit has sore hocks then seek veterinary attention. The vet will look at the hock area and assess whether the skin is damaged. If it is, the vet will also assess whether a secondary infection is present. If the answer is yes, the vet will investigate whether the infection has spread to the bones or joints, which may involve radiography of the affected bones.


The vet will examine the rabbit to check for health problems that could cause it to sit still for longer than normal.
The veterinarian will also check the length of the rabbit's claws. Long claws raise up the paw, especially on hard surfaces, pushing the weight back onto the rabbit's hocks.
 The sores will need to be cleaned and wrapped, in order to prevent further irritation. Your veterinarian should show you the proper procedure for cleaning and wrapping the wound, as you will need to change the wrapping on a regular basis.Your veterinarian my prescribe a medication, such as an antibiotic, to apply to the wound. This will help kill any infection and allow the wound to begin healing., To understand how hock sores occur, it first helps to understand how rabbits move in the wild. They are constantly moving around from one patch of grass to another. Soil is relatively soft and allows the rabbit's claws to sink into the ground and the whole of the underside of the foot is in contact with the earth.This spreads the rabbit's weight evenly over a surface that is soft and forgiving.


Also, wild rabbits tend to be lean, so they are not carrying excess weight which presses down on the hock area.
 Contrast how a wild rabbit's hocks connect with the ground with pet rabbits. They move around over hard surfaces, such as carpet, laminate flooring, or lino. These surfaces do not allow the claws to dig in so the foot is naturally tilted up at the foot and down at the hock, adding pressure to the hocks.In addition rabbits kept in hutches for part of the time may be on abrasive surfaces such as mesh, which abrade and traumatize the skin to the lower limb.Also, wet bedding softens the skin and weakens its ability to form calluses and protect itself. Indeed, urine in straw macerates (softens) the skin further and dirty conditions predispose to infection.Pet rabbits may also be overweight, which adds extra pressure onto the rear limbs., Remove soiled areas of bedding from your rabbit's hutch on a regular basis. There should be no wet areas that the rabbit can sit in and damage its skin. Also make sure that your rabbit has a good surface to stand, and sit, on. It should not have to sit or stand on a wire flooring for long periods of time.Trim your rabbit's nails on a regular basis, so that its long nails don't press the hocks awkwardly onto the ground.
Also, keep your rabbit at a healthy weight, so it is not carrying excess weight. Excess weight can put extra pressure on the hocks.

