 Many sites or stores love to show off their own creations; take what you like and work with that. Research on the style, what can be done and what can't, so that you won't look like an Ita Loli.;
, Look for patterns in websites. They don't have to be exclusively Lolita patterns, as they are in Japanese most of the time. Victorian and Edwardian patterns can work wonders; you just have to adjust and edit them for the garment you want to create.
 If you are on a deadline, feel free to enlist friends who can help you.
 Maybe you love the colour red, but it makes you look all blotchy, so try to avoid using it as an accent instead of part of the main scheme. A good colour scheme might be navy blue with white, or black with red tartan, or even a very very deep purple or the ever present white and black combo. Stay away from bright or neon colours combined with black.
 Focus on the details of the dress, skirt, blouse, or jacket. Remember the basic shape of a Gothic Lolita outfit: bell shaped or A-line knee-length skirts that are at the waist or a tiny bit lower, but never at the hip. If you're using lace, use it in moderation. Remember to put all the details: buttons, ruffles, bows, etc. You might want to gather small samples of the fabrics and other materials you might use and paste them next to your sketch so that you can have an idea of how it might look all together. DON'T FORGET TO ADD YOUR PETTICOAT AND BLOOMERS TO YOUR SKETCH, THEY ARE A MUST IN ANY LOLITA OUTFIT.
 You might to want to look into the makeup and hair by this time too, remember that those are also essential parts of your Gothic Lolita outfit. Hair is neat, clean and tidy, usually in soft curls or straight and with bangs. The makeup is a bit darker than on almost all the rest of the styles, but that doesn't mean Raccoon Eyes. Gothic and Lolita Bible has great examples of makeup and hair looks.
 Good fabrics for a Gothic Lolita outfit are cotton fabrics or mixed cotton fabrics with a dull natural shine to them. Synthetic fabrics or satin fabrics are a total no-no. Don't use heavy or crushed velvet, and try to find natural fibers. For the laces, eyelets, Venice and Cluny made of cotton and other natural fabrics are a must. Synthetic laces tend to be hard, rough, and have a wide netting that will look grayish and ugly from afar.
 That way if you make a mistake, you won't be wasting precious fabric.
 Remember that you can always make last minute modifications, but always be very sure of what you're doing.
 Don't save this for the exact day you'll be wearing it on. Do this fairly early on to fix anything outrageously wrong. Do it as many times as necessary.
 Once you have the skirt, dress, JSK, etc. done you can add the rest of the details, be it lace, buttons or some such. Always look back at your sketch, but keep in mind that you can change anything last minute if you're very sure of it. DON'T OVERDO THE LACE OR YOU'LL END UP WITH AN UGLY AND ITA LOLI LACE MONSTER.
 Start looking for the complimentary accessories. As a Gothic Lolita, you can look for crosses, coffin purses, Alice bows, bracelets, chokers, etc. Remember that they should match and compliment the outfit. Remember that the shoes are very important too: Mary Janes (with or without the characteristic Lolita heels) and rocking horse shoes are great for a Gothic Lolita style, stay away from stompy boots. Knee or over the knee length stockings are necessary to keep your modesty.
 Check the over all outfit and fix things here or there.
 Try not to brag too much, but be proud of your hard work!

