 One way to get your life together is to take control of your life. Understand that while bad or unpleasant things happens, many of these things are out of your control. Realize instead what is in your control and what you can change. Blaming others for your circumstances makes you powerless. Don't think that things happen to you. Instead, start thinking about yourself as the person in control of your life.Be honest with yourself. How often do you come up with excuses and blame others? Don't judge yourself for this behavior. Most everyone does it. But try to change this behavior. Be objective and pinpoint places where you can improve.
When you stop making up excuses, you take responsibility and control of your life. That means that your choices, thoughts, and actions are in your control, not someone else's. This means you move forward. You have the control.
When something happens, don't get mad and blame someone. Don't make excuses for why you messed up. Accept that it happened. Don't dwell on it. Instead, move past it and try to change your behavior so you don't do it again.;
, There are certain things that happen to us that are out of our control. Since you can't change or fix this, let it go. Push it out of your head and stop thinking about them. Focus only on things you can change in your life. This will make you happier.Things in our past are beyond our control. Learn from past mistakes, but don't dwell on them. You can't successfully move forward if you keep looking backward.
You can't change other people, only yourself. Don't obsess over what other people do. Talk to people if they hurt you, but if you have done everything you can, let it go. You can only control yourself.
 Understanding what makes you happy and content can be the hardest question to answer. If you are unhappy and feel your life is out of control, start by asking yourself, "What will make me happy?" Answer truthfully. Figuring this out can help you focus on the positive aspects of life and start to get your life together.


Answer realistically. Travelling around Europe for 6 months or becoming a millionaire are probably out of your reach. However, visiting Italy, increasing your savings account, or getting a job promotion are things that you can work on achieving.
Figure out what your core values are. Are they honesty, compassion, love, acceptance, dedication, or hard work? Whatever they are, figure them out and write them down. Then look at your life. Are you living up to your core values? Are the people in your life living up to them? Knowing what you value can help you be a better person and help you surround yourself with better people., There are things in our lives that we can't change. We have to work, we have to go to school, and we have to pay bills. You have responsibilities. But you can change certain aspects about your responsibilities so they don't always feel like such a burden.


Are there better days for you to perform certain responsibilities? Can you buy groceries on a Thursday night instead of spending your Saturday in the grocery store? Find ways to adjust your life so you get everything done but still have time for yourself.
Does your job make you happy? If not, decide how you feel about that. Do you want a different career or a promotion? Or are you happy with your job despite not being passionate for your work because it has flexible hours or great pay?
You don't have to be passionate about everything in life. Instead, decide if you are okay with the aspects of your life and accept what role they play., There is so much pressure on us to juggle everything, and to do it perfectly. You are only one human being. There are only 24 hours in a day. You can't possibly do everything. You have a job, a family, friends, and other obligations. Sometimes, work requires more of our time while other times our family does. Don't feel like a failure if you can't do it all. Do what you can, and let the rest go.


Prioritize your time and commitments. This is especially important if you are busy and pressed for time. Decide what has to be done, what things can slide, and what needs your attention.
Make a to do list. This can help you not forget anything. It also will give you a sense of accomplishment once you finally cross things off the list. Just remember, don't be discouraged if you don't finish everything. Instead, focus on what you have finished., Things happen in our lives. We grow older, we go through break ups and divorces, people die, we lose jobs, and tragedy happens. These things can cause us to be depressed, sad, and hopeless. Once we finally start moving forward again, a lot of times we expect to be the same exact person we were before. This isn't always the case. Every experience we have changes us. Sometimes it's minor, but sometimes we are drastically different. This isn't always a bad thing. Don't get upset because you are different than you were 1, 5, or 10 years ago. Instead, embrace the new you as you move forward and put your life back on track.


This doesn't mean that if you are sad you will never be the happy person you were before. If you are depressed or feeling hopeless, you definitely want to move forward and find a way back to your happiness. The point is that the things used to make you happy may not make you happy anymore. You may not have the same opinions or views as before. You may not even like the same things. That's okay. Life is about change and adapting., Think about how many times you say "I'm not" in a day. What have you convinced yourself that you can't do? Things around us tell us we can't do stuff all the time. We don't have enough money to do something. We're too old or too young to do something. We're not attractive enough to do something. These subliminal messages make us believe there are certain things we aren't allowed to do. Stop thinking like that. Instead of thinking "I can't do that" or "I'm not that kind of person," change your thinking to "I can do it" or "I am that kind of person." Then go out and do it!


For example, if you've ever thought "I'm not a runner," ask yourself why. Is it because you physically can't run due to an injury, because you're not a marathon runner with an 8 minute mile stride, or because you've never tried? Instead of accepting that, go out and do it. If you want to be a runner, sign up for a 5k, do a couch-to-5k training program, and start running. Even if your best pace is ever a 13 minute mile, you're still running.Try new things. Do something that scares you and that you think you can't do. Sometimes you will fail or feel like an idiot. But sometimes you will succeed, improve your life, and even make friends.
 Sometimes, the best way to get your life together is to put yourself first. That may mean cutting out negative, unhealthy people from your life instead of keeping them around out of obligation. It may mean making a decision people don't agree with because it's best for you. Most of all, it means staying true to what is best for you.


Of course you don't want to hurt the people you love, but if you are doing what's right for you, they should understand and support you. The people you love shouldn't bring you down. If they do, talk to them.
Learn to say no. You don't always have to do everything for everyone else. Sometimes, you don't have time to commit to something or don't have the energy to do something. That's okay. It doesn't make you a bad person. Saying no doesn't make you a bad person., One way to get your life together is to move forward and move on. Getting your life together includes making a life for yourself. This may include joining new organizations, finding new friends, or trying a new hobby. It might mean just getting out of your house on a weekend. Whatever it is, go ahead and get out of the house.


Join a community organization to meet people and get involved. Put a profile on an online dating site. Join a meetup group and go to an event.Give yourself time to heal. Don't move on or put yourself out there before you are ready. There is no timeline for when you should be healed. Some people heal faster than others. There's nothing wrong with that. However, you may need to push yourself out of your rut. Start small. Call up a friend. Go to a community event. Go somewhere you've never been. See how you feel when you do it. If it's too much, take some more time. If you feel okay, then maybe you're ready to get out there more.
 One reason why people are unhappy is that they put their entire worth on the outside. They think money will make them happy, or a prestigious job, or even looking the best. There is nothing wrong with wanting a good job, to have enough money, or to look your best, but making your entire existence about this is unhealthy and damaging.


Focus instead on internal factors. Don't compare yourself others. Be the best you that you can be. Enjoy what your financial circumstances allows you, even if that just going on day trips instead of month long voyages to the Caribbean.
Live your life to your core values. Be a good, honest, loyal, hardworking person. Value your individual work and what you offer the world above being the best at everything.