 Children as early as 12 months old can start learning manners. The earlier, the better.;
, You cannot expect your kid to be good and kind if you do drugs and curse. This is being a hypocrite, and is just plain wrong. If you have other adults living with you and they behave poorly, ask them to not do it around your child/children.
 Abused children after grow up with low-self esteem and most become abusers themselves. If you know or think they are being abused, take action ASAP. This accounts for all abuse, including neglect, physical, emotional, or sexual.
 The following will help, but will need to be adjusted sometimes.


1-2:Instead of punishment,correct your child. Time outs may be needed if the child doesn't correct their behavior.
3-7:Taking a toy away for a day or two or a short time-out.
8-10:Send the child to bed early. Most children this age will hate this. Groundings for severe things may help depending on your child.
11-14:This is often a difficult age to punish. Most of the time taking away favorite electrons for a short period of time(5-8 hours) or short groundings(2-6 days)
15-to legal adult: This really depends on what your child did. Not allowing friends over, longer groundings(say 7-14 days) may be effective.
 Kids do need to know that some things should not be shared (underwear,toothbrush, etc.)

,, Chores will teach them that not everything will be done for them. If you have more than one child, make them take turns doing certain chores.Children under 3 years are not ready for chores and children under 9 should be supervised when feeding pets or doing dishes.Split chores equally between family members.A good idea is to have a chart saying who will do what on a weekly basis.
 If your child is 7 or older a weekly allowance is a good idea. Even "I like how you said please at dinner tonight," will help your child feel proud. Avoid food as an award, because this can cause unhealthy eating later in life.
 Remember, some parents think all it takes is discipline and don't realize they are being hard or strict on their kids. This kind of parenting is only pushing the kid/teen away and will make them want to hide stuff from you. Simply because they want more freedom or feel that you are being too strict.
 At any age even if they have plenty of friends. It's easier to be honest with someone that's your friend instead of your "crazy" mom/dad.
 Talk to them a lot, be a close parent and tell them they can tell you anything. Also be open and honest with them.
 In most cases this will just make them upset and draw you two apart. Unless you have a reason or feel they are hiding something REALLY bad from you there is no need to go spy on your children and will most likely just make them want to hide stuff from you.
 The older a kid gets, the more they will need to know WHY things are wrong. They might not tell you this, but you need to explain to them exactly why bad things are bad. Because you don't want them finding out the hard why. Make sure they fully understand why things are bad.
 And want to do something with their life. Be supportive. Help him/her with whatever they want to do.
