 Make sure you have plenty of room to place and fill your water bed. This is especially important, if you are purchasing a hard sided water bed that can take up significantly more space than a traditional bed frame. Measure your room and bedframe, and find the best position for your water bed before you place it. In order to move a water bed, you will need to completely drain and refill it, so taking extra time to find the right position in advance is important., You want to be careful not to cause serious electrocution concerns, when filling your water bed, but you’ll need to be near enough to an outlet to keep your water bed heater plugged in. The heating element of the mattress should be at the opposite end of the mattress from the fill point for your safety. Without a temperature regulating system, water beds are very cold. It’s important to find and maintain a temperature that is comfortable. The heat also provides additional stress relief for the joints.Always unplug your water mattress heater prior to opening the fill point of your water bed.
 Soft sided water mattresses can usually be fitted with traditional bed linens, but you should ask the retailer you purchase from about special bedding sizes. Most hard sided water beds need California size bedding., If you want you water mattress to last, it’s important that you care for the vinyl. Overtime, vinyl absorbs skin, oils, fibers, and dust. It can become hard making the water bed less comfortable and increasing the risk for punctures. Vinyl cleaners remove this buildup and keep the material softer. You should change your sheets and clean the vinyl mattress carefully at least once a month., Like standing water anywhere, the water inside your water mattress can become stagnant. You will need to purchase water treatments and apply them as directed. Typically, water treatments come in the form of a tablet or drops that simply need to be released into the fill spout of your mattress once a month. It’s often easiest to administer these water treatments at the same time you clean your mattress and change your linens. Once a year, you should completely drain and refill the mattress., Even if you are extremely careful with your water bed, leaks still happen. It’s important to have a repair kit on hand at all times to seal any punctures or tears right away. One or two leaks are not necessarily a concern, but if your mattress has numerous punctures or rips, it may be time to replace it.