 Rinse two cups of fresh strawberries under cold water and remove their stems. If you only have frozen, gather the same amount, which is about 18 to 20 strawberries, and allow them to thaw. You’ll want your frozen strawberries to thaw so that your juice will be more like a smooth liquid as opposed to a thick smoothie.


This amount will create two servings of juice. If you plan to serve more than two people, then double or triple the amount of strawberries as needed. You’ll also need to increase the amount of the remaining ingredients accordingly.
 This simple strawberry juice will be pureed in a blender, so all of your ingredients can be added at once.Add to your blender the strawberries, a teaspoon of lemon juice, two tablespoons of sugar, a pinch of salt, and two cups of water.


Remember, if you’ve doubled or tripled your strawberries, make sure you double or triple the amount of the additional ingredients as well.
Salt is optional. While adding salt helps bring out the sweetness of the juice, if you’re trying to limit your salt intake for health reasons or as a personal preference, then it’s not necessary to add.
The amount of sugar you use depends on taste and need. Your strawberries may already be so sweet that you won’t need much, if any, sugar. Alternately, they may not be sweet at all, and you may need more sugar than recommended.
 Ingredients should be well mixed and pureed.
 Is your strawberry juice too sweet or not sweet enough? Adjust the taste of your juice as needed. If it’s too sweet, then add a little more water. If it doesn’t taste sweet enough, you can add more sugar. Add a couple of teaspoons of sugar at a time to keep from adding too much sugar to your juice.
 This step is optional, but if you prefer the feel and taste of pulp-free juice, pour your juice through a fine meshed strainer before serving. Place the sieve over a juice jug to pour your juice directly into your serving container.
 You can either chill your juice in the refrigerator for a couple hours before serving, or add a few ice cubes to a glass to serve immediately.

