 Many people have trouble urinating in public places. If this is the case with you, engaging in certain relaxation techniques can help you calm down enough to use a public restroom.


If you find ways to distance yourself from the act of urination, your body will carry out its natural functions. Calming yourself via progressive muscular relaxation can help with this.Relax different muscle groups at a time. Start by relaxing your neck and shoulders, and then move down to your arms, torso, and hips. Keep going until you've loosened up your legs and shins. Focus on the different muscle groups and not on the fact you're using a public restroom. This will relax your muscles, helping you use the bathroom, and also distract you from the act of urinating., Much like relaxation techniques, finding ways to not think about the act of urinating can help the process happen. Find a distraction when you have to use a public restroom


If you have a smart phone, reading a news article or listening to a song on your headphones can be a helpful distraction.You can also distract yourself with your own thoughts. Have a go-to image, song, line, or sound to consider while urinating. For example, you could imagine a location you find calming, like your childhood bedroom. You could also try to recite the lyrics to a song you know. Anything to get your mind off of using the restroom is key., Holding your breath increases the levels of carbon dioxide in your system, which can help reduce your overall stress level.


Exhale about 75% of your breath and then hold the rest. Try holding your breath in for about 45 seconds.Repeat the process and see if it helps. Some people find this actually increases their overall anxiety, so it's a good idea to test out these kinds of breathing exercises before trying them in public., If you have frequent or intense anxiety about urinating in public and it leads to discomfort at work or in social situations, you could seek out psychiatric treatment for your issues.


Shy bladders have been successfully treated with behavioral therapies, drugs, and hypnotherapy. Your psychiatrist will work with you to find the best treatment option given your existing psychiatric and medical history.You can find a psychiatrist by going through your insurance provider or try to find a free or reduced rate clinic in your area. If you're a college student, you can go through your college or university.

