 You can use pre-butchered chicken pieces, or you can take a stab at breaking down a whole bird on your own.


Plan on portioning out about 500 grams (18 oz) or approximately 1 pound of chicken for this recipe.
White breast meat works very well in this recipe, but you can also use dark leg meat, or any combination of white and dark meat depending on your personal taste.
You can leave the skin on or remove it, depending to your personal preference.
500 grams is about equivalent to 4 small or 2 large boneless chicken breasts.;
, It might sound counterintuitive, but the U.S. Department of Agriculture warns that rinsing off raw meat can actually spread bacteria, even up to three feet if your sink faucet has strong water pressure. Proper sanitization is vital, thought, when working with raw chicken since it can harbor dangerous bacteria like salmonella.The key is to ensure sanitization through other methods that are effective methods than washing the meat.


Avoid cross-contamination by preparing your raw chicken on a different cutting board and with different utensils than you would use to work with other ingredients. If you must reuse these items, make sure that you thoroughly sanitize them with hot water and antibacterial soap after they’ve touched the raw meat.Be sure to thoroughly wash your hands after handing the raw meat and before touching any other ingredients and utensils.Make sure that the liquids you marinate the raw chicken in will be thoroughly cooked. Never reuse extra marinade if it has touched the raw chicken., Pre-treat your meat to some flavor before you apply the marinade. This will help to impart even more flavor.


Use a fork to poke some holes into the meat. This will allow your seasoning to penetrate into the meat and infuse it with flavor.
Sprinkle on a generous pinch of salt.
Gently rub in about 1 tablespoon (15 ml) each of fresh garlic and ginger, crushed into a paste. To make a paste, chop the garlic and ginger into small pieces, sprinkle with a pinch of salt, and then use the flat side of a chef’s knife to press down on the pieces and smash them into a paste.If you decide to leave the skin on your meat, you can gently separate the skin from the meat and apply the paste between them. Your paste will have more contact with the meat this way, and the skin will hold it in place.
Leave the chicken to pre-marinate while you make the main marinade (about 15 minutes).
 This robust marinade is made by combining several different spices.


Wash your coriander leaves and green chilies first.
Place all of your marinade ingredients into a food processor or blender and pulse until it becomes a smooth, fine paste.
 It’s smart to use a non-corrosive mixing bowl when applying the marinade so that it doesn’t chemically react with the spices.


Place your prepped chicken pieces into a non-corrosive mixing bowl and cover it with the marinade.
Gently massage the mixture into the meat.
Cover the mixing bowl with plastic wrap, tin foil, or another tight fitting lid.
 Leave your chicken to marinate in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours, or preferably overnight for maximum flavor infusion.


The more the paste settles onto the meat, the tastier the dish becomes.
Be sure to let it marinate in the refrigerator, not at room temperature, so that your meat doesn’t spoil.
 Take your chicken out of the refrigerator about 10 minutes or so before you're ready to cook. Allowing the meat to slow come to room temperature before introducing it to a hot skillet it will help the meat cook better and stay tender., To get a good sear on your meat, it’s important to use the right kind of skillet and get it up to the right temperature.


Ideally, use a Chinese wok or kadai (a round, deep cooking pot used in Indian and Pakistani cooking). If you don’t have a wok or kadai, you can also use a cast iron frying skillet with tall sides to prevent any oil from splashing up on you.
Use medium-high heat to warm your cooking oil in the skillet, then add the butter. Using oil and butter will help to control your cooking temperature and keep your oil from getting too hot.If you prefer to skip the butter, thought, that’s fine too.
 Once your butter and oil are hot (slightly shimmering), slowly and carefully add your chicken pieces.


Stir and toss frequently for about 5 minutes. This helps to ensure even cooking and prevent sticking.
Add any remaining marinade. Be sure to bring it to a boil, to kill off any bacteria.
Reduce to medium heat, cover, and cook for approximately 15 minutes or until the chicken meat is cooked all the way through.
You can check your chicken’s doneness by using a tip-sensitive thermometer. Check the meat in several spots, making sure to hit the thickest and center-most spots. You should reach a temperature of 165 °F (73.9 °C) to kill off bacteria and reduce your risk of food-borne illness., After you’ve cooked the chicken, it’s a good idea to take a taste and see if any additional salt or seasonings are needed.
 Traditional garnishes include onion and tomato slices, but you can use fresh cilantro leaves, lemon slices, or whatever else you’d like to add as your own personal touch.
 Chicken Cafreal is especially delicious when enjoyed with some other classic Indian side dishes.


Include a side of warm brown or jasmine rice, or some warm Naan bread to soak up the juices.
Pour a glass of Feni (a Goan alcoholic beverage flavored with cashew or coconut), white wine, or pale beer if you are old enough.

