 When you travel to a different country, it's important that you are able to communicate with people. While learning an entirely new language is unrealistic for most people, learning a couple of key phrases in the local language is not. Make sure to pick up a translation book before you travel so you can memorize important phrases.


Even if you aren't very good at speaking the language and only know a couple of words, locals in the country you're visiting will appreciate and respect the gesture.
Some common phrases tourists should learn are hello, goodbye, thank you, I need help, and do you speak English?While many countries teach English in primary school, don’t rely on it. The locals will appreciate it if you try to speak in their native tongue.;
, Countries will sometimes boast a wide variety of climates. Before you visit another region of your country, make sure that you know what the climate will be like so you can pack clothing that makes sense for the place you're visiting.Places in the south like Florida and New Mexico in the U.S. enjoy a mild climate during the winter and get extremely hot in the summer.
Countries in South America differ drastically, from warm dry climates to hot and humid ones., Being a good tourist includes being knowledgeable about the country or region you’re visiting. You also will want to find out what the local clothing looks like so you can dress appropriately.


When traveling domestically, wearing clothes that resemble the local style will help you fit in.
Figure out a couple of historic locations that you’d want to visit while you’re there and write them down in a list.
Research any events that are going on in the city or else you may miss out on a unique cultural experience., Different countries have different infectious diseases, so it’s important that you get vaccinated so you don’t contract or spread sickness to locals or other people visiting with you. For instance, when traveling to Thailand it’s recommended that you get a Typhoid vaccine. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention has an online tool that allows you to see what vaccines are recommended in certain countries., A tour guide is able to give you more intimate knowledge of the country or city you’re visiting. This know-how goes beyond what can be typically found in a guidebook or when searching online.You can ask your tour guide about local businesses or services you can use while you’re visiting.
Because your guide is likely a resident of the area, you can ask them about restaurants or bars that they prefer.

