 Whether you are creating a solution to wash your floor, or just using water, you should use hot water. Hot water will help cut through grime. Ultimately, by using hot water, you’ll decrease the chance that you’ll need tougher solvents that could damage the marble., Distilled water is water that has gone through a process to remove minerals and other impurities. By using distilled water, you’ll reduce the chance of discoloring or staining your marble.


You can buy distilled water at just about any grocery store or box store. It is usually cheap., Pour detergent into a bucket with your hot, distilled water. Follow the directions of the soap and dilute it with an appropriate amount of water. Mix your solution thoroughly. Make sure to only add pH neutral soap to your water.


If you prefer, you may be able to use a commercially prepared marble cleaner. Simply follow the directions on the bottle and then clean as you would with a water and detergent solution. Some products include Stone Tech, Resolve, or Simple Green., Take a mop with a soft mop head (preferably microfiber) and dip it into your solution of detergent and water. Wring out the mop head to relieve it of excess water and systematically mop your floor. Do short strokes that overlap.


Rinse and wring out the mop head after you’ve covered 10 to 20 square feet (1 to 2 square meters). This might vary depending on how dirty the floor is., After you’ve mopped your floor with a detergent solution, you should mop it again with cool clean water. By mopping it again, you’ll help pick up any dirt or debris that remains on the floor. In addition, you’ll remove any suds that remain on the floor.
 When mopping your floors, you need to make sure you change the cleaning solution or water often. If you don’t, your floor might become streaky or could be scratched by debris in the mopping water.


If your water appears brown or you see it full of dirt, dump it. Refill it with new water (and soap, if you want)., Since marble is relatively porous, it’s important to sop up as much of your cleaning solution or water as you possibly can. If you don’t, the solution could leech into the marble and discolor it.Switch out wet and dirty towels as needed.
 All spills on marble should be cleaned up immediately. This is because marble is a porous material and can absorb spills. If you let something sit too long, your marble will discolor or stain.


Take a wet microfiber cloth and use it to blot up anything you’ve spilled on the marble floor., pH neutral cleaners won’t damage marble floors. As a result, stay away from acidic cleaners. They might scratch or hurt the shine of marble floors. Avoid:


Vinegar
Ammonia
Citrus cleaners (like lemon or orange).
Cleaners intended for ceramic floors., One of the worst things you can do to your floor is to let it air dry. By letting it air dry, you’ll allow the water/solution to soak into the marble. This could stain or discolor the marble.
 The best way to limit staining on your floor is to seal your marble periodically. Locate a sealing product specifically formulated for marble. Read the directions and apply the seal onto the surface of the marble. Depending on the product (and use), you may have to reseal every three to five years.


Make sure to protect other surfaces, such as wood, tile, or grout, with plastic or painters tape.
Contact a professional if you are uncomfortable sealing your marble floors by yourself., When you come across a scuff or other mark that won’t come off during a normal washing, use a felt pad to remove it. Simply dab the pad in a mixture of detergent and water and rub the marble gently along its grain.


Do not rub in a circular pattern. This will damage your marble., Take a soft dust mop or a broom with soft bristles and sweep the floor. Make sure to sweep up as much debris as you can. Pay special attention to areas along walls or doors., If you choose to use a vacuum, you need to be careful not to damage your marble floor. The plastic on the nozzle or wheels of a vacuum can etch or scratch marble. As a result, use caution if you decide to use a vacuum


If you have a central vacuum system in your home, you may be able to use a soft floor attachment on the nozzle. However, you should test the attachment in an inconspicuous area (such as behind a door) before using it., Rugs and mats will help accumulate debris. As a result, sweeping or vacuuming your floor will be easy. In addition, rugs or mats will protect high traffic areas from scratches.