 Start by fully disconnecting your Keurig from the power supply. You don’t want to risk damaging the appliance while working with water., Depending on your Keurig model, you should be able to remove the cold water reservoir, lid, drip tray and cover, the K-cup holder, and funnel. Be careful removing the K-cup holder and funnel as there is a needle nearby. Simply grasp the holder from both sides and gently wiggle until it comes free., Place all of these components into a sink filled with warm, soapy water. A teaspoon of dish liquid should be sufficient. Let them sit and soak while you complete the rest of your surface clean. If you haven’t cleaned your Keurig in a while, you might also scrub out the parts with a soft, clean sponge or cloth.If your reservoir has water sitting it it, go ahead and empty this out before placing it in the sink. Take this opportunity to discard any used pods sitting around as well., When you’ve finished soaking them, rinse off each part with water and allow them to air dry on a clean towel. If you are in a hurry, you can dry each piece with a lint-free towel. However, it is still best to only air dry the reservoir and lid to avoid lint sticking to those surfaces., You should now be able to see the needle that punctures your K-cups and allows for the flow of liquid. Get a large paperclip and apply pressure until the single end comes free. Slowly push this free end into the needle holes. Move the paperclip around just a bit to loosen any grime and then slowly pull it out., Take a soft-bristled toothbrush and dip it in a 50-50 vinegar and water mixture. Lightly brush any spots where you see coffee grounds present. Pay particular attention to the areas right around the needle assembly.Removing these grounds is important because they can accumulate over time and lead to clogs and stoppages., Get a soft cloth and dip it into the 50-50 water and vinegar mixture. Squeeze out the excess liquid until the cloth is damp and then brush it over the outside casing of your Keurig. Scrub firmly against any areas that are white, as this indicates hard water deposits.It is a good idea to do at least a surface wipe down of your machine once a week.