 Mindfulness is the practice of observing your thoughts and feelings to cultivate an active awareness of yourself and your surroundings in the present moment.Research suggests that practicing mindfulness can help you feel more secure with yourself and your relationships with others, which in turn can help you feel more overall satisfaction over time.Try to breathe consciously. Take a slow inhalation while you count to five, hold your breath for five seconds, and exhale slowly for five seconds.
Focus on the present moment.
Any time your mind starts to wander, return your attention to the way your body feels and the sensory information around you.
Cultivating mindfulness takes a lot of practice and patience. Work at it every day, and over time you will feel happier, more secure, and more at peace.;
, Seeking emotional support from people you love and trust can create a tremendous sense of security. Try making amends with a friend you've had a falling out with to restore that connection in your life, or practice asking for help/advice from the people closest to you for a renewed sense of community.Reaching out to friends and rekindling an old friendship can help remind you that there are people in your life who love and care about you.
Having a heart-to-heart conversation with someone close to you can help strengthen your relationship with that person. Be sure to emphasize that you love and support your friend/partner/family member, and ask them to emphasize the same to you.
 Everyone has emotional needs that we strive to satisfy through romantic relationships, friendships, and familial relationships. Each type of bond offers a different kind of comfort, security, and acceptance. If you're feeling emotionally insecure, it could be that one or more of the primary relationships in your life are not meeting your emotional needs.Take an honest look at the relationships in your life. Do you ever feel unloved or uncared for in those relationships? Do you feel secure with the people around you, or are you always a little insecure?
If you think one of the relationships in your life is causing you a sense of insecurity, try talking to that friend/lover/family member about the way you feel. Decide what it is that person could do differently, and have an honest but loving conversation about your needs and how they can be better met.
 Many people feel emotionally insecure due to a lack of trust. This may be because of past relationships or friendships that ended badly, or it could simply be a deep-seated fear of abandonment. Whatever your reason for feeling mistrustful, you need to recognize that you cannot go through life without trusting others. Just because something may have ended badly once (or even multiple times), it does not mean that every relationship or friendship will end the same way.


Ask yourself whether your mistrust of others stems from not trusting yourself. Many people unconsciously project their fears and negative emotions on other people. Is it possible that you don't trust your partner because you yourself have doubts?Often times the heart of your mistrusting another person is a lack of trust in yourself to make wise decisions. If you want to be friends or lovers with someone, you'll need to decide whether you're willing to take the risk that you might get hurt. Believe in yourself and trust that you'll know what to do if such a situation arises.