 Self-awareness is a practice that can improve with time, but can also help you in the moment. When you’re feeling irritable, remove yourself from the situation and ask yourself what is causing the irritation. Think about events that have happened that could lead you to feel this way. Once you’ve identified a trigger, think about how to deal with it.Get into a habit of regular self-reflection. Spend 20 minutes each day reflecting on your day, how you responded to things, and how you can improve for the future.Ask others for their input on when they notice your irritability. Say, “I’m trying to notice when I become irritable. Do you notice any patterns in my behavior?”
Understand that irritability may be a sign that you have needs that are not being met. Try to see if you can pinpoint what causes your irritability. Doing something that you disagree with or that goes against your values might also contribute.
Irritability can be a product of burn-out or exhaustion. Try to see if there are areas in your life where you are being overworked mentally or physically.;
, Many people with bipolar disorder use a mood journal. If you become irritable often yet cannot pinpoint a cause, start a journal to see if you can pick up on any patterns. These patterns can help you identify your triggers for irritability. For example, you may notice that you become irritable during certain times of the day, when you haven’t slept well, or when you eat certain foods.Pay special attention to your moods and any things that set them off regularly. For example, you might become sad in the morning, irritable by lunch, then angry or rageful by the time you get home.
 You may need to learn new ways to communicate your needs to other people as a way to avoid increasing irritability. If someone is hindering your ability to get something done, say that you need to work and not talk. Instead of saying they have an annoying voice or that they’re talking too much, say, “Can you please sum this up for me? I don’t have much time now. Or, perhaps you can email me.”If someone wants to talk yet you’re feeling irritable, have an out. Say, “Now is not a good time to talk. Let’s pick this up sometime later.”
You can also say, “I’m not feeling great right now. I’d like some alone time.”
You may need to put your own needs ahead of others, especially if other people are making demands of you that make you uncomfortable, burned out, or annoyed.
 If tensions are rising, make a joke or make light of the situation. If you recognize you’re making a big deal of something small, laugh at yourself for being so silly. Do what you can to lessen tensions and make the situation more comfortable.For example, say, “Silly me, I’m acting like there’s a rhino in the room.”

