 Another good way to bond with your baby is through verbal communication. Babies learn and respond to your voice. This means that you should talk to your baby throughout the day. It can be any type of communication you feel comfortable doing as long as you are looking at your baby and using your voice.Try reading stories to your baby.
Sing your favorite songs to your baby.
Use baby talk with your baby or imitate the sounds they make.;
, One of the best ways to start a bond between you and your baby is to do it through touch. Babies respond well to touch, and touch also helps you form a bond with the baby as well. Start small with light touches as you get used to touching and bonding with your baby.Try cradling or rocking your baby throughout the day. Stroke your baby’s legs, arms, feet, and hands. Run your hand gently over your baby’s head.
Hold your baby against your skin as much as possible. Wear tank tops and put your baby in just a diaper, and hold your baby so that your skin is touching.
 Make time to feed your baby throughout the day. Even if you aren’t up to doing it each time, try to do it at least once or twice a day. Feeding your baby helps promote a bond between the two of you because of the touching, voice recognition, and your baby’s acknowledgement that you are taking care of its needs.If you are able to breastfeed, take this time to bond with your baby. If you have to bottle feed, you can still bond with your baby by touching them and talking to them.
 You can start forming a bond with your baby by taking an active part in the daily tasks that need to be done for them. This allows you a chance to spend time with your baby, touch your baby, and grow accustomed to them.Give your baby a bath.
Change your baby’s diapers.
 You can bond with your baby by responding to them when they do something. When you have PDD, you may not always feel like responding to your baby or respond inconsistently. Make an effort to respond to your baby, even when you may not feel like it.For example, you may soothe your baby when they cry or respond by laughing or touching when they laugh and smile.
 You can bond with your baby by playing with them throughout the day. Even if you’re not up to playing with them all the time, you can try to play with your baby at least once a day. Even if it’s just for a few minutes each day, the contact will help you start to form a bond.You can use rattles and other baby toys, play peek-a-boo, or other games that will be entertaining for you and your baby.
 Infant massage is a way you can bond with your baby. Infant massage allow you to touch your baby’s skin, place your scent on them, maintain eye contact, and talk to them. All of these things are important for bonding with your new baby. Infant massage also releases hormones in both of you that help encourage bonding.If you are interested in baby massage, you should take a class. Classes are usually given over a month or two. During classes, you learn different massage strokes for different parts of your baby’s body. You also learn how to properly massage the baby since babies are more fragile than adults.
Search online or ask your doctor about classes in your area.

