 In order to determine the best way to refine and then sell your product or service, you'll need to identify your ideal customer. Start by looking at the benefits that your product offers and thinking about whose needs are best met by those benefits. Work to identify this person from a demographic standpoint, including their gender, age, education, income, and location. Try to understand their values and interests. The clearer picture you can get of your ideal customer, the easier you can sell to them.For example, the owner of a high-quality music streaming service might find that his service appeals most to young adult to adult males with large amounts of disposable income who live in urban areas.;
, You should constantly make an effort to reassess the quality and usefulness of your product to your ideal customer. Accept and solicit feedback from customers about issues they've had with your product or service. You can then make changes to suit their needs and eliminate defects. Doing so will keep your product or service competitive and help you retain customers., In order to build customer loyalty, prevent negative reviews, and reduce return expenses, you'll need to find a way to improve quality control on your products or services. Set a product quality goal and determine how you will measure customer satisfaction. From there, you can invest in training for your employees and institute ways to ensure that each product is checked thoroughly before reaching your customer.For example, set a goal for a maximum percentage of damaged or faulty products you're okay with producing, for a certain number of customer complaints you think is acceptable, or for a certain customer wait time.
 In theory, there is an ideal price for your product or service where supply meets demand. However, actually finding that point can be difficult. Setting the price too high can drive away potential buyers and setting it too low cuts into your margins. Start looking into your pricing strategy by examining how your competitors are pricing their products. Then, adjust your price for the perceived quality of your product, if necessary.


If your product is sold as premium alternative, you may be able to charge more than competitors. If it is a discount option, expect to charge less than competitors.
You can always adjust your prices to see how your sales will respond. This method of trial and error might hurt your bottom line for a while, but finding the best price point will help you in the long run.