 In order to be eligible to be a notary public in Pennsylvania, a person must:


be at least eighteen (18) years of age
be a resident of, or employed within, the state of Pennsylvania
be of good character, integrity, and ability
not been convicted of, or plead guilty or nolo contendere, to a felony or lesser offense incompatible with the duties of a notary public during the five year period preceding the date of application
not have had a prior notary public commission revoked by any state during the five year period preceding the date of application
not hold a Judicial office in the state of Pennsylvania, unless such office is that of the Magisterial District Justice
not be a member of the U.S. Congress
not be a member of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania;
, Applicants for initial notary commission, as well as reappointment, must complete an approved education course. There are exceptions to this rule, however, and anyone who was a commissioned notary public in the state of Pennsylvania, on or before July 1, 2003, may be exempt. A list of approved education providers can be found here, on the Pennsylvania state website.
 Before completing the online application, you should:


Obtain a certificate of completion from the notary public education course you completed. You will need to submit proof that you completed an approved course with your notary application. Ask your instructor information on how to get your certificate of completion, or call the number listed for the provider from the list of approved education providers.
Locate the name and district number of the state Senator in whose district you reside (of if you do not live in Pennsylvania, in the district where you work). You will need this information for the notary application and can locate it using the Locate your Senator tool provided by the Pennsylvania Department of State.
Have a credit card available to pay the filing fee of $40 (as of July of 2013).
 You can find the form here. Information you will need to complete the form includes:


your name (as you wish it to appear on your commission), date of birth, social security number, and e-mail address
your home or business address
your employer’s name and address
the name and district number of your state Senator

, You should receive your notary commission within 4 to 6 weeks of submitting your application.
 You must obtain your bond within forty-five (45) days of being appointed as a Notary Public. A notary bond can be obtained from any insurance company who offers notaries bonds and who is authorized to do business in Pennsylvania by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department. To locate an insurance company in Pennsylvania who offers surety bonds:


Check with your homeowners, renters, or vehicle insurance company.
Look in your local phone book, or in an online phone directory, for insurance companies in your area.
Run an internet search for “notary bond in Pennsylvania” or “Pennsylvania notary bond” using your favorite search engine.
 You must register your signature with the prothonotary office in the county where you maintain an office (or the county where you reside if you do not maintain an office where you provide notary services) within forty-five (45) days of being appointed a Notary Public. To do this, you will need to take your completed bond form and letter of appointment to the prothonotary office, which you can find by running a search at your favorite search engine for “YOUR COUNTY prothonotary office”. For example, if you live in Butler County, you would search “Butler County prothonotary office”. There will be a small fee to register your signature.
 You will be asked to take an oath of office when registering your signature with the prothonotary office. You will then be provided with your commission certificate.
 Take your bond, oath, and commission certificate to the Recorder of Deeds, in the same county where you registered your signature, and record them. Once registered, the recorder will provide you with your commission and wallet card.
 In order to work as a Notary, you will need a notary seal or stamp. You can find seals and stamps, as well as other notary supplies online by searching “notary supplies”.

