 The best way to bring in customers is to sell your business in the best possible light. Brainstorm some ideas for different ads and run it by friends or family to see if they like the ideas. Consider your budget and how much you are willing to spend on your ads. For best results, you may want to hire a marketing manager or freelancing ad specialist who can oversee the production of your ad.


Look at the ads of businesses in your field of work. Get ideas and shape your own ad specific to your business image.;
, Print mediums include magazine, newspaper, coupon book and trade/industry journal advertisements. Consider your target audience when you are deciding on a publication to run your ad in.


For example, if you own a women’s clothing store, you would want to buy advertising space in fashion magazines, while someone who owns a mechanic shop would choose to advertise in an auto club magazine.
 Also called direct mail advertising, this method involves sending printed marketing materials like postcards and brochures directly to recipients' mail boxes. For a direct mail campaign, businesses purchase mailing lists that target their market sector. Direct mail comes with the costs of printing, mailing and purchasing mailing lists, and is therefore less cost effective and not as widely used as Internet marketing. However, direct mail marketing is ideal for things like hand-signed messages and paper coupons.


For example, a home security system business would only mail to homeowners, rather than renters.
 The first thing you should do is create a website for your business so that customers can browse your wares and services online. Having a website also helps when promoting your business through social media. Create pages for your business on major social media platforms like Facebook, Yelp, and Instagram. Other online tools you can use include:Search engine optimization (SEO), banner ads, pay per click ads, mass emails, forums, directory listings, blogs, and affiliate programs.
 While it may seem old school, flyers are an excellent way to get the word out about your business. Either hang flyers up or distribute them by hand. Pass out flyers in public places where a lot of people gather, such as malls, trade shows, retailers, busy sidewalks and industry seminars.


Additionally, you may acquire new customers by putting flyers on cars in parking lots, or handing flyers outdoor to door at apartment complexes and in neighborhoods.
 Another marketing possibility is creating a commercial that can be broadcasted on TV or the radio. Of course, it is important to keep your budget in mind. If you are going to do a commercial, you will want it to look professional rather than corny. To make a convincing commercial, you will need to spend a bit of money. Because of this, TV and radio ads are best suited for large, far-reaching companies that have the budget for such an expense.If you do want to go through with a commercial, search freelance-oriented websites like Thumbtack for freelance video producers who will generally shoot your commercial for less than large production companies.
 If you’ve ever glanced at a billboard and been intrigued by the business advertised there, then you know that signage does actually work. Billboard ads, marquee boards and storefront signs may attract customers to your business. If you have a mascot or logo for your store, you could also consider hiring someone to dance around in your mascot’s costume and a sign in front of your store to attract customer attention., This involves marketing via text, graphic and voice messaging through portable electronic devices. These electronic devices can be mobile phones, smart phones and personal digital assistants (PDAs).Generally you can only do this if your customers voluntarily sign up to receive messages from your business.
 If you have tried increasing customer traffic by yourself and think you might need some professional help, look into hiring a public relations firm. PR firms handle press releases and news stories that can generate interest in your business. PR specialists can also help you come up with more convincing ad campaigns.
 Like in any relationship, it helps to meet people face to face (even if you happened to look them up online beforehand). Business networking events might take the form of seminars, trade shows, chamber of commerce meetings or industry club meetings. Research the event before you attend to find out what will be discussed at the event and, if possible, who will be attending.It is also a good idea to arrive early so that you have time to meet and mingle with other business owners before the event begins.
 This is particularly helpful if you are a small business startup. Virtual communities can be a great way to make contacts on a wider scale. This can be of great help if your startup does not necessarily focus on the local market.
 The best way to connect and keep in contact with people you meet while networking is through business cards. There are plenty of websites through which you can order business cards, or you can go into your local printing shop and have them customize business cards for you. Make sure that you print out at least a hundred, if not more--you never know when passing out a business card could lead to a great business connection., In the world of business, its important that you be outgoing. Don’t be afraid to jump into a conversation. If you have a particular target in mind, then try to find a shared acquaintance to introduce you and put in a good word for you. Some great networking tips include:


Holding your drink or food in your left hand. That way, you are always ready to shake hands when the time calls for it.
Approach people in groups or standing by themselves. Avoid approaching two people talking (unless you know them) because you might be interrupting a private conversation.
When you receive a business card, look at it before putting it away--this is a sign of respect.
 A great way to make and keep connections is by giving out your business card and asking for one in return. You may find another business owner interested in teaming up and promoting each other. It would be upsetting if you didn’t get their business card and had to go searching for ways to contact them.


Don’t be stingy with your business cards. If someone you meet asks for several of them (perhaps to promote your work in his or her store) give them to him/her gladly.
 When at a networking event, you can expect to talk about your own business and listen to others speak about their own, a lot. This means that you will have to be prepared to explain what it is your business provides and the ways in which you can help other businesses. You should also be prepared to talk about what type of relationship you are seeking from your business connections. Be personable and genuine, and remember that networking has to do with getting to know others just as much as it has to do with letting others get to know you.It is particularly important to develop relationships with other businesses if you are a small business owner. Rather than looking at each other as competitors, think of your new relationships as a way to band together against larger corporations. For instance, if you own a plumbing business, meet a carpenter and agree to recommend each other when asked by your customers.
 While business cards function as a mini organizer for contact information, sometimes you may need to write down extra information, ideas, or referrals when speaking to someone at an event. Make sure that you bring a notebook or organizer where you can jot extra information down like recommendations for other networking events, alternate contact information, or meeting dates.
 When you make contact with a useful business connection, follow up with a phone call, email or letter to request additional face-time to tell them that you enjoyed meeting them and that you would like to keep the connection going. Maybe you have some ideas about how the two businesses can help each other. Ask to either schedule a short office meeting or to talk over lunch.
 This is particularly important when you know you have made the customer extremely happy. Make it a part of your follow-up routine to ask customers for referrals. Call, email or send a postcard to customers to ask about their experience with your business and, if they are satisfied, ask that they refer your business to a friend., A great way to get your customers to give your business referrals is by giving them an incentive to do so. This could be a discount off their next purchase, a freebie item, or a small cash refund. For example:If you own a nail salon, you may offer a deal where if a customer tells her friend to go to your business, and the friend tells you the customers name, the customer who gave the referral will get her next manicure for free.
 The less you require the customer to do in order to send you a referral, the more referrals you will get. Try handing out tickets that customers can fill out with their name and contact information and give to the people they are referring, who will then return them to you., Approach the referral promotion like a sales campaign. Advertise the referral promotion, specify a time period and offer advanced incentives during that time period. Make sure that all of your current customers know about the promotion by putting posts up on social media pages, hanging posters in the windows, and passing out flyers.

