 If you’re worried about finances or grieving a loved one who won’t be around this year, you’re more likely to receive positive benefits from physical activity than a pint of mint chocolate chip ice cream. When you have a craving get your body moving with short bursts of exercise.


Staying active promises your body will be flush with mood-boosting endorphins that will make you feel better about your situation and make it less likely that you’ll turn to food to cope.
Do at least 30 minutes of activity on most days. Try short spurts of exercise like sprinting, walking around the neighborhood, or having a snowball fight outdoors with family and friends., Journaling can be a terrific way to spot connections between how you’re feeling and what you’re eating or craving.You can keep a log of your meals over the holidays, but if you’re indulging on comfort foods that can make you feel even worse about yourself.


Instead try setting aside a few minutes each day to write about your thoughts and feelings. Journaling in this way can actually help you to gain more insight into what’s causing your stress or poor mood, and even give you an opportunity to problem-solve recurring mood patterns.
 Support is extremely beneficial in helping improve your mood and encouraging you to make healthier food choices. Many of your family members, friends or coworkers may be able to relate to the temptation of giving in to emotional eating during this time of year. Reach out to someone and explain what you’re going through. They may be willing to serve as an accountability partner, or, at the very least, offer their support.You might say, “Hey, Rebecca, I heard you mention how you’re worried about making bad dietary choices over the holidays. So am I. Especially since I get kind of stressed during this time of year. What are you doing to prevent unhealthy eating?”

, Mindful eating is a technique found to be effective at reducing emotional eating. It involves focusing on the present moment by truly tasting your food so that you are aware of what’s going into your body. Oftentimes, when you’re eating because you feel bad you just shove things into your mouth without a second thought. Mindfulness requires that you slow down and bring awareness to meal times.


To practice mindful eating, serve yourself appropriately and sit down at the table with no distractions. Think about all that went into preparing this meal. Express gratitude for having delicious food to eat and/or wonderful people to share the meal with.
Next, observe the different colors and textures on your plate. Take a bite. Really take in the flavors associated with each food. Sit your fork down and chew 20 to 40 times before continuing.Being mindful at other times during the day may also help to prevent overeating. For example, you could practice mindfulness while brushing your teeth, walking your dog, or while cleaning your kitchen.
You could also begin a daily meditation practice to help you reduce your stress. Start small and try to work up to 30 minutes of meditation every day. One study showed that adding mindful eating practices and 30 minutes of daily meditation prevented holiday weight gain., If you do happen to give in to one too many cookies or glasses of eggnog, resist the pity-party. Getting down on yourself about emotional eating only worsens the situation and puts you in a position to continue to make poor choices. You say, “Well, I’ve already went over on my calories today. I may as well eat two more slices of cake.”


Prevent this vicious cycle of negativity by giving yourself a break. If you overeat, simply get yourself back on track right away.

