 Not 'an' attitude but 'the' attitude. Be sweet to everyone you can stand to be sweet too. If there is someone who you cannot handle, stay away from them. The alpha girl never openly attacks anyone - It's mostly the loners who attack. Have some good insults and come backs, though. If someone insults you, act as though you don't care. Give them an evil-innocent look and finish it off with a witty insult. For some good insults, click this link: http://www.humorsphere.com/insults/ But remember, only use insults when needed. And NEVER re-use an insult. That will just seem lame.;
, Let's start with the hair. Use a fabulous good quality hair shampoo & conditioner like Redken or Bumble & Bumble. NEVER have dandruff or greasy hair (Gross!). Always have a different hair style at school. For instance, have your hair in a slick, glamorous ponytail for P.E, have it curly/wavy on normal days and straighten it for special occasions. Your hair must be beautiful at all times. Try to grow it long, too.
 Eat plenty of fruits. Vegetables are great, but fruit will give you clear skin and the body all Vogue models envy. Treat yourself occasionally, though. Have 2-4 truffles after dinner if you have a sweet tooth. Diets are all about will power!

, DO NOT have bright eye shadow and lipstick. Alphas can't be clowns! Glossy lips, rosy cheeks and a touch of mascara is the look you should aim for. Always have a mani and a pedi on your nails!

, Okay, you've probably heard this HEAPS, but really, no one wants to be talking to someone with tuna breath. brush your teeth twice a day, and use floss and mouth wash. Get braces if you need them, but try to get them clear or in a chic colour, like lavender or silver. Get your teeth whitened if needed. Have clear skin at all times! It won't happen overnight, it may take months. So get to work NOW! Use a cleaner, toner and moisturiser to keep that skin looking fresh. Use an acne scrub if needed.
 Make sure that what you're wearing is IN. DO NOT be caught in last season's clogs. It's hard and costs a fair amount of money to keep updated. But it is required. You don't have to wear designer labels, though. Remember, it doesn't matter if your shoes are Dior or Target, it only matters how you wear them, as Vogue says. It is a nice idea though to carry a designer purse, such as Guess or Coach. Save up for one or get one for your birthday or Christmas. If one garment is designer, people will think the rest are, too!

, Constantly read magazines like Vogue or Seventeen. Have all of the latest technology 'extras', too, like the iPhone, a laptop, an iPod and a Kindle. Get them encrusted with Swarovski crystals for an added touch of glamour.
 First, pick a signature colour, like baby pink, lavender, pastel blue or turquoise or whatever. Paint your walls in that colour, then add some white furnishings. Display all of your high heels for a boutique vibe, and for serious style, add a mannequin. Remember to keep it clean at all times! Make it the sort of room that people envy.
 Have extremely hot photos of yourself on there. Show those losers at school that you know how to work the camera! Try to start a fashion blog, too. This is something that will gain you popularity instantly. Brag a little, too. Share your purchases!

, Dress it up in cute pet outfits like Juicy Couture, and give it a sweet name.
 Accessory ideas include brooches, charm bracelets or hair bows.
 Have 1-4 other friends. If you don't want a clique, just try hanging out with one other extremely stylish girl, like Hannah from Pretty Little Liars. Your clique must be loyal and stylish. Forming a clique with losers is just not acceptable! If there is one loser, give her a total makeover. Invite her over to your huge, nicely-decorated house and teach her how to apply makeup etc, then take her shopping to buy some cute outfits! An alpha of your clique isn't needed, but if there is one, make sure it's you! Have a few clothing rules, too, like no jeans or sweat pants. Don't be too bossy, though, because then your friends will leave you. And you don't want that to happen, trust me. Have a matching accessory, too, like diamond earrings or matching bangles.
 Flirt a little. Make them come to you, don't come to them. Have a boyfriend if possible. This will totally boost your ranking.
 Don't let popularity take over. Make sure you're in the top classes for every subject! Keep mommy and daddy proud.
 That way, they think you're just a sweet innocent girl, which you are, right?

