 Before you pull on your scarf and mittens and prepare to wait in line for hours first thing in the morning, have a clear idea of what you’re shopping for and whether it’s worth it. If you’ve already got a Christmas list for reference and you’re trying to check off items at bargain prices, Black Friday sales may save you a substantial amount of money. If you’re simply intoxicated by the idea of discounted goods, however, or you’re just shopping to see what’s out there, you may end up parting with more money than you planned to.Black Friday sales are most favorable to shoppers when they can identify a few things they need, that they can score for significantly less, and only buy these items.
If there’s nothing you absolutely have to have, and you’re feeling tempted to shop purely for its own sake, you may be better off finding something else to do with your time.;
, Traditionally, Black Friday sales ads have run in the newspaper on Thanksgiving day. Nowadays, though, it may be possible to take a look at upcoming specials through store websites or even smartphone apps a few days in advance. Browse through early listings to see how things are being priced, and whether a particular store has what you’re looking for on sale.Being able to look at products and prices in advance will help you calculate a realistic shopping budget, another must for saving during the Black Friday frenzy.
Go through reputable channels (such as official sites like Macy’s and Brookstone, or bargain shopping apps like Flipp and Slice) to guarantee that the sales you find are legit., If you’ve scanned through previews of Black Friday sales and something has caught your eye, take a scouting trip to the store that’s selling it and give it a closer look. This way, you’ll be able to inspect the product for quality and see if it suits your budget and personal tastes before committing yourself to buying it. Some basic recon will also familiarize with where to find the item before the store is overrun with swarming crowds.Browsing before doing the bulk of your shopping can provide an opportunity to learn about exclusive in-store deals.
Devise a “battle plan” by plotting your path through a store that you expect to be busy.
 Instead of just darting aimlessly from one sale to another, come up with a few stores in particular to visit. In the interest of time and expense, try to keep this number around five or six at most. Settle on stores that stock a wide range of items to get as much done in as few locations as you can, or stores that provide specialty products you can’t get anywhere else.


If possible, have a shopping buddy to go deal-hunting with. The two of you can split up and cover more ground, getting to hot items faster and eliminating the need to trek all over town.