 Before you start making any major lifestyle changes, you should meet with a therapist. Talk therapy is an effective way to treat ADHD and to deal with the frustration that often accompanies this disorder. With talk therapy, you will work one-on-one with a therapist to develop strategies that can help you deal with your ADHD symptoms.A therapist can help you to determine what you need to work on and guide you through your treatment for ADHD. For example, you and your therapist may find that you struggle the most with time management and organization. Your therapist could then teach you about strategies for improving these skills.;
, Getting regular daily exercise may also help to improve the symptoms of ADHD. Some studies have shown that you can get even more benefits from exercising if you do your exercise outdoors, but keep in mind that this may not work for everyone. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise every day or at least on most days.Some good options include:


riding a bike
hiking
running
swimming
skiing
dancing or taking an aerobics class

, Practicing relaxation techniques on a daily basis can also help to reduce symptoms of ADHD.Try to set aside at least 15 minutes for relaxation activities every day. Some good relaxation exercises include:



Yoga. Yoga may improve symptoms of ADHD by helping you to rebalance your mind. This can be especially helpful when you are feeling overwhelmed or restless.

Meditation. Meditation shows more promising results than other treatment methods, such as dietary changes.Meditation relaxes you and increases your ability to concentrate over time. It can also help to control impulsivity and your ability to plan things.
EEG Biofeedback. Although more studies are needed, this relaxation training method has shown some promising results for those with ADHD.During an EEG biofeedback session, you would have sensors attached to your scalp and you would practice controlling your stress levels with the aid of a video that represents your brainwaves. Over time, these sessions can help you identify the best ways to control your stress.Keep in mind that EEG biofeedback has to be conducted in a clinical setting.
 Not getting enough sleep can make your ADHD symptoms worse. Getting plenty of quality sleep each night may help you to function better the following day by increasing your ability to concentrate and deal with stressful situations. However, keep in mind that this treatment method does not help everyone and it probably will not be enough to treat your ADHD on its own. Make sure that you consider other treatment options as well. Some strategies that may help you get more sleep include:avoiding caffeine in the afternoon and evening
sticking to a bedtime routine, such as taking a bath, brushing your hair and teeth, dimming the lights, and then listening to some soft music in bed
going to bed at the same time every night (even on the weekend)
keeping your bedroom dark and cool

