 Listen to your doctor’s guidelines and recommendations, and use any medication you’re prescribed appropriately.You’ll feel more comfortable and productive in your workplace when your symptoms are at their best.


Ask your doctor if all of your medications are appropriate to take at work. Some may make you sleepy or dizzy.
 If you take multiple medications, keep a pill organizer at your desk, in your briefcase, or in your car. This can help you stay organized and remember to take your pills throughout the day.Be sure to include an over-the-counter or prescribed pain medication to take if you have uncomfortable flare-ups.
Keep your medications in a safe location that others cannot access, especially if you work with children.
 Smoking, sun exposure, and stress are common triggers at work that can cause psoriasis flare-ups.Adjust your habits to protect yourself from triggers:


Quit smoking, and stay away from second-hand smoke. If your co-workers are smoking, excuse yourself for some fresh air.
Cover sun-exposed areas with pants and long-sleeved shirts made of light, breathable material. Wear a wide-brimmed hat to protect your face from the sun. Always wear sunscreen when outdoors.
Reduce your stress at work by doing short meditations at your desk. If you work outside, take five minutes out of every few hours to do gentle stretches and deep breathing. If you work in a high-stress environment, practice mindfulness or see a counselor to learn stress management skills.
 Make time to sit down with your supervisor to discuss how psoriasis affects your work. Explain that you may need to schedule doctor’s appointments during work hours, and that you may struggle with pain and discomfort. Be honest and specific, and tell them you want to problem-solve together., First, educate yourself as much as possible about the illness. Ask your doctor any questions you have. Then educate your coworkers. Often, helping people understand your struggle makes them more sympathetic.They may also be glad to know that the disease is not contagious.


If you don’t feel comfortable speaking with your coworkers directly, approach your manager or supervisor for help. Say something like, “I’d like my coworkers to be aware of and educated about my psoriasis. Could you help me come up with a plan?”
You never HAVE to tell anyone about your psoriasis. Only do this if you feel comfortable sharing.
 If you encounter any prejudice, discrimination, or abuse in the workplace, talk to your employer immediately. In the United States the Americans with Disabilities Act protects you against discrimination in the workplace. Your employer is obligated to deal with the situation or they can be sued.Many regions have organizations to combat workplace discrimination, such as the Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund (DREDF) that works in parts of North America, Europe, Asia, and more.Search for an organization in your country by visiting the United Nations Division for Social Policy and Development Disability online., Whenever possible, schedule doctor appointments for first thing in the morning or late in the afternoon. This helps minimize how much time you have to take off work, and shows your employer that you’re doing your best to be productive.If you have multiple appointments due, try to schedule them on the same day. Take that day off, and you won’t have to miss other working hours.
 This means managing your symptoms and flares at home as well as at work. This will help prevent flare ups during work hours, and it can reduce your overall stress.


Try relaxation practices like yoga, meditation, or tai chi.
Soak in a hot bath with oatmeal or sea salt for relief after work.
Avoid getting sunburned, and always follow your doctor's treatment plan.
 It can be very soothing to interact with others who share your struggle. Ask your doctor for information about local psoriasis support groups, or search online for groups in your community.Express your concerns about the workplace to your support group.


For instance, you can say, “I feel embarrassed about my psoriasis when I interact with clients,” or, “My pain makes it hard to get through the day.” Others in the group may share your struggles and know ways of coping.
Join an online message board, like with the National Psoriasis Foundation.