 This method gives you realistic vampire fangs that fit your teeth, but it requires much more time and money. Here's a list of the materials you'll need to track down:


Alginate, available from dental supply stores and some art supply stores. (Online vendors are your best bet.)
A paper cup or mouth guard.
Plastic casting resin, or another casting material. This is available at hobby shops, or some art supply stores.
Sculpting clay and a small tool to shape it, from an art supply store.
Nail acrylic (in two-part powder and liquid form), from stores that sell beauty supplies (also available as dental acrylic)Petroleum jelly (Vaseline), from a drugstore

, Trim off the top portion of a paper cup using clean scissors. The remaining base should be only slightly taller than the height of your upper jaw. Cut off one side of the cup to make an opening that can slip into your mouth.


Skip this step if you have a real mouth-guard on hand or decide to buy a real mouth-guard.
 Read the instructions on your alginate product for more specific instructions, since the exact time and method can vary by brand. In most cases, you'll combine one part alginate and one part water in a small dish, mixing the two materials together with any utensil. Transfer the alginate mixture to your mouth-guard when done.


You will need to work fairly quickly when using the alginate portion of this method. An alginate mold will begin to crack and break apart within hours.
 Gently press the alginate-filled mouth-guard into your upper teeth. Remove it by pulling straight down after 3 minutes. You should be left with an alginate negative of your teeth when done. This will be used as a mold for the next portion of the procedure. If there are bubbles or broken pieces interfering with the outline of the teeth you want to turn into fangs, repeat this step.Do not push the mouth-guard so far up that your teeth go through the bottom.
Wait until the alginate becomes solid before removing it.
If you want a more accurate way of determining when the alginate is ready to remove, place a small dot of it on your finger and watch for it to turn solid.
 You can use any sturdy casting material for this method, but this method will give instructions for two-part plastic resin. Combine 3 oz (90 ml) of one liquid with 3 oz (90 ml) of the other liquid in a glass or plastic dish. Stir it together using a heavy-duty stirring rod or kitchen utensil.


Choose a two-part cast plastic that dries hard and comes together quickly. Make sure that the plastic will be non-toxic when dried.
 Immediately after the two liquids are combined, carefully pour the plastic solution into your alginate mold. Pour slowly to avoid trapping air bubbles in the cast. Let dry before attempting to remove it.


Within several minutes of being combined, the plastic should become very hot and turn white. Do not touch it with your bare skin.
After the plastic is dry and cool to the touch, wait an additional 10 minutes before removing it from the mold. This gives the inside plenty of time to dry, ensuring that your plastic teeth will be solid once removed.
 Remove the plastic model of your teeth once you are sure it's dry. Add a blob of casting clay over the model where you want to create fangs, and use a small, sharp tool to shape it into the desired shape.


Optionally, add a small "cap" of clay over the teeth directly behind the fangs, to make them more stable., Add dish soap to a bowl of water, and soak the model and its clay fangs under the water level for ten minutes. This will prevent the alginate in the next step from sticking to the clay., Use the alginate as before to make a negative mold. But this time, use the plastic resin model with attached fangs instead of your real teeth. Press softly to avoid dislodging the fangs, and lift it slowly out once the alginate mold is ready. Inspect the alginate to make sure there are no bubbles or broken pieces.
 Pull off the clay fangs. Use a cotton swab to wipe petroleum jelly (Vaseline) along the plastic model in a thin smear, avoiding leaving lumps of jelly anywhere on the model. The jelly will make it easy to remove the acrylic fangs once they've set., Combine the nail acrylic powder with the accompanying liquid and mix thoroughly using a disposable utensil and mixing cup, not anything you want to reuse. Continue mixing for several minutes until the turns into a paste. When you lift the utensil, it should drag up a string of acrylic. Add more powder if it is too runny, or more liquid if it is too hard.The acrylic becomes hot as it mixes. Avoid direct contact with your skin.
Mix the acrylic in a well-ventilated area.
 Slowly pour the acrylic paste into the holes left by the clay fangs, on your new alginate mold. Pour it slowly in to avoid leaving air bubbles, and stop pouring once the fangs are filled, or mostly filled.
 Gently push your ordinary tooth cast, without the clay fangs, into the alginate mold. The teeth of the mold should push into the acrylic, and the acrylic will harden around them, adopting the shape of your tooth. You can watch the leftover acrylic in your mixing bowl to gauge how much the acrylic has hardened. Gently remove the cast when the acrylic is mostly hard, but still a little rubbery. It should keep its shape, but still be relatively easy to slip off the cast.
 Theoretically, each fang should be so custom-fit to the tooth it slips over that you should be able to gently press them into place by applying pressure with your index finger while sucking each fang in using your mouth.


If the fangs do not stay in place on their own, however, you can hold them in place using denture glue, braces wax, or a small dot of gum.

