 It is highly undesirable to allow dust to collect on the fiberglass resin. If you're working in the trunk or any part of the car that has carpeting, it advisable to remove it.;
, Cover any surface where you do not want resin dust. Tape the edges of the plastic down.
 Criss-cross the layers to ensure that the area is fully covered.
 The amount depends on the size of the speaker box you want to make. Read the instructions on the resin and keep mixing more as needed.
 Strips that are 2 inches (5 cm) wide and 1 foot (0.30 m) (30 cm) long should be adequate. Cut the strips into smaller pieces if you are fitting them into a tight space.
 Saturate them, but do not soak them so much that you drip resin everywhere. Carefully place the strips over the taped area one at a time. Cover past the edge of the speaker box, as you will trim the edges later.
 It does not have to be completely dry. If you don't use a blow dryer, allow at least 1 hour for the resin to set.  

, Place it in a clean work area that is protected with plastic.
 Make sure each layer of strips is thoroughly soaked in resin, and let it dry completely before adding the next layer.


It will take around 2 hours for each layer to dry, depending on the amount of resin you use. You can speed this up by using a blow dryer.
 Cut along the line with jigsaw. You should have a clean edge that is of equal thickness all around.
 These rings must match the outside diameter of you speaker cone. The speaker's owner manual might specify the correct diameter. Use existing speaker rings if you have them.
 Measure from the speaker's edge to the magnet and add about between 3 and 6 inches (7.5 to 15 cm). Be sure to compensate for any dips or curves in the fiberglass base. The longer the rod, the deeper the speaker box; the deeper the box, the more bass response.  

, Attach them to opposite sides of the speaker ring and to the fiberglass enclosure with a hot glue gun. Make sure the ring is flat and looks level.
 Attach it to the edge of the fiberglassed area. The fleece should cover the ring and stretch around the entire fiberglassed edge. There should be nothing left uncovered.  

,,,,