 A strong core will help you hold your form together even as your muscles are fatigued, which can be critical to preventing injury. This is particularly important toward the end of your run, when your legs are beginning to tire.To do planks, get on all fours on the floor, then raise up onto your toes and hands, keeping your body in a straight line. Hold this position for about a minute, then release, repeating three to five times.
If a full plank is too difficult for you to hold and maintain deep breathing throughout, you can modify by starting on your knees and elbows or forearms. If you're on your knees, your feet should be off the floor.
You can increase the difficulty of the plank by placing your hands or forearms on an unstable surface, such as a balance ball.;
, Your posture is one of the most important factors in perfecting your running form. If you routinely sit or stand with poor posture, that carries over into your running and can negatively affect the efficiency of your stride.Use the vertical compression test to check your posture. While standing, get a friend to stand behind you and press their hands down evenly on your shoulders. Your posture needs work if this vertical compression causes your spine to arch or buckle.
Another way to test your posture is to try the "chair of death." This test assesses whether your glutes are being properly activated. All you have to do is stand in front of a chair with your knees against the seat. Your feet should be under the chair, your arms straight out in front of you. Squat, and try to keep your knees from pushing into the chair. If they do push into the chair, that means you aren't using your glutes properly.Single-leg balances are a good way to work towards improving your posture. Strengthening your core and back muscles also will help improve your posture.
 Twisting exercises work the muscles in the sides of the torso. When they are strong, these muscles help stabilize the spine, hips and rib cage.A balance ball works well for twisting exercises and provides a greater challenge for your core because you have to maintain your balance while simultaneously performing the exercise.
One good twisting exercise with the balance ball is the Russian ball twist. Set the ball in front of a bench and get into a plank position with your hands on the bench and the ball under your feet. Lift your right foot off the ball and pull your knee in and upwards, across your body. Pay attention to your back and correct any arching or curving. Put your right foot back on the ball and do the same pull with your left foot. Do three sets of 10 to 14 repetitions, with each leg pull counting as a single repetition.
 When you begin core strength-training exercises, your own body weight may provide enough resistance – particularly if you've never done any strength training before. Over time, you'll need more resistance to continue building muscular strength.Adding too much weight at once can overly strain your muscles, leading to soreness or injury. Add weight incrementally, and stay at one weight for several sessions before adding more weight.
For example, if you're doing strength-training exercises using three-pound dumbbells, you might want to up your resistance after a month and work out with five-pound dumbbells.
Don't use a weight that's too heavy for you to complete all necessary repetitions of an exercise with proper form. If you find yourself straining or slumping, drop down to a lower weight.
 You have increased body awareness if you're in an unstable position, because you constantly have to make balance corrections. The unstable surface engages and strengthens your core, since you're using your core muscles to keep you stable.Put your hands on a balance ball, in slings, or simply place a pair of dumbbells on the floor in front of you and grip them as you do regular push-ups. Keep your feet on the floor as you would for regular push-ups.
Keep your thumbs pointed forward. This will keep your shoulder blades aligned down your back with your shoulders rotated outward, which will also improve your posture by keeping you from hunching.

