 When ICE conducts an I-9 audit, they are restricted to reviewing those forms for compliance. However, in a raid they may have the power to inspect the workplace and other employee records.ICE does not need a warrant to inspect your I-9s. However, if they don't have a warrant, they must give you at least three days written notice of the inspection.
If ICE officers come to your workplace with a warrant to conduct a raid, they cannot inspect your I-9s unless those documents are specifically listed on the warrant.
Keep in mind that if ICE officers ask to see your I-9s during the course of a raid, you have the right to refuse consent. They are only allowed to inspect documents or facilities specifically listed on the warrant.
 ICE officers are not allowed to look at other employee records. However, if your I-9 forms are mixed in with your personnel files, you effectively give them permission to review other records.If you get advance notice that ICE officers are going to conduct an audit of your I-9s, you have some time to separate those forms before the audit.
However, since you're not always going to have the time to separate these forms from other employee records, maintaining them in a separate location can help you protect your rights as an employer as well as the rights of your employees.
For example, if ICE officers have a warrant, they do not have to give you advance notice. This means that if your I-9s aren't separate from your other personnel files, you won't have time to separate them.
 Without a warrant or subpoena, ICE must give you advance notice before inspecting your business's I-9 forms. If ICE officers arrive without having given you at least three days notice, they must have a court order to inspect your documents.Just as with a raid, ICE officers may simply show up and try to get consent to view your I-9 records. However, you have the right to confuse consent.
If ICE officers present you with a warrant or subpoena, you may want to talk to your attorney before you comply.
When you're issued a subpoena, read the document carefully to determine whether you must provide the documents to the officers immediately or have time to gather the documents yourself and submit them later.
 If ICE officers find problems with your I-9 documents, they must give you an opportunity to correct those problems before fining you for a violation of immigration law.You will receive a written notice from ICE that details the problems found. The first notice you receive will be titled either a "notice of inspection results," a "notice of suspect documents," a "notice of discrepancies," or a "notice of technical or procedural failures."
Each of these notices addresses different types of defects in your I-9s that were uncovered by ICE officials as a result of the audit.
If the problems specified in these notices are not corrected promptly, you may receive a "notice of intent to fine." This notice informs you of the specific violations with which you've been cited and the fines that have been assessed as a result.
When you receive this notice, you have 30 days to request a hearing with an administrative law judge if you wish to contest those fines.
 When you request a hearing to contest the intended fines, ICE files a complaint listing the problems with your I-9s and the agency's allegations against you. Work with your attorney to draft a written answer to this complaint.In your answer, you can raise any issues you have with the conduct of the ICE officers responsible for the audit or raid on your workplace.
Keep in mind that even if violations were found, you cannot be fined for those violations if the audit or raid was conducted improperly and in violation of your rights as an employer.
Pay attention to the deadlines included on your notice and make sure you're submitting your written answer in a timely fashion to preserve the ability to raise those issues at your hearing.
 Your case is assigned to an administrative law judge, who presides over a hearing at the date, time, and location listed on the notice of hearing you received along with the government's complaint.You have the right to be represented by an attorney at this hearing. Although somewhat more relaxed than a trial in court, you can introduce evidence and call witnesses to testify on your behalf.
You also are allowed to cross-examine any witnesses called to testify on behalf of the government.
Once the administrative law judge has heard from both sides, they will enter a determination of whether the fines are appropriate, as well as the amount of fines to be assessed in the case.
 If you disagree with the ruling of the administrative law judge, you have the right to file an appeal at your nearest federal circuit court of appeals to challenge the ruling and the fines assessed.If you wish to file an appeal, you must do so within 45 days of the date the administrative law judge issues their ruling.
Discuss the ruling with your attorney to identify appealable issues that you can raise to challenge the decision of the administrative law judge.
For example, if ICE officers found violations over the course of an unlawful raid conducted without your permission, you can challenge the decision to fine you for those violations.

