 Pop the caps off 15 acorns and toss the nuts into a powerful electric blender. Blend on high to pulverize the acorns into powder.You could use two large oak galls instead of acorns if desired.
Instead of a blender, you could also grind the nuts into powder using a stone mortar and pestle.;
, Place the powdered nuts in a small to medium non-reactive bowl. Add 1 cup (250 ml) of room temperature water to the powder. Mix to combine using a plastic spoon.


Note that the level of the water will need to be high enough to cover the bone you plan to dye. If you need to create more dye, you will need to add six more powdered acorns or one more powdered oak gall for each 1/2 cup (125 ml) of water.
 Place one steel wool pad in a separate non-reactive bowl and add 1 cup (250 ml) of lemon juice or vinegar.


Note that 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of powdered rust could be used instead of a steel wool pad if desired.
You may want to choose a container with a lid since this solution will sit out overnight without being used. It must be prepared now, however, and not immediately before use.
 Place the bone in the bowl holding the acorn solution. Set the container aside and allow the bone to soak overnight, or 8 to 12 hours.


Make sure that the bone is completely submerged in the acorn dye.
A longer soak time will lead to a darker dye. If you only want a light brownish-gray color, you can cut this amount of time down by about half.
 When the bone has had enough time to soak, remove it from the acorn dye. Hold the bone over the container for a minute so that any excess solution can drip off.


Do not worry if the dye is not quite the right color when you remove it from the acorn dye. The chemical reaction that the dye undergoes when immersed in the iron salt solution will alter the color and set the dye.
You may want to wear rubber or plastic gloves when removing the bone to prevent your fingers from getting dyed, as well.
 Place the bone in the iron salt solution and allow it to soak overnight, or for 8 to 12 hours.


The bone must be completely submerged this time, as well.
As before, a longer soak time will produce a deeper tone.
 Remove the bone when it has soaked long enough in the iron salt solution. Allow any excess to drip off, then set it aside for several hours until it feels dry to the touch.


Wear rubber or plastic gloves when removing the bone.
Note that the final color will be slightly lighter than the current color.
Lay the bone out on a piece of wax paper as it dries. Keep paper towels handy to clean up any stray dye.
 When the bone feels dry to the touch, wash it using cool water and a mild soap.


Washing the bone will help remove the pungent vinegar or lemon juice odor.
When you rinse the bone, continue rinsing it until no more dye can be washed away and the water is clear., Place the bone in a sunny spot and allow it to dry completely before you use it.


The completion of this step completes the process.

