 Narrow down your search through dog ads before you even start. Decide on what sort of dog you’re looking for. Think about your lifestyle, the size of your home, and your financial situation. Then research various dog breeds through sources like the American Kennel Club to find one or more that match your means and expectations. Consider such factors as:Any breed and/or size restrictions that may be mandated by your landlord, homeowners association, or local/state governments.How large or small of a dog you are comfortable bringing home, based on the size of your living space and/or whether any children are at home.
How active your lifestyle is versus how much exercise a particular breed needs.
How the dog’s age (puppy versus adult) may affect its demands on you., As you should before any major purchase, become an informed shopper. Once you narrow your list down to a few choices or settle on a final pick, familiarize yourself with each one. Arm yourself with as much knowledge about that breed as possible so you can better evaluate a seller’s ads, your conversations with them later on, and the dog itself. Focus on characteristics like:Which health issues that particular breed may develop over the course of its life.
What sort of diet is advised, either for that specific breed and/or that size dog in general.
What sort of coloring it’s supposed to have, plus which colorings may indicate genetic issues.What kind of temperament it’s supposed to exhibit at various ages.
 Once you have a firmer idea of what sort of breed you want, resist the urge to immediately start looking through ads for individual dogs. Instead, focus on finding a responsible seller. Research and visit local animal shelters.Check out the website for your preferred breed’s national club, which often include links or contact info for respected breeders.Exhaust these sources before searching for a dog through classifieds.


Respected breeders and animal shelters are ideal sources to avoid supporting puppy mills or “backyard breeders.”
Puppy mills and backyard breeders may live up to government regulations, but these regulations are very lax and still allow for miserable conditions for both parents and litters.
These conditions can result in compromised health, genetic defects, behavioral issues, and accidental mixed breeding that the seller may not even be aware of.
Pet stores are chiefly supplied by puppy mills, and both puppy mills and backyard breeders advertise through classifieds, as do scammers.That said, this doesn’t mean every single person behind classified ads in newspapers or online is suspect. But you do have to be much more discerning.