 Piling on the necklaces, bands and bracelets is a great way to inject some emo style into a plain outfit. You should aim to wear at least three different necklaces and pile as many bands and bracelets on your wrists as possible. Experiment with different styles and colors for a really eclectic feel.


Look for jewelry featuring chains, spikes, bats, beads and broken or bleeding hearts.






Wristbands featuring the name of your favorite band are cool, and you can introduce a little color to your mainly black look with some bright neon accessories.





;
, Studded belts are a staple of any emo wardrobe, as they make every outfit look instantly edgier. Go for black, white or neon belts with metallic studs. The belts should be extra skinny - that way you can fit two or three of them through the loops in your pants for an interesting layered look.


Note that these belts shouldn't really be used to hold up your pants, they're more of a fashion statement.
 Pins are a cheap and easy way to add interest to an outfit, while also expressing your personality. You can get any type of pin imaginable - ones featuring the names of your favorite bands, ones with brand logos, ones with funny (and offensive) slogans and ones displaying cartons and artwork. The great thing about these pins is that you can easily transfer them from one item of clothing to another, instantly adding emo cred to your outfit.


The best places for pins are on the lapels of a jacket, the pockets on shirts, on thin, striped ties, on beanie hats and fedoras and on the pockets and straps of backpacks.
Another cool thing about pins is that you can trade them with friends, so your collection is always changing and growing.
 If you want, you can add designs to the nail. You should consider painting them on a Friday night so they're nice and chipped by the time school rolls around on Monday morning, just the way you want them. If you like, you can add a pop of color by going for bright neon shades like green or pink. This will do nothing to harm your emo cred - promise! Black is recommended. But some emos might also paint it red or pink, otherwise they don't have it painted. Some emo-pop bands like Panic! at the Disco have done black nail paint before.


Nails are usually clipped (or bitten!) short. Long nails are more Goth than Emo.
Don't worry about painting your toenails... emos never really wear sandals or expose their feet.
 No self-respecting, music-loving Emo would be caught dead without their headphones in. It should become a part of your morning routine of dressing yourself - putting your iPod or music device of your choice into the pocket of your jeans and snaking your headphones up the inside of your t-shirt or hoodie and out the neck. That way your headphones will stay nice and secure throughout the day, without fear of getting lost or broken. Try emo music like Silverstein, Brand New, Taking Back Sunday, Senses Fail, Bright Eyes, Hawthorne Heights and My Chemical Romance.


Obviously you'll want to have both headphones in at all times, but if this isn't possible - like at school or at the dinner table - consider keeping just one headphone in. That way you can still listen to your jams while keeping the other ear available for responding to questions.
Even when the music is turned off, you can dangle both earphones over your shoulders, almost like a necklace. That way you'll always have them close by when you need to drown out the world.
 Facial piercings are very emo, and no one can doubt your commitment to the look when you have a hunk of metal in your face to prove it. Lip piercings are popular - you can get them centered on your lip, have one on either side, or one on both sides. Eyebrow piercings and nose rings are also cool. If you're looking for something a little less noticeable, think about getting your tongue pierced, or else load up your ears with multiple piercings.


If you decide to get a piercing, make sure that your go to a reputable piercing shop or tattoo parlor to get it done. Also make sure that your are committed to the cleaning routine necessary to maintain a piercing. You really don't want any piercing - especially those on your face - to get infected. Ouch!
If you're under 18, it might also be a good idea to seek your parents' permission first. Some piercing places require the consent of a guardian before they will pierce a minor, so it might be necessary to have the 'rents on your side.
 You can use glasses to express your Emo-ness too. Simply go for over-large, geek-style, thick-framed, black-rimmed glasses that pretty much take over your face. Anybody can take on this look, not just those with poor eyesight. Just pop out the prescription lenses and add in plain glass ones instead.


Be aware that you run the risk of being labeled a poser if you wear glasses despite your perfect 20/20 vision.
Another option is to wear cat-eyed glasses (particularly for girls) and large round or heart-shaped sunglasses. Even indoors. Hey, you're an artist, right?!

, Being emo is all about being in touch with your feelings and having a passion for creative outlets which allow you to express those feelings. Chances are you already play an instrument (Guitar is a common choice while bass or cello are also good options because they have deep sounds. Electric guitar is also good along with other types of metal band instruments - drum sets, electric guitars, etc.) or keep a notebook filled with scrawled song lyrics, snatches of poetry and dark, intricate artwork.


If this is the case, then why not own it and carry these things around for the world to see? You'll get to show your emo credentials to the world, plus you'll have the necessary materials and equipment easily at hand whenever creative inspiration strikes!
You can also cover any instrument cases or notebooks with band stickers or graffiti, making them look extra worn-in. Give your friend some permanent markers and let them go to town... who knows what they'll come up with?

,