 You can play Hazard with a large or small group of people, but the game will be more fun with a larger group. Hazard is a betting game, much like Craps, but you don’t have to bet large amounts of money to make the game fun.


For example, you could decide on a prize for the winner or place low stakes bets using pennies, pretzel sticks, or even use play money.
If you plan to place bets, then you will need to choose a “setter.” The setter is the one who takes bets and places odds in the event that the caster rolls a chance number.;
, You can choose someone at random or roll the dice to determine who gets to be the first caster.For example, you could have everyone roll the dice and whoever gets the highest number gets to cast first. If two or more people roll the same number, have them roll again.
 An alternative way of playing is to have the player roll the dice until the first number between 5 and 9 appears. That number would then be the caster’s main.Choose 7 as your main if you get to choose. Choosing 7 gives you the best chance of winning if you are the caster.
 The caster must roll after he or she chooses a main. If the caster wins, he or she gets to keep rolling. The caster can keep rolling the dice until he or she loses three times. Then the caster passes the dice to the player who is standing or sitting to the left., Once the caster has chosen his or her main, the game can begin. If the caster rolls a winning number, then it is referred to as a “nick” or a “throw in.” But if the caster rolls a losing number, then you would say that the caster has “thrown out.”Numbers that are not wins or losses are considered “chance” numbers. These numbers include 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. If you roll one of these numbers after you have chosen your main, then you get to roll again.
If you roll the same number twice in a row, then you win.
If you roll the main after rolling a chance, then you lose.
Some other examples of wins and losses include:If you had a main of 5 or 9, then a roll of 11 or 12 loses.
If you had a main of 6 or 8, then a roll of 11 loses, but a roll of 12 wins.
If you had a main of 7, then a roll of 11 wins, but a roll of 12 loses.
If you roll a 2 or a three, you lose regardless of your main.
 If you are playing a game that includes betting, then you will need to make sure that you collect your winnings each time you win. If you are casting, then you only win if you roll a winning number. But if you are not rolling, then you win an amount equal to your bet each time the caster loses., During the game, the setter may provide special odds to anyone who wants to bet. Players may choose to take the opening bet or up the ante and take a higher odds bet that the setter offers during the course of the game.The setter may offer a special bet if the caster rolls a chance number. Players would then be able to bet on whether or not the caster will roll the chance number again.
For example, the setter might offer 4:1 odds if the caster successfully rolls the chance number again. If you bet on this, then you may quadruple your bet if the caster is successful.

