 If you’re too direct about your intentions, your target will be turned off faster than you can say, “You’re so hot.” Though subtle compliments are key, you should avoid being too aggressive, making overly sexual comments, or just generally laying it on too thick. This will make you cross over from “flirting with her” to “hitting on her.”


Don't be too aggressive. If you say, "Hey, want to make out?" she'll walk away. Instead, say, "I like your lip gloss."
Don't make overly sexual comments. Don't say, "You have a great rack," or she'll spill her drink in your face. Instead, tell her she looks great in her outfit.
Don't give the girl all of your attention. You shouldn't spend all night talking to the girl and ignoring everyone else or it may get too intense.
 Though subtlety is key, you don’t want to be so subtle that the girl has no idea that you’re interested. To keep up your flirting, you have to find ways to let the girl know you care, whether big or small. If you try too hard to be subtle, then you’ll look aloof and the girl may not think you’re worth it.


Drop at least a few hints that you're interested. If you give the girl nothing to work with, she won't think you like her.
Make it clear that she's not in the Friend Zone. Compliment her looks, let her know she's special, or just generally treat your conversation like the preamble to a date. If you don't let her know she's special, she'll think you just like her as a friend.
 Flirting is a key element of talking to a new girl you like, but you shouldn’t flirt 100% of the time or you won’t be able to get closer to the girl. Remember to stop and ask the girl some questions about herself and to get into a variety of topics. If your entire conversation is nothing but flirty banter, you won’t be able to move forward.


You can flirt and move a conversation forward. You can still be playful and fun while asking the girl some genuine questions.
Make sure to let her know at least a bit about yourself by the end of the conversation. She should walk away knowing at least something about you so she feels like you actually connected. You should learn a few things about her as well.

