 Choose a vine with slipping bark, then cut away the top of the vine with a saw.


This method is also among the simplest grafting methods for grape vines, but it tends to be slightly less particular and slightly less successful than cleft grafting.
Bark slipping occurs when the bark actually begins to separate and peel away from the wood of the vine. Ideally, you should wait until all of the bark on a vine begins to split before trying to use this grafting method.
You only need to cut 4 inches (10 cm) or so from the top of the vine. You can cut more if you desire a shorter head height, though.
 Select a dormant scion and slice off a portion of bark and wood along the bottom half of the shoot using a sharp, clean blade.


This cut should be about 2 inches (4 cm) long and should be straight yet slanted. For best results, position this cut on the opposite side of the bud.Make a secondary cut on the opposite (bud) side of the scion. This cut should be similar in shape but only one-third the length of the primary cut.
 Use the same blade to cut into the side of the rootstock, near the cut top. The portion you cut away should match the shape and size of the portion removed from the scion.


Remove the loose outer bark from the intended grafting location.
Hold the cut edge of the scion against the intended grafting location on the stock. Cut a slit into the bark on both sides. The slit should be as wide as the diameter of the scion and as deep as the full scion length.
 Slip the cut surface of the scion into the newly cut wedge of in the rootstock.


You may need to use a flat screwdriver to help you peel away the flap of bark on the stock. Roughly one-third to one-half of this flap should be removed before you place the scion into the wedge.
The long side of the scion should be placed against the trunk of the stock.
 Wrap the grafted vines together with a durable rubber band or heavy-duty tape. Seal the entire exposed area with grafting compound.


For additional security, hold the graft together with 1-inch (2.5-cm) long brads or staples from a staple gun. Seal as normal, then apply latex paint over the dried grafting compound.

