 When soaking in a bath to moisturize your skin, remember to limit your exposure to water to 20 minutes. Any longer could dry out your skin. Keep water lukewarm. Hot water can cause skin to peel and flake.;
, Milk contains lactate, which has exfoliating properties, and honey has softening, moisturizing properties. Soaking in a milk and honey bath can help improve the quality of your skin.


Use full fat milk or powdered milk and pure honey. Full fat milk can help moisturize the skin as well as helping to exfoliate.Pour 1 to 2 cups of milk and half a cup of honey under warm, running water and wait for the tub to fill. Mix the milk and honey into the water until the mixture if uniformed throughout.Get in the bath and soak for as long as you feel comfortable. Once you get out, gently pat your skin dry., While extensive research is lacking, many celebrities and beauty enthusiasts claim they notice their skin becoming softer, lighter, and younger looking when they soak in red wine or champagne. This may be due to antioxidants in red wine and tartaric acid in champagne, both of which can potentially lighten skin.Pour a glass of wine or champagne in a running bath. Mix the alcohol into the water and climb into the tub. Soak for about 20 minutes.Many feel soaking in alcohol is a waste of money, but the good news is the effects will be the same if you use champagne that's gone flat or wine that's turned bad. If you have any old alcohol sitting around, you could use it for a bath rather than letting it go to waste., A variety of herbs and spices, some of which you probably have in your kitchen right now, can be used in a bath to revitalize skin. If you have any spices you don't frequently use, try throwing them into a bath.


Sage, rosemary, peppermint, chamomile, and green tea have a positive effect on the skin for some. The scents of these herbs can also be calming, if you're looking for a bath as a means to wind down.You can either sprinkle herbs into your tea are brew a herbal tea ahead of time. Take one to two cups of your tea and add it to your bathwater. Any excess herbs should be removed from the tea kettle and placed in a washcloth. Tie the top of the washcloth together and leave it in the bath while you soak., Oatmeal baths are a very popular method to treat dry skin. Oatmeal can sooth dry and itchy skin and also helps moisturize skin.


For an oatmeal bath, either use colloidal oatmeal or run a few cups of regular oatmeal through a food processor. This will mix better with the bathwater.You can also add baking powder, coconut milk, or olive oil for added softness.Mix the oatmeal and any other ingredients you're using into a warm bath. Stir until dissolved and then hop in. Soak for 20 minutes and, when you're done, gently pat your skin dry., Once you get out of a bath, use your regular moisturizer on your legs, arms, shoulders, and face. This will make the effects of the soak last longer and replenish any oils lost through the bathing process.

