 Mental illness is often very isolating, but having even one person who can help connect you to the world can make a big difference. The presence of loving friends and family members can help you recover.


If you're feeling down and need a pick-me-up, wander around your house or call up your friends to see who is available to hang out with you. You aren't being a bother—you're being proactive and reminding them that you care.
 Not all people will be capable of understanding your mental illness, but some people will be. If you know someone who is willing to listen without judgment or will always pick up your calls, consider confiding your situation to them. You may be surprised at who is the most sympathetic and helpful.
 This may be your spouse, your parent, or your best friend—someone who is very close to you already, and who is emotionally strong. Ask them if they can be your go-to person. Tell them whenever you're having a really rough day, you're having doubts, or you're having a crisis. They can watch over you, comfort you, and get a doctor if they think your condition is becoming too bad.


If your go-to person is not available, find someone else you trust. It's important not to suffer in silence.
 Get to your go-to person or the next person who is available. They can drive you to a hospital, help you call a hotline, or help you figure out what to do next. These thoughts are serious and you deserve help.


Remember, they'd rather help you now than do nothing while you get worse and worse.
 There are also many other support groups that are run out of hospitals, churches, and charitable organizations. Look up support groups that are local and easy to access, or even online support groups. No one understands a person with mental illness as well as someone else with mental illness.
 People with mental illnesses often connect on social networking websites (notably Tumblr).There you can meet others with illnesses like yours, and share stories and tips for coping.
 Snuggling releases oxytocin, which is sometimes referred to as "the cuddle hormone." It can make you feel happier, calmer, and closer to the person you're cuddling with.Search your family members and significant other for willing snuggle partners.
 Even those who don't know about your mental illness can still help you feel better and have a good time with you. Hang out with the people who make you happy.
 This can be great for falling asleep or self-calming. Reflect on how much you care about them, and what your favorite things are. Remind yourself how much they love you.

