 You will need Blizzard Application (Used to be Battle.net) to start and install Overwatch. Overwatch can take up to two hours to install, so feel free to kill time doing other things.;
, In the main menu, select "Play".
 You will begin searching for a server to join.
 Overwatch has a broad list of characters to choose from, including several villains. Choose a character from the class that best suits you.



Move your character with the left analog/Wasd keys/stick.
Look around with the right analog stick/mouse.
Jump with "A/X/Space".
Crouch with "B/Circle/Ctrl".
Use your main attack with the right trigger/Left mouse click. Melee by pressing down on the right analog stick/V.
Access character abilities by pressing left trigger/right mouse click, left bumper/Shift, right bumper/E, and "Y/Triangle/Q" (not all characters have all abilities).
 Join a voice chat lobby if you have a headset.
 There are a few ways to do this:

Training Ground: The Training ground (located in the "Training" tab) is where you can play the the game alone with AI robots. Here you can test out all the heroes safely and at your own pace.
Mystery Hero: A special gamemode in the game, Mystery Hero (Located in the "Arcade" tab) will randomly select a hero for you after respawning. This will force you to adapt to different playstyles with more than one character. This gamemode is online, meaning you will be playing against other players.
Quickplay: Quickplay (Located in the "Play" tab) allows you you to choose which character you'd like to play as, but only one of the same character per team. So you may choose whichever of the 24<characters you'd like to play as, as long as he/she hasn't been taken. This gamemode is also online.
 Overwatch has been described as having similar gameplay mechanics of Team Fortress 2. Your team will either be on offense or defense. Protect or attack the objective accordingly.
 Keep playing until the match is over.
 Skirmish against each other while waiting for the next game, or find another server.
 Winning and earning eliminations will improve the stats for the character you were using. Leveling up will earn you a loot box.

