 The introductory paragraph is often the best place to lay out how people generally think about a topic. For instance, if your research topic is about how tattoos are central to Maori culture, you might open your intro paragraph with some background information about Maori society, references to the larger body of scholarship on Maori tattoos, or quotes from the first historical accounts about them.This historical statement should help readers who are not well-versed in the topic of your essay to better understand the relevant points of the topic that you’ll later debunk, refine, or expand upon.;
, An anecdote is a brief story that relates either literally or symbolically to the topic you’re writing about. For instance, if you’re writing about how extremists have been infiltrating a political party, you might start the paragraph with a summation of the Iliad, focusing especially on the Trojan horse ploy.Alternately, you could provide a more literal anecdote. For instance, if your topic is the ecological crisis, you might provide a brief story about how quickly a certain species is going extinct.
 A surprising statement is one that shocks or amazes readers. For instance, it could be a statistic like “Seven people under the age of 20 are shot every day.” You could also provide an unusual fact. For instance, you might write about how sand shark embryos eat their gestating counterparts while still in the womb., You can almost always find someone who commands authority and respect who has spoken on the issue you want to address. Run an internet search for quotes regarding a particular topic or search for quotes from someone you respect. Politicians, captains of industry, and religious leaders can often provide relevant quotes., When starting an introductory paragraph, focus sharply on the topic you’re writing about. Do not use “cosmic statements.” These include “There are two sides to every issue,” “Since time immemorial,” and “For many years…” Instead, cite a specific historical range (when relevant) or specific cultural conditions, and keep your writing centered on the subject or issue under examination., Starting an intro paragraph with a dictionary definition is uninspired and trite. It will rarely interest readers or provide them with new information.If you feel obligated to delineate more clearly what you’re writing about, that’s fine, but do it without referring to dictionary definitions.

