 When you've had a long, difficult day, sometimes the last thing you feel like is coming to house full of noisy, demanding or complaining kids. This can result in you becoming uncharacteristically angry at your kids, and even lead you to shout at them or say something you don't really mean.


When this happens, give yourself a break for at least ten minutes, where you sit down and take a deep breath. It’s not unusual to feel awful, upset, and frustrated after a hard day.
Try counting to 10 to help yourself calm down or just remove yourself from the situation completely by going to your room for a few minutes. If you need to cry to release your frustration, do so.;
, Everyone makes mistakes. The important thing is that you acknowledge your bad mood and take ownership of any angry or hurtful things you said to your child while feeling low. Then you need to forgive yourself and forget about any feelings of guilt in order for you to heal, move on and reconnect with your child.


Think of this as an opportunity for you to grow and improve. If you need to, call your partner or a friend to vent any remaining feelings of anger and frustration, so you can get them off your chest and move on
When you have overcome all of your negative emotions, it will be much easier to reach out to your child and reconnect with them.
 When you are ready to reach out to your child, start by gently touching him on the shoulder or hand. This forms a physical connection between the two of you and helps you to reconnect with each other.


If your child has been crying, wipe away his tears and give him a hug. Show him how much you love him through your warm embrace.
This is is especially important if you unintentionally hurt his feelings during your bad mood.
 If you spoke harshly or said something you didn't mean while you were in a bad mood, it's recommended that you own up to this and make an effort to apologize to your child.


Make the apology as sincere and heartfelt as possible. Acknowledge that you hurt the child's feelings and express your desire to make amends. This sets a good example for your child, as you are owning up to what you did and making amends for it. Through this, your child will learn the correct way to deal with his mistakes.
Young children will usually forgive pretty easily, but older kids or teenagers might need some extra time to think about things. Give them some space for a while, as long as you have apologized they will get over their anger pretty quickly.
 After you have apologized, calmly discuss what happened and why you reacted the way you did. Explain that you had a bad day and that you were looking forward to coming home and relaxing.


Explain how it made you feel when you came home and the house was a mess, your child hadn't done their homework and immediately started complaining about being hungry and asking what was for dinner.
Gently prompt your child to suggest some ways in which he could have helped the situation. Could he have done his homework and chores before Mom got home, like he was asked? Could he have made himself a snack?
Allow the child to see the error of his ways, and suggest that maybe next time you could both be a little more understanding of each other and help each other out.
Do not forget to tell your child how much you love him despite everything that happened.
 Your child did his part when he accepted your apology; it’s now your turn to forgive him for his mistakes. When you forgive your child, it also means you accept him for who he is and give him the potential to be a better person.
 You can avoid future confrontations by teaching your child a few simple rules regarding patience and responsibility. For example, you shouldn't immediately give in to your child's whining when he wants something. Teach him patience by telling him, “Please wait for me to get this laundry done first (without hearing you whine) before we go out and play.”


In this way, you teach him how to manage his emotions while patiently obeying your instructions. You may also ask him to assist you with an easy task like sorting clothes by color, explaining that the more help he provides, the faster you will get through your chores and do something fun.
For your teen, you can give him a list of daily chores to help you with your busy schedule, and assign a set amount of study time. You may motivate him by giving him a reward like a new video game if he gets high grades and finishes all the chores in his list. This teaches responsibility and rewards good behavior.
 With all of the things that happened, you both deserve some activities to help you restore the connection with each other. Think of the things that your child loves doing.


Some activities you might want to try with a younger child include: story-reading, drawing/coloring, scrapbooking, finger-painting, biking, kite-flying, stargazing, doing origami, blowing bubbles, teaching a new song, playing with puzzles/building blocks, indoor treasure hunting, visiting a zoo/museum, walking your dog, horseback riding, going to beach/playground, eating ice cream together, etc.
While some activities you might want to try with your teen are: movie-watching, baking/cooking, crafting, painting, knitting, shopping, swimming, fishing, skiing, bowling, skateboarding, dancing exercises, playing with musical instruments, having a picnic, planting a tree, visiting family/friends, going to a coffee shop/massage center together, etc.
 Joke around or talk about something funny. Laughter is healthy since it helps to fight stress and triggers the release of happy hormones in the body. By laughing with your child, you are actually encouraging him to enjoy your company and to have a sense of humor and a positive outlook on life.
 Taking a few minutes to lie down with your child in bed is a wonderful opportunity to have a more intimate conversation with him. Ask him about his day, look at the stars, ask him what he's going to dream about, or say some prayers together. This should be a pleasant, peaceful time for the two of you.


This is more appropriate for young children than teens. For teens you could ask them if they'd like to join you for a cup of tea before they go to bed. You don't need to do this every night, but even a 15 minute conversation once a week can really help you to connect with your child.
Before your child goes to bed, kiss him good night then tell him that tomorrow is going to be a better day for both of you.
 Making mistakes doesn’t make you terrible, as long as you use them as an opportunity to improve.


You must remember that the more you call yourself names and put yourself down, the more you will start to believe it. Your character is defined by what you say you are.
Tell yourself that you're a good parent, then make an effort to live up to that statement. Realize your value as a person and understand that you need to respect yourself if you want your child to respect you as well.
 The ability to recognize when you need to step away for a moment and calm down provides you with a clearer perspective on how to react in a particular situation.


If you are able to remove yourself from a situation and take a few moments to gather your thoughts, this is a positive development, as it will prevent you from yelling at your child and saying things you don't mean.
Keep a stress ball with you. Squeezing it will help to release some of the tension and frustration that you're feeling.
 Instead, focus on thinking of what you need to do to turn the situation around.


Practice writing positive things in a journal, like the things that you are grateful for or happy memories with your child.
Then, when you have had a bad day and you're in a bad mood, think back to what you've written in your journal.
 Why not change the way you think about having a bad day? When you come home after a bad take, take it as a great opportunity for you to turn your bad day around by spending a fun evening with your child.


When you do this, you are not only helping yourself but you are also building a stronger and happier relationship with your child.
 Always remember that your child learns behavior by what he sees from you. For example, if you deal with a bad day by yelling, he will also deal with any negative emotions he feels by yelling (or whining).


If this is not the type of behavior you wish to encourage in your child, then you need to work on your own responses to negativity.
 It is your responsibility to make sure that the bond with your child stays strong. When you maintain this, it will be easier for him to respond positively to you and to listen to you more. You will notice that he will also be better in cooperating with you.
 The next time you have a bad day, make an effort to practice self-control and avoid lashing out angrily at your child, as this will only hurt your relationship. Keep in mind that you always have a choice between controlling a bad situation and letting a bad situation control you.

