 Prior to starting any new exercise routine, it's important to talk to your doctor. He or she will be able to tell you if physical activity is safe and appropriate for you.


If you're interested in improving your brain health and/or preventing any type of cognitive decline, speak to your doctor about it. He or she will be able to give you suggestions in additional to physical activity to keep your brain in tip top shape.
Tell your doctor about your exercise plan. Discuss what types of exercise you'll be doing, for how long and how often. Make sure your doctor approves of your exercise.
It'd be wise to also discuss your diet and lifestyle as well. Both of these factors also play a part in your brain's health.
 When starting any new routine, it can be helpful to set yourself up with a plan and keep a journal to track your progress with your plan.


Think about what types of exercises you want to do, how often and when you'll be doing them. Write this out as your exercise plan. You may choose to mark it on a calendar, in your date book or make your plan on a plan sheet of paper.
You can also keep your plan in a journal. That way you can comment on your plan, take notes on what is working and what's not working and how often you're sticking to your plan.
Track your progress in your journal as well. Track how often you're exercising, for how long and how it's making you feel.
 If you're having difficulty getting or staying motivated with your exercise plan, try working out or being active with a friend.


Studies have shown that you're more likely to stick to a workout plan when you're doing it with a friend or family member.Ask your friends, family or co-workers to join you on different workouts. Maybe your spouse goes to the gym with you in the morning and you walk your dog with your friend after dinner.
You could also consider doing group exercise classes. These are fun and motivating since there are many people all exercising together.
 Another way to keep yourself motivated is by setting up small rewards. As you meet your goals or stay on track with your plan, you'll have a treat waiting.


Set up a reward for staying on track. For example, if you hit your exercise goal for a month, maybe you purchase a new workout outfit or a pedometer to help you continue to meet your goals.
If you're watching your weight as well, food related goals may not be a good idea. Stick with items like new clothes, new songs, a movie out or something else enticing.

