 The type of material your cat’s food and water dishes are made of should be one of your main considerations when deciding what to use. Dishes made of stainless steel are the best choice. These bowls are easy to clean and dry, which will help prevent bacteria from forming in the dish. In addition, stainless steel is generally unbreakable, so this type of dish should last a long time.Some people recommend avoiding stainless steel that was made in China. There have been unconfirmed reports showing that stainless steel produced in China may contain radon, which is a rare radioactive gas that can be harmful to your cat.;
, Like stainless steel, these materials are also easy to clean, which can help prevent bacteria from forming in your cat’s food or water dish. They are not unbreakable, like stainless steel is, but these materials are durable and should hold up well. In addition, they come in a variety of colors so you can find one that complements your home’s décor.If you are using stone dishes, make sure the glaze is lead-free and safe to eat food out of. In addition, ensure stone dishes are dishwasher safe.
Throw away ceramic, glass, or stone bowls if they become chipped or cracked.As long as they are in good shape, you can repurpose your old ceramic, glass, or stone dishes to be used as cat bowls.
Although the evidence is uncertain, you may want to be wary of buying ceramic dishes from China because some people believe the glaze used on these dishes can be toxic to pets., Although plastic pet dishes are inexpensive and readily available, they are not the best choice for your cat’s food and water dish. Plastic dishes are easily scratched, leaving crevices that are tough to clean and could foster the growth of bacteria. Though controversial, it is also believed that some plastics may emit harmful chemicals into your pet’s food.


Some cats may develop chin acne if they are exposed to the bacteria that can form in plastic bowls., Alternatively, you may want to use disposable dishes to ensure bacteria like E. Coli, Staph Aureus, Salmonella, and mold or yeast doesn’t grow in your cat’s dish. If you choose to use disposable bowls, ensure they are environmentally friendly and made from recyclable material.


For example, one brand of disposable pet dishes is made from sugarcane fiber which is 100% recyclable.