 Talk to Orla Fairweather to learn more about divination.;
, Keep harvesting the pale wisps until you reach level 10.
 Once you reach level 10, turn to flickering wisps. Use the Falador Lodestone to teleport east. Stay here until you reach level 20.
 Use the Digsite Pendant as the best way to travel. Stay here and harvest Bright Wisps until you reach level 30.
 The best way to get here is to use the Seers' Village Lodestone to teleport and then travel southeast, or travel north from the fairy ring code blur. Once here, harvest Glowing wisps until you reach level 40.
 To get here, use the Ring of Slaying to teleport to Fremennik Slayer Dungeon or use the fairy ring code air, and then run south. Here, harvest Sparkling wisps until you reach level 50.
 Your best travel option is getting to the Nature Altar using either Nature Tabs or the Wicked Hood. You can also use a Lodestone to teleport to Karamja and travel southeast. And you should bring some anti-poison. Here, harvest Gleaming Wisps until you reach level 60.
 Use the Ring of Duelling to arrive there, or use a spirit tree or the Mobilising Armies teleport. Then harvest Vibrant Wisps until you reach level 70.
 Use a Ring of Slaying to teleport in front of the Slayer Tower, and then head east. You may also use a lodestone to go to Canifs and travel north-west from there. Harvest Lustrous Wisps until you reach level 80.
 To get there, use the fairy ring code bip, then run south. Harvest Brilliant Wisps until you reach level 85.
 To get there, use Ectophial, then travel with the ghost captain for free. Then continue harvesting Brilliant wisps or begin harvesting Radiant wisps until you reach level 90.
 Teleport to Jalsavrah in Sophanem with the Pharaoh's Sceptre or Sceptre of the Gods, and run the rest of the way. Bring Waterskins with Humidify runes or an Enchanted water tiara. Wearing desert clothing will help as well. The Tome of frost is also a feasible option as you take minimal damage to be at risk. Wielding Tome of Frost and Regen bracelet is a very cost effective method. Here, harvest Luminous Wisps until level 95.
 Use the Spirit Tree to the Poison Waste, then run south and use the grapple option, then run west or use the fairy ring code bop to get to the south of Castle Wars, and finally run past the bridge on the west. Harvest Incandescent Wisps until you're a level 99!

