 Most indigestion is mild and can be dealt with at home. However, if you have severe indigestion or extreme discomfort, then you should see a doctor to make sure there is nothing more serious occurring. The symptoms include:Nausea. In some cases, people may even vomit.
Feeling bloated or uncomfortably full.
Pain or burning in the stomach, intestines, or esophagus.;
, These medications are available over-the-counter. They neutralize the acid in your stomach so it is not as acidic. This means it causes less irritation to the tissues of your digestive tract.


Take one immediately when your feel the symptoms start. If you frequently get indigestion after dinner, take one right after eating, and if necessary, then again before you go to bed. They are generally effective for anywhere from 20 minutes to several hours.
You can purchase them at your local pharmacy. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. and do not take more than recommended. Consult a doctor before taking them if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child.
 These substances create a foam that floats in your stomach and prevents stomach acid from entering your esophagus.Alginates are more effective if you take them after eating. This means they stay in your stomach longer and work at the times when you have the most acid.
Some antacids also have an alginate in them. Read the information on the packaging to determine if yours does. If you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child, talk to a doctor to make sure they are ok for your situation.
 There are several common foods and household items that can help relieve indigestion. These methods haven’t been scientifically tested, but some people find them to be effective. Contact your doctor before adding any herbal remedies or supplements to make sure it won’t interact with any other medications you may be on.Some remedies to try include:


Milk — Milk will help coat the lining of your esophagus and stomach, protecting it from your stomach acids.
Oatmeal — Eating a bowl of oatmeal will help absorb some of the excess stomach acid.
Peppermint tea — This can help soothe your intestines and reduce nausea.
STW5 — This is a supplement which has bitter candytuft, peppermint, caraway, and licorice. It is thought to reduce the production of stomach acid.
Artichoke leaf extract — This may help digestion by increasing bile.
Ginger — Ginger can help settle your stomach and combat nausea. You can take ginger by brewing a tea, eating candied ginger, or drinking ginger ale. If you chose to drink ginger ale, try allowing it to go flat first so the carbonated gas doesn’t make your indigestion worse.
 Some of these medications may be available over-the-counter, and others may require a prescription. However, you should discuss them with your doctor before trying them. This is very important if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child. There are several possible medications to try:Proton pump inhibitors — These medications reduce the amount of acid your body produces. However, they may interact with other medications used to treat epilepsy or prevent blood clots. They may also cause side effect which include headaches, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, gas, discomfort in the stomach, dizziness, and rashes, and may decrease the absorption of iron and B12 vitamins.
H2-receptor antagonists — These medications make your stomach acid less acidic. These are usually used after antacids, alginates, and proton pump inhibitors have not been successful. They are considered very safe, with few side effects.
Antibiotics — These are prescribed if your indigestion stems from an infection of H. pylori bacteria.
Antidepressants or anti-anxiety medications —These medications may reduce the pain caused by your indigestion.

