 A party game is a video game designed to played by multiple(3+) players at one setting in one place at a time. Playing a game on Facebook is not playing a party game because the people on in different places at one time.
 There are also many game 3D fighting games, dancing games, and interactive music playing and dancing exercise games that'll entertain any age gamer. If your guest have a broad interests you can be safe to choose a video game playable version of a board game or a game show like Jeopardy or Wheel.


There are lots of trivia games will make any party fun and exciting. These ask questions on a variety of topics the same way Jeopardy does.Another good choice is classic arcade games on Playstation or Xbox format that will amuse everybody and provide a load of game choices on one disk.
 Everybody has their own favorites but if your are unsure of the preferences you might want to consider a more general or classic game that satisfies the majority of the people.


The Mario Party series is a 4 (or sometimes 8) player game that practically is a board game which each player fills spaces of his/her color by playing mini games which can be racing or fighting. The player can also go against the computer as well. Mario Party like all Mario Games only plays on Nintendo brand consoles like WII, GameCube. Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games is a game where the Characters of Sonic the Hedgehog and Mario Bros. Games compete against each other in an Olympic like sports events.
Hasbro Family Game Night is a series of games that is available for Playstation and Xbox which has practically Hasbro brand board games such as Battleship, Bop It, Sorry!, Scrabble with or without added features. Sorry! game has sliders. Yahtzee Bowling is Yahtzee with bowling. Another one called Family Fun Pack has favorites such as Monopoly, Scrabble and Trivia. This game is available for XBOX 1 and Playstation 4 consoles. Different console versions have different games than others.
Trivial Pursuit is one of the majority of Trivia games that work like Jeopardy the game asks a question and the players must respond with the correct answer. You Don't Know Jack is another trivial games that throws questions in several modes or what is gibberish (a phrase or word scrabbled up).
Any of the sports games like NBA 2K Series are really party games in their own right because 4 or more players can play on a team or on two separate teams. The same goes for fighting/battle games such as Tekken Tag Tournament, and Killer Instinct. With some the hits are shown as blood and gore and others are marked by fireworks and sparks.
Just Dance on Wii is a great example of one of many dance party party. Instead of the traditional hand control the player holds a motion sensing device as tries to follow moves the dancer on the game display. Many singing or rapping party games use a microphone instead o the motion sensor thing. Guitar Hero and others like have a instrument accessory that simulates playing the actual instruments.
Hunting and adventure party simulate being in a 3D battlefield like going into a haunted house, walking in corn maze or playing a paintball, lazer tag game. Call of Duty, Final Fantasy XIII, Zelda, Twisted Metal are examples. Pick the more fiery or sparky ones for sensitive people who don't like gore and blood.
Many favorite series, licensed characters and children's favorites also come in party games. Shrek: Treasure Hunt, Shrek Super Party, Disney Channel All Star Party, chances are your favorite show will soon become in some way made into a party game.
 It's your party and you can play whatever you want however it's in good manner to consider the age and ability of the guest to the party. Some games are made for preschoolers who are learning ABC's and 123's which would bore teenagers and adults. "Halo" games are too advanced for youngsters and are a hit with teens.


Don't be afraid to eliminate or limit the amount of gore and blood when necessary in fighting games and war games. A fighting game that shoots sparks instead of blood and guts is a good substitute for a sensitive person or at a family gaming party.
Read the age ratings to make sure you don't play a explicit game (nudity,swearing,violence) at a child's birthday party.
Have a spare even broken control around for a little toddler or youngster. Many little ones get a kick out of just holding the control and "playing along". It's really amusing and picture worthy when you see little sibling having the time of his life.
If your throwing like a wedding party or someone else's birthday party. Be careful not to let the game become the sole purpose of the party! This can be very rude and disrespectful for the host of or guest being at the party. Pick something like singing, trivia or dancing to be sure this doesn't happen.

