 When you think of your local library, you probably think of the stacks of books and reference periodicals that line the walls. But many people forget that libraries have other forms of media, like CDs and DVDs, to rent for free as well. And while your library will probably have a section for documentaries and informational videos, they also have a full range of old and newer releases in every genre, from comedy to sci-fi to action/adventure.Some libraries shorten the amount of time you can borrow media like DVDs and CDs. Whereas a book rental is usually around two weeks, DVDs may be around one week or shorter (depending on your library's policies).
Be aware that late fees still apply to DVDs, and they tend to be slightly higher than the late fees you'd pay for an overdue book. But even with a day's worth of late fees, you'll still pay less than if you'd rented the movie from a video store or purchased it outright.
Some libraries in larger cities may grant cardholders free access to digital collections online. In addition to e-books and music downloads, these online collections may include instant video streaming. Check with your library to see if they participate in these services.
 Some film promoters put out free "sneak previews" of new forthcoming films a day or two before they premier. You'll have to search online to find out about these offers and how to get in for free, but it may be well worth your time to see a brand new movie for free before it's released to the general public.You can find information about upcoming free screenings in your area by searching online at https://www.gofobo.com/main/local_screenings. Just enter your zip code for a comprehensive list of upcoming screenings near you.
 Depending on the time of year, your city probably offers free movie screenings. It may not be a brand new release (though sometimes it is), but many cities offer movies in the park, for example, or other free outdoor/indoor movie showings. It's a great way to get out into your community, meet other people, and treat yourself to a picnic while watching a classic or newer-release film for free.