 Using a damp washcloth is one of the gentlest ways to exfoliate skin. Simply moisten a standard terry washcloth with lukewarm water, wring out the excess, and gently buff the skin you wish to exfoliate.If you have severely sensitive, dry, or damaged skin, you might consider switching to a konjac sponge. These sponges are made from natural fibers found in the konjac plant. They're soft and slightly rubbery, and the texture is finer than that of a loofah or washcloth. Soften the sponge in warm water for five minutes; wring out the excess, then massage the skin in light, circular movements.;
, Many fruits contain natural acids that can gently scrub away dead skin. To make these cleansers even gentler, stick with mildly acidic fruits like papaya and strawberry while avoiding stronger citrus fruits (e.g., lemons or limes). You should also dilute the fruits with a base of oil, water, or yogurt for added protection against the acids.For example, try mixing 1 Tbsp (15 ml) full-fat Greek yogurt, 1 tsp (5 ml) papaya puree, 1 tsp (5 ml) strawberry puree, 1 tsp (5 ml) raw honey, and 2 tsp (10 ml) granulated sugar. Apply the mask to your skin and allow it to sit for about 10 minutes before gently rinsing with lukewarm water.Never leave any fruit mask on for more than 10 minutes. If the mask starts to sting, rinse it off before the full 10 minutes pass.
 Sugar-based scrubs are gentler than salt-based scrubs, making them safer to use on sensitive or dry skin. Sugar particles act as mechanical exfoliants, and they also contain glycolic acid, which acts as a gentle chemical exfoliant.

Try mixing 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of almond or apricot oil with about 1 cup (250 ml) of raw sugar. Add 5 to 6 drops of essential oil, if desired. Lightly buff the sugar scrub over the dead skin and rinse it away with lukewarm water. Keep any excess in an airtight container and use within one month., Oatmeal is generally safe for sensitive skin and works well as a mechanical exfoliant. Grind a handful of whole oats in a food processor until a find powder forms. Add water, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time, to the ground oats until a thick paste forms. Use this paste to exfoliate.Since oatmeal also absorbs oil, it can act as a cleanser, too.
 Gently rub this paste onto damp skin for 2 to 3 minutes, then rinse with warm water.If desired, you can also add the liquid from one liquid-gel pill of Vitamin E to boost the healing properties of this product., While it may sound counterintuitive, many over-the-counter exfoliants using acids are actually quite gentle. In fact, some might be more gentle than scrubs containing large, harsh beads. Look for exfoliating cleansers, toners, or serums containing glycolic acid, alpha-hydroxy acids (AHAs), or beta-hydroxy acids (BHAs).For the gentlest option, stick with AHAs since these are more effective at preventing moisture loss than glycolic acid. BHAs, like salicylic acid, are a good option if you suffer from both sensitive skin and frequent acne., Many DIY exfoliators rely on the acid in fruit, and you can find some commercial products that also harness the same natural ingredients. As a general rule, mildly acidic fruits—e.g., papaya, strawberry—are less damaging than harsh citrus fruits., Eraser exfoliants work by bonding and gently lifting away loose skin cells. Apply the clear gel to your skin and allow it to sit for several seconds. While it sits, the gel should turn white as it bonds to the dead skin cells, then eventually dry up into particles. Rinse these particles away using lukewarm water.The particles will look similar to the dust that forms when using a standard pencil eraser on paper. For that reason, these exfoliators are often called “eraser” exfoliants.
 Many exfoliating products containing beads are among the harshest over-the-counter options. If you prefer bead-based exfoliants, however, your best option might be to look for one containing jojoba beads.These are small and almost perfectly round, so they tend to be gentler than many other options.

Note that "natural" is not necessarily the same as "gentle" when selecting a microbead exfoliant. Some products may rely on things like nut shells, seeds, bamboo, and rice.While these elements are likely gentler than plastic microbeads, they're often rougher than gentle acidic products. Jojoba beds are your best option if you're looking for a mechanical microbead exfoliant.
 Another way to exfoliate your skin is to use either a cleanser or moisturizer that contains an exfoliating acid or exfoliating particles. Opting for one of these products may make the exfoliating process less harsh on your skin, but do not use another exfoliating product after use.

For exfoliating cleansers, consider using a foaming scrub instead of a gel cleanser. Since the texture of these cleansers will be lighter than gel cleansers, any mechanical exfoliants they rely on are generally smaller and less abrasive.When choosing exfoliating moisturizers, look for something marketed as a “repair cream.” The moisturizers in these products are usually rich enough to prevent dryness, but the products also contain chemical or mechanical exfoliants capable of lightly buffing away rough skin., Exfoliating too often can actually irritate your skin, causing more damage, dryness, and flakiness.If you don't know how sensitive or damaged your skin is, you should try exfoliating only once a week.If your skin still needs an added boost after several weeks, consider increasing the number of days you exfoliate to two times--but never increase the among past three days per week, and immediately decrease the amount of your skin starts looking red or irritated.
Regardless of how often you exfoliate, always exfoliate at night to allow your skin time to heal and rejuvenate while you sleep. Furthermore, UV rays from the sun can damage newly exfoliated skin.
 Avoid using hot water since it can cause further dryness and irritation. Similarly, harsh cleansers can also worsen your skin quality. It's best to use warm water and gentle cleansers, especially before you plan to exfoliate.

If you're exfoliating your body, keep the shower under ten minutes to avoid prolonged exposure to hot water. You should also wash your face after your shower instead of during it.Use separate cleansers for your body and face. If you have sensitive or dry skin, consider looking for cleansers specifically marketed toward your condition (i.e. "sensitive" or "moisturizing" formulas), especially for use before exfoliating.
 While not strictly necessary for normal to oily skin types, consider rubbing a thin layer of face oil over your skin before working with your exfoliant. The oil will act as a barrier between your skin and the product, thereby minimizing the harshness of that product.This can be especially helpful if you have sensitive skin or weak capillaries (the fine blood vessels directly beneath your skin).
Look for face oil blends specifically marketed to your skin type (dry, normal, or oily) for the best result. While there are many different types, seed, jojoba, and calendula oils are among the most popular options., While dead skin can gather all over your body, the areas most in need of exfoliating are those where the skin feels dry, looks flaky, or looks dull. Work on these areas each time you exfoliate, and only exfoliate bright, soft skin rarely (if at all).If you can't tell which areas need exfoliating, go outside during a bright, sunny day and bring a mirror. Examine your skin and determine which areas look dull.
Typically, most of your exfoliating efforts should be concentrated on the face, elbows, knees, and feet.
Examine your skin every few weeks. If or when a previously healthy patch of skin begins to dull, extend your exfoliating routine to that spot. If the problem does not return the following week, you may return to omitting that location until it needs attention again.
 Regardless of which exfoliant you use, you should apply light pressure and work in upward, circular motions.The particles or chemicals in the exfoliant should do the work for you. Essentially, you only need to move these exfoliants across your face; you don't need to scrub them into your skin.
 Immediately after exfoliating, rinse your skin and pat it dry with a soft towel. Apply a hydrating lotion, cream, or serum to the newly scrubbed area before ending your beauty routine for the evening. Doing so should rehydrate your skin and reduce the risk of irritation.