 Choose a college that truly represents you. Don't pick one because your friends are going there. Make sure that is has a good report and a good success rate in the degree that you are looking to go.;
, The best way to get acclimated is to use resources such as Google Maps and Map-Quest to search the neighborhoods. Try to look for restaurants and grocery stores that are similar or the same to what you have now. The more familiar something as important as a grocery store is, the better you will feel.
 Have you decided if you are going to live on campus or off campus? Regardless of what decision you make, there are a lot of choice that go with it. If you are going to be living on campus, you have to think about living with other people, sharing all of your stuff, and especially sharing your personal space. If you decide that you are going to be living off campus, you must consider if you are again going to live with roommates, or if you are going to front the bill yourself. If you do live by yourself, it will be harder to adjust to the city if you are alone all the time.
 The biggest stress of moving to a large city is how it seems like you are spending money on things you never did before. Try to really make sure you budget your money. Don’t get caught up in spending because everyone else is.
 Getting a job in the city is actually easier than getting a job in your small town. In a small town, there is not that many jobs to come by, and usually you are in that job for many years. Now there is a really fast turnover rate for many places. The biggest place to go to find a part time job is the nearest mall.
 You have just moved to a place where there is public transportation. This can be very frightening if you’ve never experienced it before. Try it with a bunch of friends during the day if it’s your first time ever. It does get easier as your experience it more.


Your own car. You might not need your own car when you move to the city. Usually you have to drive quite a distance to get to the nearest store, but now they are all going to be in walking distance, or at least most of them are. And like it as said before, there is even public transportation to get you places. You can save a lot of money by not taking your car with you. You will lose out of coming home as often without a car though.
 As trivial as it seems, your clothing choice can actually be a big deal if you’re not used to it. Living in a small town, most people do not stay up on fashion as much. So get used to being slightly out of fashion at the start. But the good thing is that when you go home, you will now be the most fashionable person in your town!

, Something that was once regarded as annoying will now be cherished. You never realize how much you love and miss your family until you move away from them. You might be gone for a week, and it seems like forever. Going home is sometimes the most exciting part of your week! You will get to eat some great home cooked food, do free laundry, and sleep in your own bed. It’s a wonderful sensation.
 Making friends is quite possibly the hardest part about moving to a large city. At home, you knew the name of everyone in your school, possibly even their parents, grandparents, and other relative’s names. You have had the same teacher as all your siblings, and maybe even your parents. Now you move to a city and you might meet one person one day and never see them again. Try to be friendly and nice to everyone you meet, you never know when you are going to see them again, and if you do, it’s best to leave a good impression. To make more friends, be outgoing, go to places you wouldn’t normally go, eat foods you’ve never tried, and be adventurous. You will never make friends if you sit at home all the time; you have to put yourself out there, even if it makes you out of your comfort zone., The Internet is a great way to keep in contact with everyone, besides, they are probably going through the same problems you are going through. They are also going to be very interested in how you are doing too. They want to know what the experience is like for you. Maybe this a great opportunity to start a blog???

, Remember, you're here for a reason, which is building your future, don't let the big city temptations drag you down.
 And whatever you do, don’t worry. Life is a journey. This is your opportunity to try new things, experience stuff you never thought would happen, and really find out who you are. I bet you anything, you will not come back to your small town the same person you were when you left. You will have grown matured, and become the successful person you were meant to be. Never Ever forget your small town roots, they will help you years to come, even if it seems impossible now.
 Cherish your small town. They are disappearing slowly and surely. Take time to really look back and remember what it is like to grow up knowing everybody in your town from the janitor at you school to the town mayor on a first name basis. It’s truly something you will never find again.

