 While maintaining a certain level of control over your life is important for maintaining a positive state of mind, you should also try to live more in the moment. This means letting go of things you cannot control and embracing spontaneity. Living in the moment can add an element of excitement and engagement in your life that you may have been missing.One way to live more in the moment is to create a bucket list of five to ten things you have always wanted to do and set a timeline for doing them. Keep the items reasonable, as you want them to be things you can achieve. Your list may have things like “traveling solo for a month” or “competing in the slam poetry competition at school”. Focus on things you can achieve and then pursue them.;
, You should also try to develop a habit of looking on the bright side of things. Though it’s important to acknowledge that bad things happen, you do not need to negative to take over your life. Instead, focus on the positives. Ask yourself, “Is the situation really as negative as I think it is?” and “Can I look at this situation in a more positive way?”It may also help you to view bad situations as part of a learning experience, where you can gain insight into yourself or into others. Thinking about what you can learn, rather than shutting down or freaking out, can allow you to approach the situation positively.
 To boost your sense of happiness, you can start your day with one to two positive affirmations. These affirmations could be simple "I" statements about something you are happy about or grateful for, as well as statements about positive things you intend to do that day. For example, you may look in the mirror in the morning and say, "I am powerful and strong" or "I am going to do exciting things today."You may also want to put up inspirational posters and visuals that contain positive messages in your living space or your work space. This way, you can look at these messages when you are having a low point in your day or struggling to be happy go lucky as a reminder to stay positive.
 Valuing your time means not spending time on people or activities that are going to suck away your energy and zest for life. Surrounding yourself with positive influences will help you maintain a more positive outlook. Avoid wasting time on negative things or activities that may be harmful to your happiness. Instead, use your time to cultivate positivity and joy.You may want to think about individuals around you who tend to bring negativity into your life and try to distance yourself from them. You may seek out individuals who have a sense of contentment and confidence and spend more time with them instead.
You can also devote more of your time to activities that will allow you to feel good about yourself, from exercising more to doing hobbies you enjoy. Using your time for positive things will help you maintain a happy go lucky attitude.

