 Transposition codes take your normal message and rearrange the letters according to a simple, agreed upon rule. This type of cipher can be harder to crack than a substitution cipher, because there will be no frequently used words to be found: they’ll all be scrambled.Write your message normally. Because you’re going to be scrambling the message, you’ll need the normal message as a starting place. Choose something simple to start with like, “How are you today”
Decide how to rearrange the letters. A simple transposition cipher, for example, might take each letter and place them in reverse order within the word, but not the sentence. “How are you today” would become “woh era uoy yadot”.
Let your friends know the rearranging order. They’ll need to know how you scrambled the words so that they can read your messages. Pick something a little more difficult than just reversing the letters, as the example of “woh era uoy yadot” can be easily cracked.
Try using a matrix. Draw large box on a piece of paper and divide it evenly into rows and columns. Write your normal message with one letter written in each smaller box. Your new message will be made by making the vertical columns into sentences instead of the horizontal ones. To decode, your friends will have to make their own grid, write the sentences vertically, then read left to right as normal., This method is a type of transposition cipher, in that the letters are written and arranged up and down a paper instead of straight across, creating a block of text. Be aware that this may be easy to crack, because none of the words are scrambled.


Write your message starting in one of the corners of the paper. Make a column up or down from where you started. Write in a straight line all the way to the next edge of the paper.
Write the next column when you reach the edge. Once you reach the edge of the first column, start writing the next line in the opposite direction. If you started writing upwards from the bottom left corner, you’ll now write in a line going down to the next edge of the page.
Repeat for each column. Continue writing your message up and down the paper, like a snake. When looked at by anyone else, they’ll only see a block of text that makes no sense when read from left to right.
Sign your message with a small snake. Your friends will know how you’ve written the message and how to read it. Meanwhile, no one else will know what it means.

