 You've probably heard almost everyone who has been to NYC mention that people walk faster, talk faster, and pretty much do everything faster there. This is very true. Even people who don't have anywhere to be often still walk as if they are VIPs late for a meeting. Faster pace has become an accepted part of NYC culture, so even if you are not in a hurry, you should still speed up your pace and pay attention to your surroundings, especially in crowded areas, like subway stations. Make sure you are not walking too slow or blocking someone's way. You never know if the person you are blocking behind you may really be late for a meeting that could cost him/her time and money. Be considerate and respectful of New Yorkers who are not sight-seeing, but do need to get to work.;
, Whether you are ordering a "double, tall, extra hot, soy latte" or a Big Mac, always know what you want before you get to the counter. It is often inconvenient, but try not to ask questions at the counter or take up more time than necessary to order what you need. In most cases, there are New Yorkers behind you who already know what they want and would like to get it ASAP. If the line's moved so fast that you ended up in the front before you know what you want, let whoever is behind you cut until you know exactly what you want. If you have trouble seeing the menu except up front, step to the side so you can see the menu while the person behind you orders.
 Always have your Metro Card in hand before you swipe through the turnstile. Don't stand in front of the turnstile and dig through your bag, while blocking everyone else. When the train comes, let people off first, before you board. (This is really important!) Move in as much as possible and hold your bag/purse close to your body, especially during rush hour. If you find a seat, quickly sit down. When you step out of the train, walk in the direction of the nearest exit. Don't stop in front of the door and look around for signs. Just keep walking until you find the exit. You will figure it out along the way and avoid blocking anybody's way. You really don't want to be the person who blocks the subway door long enough to make people miss the train. Try not to blatantly stare at the other subway passengers. People on the subway generally don't look at or talk to each other unless they're with their own family or friends. Occupy one seat only. Do not eat any food with a strong odor on the train. Your backpack belongs in your lap or behind your legs, not in the seat next to you. If you're lost and think you're on the wrong train, don't be afraid to ask directions. Someone will usually be kind enough to help you.
 You're visiting New York City, not backpacking through Europe. Large, bulky backpacks not only take up valuable space in the subway or on the sidewalks, you might also hit someone with them when you're not paying attention. Stick to tote bags, smaller book bags (like you might use for school), or purses, if you must bring something with you.
 Whenever you need to stop on the sidewalk for any reason (e.g. to check your map, etc.), remember to step to the side. Do not stop in the middle of the sidewalk and make others walk around you. It is extremely inconsiderate to others who are also sharing the sidewalk.
 If you don't feel comfortable, then step aside and let others behind you through, and walk within the crowd.
 Tourists are easily spotted because they walk around staring up at the tall buildings in Manhattan. This can cause you to be a target for theft because you're not paying attention to your surroundings, or you will walk into things and people on the sidewalk. When you're walking down the sidewalk, stare ahead of you but glance up every now and then. If you want to get a closer look, move to the side and make sure you're holding on to your belongings. Distracted people are easy targets for theft.
 The one exception is if you are going around people who walk slower than you do, otherwise you are making yourself a source of annoyance and confusion for everyone behind you."

, If jumping out to wave taxi, make sure the area around where you're jumping is clear first to make sure you're not a) cutting someone off or (b) about to bowl over someone who is walking in a straight line past you

