 They can tell you all you need to know about Italy, like the best hotels, restaurants and other tourist destinations. When reading articles online, look for reputable sources. Lonely Planet and Trip Advisor are good online travel communities to visit. You can also check out blogs of people who have traveled.


Once you get an idea of the things you would like do and the cities you want to visit, you can start to plan your trip.
Talk to anyone that has visited Italy to get some additional tips.;
, Popular destinations in Italy include Rome, Florence, Tuscany, Milan, Venice, and Naples. You can spend all of your time in one area or visit multiple areas. If you visit more than one area, allow enough time to visit each area. The shorter your trip, the fewer number of areas you should try to visit.


If it is your first time visiting Italy, start with Rome, Florence, and Venice.If you want to go to the beach, consider going to Southern Italy (e.g., Amalfi Coast, Pompeii, Naples, Sicily)

, Most tourists visit Italy in July, August, and early September. It will be more crowded this time of year, and it is also very hot and humid with the highs around 90℉/32℃. Temperatures are more pleasant from April to mid June and mid September to October with highs around 70-80℉/21-27℃ and lows 50-60℉/10-15℃.The winters are cold and are not the best time to walk around. Northern Italy is colder than the south as are higher elevations.
Flights and hotels are often more expensive during peak travel season as well.
 This will help you plan your attractions, based on the time you have. The length of your stay will depend on your budget and how many cities you plan to visit. Consider how many days you will actually have on the ground when you are in Italy. The day that you arrive and they day that you depart should not be included. Also consider the time it will take you to travel in between cities.


The train from Rome to Florence takes one hour and thirty minutes.The train from Florence to Venice takes a little over two hours.If you are going from Southern Italy to Northern Italy, you will need even more time. The train ride from the Amalfi Coast (i.e. Southern Italy) to Florence (i.e. Northern Italy) will take you five hours and forty five minutes., Once you decide what cities you will visit, look up the major attractions in each city. For example, if you are going to Rome, you may want to visit the Colosseum. If you go to Venice, you will want to visit the canals. In Florence, you may want to visit the Santa Maria del Fiore.It's best to purchase tickets for major attractions and museums before you leave for your trip, or you may not be able to get inSome places only allow a limited number of visits per day or require you to wait for hours and hours to get in. Tickets can be purchased online at Italian websites.You will have to change the language to English.
Attractions often have their own website where you can buy tickets and check the hours of operation.
 Look up the price of everything. Consider the costs of hotels, food, transportation (e.g. airfare and getting around the country), attractions, and shopping. There are options for every price point, but you will need to thoroughly research.Also, remember the exchange rate. Italy uses the Euro (€). Check the current exchange rate with your currency as it changes all of the time.


The amount of money you need will really depend on the types of activities you plan on doing. If you plan to eat at more expensive restaurants or visit a lot of attractions, you will need more money.
It may help to have a set amount of money you will spend each day. For example, $100 a day or $60 a day.
 While it is nice to plan out what you would like to do every day, allow some flexibility in your schedule. Things will not go exactly as you plan. You may get lost or your train may not be on time. The line at the museum may be longer than you anticipated. You also may want to explore the streets or stumble upon something interesting.If you do have activities planned, allow some flex time between each activity. If you plan to visit a museum from 10:00 am-12:00 pm, do not have another activity that starts at 12:15 pm or 12:30 pm. Consider giving yourself forty five minute or an hour of cushion time.
You could also block off two or three hours of free time each day.
 A travel agent or travel company can help you book your trip. You can purchase your flight and hotel together as well as get tickets to different attractions. Your trip can come with a planned itinerary or you can do an independent vacation package. A quick Google search can help you find Italian vacation packages.This is a good option if you are not comfortable planning all the logistics yourself or do not have time to plan.


Only work with reputable companies. Ask your friends, family, and coworkers about any travel agents or companies that they have worked with. Look the agent or company up on the Better Business Bureau website.
You can also contact the American Society of Travel Agents at (703) 739-2782 to see if the agent belongs to the organization., If you are from the US, sign up for the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program online, in person at the U.S. Embassy in Rome, or the Consulates General in Naples, Milan, and Florence. This will give you up-to-date information on travel and security within Italy and makes it easier for the Embassy to contact you in case there is an emergency.


You can also call 1-888-407-4747 or 1-202-501-4444 for up-to-date information on security.
 Your plane ticket will be the biggest expense for your trip. Flights to Italy are more expensive than flights to other European cities.Search for the best deal and travel during the off season (October - April). Flying into the major airports in Rome and Milan will be more expensive than flying into a smaller airport and taking a train or bus to the major city., The rail system is the best way to get from one city to the next. You can check train times and prices before you get there by visiting the Trenitalia (Italian Railways) websiteor by using two other private agency websites that connect to the Trenitalia website.Prices start at either €9, €19, or €29. There are no baggage fees or weight limits, and you can bring your own food and drinks.Buy your tickets at the station or online. You can buy the tickets 120 days in advance and will save money by purchasing your tickets in advance.Children under four can ride the train for free., A car is not the easiest way to get around Italy, and most cars have manual transmission. If you plan to drive while you are in Italy, you will need an International Driving Permit.These permits can be purchased from your nearest American Automobile Association office for $15.You can use your American Driver's license if it is accompanied by an official Italian translation. Visit the U.S. Embassy website to find a list of official translators.


A car is best if you are traveling around southern Italy, but public transportation is usually the best way to get around.You will not have to worry about parking, driving in an unfamiliar city, and getting tickets.
 Public transportation is a great way to get around the country. Train, metro, and bus tickets can be purchased at tobacco shops, bars, or vending machines at the metro station or bus stop. Validate your ticket by entering it into one of the validation machines located near the entrance of the station or bus stop. The machine will stamp your ticket with the date and time.If you know you are going to be in a city for a few days, go ahead and purchase a multi-day pass. Prices will vary depending on the city and the number of days (e.g. 7 day pass, 48 hour pass, 24 hour pass)
Always have your ticket ready in case a ticket inspector comes by to check your ticket.
Public transportation is free for children that are ten years old or younger.
 You can stay in a hotel, hostel, agriturismo accommodation (farm-stay), convent/monastery or rent an apartment while you are in Italy.When looking for a place to stay, consider the location and distance from public transportation. Check and see if they offer WiFi and breakfast before you book. Also, ask if they offer transportation to and from the airport.


An agriturismo is where a family has guest accommodations on their farm. Meals are sometimes included, and they are cheaper than a hotel. The best way to find one is by using Google maps.
A pensione (bed and breakfast) is also an option in Italy.
Apartments can be found using AirBnB, HouseTrip or HomeAway.A convent or monastery is less expensive than a hotel as well, but they often have rules and curfews.
If you see a hotel you like, call the hotel directly to see if you can get a cheaper rate.
Visit travel websites like TripAdvisor to read other traveler's top choices and experiences that are in your price range.
Hostels will be less expensive than hotels. This is a good idea if you are traveling alone and want to meet other people.
 When you convert money, you pay an additional fee. These rates will vary depending on where you exchange your money. Exchange money at an Italian bank or use your ATM card to get the best exchange rate.ATMs in Italy are called Bancomats.You will need to have some cash on hand to pay for a taxi or in some restaurants and shops.
Call your bank and/or credit card company to see what the foreign transaction fee (i.e. percentage of your overall purchase) is and if your card will be compatible with Italian banks.
Be careful exchanging money at a storefront. They do not post their exchange rates and may charge you more if you are a tourist.