 Cats who aren't spayed will periodically go into a period of heightened sexual activity called "heat", referred to scientifically as "estrus." This period of heat can last as long as three weeks, though visible symptoms usually don't last this long.A cat in heat will often act very affectionate, rubbing herself against people and inanimate objects and rolling around in a playful frenzy.
 A cat in heat will often show sexual affection by getting into a "presenting" stance, or a crouching body position — her rear will be elevated, her tail will be raised or placed at one side, and her head will be held low to the ground. This is especially common in the presence of male cats.When a female cat goes into the crouching position, she will likely also tread or paddle with her back feet. She will lift each back foot quickly, like she is walking in place. This is thought to attract males during heat because this causes the female cat’s genitals to jiggle up and down as she walks.
 A cat in heat will let out loud, yowling meows and other bleating noises. These vocalizations will typically start just after the onset of heat and grow in intensity over time. At their worst, these calls may be very frequent and may even sound pained or distressed, though the cat is not in any real danger.Other, less-common calls may range from quieter, inquiring mews to agitated screeches.
 An indoor cat who goes into heat may suddenly adopt the habits of an outdoor cat. Cats in heat will often want to get outside so they can find a mate and may resort to behaviors like pawing and scratching at the door, making noises at the door, or even trying to dart outside as soon as the door is open.Keep a close eye on the cat whenever you enter or leave the house. If your cat escapes from the house, she may come home pregnant as she is not spayed.
 A cat who is not spayed will use her urine to let potential mates know when she is in heat. Urine marking is a common reproductive trait in female cats and can be prevented by getting the cat spayed. The cat may urine mark indoors or outdoors, especially in the presence of male cats., Female cats who are not spayed may also have vaginal discharge that is clear and watery or tinged with blood during heat. You may notice this discharge after the cat has been in heat for awhile. She will likely get into the “presenting” stance and tread before she starts to release the discharge.