 Extensions braided into small braids are usually in place for a long period, so you want to starting with clean hair and scalp. Make sure your hair is dry before braiding.


You may also want to cut the extensions to the length you prefer before braiding. If you are going to use the full length of the extensions, you can leave them as they are.;
, For box braids, you are going to be braiding numerous strands into tiny, long braids. Start the process by separating a small portion of hair that will be the basis for your first braid. You can do this with your fingers or a comb. Make sure the section of hair is untangled.The size of this section of hair will be the size of all sections over your hair, so make sure this is the braid size you want.
 Hold the piece of natural hair in one hand. Take the hair extension and loop it around the natural hair; essentially, you are wrapping the extension around the natural hair in half. You will have two strands of hair extension in one hand, and one natural strand in the other hand.









Make sure the extension is looped evenly around the strand so the ends meet; this will ensure that way your braid is even.
 Hold your natural hair taut as you twist the two strands of the extension around the natural hair strand. If you can't quite get it by twisting, just cross the extension strands under the natural hair. You will now have three distinct strands of equal size.
 Take the natural strand, which is one of the outside strands, and cross it over the middle strand. Pull the extension strand to the side, making it an outside strand while the natural hair strand becomes the middle strand. This makes your three strands.









Spray the hair extension and natural hair with water to keep stray hairs in place while you are working with it.
 Using these three initial strands, braid a few strands to get the braid going. Then, slide the extension upwards towards the scalp to secure it.


Make sure not to braid the hair too tightly. This can cause severe scalp and hair damage.
 Split the natural hair into two strands. Do the same to one of the extension strands. Combine one of each of the strands together into two new strands. Now, two of your strands should be a combined natural hair and extension strand.You should still have 3 separate sections of hair at this point.
 Now that you have the braid started and blended, continue braiding until you get to the end of your hair.









When you get to the ends of your natural hair, use some hair spray or water to smooth them down as they combine with your extensions.
 When you reach the end of the extensions, secure the ends with a small hair tie or whatever other method you choose.

