 Perhaps the greatest challenge of writing a found poem is determining which words and phrases to extract from the original writing to include in your found poem.


The Library of Congress has an online lesson plan for writing found poetry that provides both the original text along with a found poem exemplar. For example, they include a found poem based on a primary source titled “The Blizzard of 1888”. Here is an example of how a writer extracted words and phrases from an original source from a prose titled “Coming Home, Again” by Chang-rae Lee. The poet started with this original sentence from Lee’s writing: "From that day, my mother prepared a certain meal to welcome me home." Using this sentence, the writer of the found poem deleted the first three words in the sentence and rearranged the line to make up the first three lines of their poem: "My mother prepared/A certain meal/To welcome me home"

Notice how the poet was able to change the sentence context. In the original sentence, a reader can conclude that the focus is on whatever significant event had occurred since “from that day” the mother took on the ritual of making a specific meal each time the speaker came home. However, in the poem, the emphasis is now on the mother celebrating the speaker’s return home by preparing a special meal. , While rereading, pay close attention to words and phrases that stand out and grab your attention. Make a list of these words and phrases.


Choose short phrases, and be sure to jot down enough words and phrases (approximately 50 to 100) so you have plenty to select from during the drafting of your poem. Keep in mind that found poems only contain words from other texts, so make sure you have gathered enough material. , Using the words and phrases that you selected from the text, determine what is the topic (subject) of the poem. Next, come up with a theme or message that your poem will express.


When you think of theme, ask yourself, “what is the overall message or idea about life that is being expressed throughout the work?” For example, let’s say you read a poem with “love” as the topic or subject. To determine the theme, you would have to think about what message is being conveyed about love based on the speaker’s tone or attitude toward the topic. A theme for a poem expressing a positive tone about love could be “love conquers all.”A theme for a poem with a negative tone about love might be “love is painful and not worth the risk.”
Once you have a theme in mind, write it down. This is will help you in determining how to arrange the words you selected from the original source.
 Now that you have decided on a theme for your poem, carefully select only the words and phrases that will help you convey the theme you want to express.


Be sure to also consider the tone (attitude) and mood (emotion) you want to convey in your poem. Make sure your selected words and phrases align with the feelings and emotions that you want to express throughout the poem.

For example, in John Manfield’s poem “Sea Fever,” the speaker’s repeated declaration that he or she “ must go down to the seas again” conveys the speaker’s passionate and yearning attitude towards returning to seafaring life. 