 When you develop your business, don’t overlook creating a mission statement that will guide your future entrepreneurial endeavors. Consider your values, your goals, your boundaries, and your overall mission. Be intentional with your word choices, fully embracing the meaning of each word, so that your mission is one which you can stand behind.Your mission and values may change over time, which is perfectly normal. If you find that your needs or goals change, or your understanding of your company’s green promises, you might need to revise your mission statement.
If your understanding of terminology changes, be proactive and change your mission statement accordingly right away.;
, Specificity in your descriptions will ensure that you’re intentionally using words and phrases. Because of that specificity, you’ll necessarily need to understand exactly what you’re saying when you use phrases and terminology, and because of that, you’re much less likely to greenwash.Also, specificity is helpful in sales because you can clearly and pointedly articulate specific benefits to using your services or products.
 One common way of greenwashing is to highlight one green characteristic or feature of a product or service and disregard its other qualities. At its worst, rather than just not giving attention to these other qualities, some greenwashed businesses will intentionally avoid them.For example, you might point out that your machines are energy efficient, but fail to talk about the dangerous chemicals required to make the machine function properly.
 Greenwashing can also occur in the form of exaggerated product qualities. Be sure to represent the green qualities of your products as they are, not as a higher percentage or greater extent. For example, unless your product really is made of 100 percent recycled materials, don't claim that it is. Exaggerating one claim may also make consumers suspect of other claims you make, regardless of whether or not the other claims are true., Be wary of general claims like “environmental preferability,” “environmentally friendly,” or “Earth smart.” These don’t provide purchasers with any specific information that can be used to compare products. Such claims are meaningless unless there is an accompanying explanation of what, exactly, this entails., Your company should be willing, if it’s able to back up its green claims, to compare products side-by-side with others, not hide any data, and be open to business and customer scrutiny. This shows that you’ve nothing to hide, and also shows that you haven’t inflated your claims.