 Visit https://www.google.com/mapmaker and sign in to your Google Account.


Google Map Maker only lets you make changes to certain countries. If it's not available in your area, the other methods below are unlikely to work, but they may be worth a try.
Some users will see a popup appear when they visit the site. You can click "Add place" on this popup to see a step-by-step tutorial.;
, Type an address into the top search bar. If the place you'd like to add doesn't have a street address, search for the nearest location.
 Click the satellite view button in the top right corner of the map. This will make it easier to find the exact location you're looking for.


If you don't see the place, click and drag on the map to move around.
 The red Add New button is just above the map, near the left-hand side. Clicking it should open a short drop-down menu. Select Add a Place from this menu.


You also have the option to Add Roads and similar features from this menu.
 Your cursor should now look like a Google Maps marker when you move it over the map. Click to drop the marker onto the location you're adding.
 In the popup menu's category section, type in a general description of the place. This could be anything from "History Museum" to "ATM." As you type, Google will show you a list of possible options. Select the one that best matches the location.


If adding your home address, select the category "Address." Do this only if Google doesn't recognize your address, not to add a personal location such as "My House" or "Sarah's Place.", Enter the name in the second text field. Press Continue when finished.
 On the next popup, add as many additional details as you can. Click on the name of a section (such as "Working Hours" or "Phone") to edit that category.


Google Maps may try to guess the address for you. If the address is wrong, click it to enter the correct one.
 Once you're done adding information, click Save. You'll receive an email once a moderator or regional lead approves your addition. Once that happens, it should be visible on Google Maps within a few hours. It may take longer to show up on the mobile app or other Google products.Be patient, as it may take a while for the moderation team to check the location. If you want to follow up on your submission contact your regional lead.

