 One way to help relieve tooth nerve pain is to place an ice cube or crushed ice on the tooth. You can do this as long as the tooth isn’t sensitive to cold. Alternatively, you can crush some ice and place it into a balloon or the cut-off finger of a non-latex glove to make an ice pack.Make sure to tie off one end of the balloon or glove and place the compress on the tooth.
You can also use the ice pack on your skin outside the painful tooth to provide pain relief.
 Garlic, onion, and ginger has been shown to help relieve tooth pain. Start by cutting a small piece of garlic, onion, or ginger. Place directly on your painful tooth inside your mouth. Gently bite down to release the juice.The juice from the garlic, onion, or ginger will help numb and calm your gums.
 You can massage your gums with oils to help relieve tooth nerve pain. Try a few drops of warm olive oil or some warm vanilla extract. You can also try essential oils that help with tooth pain. Put these oils on your fingers and massage them into your gums. You can also make a mouth rinse with a few drops of essential oils and a few ounces of water. Never swallow any of these oils because they can be toxic. Essential oils you can use for tooth pain include:Tea tree
Clove
Sage
Cinnamon
Goldenseal oil
Peppermint

, Tea compresses may help with your tooth nerve pain. To make a compress with a teabag, soak an herbal teabag in warm water. After the teabag has steeped in the warm water, place the teabag over the tooth. Leave the teabag there for at least five minutes. You can do this two to three times a day while you're in pain. Teas that have been shown to help with tooth pain include:Echinacea tea
Goldenseal tea
Black tea
Sage tea
Green tea

, Asafetida is a plant used in traditional medicine. This plant usually comes as a powder. To make the paste with asafetida, mix ¼ teaspoon of the powder with fresh lemon juice until it is a paste-like consistency. Once the ingredients are mixed fully, rub the paste over your tooth and gum. Leave it on for around five minutes.Rinse your mouth with water afterwards.
You can do this two to three times a day.

