 Look for four to six-ounce fillets that are light in color and firm to the touch. Avoid fillets with dark spots or discolorations. Fresh fillets should not have an overly fishy smell.


You can also buy a whole catfish, in which case you'll want to either ask the fishmonger to fillet it for you or filet it yourself at home before grilling.
If you want to grill frozen fillets, thaw them completely by storing them in the refrigerator overnight before the day you plan to cook them.;
, Melt a tablespoon or so of butter and use a pastry brush to coat the fillets on all sides. The melted butter will help the seasonings stick to the fish while it cooks.


If you'd prefer a lighter flavor, it's fine to use olive oil or another oil to coat the fish.
Skipping this step is also fine if you prefer the taste of plain grilled fillets with no extra fat.
 At minimum, sprinkle the fillets with salt and pepper on all sides. For extra flavor, you may want to add additional spices like cayenne, paprika or garlic powder. Catfish fillets have a light flavor that pairs well with most seasonings, so feel free to get creative.


Look for a seafood spice mix at your grocery store if you don't want to create your own mixture.
Or check out the third method for ideas for seasoning mixes that pair perfectly with catfish.
 Heat your outdoor grill to medium high (about 375°F to 425°F). Use a paper towel soaked in cooking oil to coat the metal grill rack with oil, so the delicate flesh of the fish won't stick. Let the grill heat completely before you start cooking the fish.


If you don't have a grill or grill pan, you can easily grill fish in a skillet on your stove. Heat a cast iron skillet or a frying pan to medium high, and coat the bottom of the pan lightly with oil.
 Arrange the fillets in an even layer so that they don't overlap.
 Leave them undisturbed while they cook, but monitor the flesh to see how things are progressing. The fillets are ready to flip when the fish no longer looks translucent., The fillets are ready when the flesh is white and flaky. Use a wide spatula to transfer the fish to a serving plate.

