 Never attempt to load a motorcycle into a pickup truck on uneven ground, or soft ground that may give way as you move the motorcycle. Black top or concrete are the preferred surfaces to use when loading your bike into a pickup truck.Never use pieces of wood on grass or dirt as a loading surface, as the wood may sink, break or slide.
Do not attempt to load a motorcycle into a truck on an uneven surface to prevent falling over or dropping the motorcycle itself as you load it.;
, You should always use a ramp intended for use in loading motorcycles onto trucks and trailers when doing so. Motorcycles can be extremely heavy, so the ramp must be designed to be able withstand the weight of the motorcycle. These ramps usually fold in half to easily transport them, so unfold it and place the rubber end on the tailgate of the truck. The metal end should rest flat on the ground.The rubber will protect the tailgate of the truck from being scratched as the truck’s suspension lowers under the weight of the motorcycle.
Be sure the ramp rests evenly on the ground to ensure it does not damage your motorcycle tire or cause it to move in an unpredictable way when you’re pushing it onto the ramp.
 Most ramps will have a hook intended for use in securing the ramp to the truck. Place one hook from a ratchet tie down (also known as a ratchet strap) through the hook on the ramp and secure the other end to a loop or hook in the bed of the truck. Use the ratchet to tighten the strap until the ramp is held firmly in place.Without a strap securing the ramp, it could slide backward and fall off the tailgate of the truck when you push the motorcycle onto it.
Do not use a bungee strap to secure the ramp. Bungee straps may give, allowing the ramp to fall.
 If you leave your motorcycle in gear to prevent the wheels from rolling when you aren’t riding it, you will need to take it back out of gear in order to push it. Motorcycle shift levers are located on the side of the motorcycle and are controlled by the rider’s left foot. Press down on the shift lever until the motorcycle is in first gear, the pull back up on the lever lightly to put it in neutral.Neutral in a motorcycle is found between first and second gear.
Most motorcycles have a neutral light on the gauge pod to let you know that the motorcycle is in neutral.
 Pushing your motorcycle onto the truck should be a two person job. Attempting to do so alone could result in the motorcycle falling, causing significant harm to the bike and to you. Place both of your hands on the handle bars of the motorcycle and ask your friend to push from the back. Roll it up the ramp together, but stop before the motorcycle is all the way into the truck. Use your right hand to squeeze the front brake lever on the handle bars to prevent the motorcycle from rolling backwards as your friend climbs into the bed of the truck to help pull it the rest of the way.Having your friend switch places halfway through will not be necessary if you can enlist the help of a third friend.
Make sure the brakes are holding the weight of the motorcycle from rolling backward before your friend releases it to climb into the truck.

