 If your female child is old enough to pee while sitting on a toilet and can understand your instructions, then try the clean-catch method of collecting a urine sample. You'll need a sanitized specimen cup to collect the urine, some antibacterial wet wipes, a roll of paper towels and a pair of latex or vinyl medical gloves.Your doctor will likely supply you with a specimen cup and medical gloves so you can collect a urine sample at home. Your doctor may also supply you with special wipes for this purpose.
The wet wipes are to thoroughly clean your daughter's genitalia so no bacteria on her skin gets into her urine sample.
Paper towels are a good idea to keep on hand to wipe up any urine spills and to dry your hands after washing.;
, Explain to your daughter what you need from her and why, then ask her to tell you when she feels the need to urinate. Once she needs to go, quickly undress her from the waist down, including removing her panties so they don't get in the way. She can still wear socks and a top to keep warm, as long as the top doesn't interfere with cleaning her vagina or collecting a urine sample. Place your daughter on the toilet, with legs spread far apart and prepare to clean her.If you are able, before attempting to collect a urine sample, give your daughter a bath earlier in the day and wash her genitalia with soap and water. It's best not to rely on wet wipes entirely for cleaning.
To trigger your daughter to pee, give her lots of water or milk to drink after her bath.
So you're not in a big rush to prepare, ask your daughter to tell you when she first feels the slight need to pee, not when the feeling has become urgent.
 Once your daughter is undressed and on the toilet, wash your hands thoroughly with warm water and soap so you don't transfer any bacteria onto your daughter.Dry your hands completely with paper towels, use them as a barrier to open the wet wipe container, then toss the towels into the garbage.


Be sure to lather between your fingers, underneath your fingernails and all the way up past your wrists for at least 20 seconds.
In addition to soap and water, consider also cleaning your hands with some alcohol-based sanitizer.
Avoid touching anything, particularly your mouth or face, after you sanitize your hands and are about to clean your daughter.
 Once your daughter is straddling the toilet with legs spread far apart, ask her to lean back so you have better access to her vagina. Using your index and middle finger of one hand, gently separate her labia (the skin folds around where the urine comes out). With the other hand, take a wet wipe and clean directly over the meatus (the pee hole), using one stroke from top to bottom, then discard the wipe.The meatus is just above the opening to the vagina.


Take another antibacterial wet wipe and use it to clean within the skin folds off to one side of the meatus, then a third wipe to clean the skin folds on the opposite side.
Use only one stroke, going from top to bottom (or towards the anus), with the wet wipes before discarding them. Don't clean in a circular motion.
Don't wipe from bottom to top because you may introduce bacteria from the anus into the vaginal area.
 Once you've carefully cleaned your daughter's genitalia and disposed of the antibacterial wet wipes, wash and dry your hands again and put on the medical gloves.The gloves will prevent any transfer of bacteria to your daughter and they'll protect your hands from getting peed on. Urine is not harmful to your hands, but some parents might think it's gross or get bothered by it. Once your gloves are on, take the top of the sterilized plastic collection cup off and hold it near your daughter's urethra (pee hole).


When opening the collection cup, don't contaminate it by touching the insides of the lid or container with your fingers, even if your think they are clean.
Place the cup upside down on a clean paper towel while you're waiting to collect the urine sample.
If you don't have a sanitized collection cup from your doctor, boil a small glass jar and lid for about 10 minutes. Allow the jar and lid to air dry in a clean place before using it.
 While holding your daughter's labia apart with one hand and holding the specimen cup in the other near her urethra, tell her she can release her urine. After she has peed a small amount, position the cup directly under the stream and be careful not to touch her with the cup.Take the cup away when it's about 1/3 full (don't let it spill over) and then let her finish peeing normally if she has to.


If your daughter has any difficulty starting her stream, try turning on the water faucet to trigger her.
Collecting urine midstream (after a second or two) is recommended because the first ounce or two help flush out any debris (dead cells, protein).
Urine doesn't keep very long at room temperature, so put it in the fridge immediately after collecting it.
 Once you've collected the urine sample, place the cup on a paper towel and screw or snap the plastic lid back on tightly without touching the inside of it.Once the lid is secured, take off your gloves and wash the outside of the cup and your hands again, making sure to dry it with a clean paper towel. After the collection cup is dried, write the date, time and your daughter's name on it with a felt marker.


If you're collecting urine from your daughter at the doctor's office, then simply give the sample to the nurse or assistant.
If you're at home and unable to go directly to the doctor's office, then refrigerate the sample until you can go — don't wait more than 24 hours, or else any bacteria in the sample will proliferate.

