 Magazines such as Vogue (or Teen Vogue), Allure, Elle, etc. are very helpful for finding out about new hairstyles, makeup and clothes.


If you're going for the runway look, you might also want to subscribe to high fashion magazines, such as Flaunt, Zink, MUSE, W, NYLON, etc. These high fashion magazines are basically made for models, so you'll get the insider tips.;
, Because they earn a living modeling the clothing of many different designers, models know a lot about fashion. If you don't know much about fashion, you will need to educate yourself. Reading fashion blogs and visiting designer websites is a good place to start.
 Choose clothes that make you feel comfortable and express who you are without saying a word. Avoid trends if they don’t appeal to you and don’t wear anything that makes you feel physically uncomfortable or self-conscious.Look through fashion magazines for inspiration.
Choose clothes that fit your lifestyle.
Try to develop a signature look, such as Jackie Kennedy’s suits. You don't need to sport your signature look every day, just on special occasions., Make sure you have different shoes for every season, especially if the weather changes dramatically in your area.If you are a woman:

Wear ballet flats, wedge flip-flops and fierce pumps for spring.
Wear Indian sandals, flip flops and espadrilles for summer.
Wear Mary Janes, earth-toned flats and cowgirl boots for autumn.
Wear Uggs and other types of warm boots for winter.


If you are a man:

Wear wingtips, derby shoes and loafers for spring.
Wear boat shoes, sporty slides and canvas sneakers for summer.
Wear chunky brogues, ankle boots and moccasins for autumn.
Wear oxfords and boots for winter.
 With all of the effort you put into your appearance, make sure that you get out and show it off now and then. Go out with your friends as often as you can. Go dancing, or dining or whatever it is that you like to do. Have fun and live it up!

, Models stand up straight and walk tall to showcase the fashions that they wear for their clients. In addition to helping you look like a model, good posture is important for your health, makes you appear thinner and shows others that you are confident. Good posture also affects your self-confidence, which is essential for projecting a model persona.When you're standing, stand up straight with your chin up, chest out and your shoulders back.
When you're sitting, don’t slouch. Sit up straight with your back against the chair.
 To look like a model, you need to have a fierce model walk. Make sure that you have excellent posture, walk straight placing one foot in front of the other, let your arms hang loosely at your sides and walk with purpose.Take long strides and make sure that you place one foot in front of the other. Keep your toes aimed straight ahead as you walk.
Keep your arms at your sides and allow them to sway naturally as you walk.
Walk like you have a goal or purpose, even if you don’t. If you're walking across a room, pick a spot and walk straight to it.

