 If you're a beginner to sand, consider sticking to wet sand, or to thin layers of sand over hard soil. These conditions are similar to slightly wet grass. Loose sand slows you down considerably, and makes steering less sensitive.


Steep slopes are especially difficult. Stay away from them until you're more comfortable.
If cycling at the beach, stay near the water but out of water range. You'll have more room to maneuver at low tide.;
, The looser the sand, the wider your tires need to be. For best results, get tires at least 1.75 inches (4.5 cm) wide. Loose sand requires even chunkier support. If you only have narrow tires, let a little air out to create a flatter riding surface.


This impairs performance on hard surfaces. If you're riding a trail with mixed conditions, you'll have to compromise.
Your rim diameter limits your tire width options. If you ride over sand often and your bike frame supports it, consider switching to a larger wheel.
 The lower gears produce more torque, reducing the chance that your rear wheel gets stuck in sand. This can feel frustrating in combination with thicker tires, but you need this extra push to stay on the surface.
 These will slow you down and dig your wheels into the sand, killing your rhythm. Plan ahead and shift gears while you're still on solid ground.


You may shift when traveling down a sandy slope, since you'll have enough speed to carry you. Make sure you're in a gear for easy pedaling once you hit flat ground.
 Resist your urge to lean over the front wheel. This will dig it into the sand, slowing you down or disrupting your course. Hold your back straight and centered over the bike.


While riding on dunes, you can even lean back slightly and pull up a little on the handlebars.
Take wider turns and don't lean in as much as you usually would. Your bike doesn't have enough grip to take advantage of the extra weight.
 Loose sand makes for a bumpy, wiggly ride. Keep your body loose to absorb the shock and stay in control.
 Don't pedal in short, uneven bursts, or the change in speed may cause your rear wheel to slip and dig into the sand. Find a cadence that works for you and stick to it until the slope changes.


Ride slower than you normally would, especially as a beginner. It's easy to lose control over sand, and you don't want to go flying over the handlebars.
If you're on hard ground and see a small patch of sand coming up, gathering speed may help you pass through it. Don't forget to take weight off the front wheel as you approach.

