 Nonverbal behavior is itself complex since all people are different and present themselves differently.Reading body language can be challenging because when interpreting the signs people are sending you, you need to take into account the whole picture. For example, did that person already mention to you today that he had a fight with his wife or didn't a get a promotion at work? Or was he visibly anxious over lunch?


When interpreting others’ body language, it’s important wherever possible to take into account their personality, social factors, verbal behavior, and the setting. While this information is not always available, it can be helpful to read body language. People are complex, so it shouldn't come as a surprise that how they convey themselves with their bodies is complex too!
You could compare reading body language to watching your favorite TV show; after all, you wouldn't just watch one scene in your favorite TV show, but the whole episode in order to properly understand the meaning of that one scene. You'd also probably keep in mind past episodes, a character’s history, and the plot as a whole. You need to look at this bigger picture also when it comes to reading body language!

, There is no 'one size fits all' when it comes to body language. If you are invested in being able to read a person's body language accurately, you may have to 'study' that person for some time. What is true for one person may not always be true for another.


For example, when lying, some people break eye contact, while others attempt to maintain even more eye contact than usual so that they won't be suspected of lying.
 For some emotions and expressions of body language, the meaning of the messages is culturally-specific.


For instance, in Finnish culture, when a person makes eye contact, it is a sign of approachability. By contrast, when a person makes eye contact, it is considered to be an expression of anger for the Japanese.To give another example, in western culture, a person who feels comfortable with you will lean forward toward you and square their face and body directly toward you.People with certain disabilities may have unique body language. For example, autistic people often avoid eye contact while listening, and fidget frequently.
Note that while some physical expressions of emotion vary from culture to culture, some research suggests that certain expressions of body language are universal across cultures. This is especially true for the communication of dominance and submission. For example, across different cultures, a lowered posture indicates submission., The nonverbal channel is the means by which a message or sign is conveyed without words. Important nonverbal channels include those of kinesics (eye contact, facial expressions, and body language), haptics (touch), and proxemics (personal space). In other words, the medium determines the message.As a general rule, people are best at reading facial expressions, and then body language, and, finally, personal space and touch.Even within each channel, there can be great variation. For instance, not all facial expressions are equally easy to understand. People are generally better at reading facial expressions that are pleasant rather than unpleasant. One study found that individuals are better at accurately interpreting happiness, contentment, and excitement, compared to anger, sadness, fear, and disgust. 