 There are a variety of different medical options for treating keloids including topical ointments, laser treatment, steroid injections, surgery, etc. Your doctor can help determine which option is best for your. For example, some treatment options only work on newly formed scars and keloids. Other treatments are costly and invasive and may not fully remove the keloid.
 Drugstores sell ointments, creams, and gels that are formulated to reduce the appearance of scars over time. Retinoids work to help regulate collagen production, which can reduce the appearance of keloids. These creams can also reduce itching associated with scars. Ask your pharmacist for a recommendation.It may take several months for the treatment to work.
Apply the ointment, cream, or gel as directed on the bottle for the recommended period of time.
 These injections may help reduce scars that are raised above the surface of the skin. They are usually given every two to six weeks, until the scars begin to improve. In some instances this can take several months. This treatment will help to shrink the keloids and reduce any swelling.While steroid injections may help flatten these scars, they cannot permanently remove keloids.
 Laser treatment is a popular form of scar removal and has been successful for reducing keloids as well. Pulsed dye lasers and the long pulsed NG:YAG laser are considered the most effective in treating keloid scars. However, these lasers are not as effective on dark skin. Laser treatment can be quite costly because a specialist is required and it will take several treatments before noticeable results are achieved.The side effects associated with laser treatment include redness and mild irritation.
 Silicone sheets work best if applied to the infected area before a scar has developed. They work by keeping the area hydrated and preventing the development of scar tissue. A silicone sheet is tightly wrapped around the scar tissue and is worn for days or even months following the injury.Silicone sheets are one of the only treatment options available for children.
 If you want to completely remove the keloid, rather than just reduce its appearance, you can try surgical removal. This is an invasive procedure, but will likely remove the entire keloid. The only issue is that surgeries often cause the development of new scars.Surgical treatment of scars can be expensive, but it may be the most effective way to significantly reduce their appearance.
You can immediately treat the post-surgery scar using topical retinoids and compression therapy to reduce the chances of another keloid developing.
 This type of treatment works by freezing the skin tissue at the site of the keloid. It is often used in combination with other treatments, most notable steroid injections, to reduce the visibility of the scar. Cryotherapy will often leave the skin slightly paler in colour.