 A 50/50 mix of rubbing alcohol and water will work if you don't want to buy a specialized stretching fluid. This will greatly increase the speed of breaking it in by walking, or combine with boot stretchers to make more extreme changes.


Leather stretching liquids will not work for synthetic boots, and vice versa. Some are specialized for patent leather or other subtypes, so read the label carefully.
Check the label for special instructions. If a specific product requires a different method, follow its instructions.
Dilute the rubbing alcohol with equal parts water before using to avoid abrading the boot's material., Lay down some black and white newspapers to catch spills and drips, or work over concrete where they won't matter.


Don't use colored newspapers, as the ink can transfer onto the boots.
 Pick an unobtrusive spot on one of the boots, such as the back heel or the inside lip. Apply a small amount of the liquid there and wait for it to dry. If it leaves a stain, try a different liquid or stretching method.


Only test the inside lip if it is the same material as the outside of the boot.
Check for stains under both natural and artificial light if possible.
 Apply the area you want stretched and surrounding areas until the leather is damp or the synthetic material is visibly wet.


Apply a spray about 5 inches (12 cm) distant from the boots.
You can apply the liquid to the outside or inside of the shoe. It should stretch either way.
If the liquid begins to run off the shoe, stop and wipe off the excess.
 Make your feet bulkier to stretch out the shoe more.


If the shoes are only slightly abrasive, one pair is fine. Use two for more significant stretching.
 Do this while they're still wet and flexible. Wear them the rest of the day and walk around as much as possible to maximize the stretching.


Do not walk around in boots that are causing you pain. Skip to the next step instead.
 There's only so much you can achieve by wearing thick socks. If the boots are still too tight, buy a boot stretcher and use it to stretch the boot overnight:


Find a boot stretcher that stretches the correct area. Some are specialized for toe, instep, or calf stretching, while "two-way" varieties increase the general size of the foot area.
Place the boot stretcher into the shoe. Push the foot-shaped object to the end of the boot. If you are using a calf stretcher, just place it in the ankle shaft of the boot.
Turn the handle of the stretcher a couple times until you see the tight area visibly stretch outward. Don't make it so tight.
Leave the stretcher in between 8 and 48 hours. A small adjustment can be made overnight. A full size difference requires a day or two.

