 To have visible collarbones, it's necessary that you exercise your whole body regularly to reduce excess fat and to tone your body. An overweight person cannot have visible collarbones until he/she works out his/her whole body. Along with exercise, partake of a balanced diet and keep yourself hydrated. Best overall body exercises include:


Jogging
Running
Brisk walking
Swimming
Skipping rope
Cycling
Cardio exercises (for full body)
Yoga;
, If you don't currently exercise regularly, start with light and easy exercises to prevent shoulder and collarbone injuries. For beginners, do the following exercises:



Chest lift.Sit down on the floor crossing your legs. Lift your shoulders up until your collarbones are protruded. Hold the posture for 5 seconds and then relax. Repeat 8-10 times.

Shoulder rolls. Roll your shoulders in backward direction making small circles keeping your arms stiff. Repeat 10-15 times. Now roll your shoulders forward in the same way for 10-15 times.

Elbow roll.Place your hands on your shoulders. Roll your elbows making large circles keeping a straight back. Repeat 10-15 times.

Pull your chest bone muscles forward such that your collar bones become visible. Hold for 5 seconds; then release. Repeat 8-10 times.
 Some of these exercises require dumbbells. Start with 1 kg (2 lb.) dumbbells. After one week of regular exercise, you can use heavier weights.


Start with the above mentioned exercises, repeating them 15-20 times to warm your shoulders and chest muscles.

Push-ups. As a lighter version, lie on your front and lift your lower legs, keeping your knees on the ground. Cross your lower legs and place your hands along the sides of your chest. Lift your chest till it's fully stretched and bring it down slowly. Repeat 15-20 times.

Ab crunches. Lie on your back and place your hands behind head. Fold your knees and lift your head towards your knees. Hold and then relax slowly. Repeat 10-12 times. You can also perform side crunches.

Chest-presses. Lie on your back and hold dumbbells in your hands such that they are horizontal with your chest. Place your hands alongside of your chest so that your elbows are pointing out. Raise your arms straight up, maintaining a slight bend in your elbows. Hold at this point for 2 seconds and bring them down to the starting position. Repeat 12-15 times.

Dumbbell flys. Stand straight with feet shoulder width apart. Carry your dumbbells in a vertical position and bend forward. Keeping your arms straight, raise the dumbbells along your sides (almost to your shoulder height) and slowly bring them down. Repeat 12-15 times.

Butterflies. Stand as mentioned above and hold the dumbbells vertically in your hands. Place your hands in front of your chest and maintain a bend in elbows throughout this exercise. Move your elbows towards your back squeezing your back muscles until you feel a stretch across your chest and shoulder blades. Bring them to the starting position. Repeat 10-12 times.
You can also perform other exercises such as pull-overs, chest-lifts, triceps extension, dumbbell lifts etc to reduce fat around your neck and chest and to enhance your collarbones.

