 If you live in Kansas, you don't need to prepare for a hurricane, but you'd better be ready for tornadoes. While some disasters, such as fire, can happen anywhere, the hazards you might encounter vary widely from place to place. Check with your local emergency management or civil defense office, Red Cross chapter, or the National Weather Service to get an idea of what emergencies you should prepare for.;
, The organizations above will likely be able to advise you what to do in an emergency. They may be able to provide you with evacuation maps and information about local warning systems and emergency plans. If you can't get all the information you need from officials, research your local hazards on your own.


Figure out, for example, what preparations you should make for a tornado or hurricane and how to survive if you're caught in a disaster, and determine the best evacuation routes on your own if need be.
Remember, when push comes to shove, it's your responsibility to ensure your family is well prepared.
 There's a good chance that all your family members won't be in the same place when disaster strikes, so it's important to have a predetermined rendezvous point. Choose a spot that will likely be safe and that is well away from your neighborhood, as you might not be able to make it back to your home.
 Designate a friend or relative as a contact person that you, your spouse, and your children can call if you can't meet up. In order to minimize the chance that the contact person will also be affected by the disaster, choose someone who lives in a distant town or in a different state. Make sure that all your family members have the contact person's phone number with them at all times.
 It's important to educate yourself on how to respond to likely hazards, but what happens to your family if they are away from you or if you're killed or injured? It's not enough for one person in the family to know what to do--everybody should know the plan.
 Once you've identified potential disaster scenarios, thoroughly inspect your house and try to make it as safe as possible. Here are just a few examples:


Every home should have smoke detectors and fire extinguishers. Test smoke detectors at least once a month, and replace their batteries yearly or as needed. Fire extinguishers should be recharged according to the manufacturer's instructions, and family members should learn how to use them. Everyone should also know how to escape the house in the event of a fire.
If you live in an area prone to earthquakes, you wouldn't want a tall, heavy bookcase sitting right next to the baby's crib, as it could be knocked over in a quake.
If you live near woods with the possibility of forest fires, you should clear your property of brush and high grass to create a buffer zone between your home and the fire.
 Everyone who can learn CPR and first aid should take a certification class and keep their certification current. Adults and older children should know how to turn off gas, electricity and water if the house is damaged, and everyone should know how to detect a gas leak. Emergency numbers should be posted near phones, and even small children should be taught how to call 9-1-1 or the corresponding emergency number in your country.


Practicing how to use a fire extinguisher and checking smoke detectors are great reminder exercises to do once a year.
 During an emergency situation, such as an earthquake, your house may lose access to water, and you may not be able to get to the store to get more water. During a flood, you may be surrounded by water, but that water will be unsanitary and unsafe to drink. You also may not have access to drinking water.


Plan on having one gallon (3.785 liters) per person per day. This includes drinking, food preparation, and sanitation water.Store your emergency water in clean, non-corrosive, tightly sealed containers.
Keep the containers in a cool, dark place. Don't store them in sunlight or near gasoline, kerosene, pesticides, and other similar substances., Be prepared for emergencies with at least a three-day supply of non-perishable food and potable water, and other things you might need if you have no utilities and no way to purchase supplies. Keep a smaller kit in the trunk of your car. Your kit should also include the following:Medical consent and history forms for each family member
A small, waterproof flashlight with extra batteries and waterproof matches
A small notepad and waterproof writing instrument
A pay-as-you-go phone or cell phone solar charger
Sunscreen and insect repellant
Whistle and a 12-hour light stick/glow stick
A thermal blanket/space blanket

, Place it in an easy to access place in your home, and make a second one to keep in your car. Medications and ointments do expire, and won't be as effective. Plan on checking your first aid kit once a year, along with the rest of your emergency supplies. If you come across anything that has expired, replace it. Your first aid kit should include an assortment of the following:Absorbent compress dressings and an instant cold compress
Adhesive bandages, triangular bandages, roller bandages, sterile gauze pads, and adhesive cloth tape
Antibiotic ointment packets, hydrocortisone ointment packets, antiseptic wipe packets, and a few packets of aspirin
A pair of non-latex gloves, scissors, tweezers, and a non-glass, non-mercury oral thermometer
Personal and prescription medications

A first aid instruction booklet and a list of emergency phone numbers, including contact information for your doctor, local emergency services, emergency road service providers, and the poison help line.
 Practice makes perfect, and in a life-or-death situation, you want to respond perfectly. Periodically go over your emergency plans with your family, and update them as needed. Quiz and drill your family on important safety concepts. Do a live test with your family; make it an outing and get everyone involved. That will help you identify what works and what doesn't. You should practice carrying out your family's disaster plan at least twice a year.
 In the event your emergency site is unavailable or other things change, it's a good idea to have an alternate plan on hand. What will you do if your contact person is away? What will you do if one of the family members is out of town? Planning for as many scenarios as possible can help increase your chances of safety.

