 The United States Botanic Garden was established by the U.S Congress in 1820. The goal of the Garden is to promote the importance of plants. Activities and attractions include demonstrations of care for different types of plants, tours, exhibits, and more! For more information, visit the Garden’s directly here.;
, Located between constitution and Independence Avenue is the WWII memorial which was dedicated on May 29th, 2004. This memorial serves as a reminder of one of the most defining times in America’s history, and is dedicated to the 16 million people who served in World War II. See a preview of its history here. Other crucial moments in history include:


Martin Luther King’s famous “I Have a Dream” speech (to which a memorial stands)
The education march on Washington and
The “Bonus” march on Washington in 1933

, The Smithsonian art museum is an unparalleled record and collection of American experiences ranging from colonial days to today. It includes free admission and the material in the museum is suitable for all ages so anyone will have here. click the link for more information. http://washington.org/find-dc-listings/smithsonian-american-art-museum

, Georgetown’s 18th century cobblestone streets and architecture gives shopping a different feel. The town is filled with over 150 fashion boutiques with different brand names and styles. This ‘design district’ also offers antiques, art, traditional furniture, and accessories for purchase. Learn more about shopping in Georgetown here.
 Washington D.C. has many sightseeing companies that provide organized tours to key points in the nation’s capital. You will be able to capture wonderful pictures from the top of a double decker bus. If this does not work for you, the bus also stops at designated routes for a closer look. Bus companies generally have buses that run at regular intervals. Therefore, you can get right back on a bus after having spent enough time in one area. Check out Big Bus Tour Here

, You will visit the famous:


Washington Monument - Dedicated to our first president George Washington who helped pioneer our government into what it is today
Jefferson Memorial - Dedicated in 1943 to our third president and modeled after the Pantheon of Rome.
FDR Memorial - FDR is regarded as perhaps the best and worst president in our history. Visit the memorial of the great leader who helped pull America out of the Great Depression.
Lincoln Memorial - Abraham Lincoln paved the way for our acceptance of all colors and creeds. Visit the colossal memorial that stands as a reminder of his his great achievements.
 When you get away from all the thoughts about war you're going to need unwind with something relaxing. So going to the National gallery of art is perfect. This museum has the permanent collection of European and American art, sculptures and writings. Admission is free, for more information please visit this site national gallery of art.
 Union Station is considered one of the top tourist destinations in D.C. filled with tours, sites, and of course, shopping! The inside shops include merchandise from shoes, jewelry, health and beauty, fashion, and delicious foods.
 The Potomac Park houses several national memorials and monuments. The scenery is beautiful especially because of the park’s well-known cherry trees which bloom pink and white petals every spring. You can enjoy an outdoor picnic, play on the park’s tennis ground, rent bikes and take on their biking trail, or play golf. Learn more about what Potomac Park has to offer here.
 Visit the Vietnam Memorial. While here you will observe the struggle that our soldiers have undergone. This memorial serves as a reminder of our nation’s resolve and courage. Epic and heartfelt battle scenes are depicted and you will get a glimpse of the Vietnam War.
 The Holocaust memorial museum is an internationally recognized memorial museum dedicated to the Holocaust shown through video, and artifacts. Admission is free from 10:00 a.m. till 5:00 p.m.
 This famous Flea Market is arguably one of the most diverse in the nation. With indoor and outdoor venues, the market offers arts, crafts, antiques, collectibles, and imports from around the world. Each weekend, the Eastern Market also hosts an indoor and outdoor farmers market with some of the finest meats, poultry, seafood, produce, pasta, baked goods, flowers, and cheeses.

