 When feeling nauseous, sit still in a chair or sofa to prevent yourself from moving in any direction. Motions are detected by various parts of your body, including the inner ear, eyes, muscles, and joints. When these differing parts are not transmitting the same motions to the brain, or when they are not synced, you can start feeling nauseous.Some people find that hanging their head between their knees helps as well.
 Right after you eat, the food you just ate has not been digested yet. If you lie down before digestion happens, food from the stomach can enter your esophagus and give you a nauseous feeling. It can eventually lead to acid reflux and vomiting.


After eating a meal, it is good habit to walk for 30 minutes to help digestion.
 Nausea can be caused by air quality factors, such as stuffiness or air irritants. Stuffiness can be caused by a poorly ventilated room where dust builds up, leading to blockage of the respiratory system through your nose, lungs, and throat. In addition, cooking smells may irritate you, causing nausea if the area is not properly ventilated.


Cold, fresh air can be beneficial relief from these situations. Get outside quickly for fresh air. If you can't, a fan or air conditioning may have a similar effect.Also try opening a window or using a kitchen air vent when cooking to let the smells out., Deep breathing exercises along with peppermint aromatherapy helps reduce nausea and vomiting. Studies have shown that inhaling peppermint oil not only reduced the incidence and severity of nausea and vomiting, but also decreased anti-nausea medication use.You can purchase oils in many grocery, drug, and health stores. You can use the oils to:


Sniff from the peppermint oil bottle or use a few drops on a cotton ball, place it in a cup, and inhale.
Massage the oil around your abdominal area or chest so you can breathe it in.
Mix the oil with water and add it to a spray bottle for home and car use.
Add five to 10 drops into a bath before taking it., For those recovering from surgery-induced nausea, studies have shown that deep controlled breathing reduces the occurrence of nausea.To perform these techniques, find a quiet, comfortable place to sit. Take a normal breath followed by a deep breath. Breathe in slowly through your nose, allowing your chest and lower belly to rise as you fill your lungs. Let your abdomen expand fully. Now breathe out slowly through your mouth. You can also breathe out through your nose, if that feels more natural.


Try using guided imagery with deep breathing. As you sit comfortably with your eyes closed, blend deep breathing with helpful imagery and perhaps a focus word or phrase that helps you relax. The image can be a vacation spot, a room at home, or some other safe or pleasant place. This can help some people block out nausea and the urge to vomit., For those patients who suffer from chemotherapy-induced nausea, studies have shown improvement from music therapy sessions.Music therapy involves specially trained health professionals, called music therapists, using music to help relieve symptoms. These professionals use different methods with each person, depending on that person’s needs and abilities.


This method can also lower heart rate and blood pressure, relieve stress, and give a sense of well-being.