 You can do this in two main ways: by knowing your schedule and by buying a planner/calendar. The workload in college is going to be a lot more than it was in high school. Planning out your due dates, class times, and breaks will help you tailor your time management to your personal learning needs. It will also help you get a feel for how much time you will need to dedicate to studying and homework outside of class, so you have a better view of your available social and free time.;
, On the first day of classes, teachers will want to go over the class outline with you. The main points that will be covered include things like what tests are mandatory, what projects will be like, what grading scale will be used, how to contact the professor, if attendance is mandatory, and other important details to know about the class. Having a hard copy in front of you will allow you to star important items, make notes, and better prepare you for the overview of the course that the professor gives.
 If possible, try to reach out to them before school starts (provided you receive their information ahead of time) so that you can get to know each other as soon as possible. It is crucial to try to talk to your roommate and discuss and compare your interests, hobbies, values, etc. You will be living with this person all year, and it will be what you make of it. If you two get along, this can usually end in a lasting friendship. However if you find that you are uncomfortable for whatever reason, it will be beneficial to talk to your Resident Assistant and address your concerns. Under most circumstances if you are truly unhappy, you can request to be moved.
 Most college dorms are the basic four walls, one window, tile floors, a desk, and a bed. It's important to decorate and make the place feel more comfortable since you will be spending a lot of time there. If you're having a hard time with the transition from home, try posting more pictures of your family or hometown around your room to remind you of the people you love. Surround yourself with your favorite colors, decorations, posters and pictures. You want to feel as though the place is your own, and personalized. College is about exploring yourself and setting out into the world on your own, so start expressing yourself a little through your decorations.
 If you're finding it hard to transition to the life on campus, it may be really helpful to branch out and meet some more people. You'd be surprised how much the support and friendship of even just one person can better your experience. Great ways to do this are through joining clubs, teams, meeting others on your dormitory floor, or simply talking to the people next to you in your classes. Most colleges have a running list of clubs, which you can pick from and attend interest meetings for. If sports teams are more your thing, but you aren't a varsity athlete, try out for an intramural team! There are plenty of things on campus to get involved in. You might even decide you want to start your own club. Get out, get involved, and get socializing.


Another huge subcategory to meeting new people is Greek life. Sororities and fraternities are a great way to meet new people and to get involved both on and off campus. When rush time comes around on your campus, attend a few interest meetings or talk to some people in the sorority/fraternity you're interested in to get a better feel of whether Greek life is for you. However, don't worry if Greek life isn't your thing - you don't have to join, and it's simply not for everyone.
 Not only will it help you easily keep in touch with friends from home, it also can help you connect with the new ones you're making at college. Facebook is especially great, as you can easily see campus events that are going on such as concerts, parties, and fundraisers. Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, etc. are all other great ways to stay connected with friends all around campus.
 Many campuses have a "Friends and Family Weekend" dedicated to students having their loved ones come and visit them. There are usually activities and sights planned for your visitors to see the campus and all it has to offer. Even if no such event is offered, inviting your parents, siblings, friends, and other loved ones to come visit you occasionally can help you transition to this new stage of your life. They can offer support and remind you that you are not completely alone in this new scary stage of your life.


If your friends and family can't come visit, you could ask them to send you a care package, a simple letter, or a favorite snack from home instead - these can be really comforting when you're feeling a little homesick.
 After you've moved in, met those new friends from clubs and teams, gotten to know your roommate, and been invited to parties on Facebook... go to them! Mingle at a frat party, or go to a sponsored concert or event put on by your university. Even if you don't think you'll enjoy the event you've been invited to, try it out anyway - you never know where you might end up having the most fun.
 You don't have to call each other every day, but try to keep in touch with them as much as possible Even if your parents didn't attend college, they can help you when you're feeling stressed out, lonely, just need someone to talk to... or if you just want to brag about the wonderful time you're having.


Remember that you're not the only one transitioning; your parents are adapting to their own changes in environment too now that you're gone.
 If you don't do so well in a class, if you haven't picked a major in your first semester, or even if you aren't sure if you're at the right college... it's okay. Remember that it's not the end of the world, and this is the time you're supposed to explore. You're out on your own for the first time, and no one knows the direct path to walk on. There are going to be times you wonder if you're making the right decision, and there are going to be regrets or desires that you ponder over. This is just the beginning to finding out who you are and what your place will be in the world. Remember that this transition is unfamiliar for everyone, and you are not alone in wondering which way to go.

