 Financial discipline is a vital aspect of financial independence. The ultimate goal is living within your financial means, both short- and long-term. Pay attention to the ways you’re spending money. Perhaps the most important aspect of preparing yourself to become financially independent is ensuring that you are not spending more than you’re making. Fortunately, there are several methods to track your spending:Use a ledger or a spreadsheet. The manual approach is great way to start, as it makes you keenly aware of every expense. Whatever you use, the act of entering every expense into a database of your expenses will keep you better informed of your own spending patterns.
Use free accounting software. Once you have multiple bank accounts, and different types of income and expenditures, your ability to organize the corresponding information may demand more than your spreadsheet skills can handle. Online platforms such as Personal Capital and Mint are free and immensely helpful.For more specific advice, see How to Manage Your Money Wisely.;
, With an eye towards making immediate improvements in your financial behavior, evaluate how you spend most of your money. There are everyday expenses many people often overlook that can hamper your ability to live within your financial means. Because a handful of expenses consume most of your budget, pursue these first and minimize common types of spending.Minimize rent or mortgage payments. Choose your home based on the cost of living in the area. Go for as little home as you’re comfortable in — both when buying or renting. Consider purchasing a duplex and renting out one side or renting out rooms in your home.
Reduce your reliance on vehicles. Vehicles not only diminish the quality of our environment, they are also associated with substantial financial costs. Walking, biking, and taking the bus will reduce your spending immediately.
 Clothing, food, and leisure are areas in which many people spend far more than is appropriate, given their income. Remember that even everyday decisions regarding your method of transportation or eating habits can be the difference between overspending and being able to begin saving for financial independence.


Buy what you can used. Thrift stores and craigslist offer high quality items for only a fraction of what they would cost new.
Do it yourself. From home repair to vegetable gardening, you can save money (and increase your worldly wisdom) by taking matters into your own hands. There’s also an undeniable sense of satisfaction fixing something yourself or growing the ingredients to make yourself a salad from your own yard.
 Understand that debt does not necessarily prevent you from becoming financially independent. Also recognize that you don’t need to pay it off as quickly as possible. Pay off debt steadily, but within your ability to do so while achieving financial stability. Most importantly, do not take on unnecessary debts.


When paying off debt, start with high-interest debt, like credit cards and auto loans, before paying off student loans.
Don’t take on new debt. Your education is a reasonable expense to take out loans for, as it is an investment in yourself. Even a car loan can be justifiable if it is the only way you can afford to buy a vehicle. Continually increasingly credit card debt, however, is blatantly irresponsible.
Not only is taking on new debt a clear sign that you are not living within your means, continually acquiring debt will ensure that you are unable to achieve financial independence.Never finance a vacation, new clothes, or even unnecessary food purchases with a credit card. A good rule to follow: only take on debt for investments, not for lifestyle.
If you've compiled a large amount of debt and are struggling to improve your financial position, see How to Negotiate Your Personal Debts.

