 There’s no single right way to get the job you want in gerontology, since the field is so varied. If you know someone with the job that you want, talk to them about where they went to school, what they majored in, what degree they have, and if they have any suggestions for pursuing a job like theirs. Look on job websites like Indeed.com or CareerBuilder. Check with local hospitals, nursing homes, or care centers to see if they have job postings.


Often the university you go to will offer career services for alumni.
Join a professional organization to network and have access to their career services, as well.
Take advantage of gerontology newsletters, which often contain job postings.
 Professional organizations offer opportunities for more training and education, credentials for getting better and higher paying jobs, and the access to publications and resources pertinent to the field of gerontology.


The largest gerontology association in the United States is the Gerontological Society of America (GSA). National Conferences for gerontologists are held annually through this organization. Membership costs $185 yearly and you get access to online publications, career services, and other professional help. Gerontology students get a reduced membership rate ($87) to join GSA and have access to mentoring, networking and career services.The National Association for Professional Gerontologists (NAPG) offers continuing education courses for members. Credentials are renewed biannually with the completion of 20 hours of approved activities such as presentations, meetings, conferences or classes.You can also find professional organizations by your specific field in gerontology, like the National Gerontological Nursing Association (NGNA) or the American Geriatrics Society (AGS), or by your region, such as the Oregon Gerontology Association or the Massachusetts Gerontology Association (MGA).
 Continuing education is a popular option for students looking for just a few specific classes on a given topic in gerontology. It's less expensive than a certificate or other full-program in gerontology, and you get to take only the classes that apply for the job you want. Once you graduate and have a job, many positions may request or require that you obtain continuing education in order to stay current with training.


You can likely get these through your professional organization.
 Often required in educational programs, these opportunities can sometimes lead to permanent employment. You can also seek out internships before you start school to help you decide which field you’re interested in, or once you graduate to trial different realms of gerontology. Most internships are unpaid but can be great learning opportunities.
 Not only can volunteer work lead to paid positions, it can also provide valuable networking opportunities for your job search. Even if you’re already working in the field, you can gain knowledge about other realms of gerontology while contributing to society.


These agencies can include your local state department of aging, housing agencies for low-income senior citizens, and wellness centers for the elderly. You can also volunteer at retirement homes, senior centers, and geriatric offices.
As a student, you can also check into the possibility of volunteering for a faculty member's research projects to gain experience and knowledge.

