 What is your company about? What is your focus; what is your mission? What makes your company go out and help others or create products for different consumers?;
, There are real people working to create products or to reach out and talk to consumers and clients. Let your audience know who is working for you. Allow employees to share their take on the company and their individual vision and how it relates to the company. Including employees from different divisions/offices shows how far your company reaches out.
 Give a face to the name. Let the audience see who is in charge of the corporation, whether it’s a fresh clip or one taken from previous interviews.
 If an employee has been featured in an interview or the CEO has been on TV, show that footage to show that your company gets out there and is involved. Even footage during events or meeting other brands is important.
 Try not to stray from the point. With or without narrative, don’t fill the video with fluff. Whether it’s short or long, make sure the details of your company are being discussed in an impactful but brief way.
 Flashing logos of different partners, placing the business’ starting year in the corner, showing clips from important events or projects—whatever shows your company’s versatility and efficiency should be interesting and added into the video.
 If the typical narrative isn’t your fancy or if you’re just not down with the flying logos and spinning text, you can also try some interesting alternatives that aren’t quite as serious and are more personal.



Why do we work here? A video that talks with the employees and gives them a chance to say why they love their jobs. What about your business keeps them where they are and why they love doing what they do.

Day in the life. A candid video that shows off the company’s ins and outs from an employee perspective.

Then and Now Videos. This is more of a narrative taken from the point of view of long time employees that slowly trickles into recent employees, Gives background on a business, group, or organization and can be a bit more heartfelt.

Customer demonstration. Get up close and personal with the customers. If you have a product, let the public try it out and gauge their honest opinions. Everyone wants to be seen in the best light possible, so why not go to the people who have a chance of buying and trying your product first hand?

