 Heart enlargement can occur because of any of the following causes.High blood pressure causes your heart to work harder. To help handle this extra work, the heart muscles can become stiffer and thicker, leading to enlargement.
Previous history of heart attack makes your heart susceptible to weakness.
Family history of heart enlargement.
Cardiac conditions including defective valves will naturally result in strain being placed on your heart, leading to heart enlargement.
Anemia can result in heart enlargement as an anemic person will not have sufficient red blood cells to enable oxygen flow to the tissues.
Thyroid disorders can result in various heart conditions including enlarged heart.
 The most common symptom of an enlarged heart is exercise intolerance. You may find it hard to breathe during moderate exercises and strenuous activities. This is due to increased stiffness of the left ventricular walls and diminished oxygen circulation. Other symptoms include:


Slight chest pain and fainting attacks.
Fatigue from slight exertion.
Difficulty breathing while lying down.
Swelling in the lower extremities due to fluid and electrolyte imbalance and retention of fluids.
Palpitations (rapid, irregular heartbeats). The increased workload of the heart makes the pulse compensate by beating more than 100 beats per minute.
These signs and symptoms gradually develop in most people; some people have left ventricular dilatation for months or even years before becoming symptomatic. Others develop symptoms after recovery from a viral infection.
 If the symptoms such as breathing problems, irregular heartbeat, palpitations and dizziness still persist after your efforts at treating the condition naturally, you will need to seek professional help. Medications commonly prescribed for an enlarged heart include:


Diuretics to decrease fluid volume and edema. Spironolactone 25 to 50 mg. daily is usually prescribed.
Ace inhibitors to decrease peripheral vascular resistance. Lisinopril 20 mg tab daily is prescribed.
Digitalis to increase myocardial contractility and increasing cardiac output. Digoxin 0.25 mg. tablet daily for 1 week is usually prescribed.

