 As animals get older, they can develop medical problems, such as arthritis, that can be uncomfortable and make normal activities more challenging. To assist them in their old age, provide older dogs or cats with additional bedding or padding to make their sleep area more comfortable.Carpet-covered ramps or stairs will help older dogs and cats get up or down from their usual resting spots or in and out of a car (more applicable for dogs).You can look for the ramps and stairs at your local pet store. Alternatively, you could visit your local home improvement store to find these items and design them to be more pet- friendly.
No-skid carpets and foam floor mats are helpful for older dogs who may be unsteady on their feet.Refrain from rearranging furniture if you have a blind dog or cat. Rearranging the furniture could cause them to bump into something and potentially injure themselves.Elevating food and water bowls to shoulder or elbow height is helpful for older dogs and cats with arthritis or back problems., Cats need space for peace and quiet.Try to set up an area of your home for your cat that is away from a lot of noise and distraction. This area can also serve as a safe hiding place for a cat who is easily spooked by thunderstorms or loud noises., Pockets pets and birds are very sensitive to temperature changes and extremes. Try to keep their cages away from any source of drafts (e.g., drafty windows, air vents, fans).If you have other pets, it is also preferable to keep pocket pet cages on a raised surface, such as a table. This would prevent your other pets from being able to get to your pocket pet., Reptiles are cold-blooded animals and need special cage accommodations to ensure their maximal comfort.This will likely require you to purchase additional lights and cage accessories. For example, you will need incandescent light bulbs and ‘basking’ lights to warm up the cage to the ideal temperature.Reptiles also need ultraviolet light. Light bulbs can be purchased at your local pet store that provide this type of lighting.When the outside humidity is low, especially during the winter, misting your reptile several times a week can help keep him comfortable.Specific needs vary between reptile species, so be sure to research your specific type of reptile to determine what will work best for him.

