 You will want to go here to chat with a Customer Care representative. They will have the authority to make the changes you need or provide alternative instructions where necessary.;
, Most web pages have a series of links at the bottom of the page such as "About us" or "Careers". Within this series of links (almost like fine print) you will find a "Contact us" link. This link will provide you with the most up to date methods of contacting Western Union.


If you are using a cell phone or tablet the webpage may be different. If you cannot find a "Contact us" link, try viewing the full version of the website on a desktop. You may see a link at the bottom reading "View full site".
 A Customer Care representative will be with you after you provide the required information. They will want to help you as quickly as possible. Be ready to give them any pertinent information.


Sometimes the chat will open but not show up. Try viewing other tabs or open windows to find the chat window if it does not show up immediately.
Chat is only available during certain times of the day. You may need to try again at a different time of the day if you find the "Chat with us" link is unavailable or inoperative.
 This is usually your name and email address. You may also need to tell them why you are contacting them. This will help get you to the right Customer Care agent. Agents are trained with different specialities. Make sure you choose the right reason for your chat.


If for whatever reason you make an incorrect decision here, you may be able to correct it during the chat. Even if you choose the wrong reason, the chat agent will tell you which choice is appropriate for your visit. They may even transfer you if you ask.
 Most likely they will want to know your full name, email address, telephone number, recipient's name, and the Money Transfer Control Number (MTCN). Most of this will already be on your receipt or copy of the transfer form.
 After authenticating your identity, you may ask them to change your money transfer request. Certain elements may not be changed depending on their security protocols. You may need to ask for a refund and create a new money transfer.


Contact the recipient of the money transfer. Let them know changes are being made. These changes may tie up the money transfer for a short time while systems are updated.

