 Nail fungal infections are incredibly complicated to treatand can take a great deal of time to heal completely. If treated incorrectly, they can easily come back. Please see a doctor about your infection but in the meantime or during treatment, you may be able to use certain supplemental treatments to minimize pain and aid the healing process. Consult with your doctor to ensure that these treatments do not conflict with the medication they have prescribed.
 For toenails that have advanced fungus underneath that is growing and lifting the nail up off its bed, soak the foot (or feet) with any affected toes for 20-30 minutes in warm water. Then, begin trimming the nail. You will be surprised to find that your nail is no longer attached to your toe in the places where the fungus has invaded beneath the nail––this is normal even if worrying. Simply cut away all of this unattached nail and scrape off the thick, flaky fungus matter. Remove as much of the abnormal looking stuff as possible. Push the cuticles back. It is vital from this point on to be consistent in your care.


Never tear off toenails with your fingers. Always use a clean nail clipper or long-handled nail scissors. Trimming after bathing is often the best time, as the nails are at their softest.
If there is any pain involved, do not do this yourself. See your doctor or podiatrist. Proper removal can help to ensure the regrowth of a healthy nail rather than a deformed one.
 Keep "Vapor Rub" salve by your bedside and apply a small amount to affected toe and toenails before donning socks. Be sure that the toes are dry before applying the Vick's to avoid sealing moisture in under the rub. This method takes a while, but so do commercial applications and this one is both cheap and reliable.
 Soak your toes in a weak solution of water and vinegar for at least half an hour on a nightly basis. This lowers the pH of your toenails so that the fungus can no longer survive. You need to do this regularly, every night, for three to six months. While this is quite a commitment, it works.
 Applying a liquid remedy faithfully, both morning and night of every day until the toenails strengthen, can be a good, natural way of curing your toenail fungus. You may buy a remedy at the pharmacy, but many people have had great success with 100% pure tea-tree oil––or use 5% to 10% of pure orange oil (not orange oil cleaner) in a mix of 50% vinegar and 50% rubbing alcohol. Shake well before each use. Apply this with a medicine dropper. Make sure it seeps down into the exposed nail bed and under the sides and edges of the nail. As the nail grows, keep removing dead tissue to leave a healthy environment for the new nail.

