 When attending semi-formal business and social events, you will want to look both creative and sophisticated. These are prime networking environments, and you never know who may want to buy an expensive piece or give you your next job. Look sharp while standing out with a dark green or brown suitor dress.
 Belts enhance the style of any outfit they're worn with. When sporting an otherwise plain ensemble, a decorative belt and/or an interesting buckle can help you stand out from the crowd.Let others know more about your personal style and artistic interests with this small detail.


Tooled leather is fairly uncommon in modern belts, and wearing a tooled leather belt is a simple way of looking unique.
You can pick a belt buckle that holds some significance to either you or your art. For example, if your art frequently has an ocean theme, a buckle with a jellyfish or shark is a good choice.
If you work with metal or leather, your belt is a great place to display your talents.
 Look for pieces that are funky, foreign, expensive or well-made. Jewelry with intricate details or pieces that hearken back to the 80s are also good artistic choices. If a piece is particularly large or wild-looking, it may be best to save it for casual outfits, rather than wear it to something dressier like an art opening.Just like your belt buckle, your jewelry can reflect your interests and art. For example, if you're interested in astronomy and/or frequently incorporate spacescapes, try finding jewelry that features planets or supernovae.
Avoid pieces that look too expensive or ostentatious, even if you didn't pay much for them. It may be harder to sell your work if a potential buyer sees you decked out in gold and diamonds.
 Artists are famously known to dress more casually than average. However, you want to make sure you don't come off as sloppy or unstylish. If you don't take the time to put creativity into your outfit, some people may doubt the level of creativity you put into your art. Instead, dress down in a deliberate fashion rather than randomly throwing on jeans and a T-shirt. Make sure your clothing is clean and fits well.