 Bathing every day and washing your face in the morning and at night helps to fight bacteria that can cause breakouts. Soap and lukewarm water are sufficient for cleansing without irritating or drying the skin.


Use gentle moisturizing cleansers free of chemicals, preservatives, and fragrances.
Bathe up to 10 minutes for healthy skin. Long baths or showers can dry and irritate the skin.
Do not wipe or rub the skin when drying. Applying excessive pressure can remove natural skin oils.
Dab the skin gently with a clean dry towel before applying a moisturizer.
 Moisturizers that contain glycerin, mineral oil, and petrolatum contain minimal water to protect against moisture loss in low humidity. Applying moisturizer within minutes after bathing helps to trap moisture in the skin.


Using lotion or cream to moisturize in high humidity may be sufficient as the skin naturally replenishes itself.
In colder, dry climates look for lotions that do more than just moisturize. Lotions with ingredients like chamomile and lavender will help to repair cracked skin without irritating it.
 Overusing and purchasing too many types of skincare products can actually be hurting your skin. Stick to a few simple products that you like. If you are using several different products for several different treatments, you can overload your skin. Too many ingredients can actually be irritating to the skin.
Some ingredients will actually cancel out each other’s benefits.
Ingredients like the acid in salicylic or glycolic acid will actually break down other ingredients like retinol, hydroquinone, and vitamin C. This means that using products that would combine these ingredients isn’t actually helping.
Keeping it simple with fewer products will help you stick to a routine, and provide better results.
 You won’t see results right away, no matter how much the package says you will. You need to give your skin time to accept and use your skincare products.


frequently changing which products you use can also be counterintuitive. Your body needs time to get used to what you’re putting on it. Changing to a new product with a new ingredient will only take longer for you to see results.
However, adjust your regiment for the time of year. If you live in an area where you experience different seasons, you will want to adjust. For example, you may need a stronger moisturizer during the winter to combat low temperatures and dry air coming from your heater.

