 Even though teeth are not considered bones, they are still made up primarily of calcium deposits.Calcium is essential to the maintenance of healthy teeth and gums.


Calcium not only plays a role in the maintenance of healthy teeth, but also in the maintenance of the jaw bones which hold the teeth in place preventing loose teeth, fractures or even periodontitis.
Calcium is most commonly found in dairy foods - like cheese or milk. Including the recommended two to three servings of dairy each day can help ensure you're eating adequate amounts of calcium. Calcium is a positive ion, so it helps to create an alkaline pH, which is ideal for your teeth.
Aim for about 8 oz of milk, yogurt or cottage cheese and about 1 or 2 oz of hard cheese per serving.;
, You may already know that eating fruits and vegetables is an essential part to a healthy, well-balanced diet. However, these fibrous, crunchy foods are also great for the maintenance and health of your teeth.There are a couple of reasons why fruits and vegetables are great for your teeth. First off, they require extra chewing (from all that fiber). Chewing stimulates your saliva glands and helps clean your teeth and wash away particles of foods. Chewing also stimulates the periodontal fibers that hold your teeth in the jaw, making them stronger and reducing their mobility.
These foods also scrape up against your teeth - in a good way. It can help clean off bits of food from your meals.
Dentists recommend eating fruits and vegetables last to help scrub your teeth and produce extra saliva.
Finish meals with a crunchy fruit or vegetable like: apples, celery, carrots, raw peppers, a small salad or raw cucumber slices.
 Protein-based foods, like chicken, steak or pork are another important grouping of foods that will help support the health of your teeth. They contain phosphorus and protein which are essential for healthy teeth.Phosphorus is a mineral that works in conjunction with calcium. Together they help build a strong network for your teeth and prevent the formation of a weak bone structure, which may be caused by osteoporosis. If the bone structure is too weak, then an oral surgeon would not be able to place a dental implant if one was needed.
In addition, these foods help maintain the protein structure of your teeth and support the enamel of your teeth.
Include a serving of lean protein at each meal. Measure out 3 to 4 oz per serving. Go for phosphorus-rich protein sources like: beans, chicken, turkey, eggs, beef and dairy foods.
 Although many candies are something your dentist advises to stay away from, sugar-free gum might be something you want to chew on. Pop in a piece of sugar-free gum after meals to help support healthy teeth.Like crunchy, fibrous fruits and vegetables, chewing gum also helps stimulate saliva glands in your mouth. This helps wash away food particles and acid that can wear down your teeth.
In addition, many types of sugar-free gum are sweetened with a sugar alcohol known as xylitol. This artificial sweetener naturally kills and reduces the amount of bacteria in your mouth. It is best to chew a sugar-free gum after meals and then brush your teeth because the acids that were formed while you were eating have already been neutralized by the chewing effect, so the risk of toothbrush erosion is lowered.
Try to choose mint or peppermint gum over cinnamon or fruity flavors. Sometimes these fruity flavored gums are higher in acid which can damage your teeth.
 Water is essential to an overall healthy diet. It helps keep you hydrated but also helps maintain proper oral health.Water, especially fluoridated water, helps make teeth more resistant to the acid that can cause cavities and other damage.
Aim for at least 64 oz of tap water each day. You can mix tap water with water flavorings or make decaf coffee or tea with it.
If you use purified water or do not have a source of fluoridated water, you may want to consider taking a fluoride supplement if there is a high risk of tooth decay.
 If there is one thing that a dentist would tell you to limit to help protect your teeth, it'd be hard candies. Although tasty, these types of candies can wreak havoc on your teeth.


The biggest problem with hard candies is that your teeth are exposed directly to sugar for an extended period of time. In addition, most people usually tuck away a hard candy on the side of their mouth and allow it to dissolve right on their teeth.Hard candies are also...hard. If you were to chomp down on one or try to chew it, you might end up with a chipped or broken tooth.
If you like hard candies, go for sugar-free candies - especially those that are made with xylitol.
 Like hard candies, also limit sugary, sweetened beverages. The sugar and acidity of these drinks can seriously damage your teeth.Sodas, even diet sodas contain an acid that wears down tooth enamel. In addition, regular sodas are high in sugar.
Also watch your fruit juice consumption. Even 100% juice, especially citrus juice, can be harmful if you consume it frequently. They're highly acidic and can wear down the enamel on your teeth. Otherwise, it can bring a lot of benefits, such as preventing bacteria or creating an alkaline pH.
If you're craving a sweet beverage, ask for a straw. This limits your teeth's exposure to the sugar and other chemicals that could weak your teeth.
 You might not think that ice is a food per se, but many people chew on it. This is very dangerous to your teeth and should be avoided at all costs.Ice is very hard and dense. Chewing it or trying to break it with your teeth can cause your teeth to chip or break.
In addition, if your teeth break the ice into sharp pieces or shards, you can cut your gums or cheek.
If you currently chew on ice, stop immediately. It's OK to suck on it, but do not break it up with your teeth or you could cause fractures that can be hard to repair, or even enamel cracks that will lead to sensitive teeth.
 While coffee and tea do have some health benefits, they can actually be bad for your teeth. Be careful with what you add to these drinks and how often you consume them.


Both coffee and tea are somewhat bitter. Many people will add sugar to these beverages to sweeten them up. This exposes your teeth to sugar which could cause cavities.Caffeinated coffee and tea can dry out your mouth - especially when consumed in larger quantities or combined with smoking cigarettes. The lack of saliva can promote bacteria growth in your mouth and on your teeth.
Both coffee and tea can also stain your teeth. Although this isn't harmful to your teeth, it can cause a significant color change on your teeth.
 One small group of foods that many dentists suggest minimizing are sticky foods. Whether its dried fruit or a soft caramel, the sugary bits of these foods can get stuck on your teeth.Sticky foods to watch out for include: taffy, caramels, gummy candies, gummy vitamins, dried fruit or licorice.
These foods can get stuck on and in-between your teeth promoting plaque buildup.
If you do eat these foods, make sure to brush and floss your teeth afterwards to help remove any leftover sugary bits.
 The most important health professional when it comes to your teeth is your dentist. If you are worried about the health of your teeth and mouth, make sure to visit your dentist.


Most dentists will recommend that you get a general check-up and cleaning about 2 times a year or every 6 months. However, if you are more prone to getting cavities or have other oral health problems, you may need to go more often.Talk to your dentist about your diet. Ask if there are any foods they specifically recommend staying away from or if they are noticing any damage to your teeth.
Also ask about how to brush and floss properly. This is another important component to good oral health because an incorrect brushing technique can do a lot more harm than not brushing at all.
 In addition to choosing foods that support dental health and avoiding those that can damage teeth, it's important to brush your teeth. This is essential to maintaining proper oral health.Dentists recommend brushing your teeth at least two times a day. You should use a toothbrush that is the appropriate size allowing you to easily reach all areas of your mouth.
You also need to replace your toothbrush or toothbrush head every three to four months. Otherwise, the bristles get overly soft and are not as effective and the tip may also become sharp and hurt the gums.
Make sure to brush the inner and outer surface of your teeth. In addition brush your tongue, especially the back of your tongue, to remove bacteria that can cause bad breath.
 Along with brushing, make sure to floss your teeth regularly as well. Flossing helps clean teeth a little bit differently compared to brushing. Together these two methods of cleaning your teeth can keep them healthy and strong.


Most dentist recommend flossing at least one or two times a day. You can floss before or after brushing your teeth.Flossing is something you need to do in addition to brushing because floss will reach plaque that your tooth brush can't. The plaque, if left on your teeth, can cause calculus and tartar.
 Mouthwash isn't something that's necessary for everyone. However, if your dentist recommends using mouthwash, it's a good idea to begin using it regularly. It can help support the health of your mouth and teeth just like flossing and brushing by preventing the gums to swell or bleed from brushing.


If you do decide to use mouthwash, make sure to purchase a use a product that contains fluoride.In addition, do not rinse your mouth with mouthwash immediately after you brush your teeth. The fluoride from your toothpaste is a much more concentrated source of fluoride and should be allowed to stay on your teeth and not be washed away by mouth wash.
Instead, use mouthwash periodically throughout the day - like after lunch or an afternoon snack.
After using mouthwash, do not eat or drink anything for at least 30 minutes.

