 There are two primary types of surrogacies: gestational and genetic (also commonly called “traditional”). In a gestational surrogacy, an egg and sperm join to form an embryo. This embryo is then implanted into the woman who will carry and bear the child. With a gestational pregnancy, the surrogate is not a biological parent of the child.With a traditional surrogacy, the surrogate is impregnated through artificial insemination. In other words, the donor’s sperm fertilizes the surrogate’s egg. In this situation, the surrogate is also the biological mother of the child.Both types of surrogacy are allowed in the state of Florida provided the surrogacy contract comports with the state statute.;
, Florida has two statutes that cover surrogacy: one for traditional (or genetic) surrogacy and one for gestational surrogacy. You should read the Florida statutes so that you understand what is required of surrogates and what is allowed or disallowed as part of a surrogacy contract.


The applicable statutes are available at this attorney’s website.
 In Florida, it is illegal to pay a fee for a child. In fact, paying or receiving fees that are unrelated to the pregnancy may be a criminal offense. However, certain surrogacy expenses related to the pregnancy can be compensated. You can be reasonably compensated for the following expenses:legal
medical
psychological or psychiatric
living expenses
wages lost due to the pregnancy
inconvenience, discomfort, and medical risk

, If you haven’t been pregnant before, then you should try to read up as much as possible on how pregnancy will affect your life. This impact includes time missed from work for appointments with the obstetrician or for childbirth. Even if you have had normal pregnancies in the past, you may encounter complications, which could result in hospitalization or bed rest.


Also, think about how attached you might become to the child. Many women grow very attached to a child that they have nurtured in the womb for nine months. Giving that child up can be emotionally challenging. At the same time, backing out of your surrogacy contract could be stressful and emotionally taxing on the intended parents as well. You should think carefully before deciding to become a surrogate.
If you have children, you should also consider how the pregnancy will affect them.Think about how you will explain to your children that the child you are carrying will not be returning home with you after you go to the hospital for delivery.
 In Florida, you cannot advertise your services as a surrogate. Instead, you must work through either an attorney or an agency. An attorney can be invaluable throughout the entire surrogacy process, so you may want to think about hiring one even if you decide to carry for friends or family or work through an established agency.


Visit wikiHow’s How to Find a Good Family Law Attorney for tips on how to find an experienced family law attorney.
Ideally, you should hire an attorney who has experience with surrogacy. You can check the directory of the American Academy of Assisted Reproductive Technology Attorneys, which is a national organization of attorneys dedicated to advancing best legal practices with respect to assisted reproductive technology. Check the directory at their website for attorneys in Florida.
 Often, surrogates carry a child for couples they have known for many years. Sometimes, they are even family. If you have been approached by a friend or family member about acting as a surrogate, then you should think over how comfortable you would be birthing a child that you will probably see regularly.
 You can also find prospective parents through an agency. The state does not maintain a centralized directory of surrogacy agencies. Instead, you should search for them online, by searching for “surrogacy center” and your state or county. Agencies may have detailed requirements that you must meet in order to become a surrogate. For example, they may require that you:


be a U.S citizen or permanent resident currently living in the United States
be a non-smoker and be physically, medically, and mentally healthy
be between 20 and 42 years of age
have already given birth via a healthy pregnancy to a healthy child

, Before becoming a surrogate, you should attempt to find out as much as you can about either the intended parents or the agency as possible. A surrogacy contract is a written agreement and can become the basis of litigation. You should know who you are entering a contract with.


If you are working with an agency, check the Better Business Bureau and the Chamber of Commerce in the area where the agency is located. You may also want to check with the Florida Attorney General to see if any lawsuits have been filed against the agency by the state or other parties.
You should also do your own investigation of the intended parents, even if the agency does its own investigation. For tips on how to do a basic background check, see wikiHow’s How to Do a Criminal Background Check.
 You will need to sit down and come to an agreement with the intended parents about a variety of issues. In addition to compensation, you should be sure to come to agreement on the following before drafting a contract:


All parties should agree on what optional testing should be performed (such as amniocentesis) and when it should be done.
All parties should agree with what will be done in the case of a complication or birth defect.
Discuss the maximum number of attempts to achieve pregnancy.Decide whether or not you must use particular doctors or clinics chosen by the intended parents.
 If you decide to work through an agency, then the agency should have its own contracts. Because surrogacy contracts are so complicated, you should work with the agency’s contract, suggesting additions or deletions.


If you decide to carry for friends or family, then you should each have an attorney. Florida law requires that each party have a different attorney, so that there will not be a conflict of interest.Florida law also allows your legal expenses to be paid by the intended parents. Accordingly, you should not be without an attorney because it is too expensive.
 Make sure that everything has been included that you and the intended parents have reached agreement on. Also ask your lawyer if he or she can think of anything else that should be included.


You should give your lawyer a couple weeks at least to review the contract. If you need more time, then tell the intended parents that you are waiting to hear from your attorney.
 You should never sign a contract unless you fully agree with everything within its four corners. If something has been left out of the contract, or if there are terms written into the contract that you disagree with, then you should take the time to speak to the intended parents or the agency about it.


Sometimes, oral promises are made that are not reflected in the contract. For example, a contract may not have a provision explaining who will pay for an amniocentesis test. The intended parents may say, “Oh don’t worry, we’ll pay. Just send us the bill.” However, problems can arise if you have a dispute as to who should pay. A court may or may not find an oral side agreement valid. Accordingly, make sure the contract contains all relevant terms.
 If you undertake a traditional surrogacy, then you will need to consent to terminating your parental rights. This requirement only applies in a traditional surrogacy.


Under Florida law, you can rescind your consent within 48 hours of birth., Once you have become impregnated, then you should follow the contract. A failure to follow the contract could open you up to a lawsuit filed by either the intended parents or the surrogacy agency. If any unforeseen complications arise in the pregnancy which were not dealt with in the contract, then you should speak to your lawyer and raise the issue with the intended parents.

