 Click on “Downloads” in the left hand column of the screen. Once on the Download page, select the Operating System (O/S) you will be running your virtual machine on. Either an option will appear at the bottom of your browser to save or cancel, or a window will appear with the same options. The default save location is usually the “Download” folder unless you've changed your preferences.;
, Once the installation begins you will be asked if you want to create any shortcuts (that will be up to you), then click on “Next”. Then, you will be ready to install by pressing the “install” button on the next screen.
 Leave this box checked and click “Finish”.
 An installation wizard screen will appear. Click “Next”

, In the “OS Type” box, select Linux, version Ubuntu, if they are not already selected. Click “Next”.
 Leave it on the default setting unless you know how best to divide your memory between programs. (DON'T WORRY, it doesn't use your RAM memory unless you are running the O/S on the virtual machine, and it's as easy as right clicking the O/S on the main screen and choosing "remove" to clear off the O/S.) Click "Next"

, I would leave the default of 8GB. Click "Next"

, Leave the default VDI if you don't know which one to pick. Click "Next"

, Here, you are given the option to create a Dynamically allocated disk (which means it will only be as big as it needs to be to operate properly but will NOT surpass the pre-determined size given to it.) Your other option is “Fixed size” which is, well, a fixed size. Choose the option that you prefer. Click "Next"

, Try leaving your location to default, which is in the VirtualBox folder. Next you will need to tell the program how much hard drive space you wish to allocate to this O/S. I would start with the recommended size of 8GB, if you decide you like the O/S and are planning to use it for more applications you'll have to use your own discretion. Just be aware that the space you allocate to this O/S is used only by this O/S until you remove it. Click "Next"

, If you already have Ubuntu downloaded you can click on your virtual machine and select your file location for installation. If you need the O/S please proceed.
, Now follow Ubuntu's installation instructions. Enjoy!

