 Do you talk frequently, hang out together in your free time, or simply know each other through other people? There is no “right” answer that means you can successfully transition into a relationship, but you need to think about where you both stand before you decide to go out together. A strong friendship is often the best base for a strong relationship. You know the person well and already enjoy spending time together. Signs you two might be ready to move to the next level include:


Willingness to tell each other secrets, dreams, and thoughts.
Frequent and honest communication, at least 1-2 a week.
Calm, enjoyable conversation whenever you are face to face.
A few hobbies and ideas that you both share and enjoy.;
, Be supportive when they're in vulnerable situations to show that you care and can be a strong, positive presence in their life. If you cannot trust someone with a secret or a problem then you will never trust them with your heart. Building trust takes some time, but there are ways to get the ball rolling:


Share something about yourself – giving trust is the best way to receive it. Talk to them about your family, your history, your dreams or goals, and your occasional worries or insecurities.
Be dependable, on time, and helpful whenever you make a promise., Ask someone you can trust whether they think your friend has mutual feelings for you. Oftentimes an outside perspective can illuminate things that you might ignore or miss thanks to romantic notions. Be specific and honest when asking for advice: saying “Do you think they like anyone?” will not give you the same useful advice as, “Do you think we could be good together.”


Make sure this friend is reliable and won’t spread the news to any other friends before confiding in them.
 You shouldn't avoid talking about your past relationships at all, as this can be a healthy way to get to know someone's romantic preferences and past life. You do not, however, want to constantly complain about your exes or talk about how "perfect" you were together, as this can lead someone to think you aren't over your last girl or boyfriend.If your crush is constantly talking about other lovers, crushes, or ex-partners, they may not be ready for a relationship either.
 This is extra important when trying to date friends, as there is much more to dating someone than “a friend who you can make out with.” Relationships aren't just about sex and physical relations. They are a meeting between two people in all aspects - emotional, social, and physical. If you just want a friend you can sleep with then you don’t actually want to date them. Don't start a relationship you won’t commit to.
 One of the most common scenarios is when a crush develops within a larger group of friends. While there is nothing wrong with this, relationships rely on the ability to be alone with someone else, not always in a group. While you don’t have to go on a date, you should try and find time to be alone with someone before deciding they are right to date. Ideas include:


Ask them to help you get drinks, food, etc. for a party.
Sit across or next from them at the dinner table.
Ask them on casual “dates,” like exercising together, checking out a new bar, or helping out with a project/homework.