 Before the character creation session, or at least before the first session where you play, you should read the entire entry on sorcerers in the Player's Handbook (PHB).;
, Almost all races make good sorcerers. The exceptions are Dwarves and Half-Orcs, their penalty to Charisma makes them bad candidates for the sorcerer class. Every other race in the PHB is suitable with their own advantages and disadvantages.
 Consult with the Dungeon Master (DM) and find out how you should generate your vital statistics (stats). There are many different systems and most DMs will have strict rules concerning this part of character creation. If you can, you should use the "point buy" system to create your sorcerer's stats. This way you can assure yourself an 18 Charisma. If you cannot use point buy then you should place your highest score to Charisma. You will also benefit from a high Constitution and Dexterity. The other stats are less important to you. A high Intelligence is nice, but not vital to a good sorcerer.
 Sorcerers rarely get many skill points so choosing skills goes quickly. Concentration, Knowledge Arcana, and Spellcraft are all good choices because they relate to spellcasting. Concentration allows you to cast spells even when distracted. Other skill choices will likely be made according to the personality that you have in mind for your new character. With your high Charisma a few social skills may be a wise investment. When you choose your feats you should focus on feats that enhance your spellcasting. You may be tempted to try to ameliorate your weaknesses but this rarely works very well, instead try to enhance your strong point, spellcasting. Good spells will help you later when it comes to your weaknesses. When you select a metamagic feat, make sure that you can use it effectively. For example, the feat Extend Spell makes spells last twice as long and as a cost it raises the level of the spell by one. So an Extended Mage Armor is a level two spell, not level one, and lasts for two hours per level, not one hour per level. However, if you cannot yet cast level two spells this feat is not yet useful to you. Item creation feats are nice, but do not forget that it takes time and Experience Points (XP) to create any item. At higher levels the feat Rapid Metamagic is helpful for all sorcerers.
 A sorcerer knows very few spells, but can cast them many times per day. This means that choosing your spells known is very important. One good strategy is to try to have one spell that hurts the enemy and one that helps allies at each level. Knowing the personality that you plan to give your new sorcerer will help you pick appropriate spells. Veteran players may be able to help you choose the most effective spells.
, This is mostly a style choice. Your familiar is not very strong and if it dies you suffer a steep penalty. Choose one that suits your character's personality and do not forget to consider the bonus that each one confers.
 Sorcerers need very few material possessions in the first level, eventually you will be draped with powerful magic items but at first there is very little that can help you. You cannot wear armor, carry a shield, or wield most weapons. You can wield simple weapons though such as a crossbow, dagger, or quarterstaff. Even though you will not fight in melee combat a melee weapon like a quarterstaff or dagger has other uses, so consider getting one. A ranged weapon, a light crossbow is the most common choice, is helpful at lower levels when you are more likely to run out of magic during a fight.
 Your role in the party is determined by the spells that you choose. If you choose all attack magic then your role is to stand back and blast the enemy into cinders. If you choose spells beneficial to others (buff spells) then your job is to enhance other members of the party. If there is a wizard in the party as well you can make the party stronger by coordinating your spell choices.
 You should know how every spell your sorcerer can cast works. If you do not then it will slow down the game and weaken your character. If you choose a spell, then read the description of it carefully at least twice.

