 Checking a restaurant’s menu before you go to the restaurant can help you to make a healthier choice. By looking at the menu ahead of time and deciding on a healthy option, you will be less tempted to go for something unhealthy when you get there.You can find most restaurants’ menus online and check out their healthy options before you go.
Try to avoid fast food restaurants. Instead choose local restaurants that serve locally-sourced meats and produce.
Try to avoid buffets or places that offer “all you can eat” options.;
, Some restaurants make it easier than others to order healthy meals, such as by listing calorie and fat counts right on the menu. If you are at a restaurant that does not display this info on the menu, then be prepared to ask questions about how the food is cooked and make special requests if necessary.Ask what type of oil and how much oil is used to cook foods. You can always request that your food be cooked without oil or with less oil if items are cooked with a lot of oil. Avoid the obvious deep fried foods. Look for foods that are sautéed, or baked or roasted.
Ask about dressing and other condiments that come with your meal and request that they be left on the side. For example, when ordering a salad, request the dressing on the side. This will make it easier for you to see how much dressing you are using. You can also ask for any "light" options for dressings.
Ask for a smaller portion. Portion sizes are often super-sized in restaurants, so you may want to ask if a smaller portion is available. If not, then consider splitting an entrée with someone or requesting a box to pack up half of your meal and take it with you.
Ask about substitutions and special orders. Some restaurants offer options to make their entrees healthier, such as egg whites in place of eggs. You might also be able to request an off-menu meal if there is nothing on the menu that looks healthy. For example, you might order a grilled skinless chicken breast with some steamed veggies.
 Many people like to enjoy cocktails and other alcoholic beverages on vacation, but the calories in these drinks can add up quickly. Drinking too much can also result in lowered inhibitions and you may end up eating more than you normally would. To prevent weight gain due to over-consuming alcohol, choose lower-calorie drink options and limit your intake.


Stick to wine spritzers, dry white or red wines, light beers, and cocktails made with low- or no-calorie mixers, such as a vodka with club soda and lime.
Don’t start drinking until after 5pm.Starting early in the day may end up ruining your eating and fitness goals for the day. Try having just one or two drinks with dinner or after dinner instead.
 While on vacation, you may want to go exploring somewhere with few healthy eating options. To prevent yourself from eating unhealthy foods on these excursions, make sure that you pack some healthy snacks.Try filling a cooler with baby carrots, hummus, and low-fat cheese sticks. Or bring some fruit that doesn't need to be kept cool, like apples and oranges.
Bring water and other calorie-free beverages to keep yourself hydrated.
 Since you are on vacation, you should allow yourself a treat each day. To avoid gaining weight from these indulgences, make sure that you limit your portions and only indulge in a treat once per day.For example, instead of having a giant ice cream sundae, just have a single scoop of ice cream.
If there is a treat that you want to try that only comes in a large portion, consider sharing it with a friend or family member.
 Don't skip meals and then go out to dinner "starving." You will overeat and your body will not have time to burn those calories before you go to bed. It's best to eat three meals a day, with some healthy snacks in between. You should be eating something about every two to three hours.

For instance, if you eat breakfast at 8am, have a snack at 11am, then eat lunch at 1pm. You can have another snack around 3 or 4pm, then eat dinner around 6 or 7pm.

