 The early stage of Alzheimer's disease (also known as "mild Alzheimer's disease") marks a beginning that will bring with it important changes for you and the people who care about you. It can be safely assumed that most people get the diagnosis of dementia at this stage, and this article is meant to help them in particular. Some people aren’t even aware that they have the disease during this stage, and they may not be diagnosed until they have proceeded to a more advanced stage.


When you are diagnosed with early Alzheimer’s disease, you are still likely to be able to keep doing much of what you have been able do and you will probably only need a little help during this stage. You may be able to make out how your abilities are changing. If this happens, you can tell others what it is like for you to live with the disease. You can help to plan and direct the care you will need from them in the future.
At this juncture, it is only natural to feel overwhelmed and scared or nervous about the future. It is normal for both you and your family to have many mixed emotions and concerns. These can include feelings of grief and sadness. Many people are concerned about how the changes will affect them, how they will plan for the future and get the help and information they need. The following are suggestions for living life to the fullest.
Please note that the term "early stage" refers to people of any age who have mild impairments as a result of Alzheimer's disease. This is different from the term "early onset," which refers to people who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease at a younger age than usual.;
, Common symptoms at this stage include


Forgetfulness
Difficulty following conversations
Difficulty learning new things
Limited attention span, or difficulty concentrating
Orientation problems, difficulty to follow directions, and sometimes, getting lost
Difficulty with communication
Difficulty handling problems at work
Mood changes - primarily depression
Passive feeling - withdrawal
Coordination problems, which can be mild in the beginning
Difficulty with challenging cognitive tasks (that require some thinking)
Problem making decisions
Increased or decreased sexual desire.
 You can develop systems to work around them and make difficult tasks more manageable, especially in the early stages.


Always carry a small notebook to write down reminders.
Use the 'reminder' function of your cellphone as much as possible.
Use labels, notes, calendars, alarms/timers, pill dispensers.
Post emergency numbers by the phone.
Break tasks into small steps.
Have clear idea about your limits.
Mix up in small groups. Tell people what helps you to be part of the conversation.
Take breaks or rests.
Write things down while you are talking with others.
Pick activities that you can manage.
Avoid multitasking.
Listen to talking books and CDs or watch DVDs.
Prepare and follow routines.
Avoid overstimulation: seeing, hearing or doing too much.
Ask your family to watch if any passiveness or withdrawal develops, and encourage you to participate in activities that you can do.
Realize what you can do and the where is the limit.
Don't hesitate to get help with tasks.
Focus on activities that you can manage and enjoy.
Use safety features like handrails and grab bars.
Remove items that may cause tripping hazards.
Add more light so you can see things more clearly, especially around stairs, hallways and entrances.
If you face increased or decreased sexual desire, read more about how to manage it, and/or discuss with your physician.
Keep physically active.
Eat healthy foods.
Remain socially connected.
Share your thoughts and feelings with someone you trust.
Try meditation or other stress-reduction techniques.
See your doctor, if needed, and take medications as prescribed.
Do things that bring you pleasure and meaning.
Take one day at a time.



Stay socially connected.
Choose healthy food.
Remain physically active.
Reduce stress.
Avoid head injuries.
Avoid harmful habits such as smoking.
Get enough sleep.
Drink adequate water.
Meet regularly with your doctor for check-ups and to explore treatment options.
 Studies have shown that mental stimulation—making yourself think—improves brain activity. It may help keep your brain healthy throughout life.


Challenge your brain as frequently as possible. Exercise it.

Read as much as possible.
Increase your vocabulary.
Solve puzzles, including crossword, scrabble and sudoku.
Write something.
Try learning a new language.
Consider playing chess.
Solve crossword puzzle.
Play video games.
Switch your dominant hand.
Talk more with people.
Join an interest group.
Take free classes.
Pick up a new hobby.
Change up your routine.
Use skills you have already gained frequently.


For extensive information and exercises on improving memory, concentration and problem-solving, see the By Us For Us© Guide: Memory Work Out. It is written by people with dementia for other people with dementia., Certain medications, like Donepezil, Rivastigmine and Galantamine, belonging to the group 'Çholinesterase inhibitors' help slow down the progress of dementia for some time. NMDA blocker like Memantine has also been approved to help fight dementia. Consult your physician if you can be prescribed any of those.
 A dedicated online community for persons living with dementia may be of great help and support. Share with and learn from others at forums like 'Talking Point'or 'Dementia Friends'., If no such facility exists in your area, think of starting one. Consult your physician and friends to tap this potential.

