 Make it the most awesome Godzilla journal ever. If you can find a bound (or spiral) notebook with a cover that sports the visage of the giant monster (kaijū), so much the better. If not, you can get crafty and add your own Godzilla adornment. And, if you really want to get fancy, you can take the decorations inside, illustrating the table of contents and the title page of each film. "Kick it up a notch", if you get inspired, and illustrate a scene or two from each movie right in the pages.;
, There are three eras of Godzilla films.


The Showa Era (1954-1975) spawned the oldest Godzilla movies, the classics. Many of these seem artificial today and don't have very good special effects by current standards. Still, the original Godzilla (1954) is highly regarded: It is a masterpiece of dark tone.
The Heisei Era (1985-1995) is often cited as the best era for the franchise, the Godzilla heyday.
Films from the Millennium Era (1999-2004), as a group, get mixed reviews from fans, but this era brought to the screen, two films that rank with the original as the best: Godzilla 2000 and Godzilla: Final Wars. (Gojira Nisei: Mireniamu and Virago: Fainaru uôzu).
 In spite of the Godzilla name, this monster diverges from the look and character of the Godzilla subgenre, using artistic license that should be revoked.
 This is the number one periodical about Godzilla. In its pages, you will find a multitude of information which will feed your thirst for more knowledge about all things Godzilla.,, Using the knowledge you have gained about the Godzilla subgenre, decide which movies you will watch and in what order.



Track down your selections, either online or in the store.
Once you get a film, schedule a viewing date. Make it an event: Invite your friends and fellow Godzilla enthusiasts; get mom to make some popcorn, or make your own.
As you watch, pull out your Godzilla journal and record key observations. It is helpful to write about each movie you see. You will then have a record of the experience and will be better able to recall details about that film. Journaling helps to clarify the uniqueness of each film and deepens the experience. Particularly, note the differences between the films you've seen and the strengths of each of the Godzilla incarnations.
 They will share their favorites and will have observations about the whole group of films (as do you). You will find that, for many fans, the love of Godzilla goes deeper, extending into all of Kaia (literally giant monster in Japanese). Many will have deep knowledge, so use their experience to latch onto some other movies that "strike your fancy".



Some of the more famous Godzilla films are readily available, so you will always be able to get those. There is no big hurry to put them into your collection.
Instead, start with your favorite ones that are outside of the popular mainstream. That way you will get a nice collectible that you can watch over and over while you fill out the rest of your collection.
DVD versions have become harder to find recently, but if you are patient and keep your eyes open, you will eventually be able to buy all of the movies on your list.
Buy the movies online or in stores. Look in thrift stores and in yard sales.
 After you have expanded your collection and learned about the movies by watching them and talking with others, it is time to go to a convention. This is the ultimate in Godzilla fandom.


G-FEST is the biggest. At these, you will encounter a cadre of Godzilla and other kaijū fans, some of the neatest people alive. You will be able to share your knowledge and enthusiasm and learn even more. Plus, at the convention, you will be able to buy any movies that you haven't yet found, but can't live without.

