 The information or data may include (but not limited to) performance, current status, challenges faced during the period, activities undertaken (and not undertaken).;
, The summary should begin with a sweeping statement of how the facility/organization/unit performed in the period, and state whether normal, exceptional, below par etc. Next, if there were insurmountable challenges, express them in the fewest possible words and reference another section of the report where the challenges are explained in detail. This section must be brief and therefore should only capture a maximum of two unresolved challenges or better, one.
 Compare achieved figures against targets where available beginning with the most significant performance objective in order of significance. Use summarized and total data and limit this section to one page but plan to include detailed information in appendices. Use tables, charts etc to illustrate and add one sentence explanations for the performance both positive and negative. If the performance is qualitative in nature rather that quantitative, write them out in the following thematic order: objective - activity - results achieved. After highlighting the performance achievement, discuss factors that led to the performance, both positive and negative preferably using numbered/bulleted lists.
 These are those that enable you to achieve your objectives which may include staff, machines, facilities, energy resources, budget, cash, etc. If there is any challenge that was encountered in the period with any of these, mention the person/office you communicated the challenge to and what action has been undertaken or is being awaited (include the dates of the communication and other relevant details). In addition, include the risks associated with the unresolved challenges while projecting to the future impact as well. Usually tables come in handy to organize this section.
 Include activities that were to be undertaken but weren't for some reason (which must be stated as well). For activities that are long term in nature and can affect performance, include the current status and the next step action awaited plus the person/stakeholder involved.
 This should consist of data that may be used to substantiate data that is summarized in the report.
 If possible, let someone assist you with this last crucial step. Check that the facts are accurate and conveyed in the best way way possible with simple language. Also check for grammar and spelling errors and correct as necessary.
