 If it is an irritating co-worker, try not to have any discussions or interactions with them outside of the workplace, or about anything besides work-related topics. If it is a classmate or acquaintance, avoid sitting near the irritating person in class, or hanging out with them at casual functions.


Don’t feel like you’re being rude by purposefully putting distance between yourself and the person who irritates you. Taking some space is perfectly normal, and it can help you avoid any negative interactions with the person.Don’t tell this person outright that you are avoiding them or that you are actively trying to put distance between you and this person. Just do it subtly and discreetly, and they will likely not even notice, and you will be less likely to end up dealing with further issues.;
, For example, if you are dealing with an irritating co-worker, talk to your boss about the issues you are having. Try your best to keep a calm and positive attitude while discussing your problems with this third party, especially if it your boss or supervisor.Don’t go to your boss or supervisor just to complain, vent, or in an attempt to get the irritating person reprimanded. You might approach your boss by calmly saying, “I really appreciate you taking the time to meet with me and discuss some issues I’ve been having. I had some things I wanted to bring to your attention and get some feedback on how to deal with them.”
If you don’t have an authority figure to report to with issues, just go to a friend. Talking to someone outside of the situation can help you get things off your chest, and you might be less likely to explode later on when interacting with the person who is irritating you.
 Even if you can’t fully avoid all interactions with the irritating person, the important thing is that you control your reactions to their behavior so you avoid sparking more problems by losing your temper. Even if you feel angry or irritated, try to smile and let it roll off of your shoulders.Rather than focusing in on the things that person is doing to irritate you, focus in on how you are reacting to those irritating things. If you work on remaining calm through times of irritation and stress, you will start to be less likely to even feel the need to react to these behaviors at all, since they will eventually no longer cause an annoyed reaction from you.
Whatever you do, avoid lashing out at the person. Consider the fact that if you react poorly and lose your temper at this person, it will only reflect badly on you.

