 If you got a letter that has bothered you, share it with someone you trust. This person can help give you insight on the contents.If the letter contains hateful criticism and words directed to you, they can help you objectively evaluate if there is any validity in the criticisms. If the anonymous letter accuses someone of something, they might be able to help you determine if it is serious enough to pursue. If the letter suggests some action be taken, they can help you evaluate that, too.
 If you receive anonymous letters that are a cause of concern, or you repeatedly receive anonymous hate, you may want to ask for help from an authority figure. Contact your local police department if you feel threatened by the letters.If you involve the police, you will need to keep the letters as evidence. Some states may have laws against anonymous threatening that could help you.
If you experience anonymous threats at work, go to your immediate boss or supervisor. They can help you figure out what course of action to take.
If you are a youth who is receiving anonymous cyberbullying, talk to your parents, teachers, police officers, or other trusted adults. Schools can help with cyberbullying, and if that doesn't work, try contacting one of the cyberbullying help websites, like Delete Cyberbullying, Cyberbully Help, or Stop Bullying., Sometimes, both physical and electronic letters provide clues to the author's location. If the letter was sent through the mail, check to see if there is a postmark with a city or zip code on it. If the letter was sent electronically, attempt to locate the e-mail's IP address. If the letter was dropped in your mailbox, the person may live in your neighborhood.


To view this information in an email, turn on the advanced header. This can be found by opening the e-mail, then clicking on the feature to show more from the e-mail. Look for an option to "show original," "view full header," or "view message source." From there, type the IP address location into Google and use the multiple services shown to obtain a locality.
 If you are receiving anonymous letters via e-mail or social media, block the sender. Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter have block functions so you can block the user. Most e-mail providers allow users to block e-mail addresses so they can't receive e-mails, or have options to mark the e-mail address as spam so it gets filtered out.If you are receiving hate from any social media account, even an anonymous fake account, report them as breaking terms of service. Most social media accounts have guidelines against threatening messages.