 It is possible to do this without parental consent but is much easier when you have someone with a car and debit card on your side.;
, If you have a nursery mural or something else embarrassing on your walls then this is an absolute must. If you are allowed to paint your walls don't go crazy. A red or black may seem cool at the moment but in a year or two you will be saying to yourself, "What was I thinking?" also black is a contracting color that makes things seem smaller or more cramped. A good color for a guy is a khaki, beige, coffee or caramel color. Orange is cool too but, it is somewhat hard to work with as things don't exactly add "orange intensity" or work with orange. This color may seem a little boring at first but is great because you will never outgrow it. If you are looking for something a little more adventurous move towards a darker blue or two-tone silver and blue room. If you go in a lighter blue it will look like a baby's room so watch out. If your parents or the people you live with prefer you didn't paint your room for one reason or another, this is fine and very easy to work around.
 Depending on the size of your room and your preference, the amount of wall hangings can vary greatly. An easy way to cover a large empty wall neatly and cleanly is to go down to target and purchase some large poster frames. These cost about $15 and are a 2x3 sheet of Plexiglas with a thin wooden backing and a narrow black frame around the outside. These are great for placing posters and other art in. Also, they can be great for collages of pictures with friends or posters out of surf magazines or even movie tickets. The best part about these are they only require one nail and your parents will love them because they can be taken down any time to be changed or if you move. Other great wall hangings are, concert tickets, vintage coke or Dr. pepper signs, cool clocks, sports jerseys and pizza or doughnut boxes. The pizza and doughnut boxes can be especially cool if used correctly. First, open the pizza box and hold it up to the wall. Then push a thumbtack through each of the inside 4 corners. This should allow the pizza box to be opened while attached to the wall. A great way to cover a lot of space is to put up white paper and allow your friends to write or draw on it over time.
