 Aspiring fashion designers use these figures to trace to avoid having to draw a new figure each time. Go to one of the copyright free, stock sharing websites and find pictures of ballerinas in standard poses.  Or, search for free, printable ballerina coloring pages for a figure. If the figure is clothed, just trim away the edges of the clothes to achieve a clear silhouette and reveal the body's contours. Enlarge the figure on the printer to approximately 9" tall.  Glue this figure to a piece of tag board and cut it out.;
,, Now for the fun!  Classic ballet costumes come in a wide variety of styles, some short and puffy, known as a tu tu.  Others can reach the mid-calf or be longer.  Rehearsal skirts can be almost any length and are often nothing more than a couple of layers of netting with an elastic waistband. 

, The lid of your paintbox is where can mix your colors. Wipe it off and change your water as needed, trying to keep each color clear and clean.
 Start with any color, but for this lesson, let's use yellow. Paint the skirt by loading your brush thoroughly with the color and gliding it over the skirt area. Try for a layer that lets the white of the paper shine through. Leave little skips of white paper showing. Let it dry thoroughly.

Start the strokes at the waistline and pull the color down toward the him, keeping the brush wet and loaded with plenty of color., Draw this second layer of skirt fuller and slightly longer than the yellow underskirt. Let dry and repeat with another color, say pink. Again, juxtapose this third layer of skirt. Have the hemline not match with the underskirts. The legs showing through the skirt add to the illusion of transparency.
 Perhaps add small, off the shoulder strips of gathered netting suggesting fallen straps. Paint these items colors that coordinate with the three colors of netting on the skirt

, .jpg.jpg|center]], Use Glitter glue sparingly. Apply a tiny spot and rub it with your fingers to spread it over the costume.
 Stand up your artwork.  Step back and imagine what kind of background it needs. If this is one of your first ballerina paintings, you might be tempted to put in a complicated background, but remember, the dancer is the focus. Keep her the most important element. Your imagination will kick into gear and you will think of many possibilities.  If nothing comes, page through a magazine or look out the window for ideas from nature.  Sketch the background, but simplify the shapes as a scenic designer might.  Doing washes around the figure will look like colored lights.  Possibly wash around the figure in lavender, as if she is in the spotlight. Another possibility is to wet the background with water and drop colors onto the wet areas. They will merge and create a magical background.
 This ballerina will be suitable for framing.  Hang it in your room to enjoy each day.  It will make you smile.