



 ;
, In a large bowl, mix the all-purpose flour and salt with a wooden spoon until well-combined.
 Combine the butter with the dry ingredients. Blend the mixture with a pastry blender, until the mixture is crumbly and resembles coarse sand.
 Pour the water into the dough, only adding one tablespoon at a time and mixing with a fork. Add enough water until the dough forms a ball when pressed with the fork.
 On a clear, floured surface, roll out the dough into a large, thin rectangle using a rolling pin. Make sure that the dough is thinly rolled out; the pie crusts are going to be small and be made into a mini-version.
 Using a circular cookie cutter, cut circles out of the dough. Make sure each circle is three inches in diameter.
 Get each dough circle and place them in the cases of a mini muffin tray. Press down firmly when applying each piece.
 Place the pie crusts in the oven to bake for about eight to ten minutes, until they are golden brown and the edges are crisped.
 Remove the mini muffin tray out from the oven. Place the tray on a wire rack and have the pie crusts cool for about ten minutes.
 In a large bowl, mash the strawberries until crushed properly. Press down firmly while mashing to juice out the strawberries. The results should make the mixture liquid-like and have a bright red color.
 Preheat the stovetop to medium heat. Place a saucepan on the heat and pour in the sugar and cornstarch. Stir using a wooden spoon. Add the mashed strawberries and water. Have the filling cook, stirring occasionally with the wooden spoon, until it starts to boil and thicken. It should take about 10-15 minutes.
 Shut the stovetop off and remove the saucepan from the heat. Have the strawberry filling cool for about ten minutes before inserting it into the pie crusts.
 Using a small spoon, scoop the strawberry filling into the pie crusts. Add an extra whole strawberry on top and add any more additional filling, until the pie crust is full. Repeat with the rest of the pies.
 Place the mini pies on a large dish, and cover the dish with plastic wrap. Place the pies into a fridge to chill for about an hour, until the strawberry filling sets.
 Remove the pies from the fridge. Place a few pies on a serving plate and scoop vanilla ice cream on top, if desired. Enjoy!

