 Jot down the basic facts about your case before calling any attorneys. You’ll need to know the exact date of your injury, what types of damages you’ve suffered, and the name of your treating physician.


The attorney will probably also ask for the name of the clinic or hospital where your injury took place.
 Call the office of an attorney you are interested in hiring. Explain your case and ask when you can interview the lawyer.


Note that in some cases, the attorney may prefer to conduct the interview over the phone.
 Before your appointment, you'll want to come up with a list of things to ask the attorney, which you'll write down and bring with you. Here are some questions you may want to ask:Ask what percentage of the attorney's cases involve medical malpractice issues.
Find out how long have he or she has been representing clients in these types of cases. Ask if the firm has staff members who are qualified to read and understand complex medical records.
Some attorneys only represent clients with specific types of injuries, so you'll want to ask about this. If the attorney does handle your type of case, ask how many such cases he or she has handled.
Ask what range of either settlements s/he has negotiated or verdicts s/he has obtained in cases that were like yours. Be ready to hear that all cases are quite different and that you’re just getting a general estimate. This just means your lawyer doesn’t want you to have false hopes about what your case may be worth. Also, s/he can’t know the value of your case until s/he has fully investigated it.
Ask how long such cases normally take. Expect to hear that these types of cases are often very complex and can take several years.
Find out if the person you’re talking to will represent you, or it will be another attorney in the office. Ask if there will be a paralegal or the attorney himself/herself providing you with regular updates.
Ask if the firm will represent you on a contingent-fee basis. This means that the law firm will not charge you for their services unless they win your case. If this firm does win your lawsuit, they will subtract all expenses related to your case from any settlement or verdict . They'll also subtract their actual attorney fees. Keep in mind that few plaintiffs can ever afford to fund this type of case. You should be leery of an attorney who offers to take your case on an hourly basis, because they probably lack faith in your case.
Ask them if they have malpractice insurance.
Ask if the attorney has ever published any legal journal articles on your type of lawsuit. Similarly, ask if he or she has taught any State Bar CLE (Continuing Legal Education) classes to other attorneys in this field. It is great if the attorney has done either of these, although many just spend all of their time representing their clients.
Ask if this lawyer belongs to the American Association of Trial Lawyers (“ATLA”). This indicates that s/he is very committed to this type of work.Ask how soon you must let the firm know if you want to hire them.
 Once you've finished preparing for the interview, meet with the attorney to ask your questions. This will give you a chance to determine if this the right lawyer for you. Here are a few tips for the interview:


Keep in mind that many lawyers may charge you a nominal sum (often no more than $50) to meet with them for about thirty minutes in person. They may not want to visit long with you on the phone. Or, they may limit the call to briefly finding out if you even have the type of case they usually choose to accept.If the firm does not want to take on your case, be ready to take notes about why. Ask if the firm knows of another lawyer or firm that might be more interested in your type of lawsuit. It is possible you will not be able to find an attorney. Law firms are wary of taking on some medical malpractice cases because they can lose a fortune if they don’t win the case.Be sure to tell the firm if you’re going to need the regular services of a language translator.Be sure that you’re comfortable interacting with this lawyer, as you may be working together for several years. These types of cases often take a long time to settle or take to trial.
If you have any misgivings about the firm, it’s wise to go ahead and meet with at least one other lawyer before choosing.Do keep in mind that a larger law firm is more likely to have all the financial resources required to fund your case as opposed to a smaller one.
If you are impressed by what you’re hearing and by the law firm’s credentials, schedule an appointment.
Ask if the first consultation with the lawyer is free. Many firms still offer this service. However, some nowadays may charge you a nominal sum like $20 - $50 for a half-hour appointment.
 Once you have decided on a lawyer, you will need to sign a contingent fee contract and to release your medical records to the attorney.


A contingent fee contract is agreement between you and lawyer about fees. They contracts specify that you will not pay the lawyer up-front. Instead, you agree to turn over a certain amount of your award if you win the case.You will need to sign medical record release forms for every healthcare provider involved in your lawsuit.You'll also need to release records from everyone who has participated in your care since you suffered your injury. If you’ve been seeing a psychiatrist or therapist, you may want to contact this person. For privacy reasons, you may want her or him to submit only a general summary of your recent visits.

