 Meditation is a practice that can reduce stress and help you achieve a more peaceful state of mind. This sense of peace can lead to improved overall health and emotional well-being. Review the following common styles of meditation to find one that you feel is compatible with your own needs:Guided meditation uses mental images of places and experiences that you find calm and healing.
Mantra meditation makes use of a phrase that is repeated, maintaining focus on this phrase rather than distracting or unwanted thoughts.
Mindfulness meditation involves detached observation of thoughts, allowing them to pass without engaging them.
Tai Chi and Qi Gong are moving meditations which focus on balance, movement, and deep breathing.
Yoga makes use of physical postures that bring your focus into the current moment, suppressing bothersome thoughts.
Whichever style of meditation you choose, the key to success lies in your ability to focus uninterrupted for the length of the meditation. Look at your lifestyle and daily routine to figure out when is the best time for you to meditate. You may want to do it early, before the kids wake up, or after they go to school. Turn off your phone, TV, and any other devices that may cause distraction. You are now officially unavailable to the outside world and ready to begin.;
, Visualization is a mental practice in which you imagine scenes or situations as clearly as you can. You can use this technique to place yourself in peaceful and engaging settings that help build a sense of well-being and self empowerment. Visualization can also be used to imagine success in any endeavor you are undertaking, as well as any obstacles that can stand in your way and how to get beyond them.Try to engage all of your senses when practicing visualization.
For example, you might imagine a peaceful forest that you can visit. When you do visit, try to imagine not only what it looks like, but the smells, sounds, and scents of that place as well.
You can use this technique to help visualize goals in your life.
Visualization is thought to to help facilitate healing, when used towards this goal.
 Focusing on compassion, love, and a sense of thankfulness can help bring about a sense of peace and mental well-being. If you are inclined to pray, offering your prayers of thanks can be another way to focus on what matters to you.===Blessing Your Home For Everyday Magic===, If you want to bring magic into your life, then bringing it into your home is a great way to accomplish that. By blessing your home, you can make your home a special place through the use of ritual. Rituals work by using symbolic actions in order to bring about a certain attitude or feeling about a place or thing, connecting the “sacred” to the “profane”.Although these symbolic connections are up to you to define, there are some common associations that you can make use of.


Lavender, cedar-wood, and eucalyptus are all believed to have cleansing properties.You may want to do your blessing as the sun rises, facing it in the east, as the symbolic connection to the new day can make your house feel like a new, magical space., Cleaning your house can have an effect on your mood and how you view the spaces you live in. By giving your house a good cleaning before you start your blessing, you also send the message to yourself that you are making a change, clearing the space before your turn it into one of your own making.Clean your entire house while focusing on your intention that you are reforming your environment.
Cleaning can send the message to yourself that you have control over your environment and are working to improve it.
 Before you begin the blessing itself, you will want to take a moment to set up the space you will be using. In setting the mood you want to create by engaging the senses, you can help make your blessing feel more magical and special to you, as well as anyone else doing the blessing with you.Light some incense or use a diffuser and essential oils.
Play some music that puts you in the mood you want to be in during your blessing.
Say some words that feel important to you and express your intent for the entire house and the goals of the ritual.
 Some spiritual traditions make use of burning candles during a ritual. When candles are used for spiritual purposes, it is common to consider the color of the candle, which have symbolic associations attached to them. You may also want to carve symbols that you enjoy into the candle. It is believed that as the candle burns, those symbolic aspects are projected outwards, into the environment.White candles are sometimes associated with purification.
Light blue candles are thought to bring about harmony and joy.
Yellow candles can represent joy and happiness.
 Move from room to room with your candle, speaking a blessing for each room. The blessing you say can be as long or as short as you like, so long as it contains your wishes for that room. Visit every room in your home with your candle so that you bless the entire house.An example affirmation for your bedroom might be “When I am in this space I will feel safe and secure. I will sleep and awake well rested.”
By making these affirmations in your rooms, you focus on positive thinking about them and yourself when you visit them. This positive thinking can bring with it numerous health benefits., Most traditions believe that when using a candle in a ritual, it should be allowed to burn down completely. The underlying belief is that the candle is releasing your intention as it burns and blowing it out will cause this to stop. Burning the candle fully is thought to produce the maximum effect.Never leave your candle unattended while it is burning.
 Look around your community for any chances to volunteer. Volunteering is a great way to help those in your community who might need it. Spread the feeling of magic to those around you by trying out some of the following volunteering ideas:


Check with your local dog and cat shelter for any volunteering opportunities.
If you have a local homeless shelter or outreach program, try volunteering there.
Public libraries can be another great place to volunteer.
 You can help make someones day a little more magical by picking up their bill for them. If you find yourself in line for coffee or a small meal, you can ask your server to pick up the next persons bill, or at least put some money towards it.
 If you have money to spare you might want to consider donating it to a charity of your choice. There are many reputable charities to choose from, each with a different purpose. Look over the following examples to get an idea of some of the charities you can donate to:


Breast Cancer Research Foundation uses donations to work towards a cure for breast cancer.
National Alliance to End Homelessness aims to put an end to homelessness in the united states.
Futures for Children is a charity that helps American Indian students with leadership development, mentoring and community service.

