 The simplest way to buy cheap Hollister clothes is to buy them when Hollister is selling them at their cheapest. The Hollister website has a year-round clearance section filled with clothing from old stock that the company's main warehouse is trying to empty out. Similarly, in the back of almost every Hollister showroom, you can find clearance racks filled with the store's excess clothing from last season.;
, During clearance sales, a large portion of the store's inventory is discounted rather than a small amount located in the back of the store. These sales are not ongoing, so you will likely need to wait until the end of a season before you can take advantage of them. Your local Hollister showroom will advertise the sale in advance, though, so you will have plenty of notice.
 There is no way of knowing for certain whether or not you will manage to find any Hollister clothes at a flea market, but the only way to find out is go and look. Gravitate toward booths with racks of clothing, especially if the clothes look like they are geared for a younger crowd.


On a similar note, you can check out garage sales for Hollister clothes, too. If the family has teens or young adults, your odds of finding Hollister clothing at their garage sale improves.
Another advantage of shopping at flea markets is that you may run across other name brand clothing for cheap prices, as well as Hollister clothes.
 At a clothing exchange or clothing swap, attendees bring old clothes that are in good condition that they are no longer interested in with the intention of trading them with others’ clothes. You can hold a clothing exchange with friends and classmates who share your style. Alternatively, if the thought of wearing clothes that once belonged to someone you go to school with is unappealing to you, you can also host clothing exchanges with cousins, distant relatives who are your age, or any teenage children your parents’ coworkers may have.
 There are a variety of second-hand shops. While the way that these stores get their merchandise varies, each type obtains used clothing in decent condition and resells those clothes at a significantly lower price. You may not be able to know if a particular store has Hollister clothes in it, but if you make it a habit of digging through the racks on a consistent basis, you are likely to find some eventually.


Check out thrift stores. Thrift stores are often run by non-profit organizations and have charitable intentions. The majority of their goods are donated to them. Since they do not have to pay for their merchandise, even name brand clothing is sold at exceptionally low costs.
Look at consignment stores. At a consignment shop, the store is out to make a profit. The stock is given to the store by the store’s customers, and part of the profit is shared with the supplier after the clothes have sold.
Check out resale shops. A resale shop is similar to a consignment shop in that its merchandise is given to the shop by its customers, and the customers who supply the merchandise receive compensation for it. At a resale shop, though, the clothing is bought outright. As a result, resale shops tend to be pickier about their merchandise and may have slightly higher quality or more fashionable stock.
 Discount stores specialize in selling name brand clothes and other brand items at low prices. They receive merchandise that name brand companies overstocked or over-produced, and some stores also receive brand merchandise with minor flaws that the brand is unwilling to sell at their own storeroom. You are not guaranteed to find Hollister clothes there, but your odds are even better than they might be at a second-hand store. Moreover, the stock of clothing is all fairly recent and, as a result, in style.
 These classifieds are free to look at and post on, and they are common places for people who are trying to sell clothes. You can usually search the listings by typing “Hollister” into a search box on the website, but even if not, you can comb through the clothing section of the website. Make sure that the listing has a photo posted so that you know what you are getting into. If you have to meet the seller in person to make the exchange, make sure you meet in a well-populated public area to stay safe.
 Online auction websites are similar to online classifieds, but unlike online classifieds, the sellers are not often local and will ship the clothes to you as a result. That is an added cost, but it also makes the whole exchange safer. Discount websites work like discount stores, receiving overstocked merchandise from Hollister and other clothing brands and selling them at discounts. You will have to pay for shipping, but the convenience of being able to shop from home and perform searches for “Hollister” using the search box feature may make the slight cost worth it.

