 This herb is considered an adaptogen. In addition to taking pressure off the adrenal system to boost your natural levels of energy, it also helps your body resist stress.


Look for Korean ginseng imported from Korea or other parts of Asia. The root of this flowering plant is used in supplements.
Take 100 milligrams (0.0035 ounces) of Korean ginseng in a capsule or a liquid form daily. You can find supplements at health food stores. The liquid can be added to anything you normally drink.;
, Also called Siberian ginseng, this herb is not actually a member of the ginseng family.


Take Eleuthero root over a steady period of time. The longer you take it, the more it will combat fatigue and stimulate the production of cortisol, keeping your body functioning at high energy levels.
Use capsules and tablets of this root, as a supplement. Many athletes find that taking it daily increases their stamina as well as their immunity.
 It combines with those other herbs to stabilize your blood sugar, eliminate inflammation and increase energy.


Find Ashwagandha in a powder or capsule form. It comes from a shrub root. Many natural medicine practitioners recommend 1 or 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 mL) twice daily, or 1 500 mg capsule 3 times per day.
 Originating from a plant in the rainforest, this herb contains low levels of caffeine which can help you with your energy level. The plant also includes vitamins and nutrients which balance the caffeine.


Look for teas that already contain this herb. You can also buy the herb loosely and crush up the leaves to combine with your own favorite tea.
 This herb has been used in treating people who suffer from chronic fatigue syndrome.


Eat Maitake in its original mushroom form, if you can find it. If not, take it as a capsule substance, which you can order online.
 The root of a licorice plant can be used to motivate the adrenal hormones your body naturally produces, giving your energy and metabolism a boost.


Limit the amount of licorice you take to 1 to 2 grams (0.034 ounces) daily for up to 6 weeks, and then reducing the dose for 2 more weeks. Prolonged use of licorice can cause fluid retention, high blood pressure and problems with stomach acid.
Take only a standard licorice extract in capsules or a liquid. Avoid this herb if you are pregnant.

