 Most people who hide their scars are still self-harming, but making the decision to stop hiding your scars can help you gain confidence, be open about your struggles, and even spread awareness that self-harm is a serious condition that affects many people.
 You don't have to just start wearing spaghetti straps or shorts that show off your scars to just anyone. You can ease yourself into it by choosing to expose your scars in certain situations, or to certain people you trust at first, with the goal of gaining enough confidence to ditch the makeup and extra clothes for good.


Consider showing your scars at home. After school or work, take off the extra clothing or makeup and just be yourself, scars and all. This can be a tough step if your parents or roommates do not know that you have harmed yourself. You might want to start by telling them you harmed yourself.Pick a day to go public. One day a week, don't take any extra steps to hide your scars. Whether it’s a weekday or weekend day is up to you., One reason many people are hesitant to expose their scars to others is for fear of what people might say. It's true, many people might make rude or uncomfortable comments if they see your scars. Knowing how to respond in the moment can help make you feel more at ease. Your response will likely vary depending on who is commenting (is it your boss, a child, your grandmother, a stranger?) and why (are they curious, ignorant, or purposely trying to hurt you.


One option is to ignore them completely. Your body is nobody else's business, and you are totally justified in ignoring rude or personal comments, just like you would ignore comments about your body size or facial features.
Tell the commenter the truth. If someone asks what your scars are from, you have the option of telling them the truth, but in an appropriately abbreviated form. You may not have the time or desire to tell your whole, personal story, and that's OK (it's really not their business anyway). But you can say, "I cut myself," or "I used to cut myself when I was struggling" and leave it at that. Most people won't press for more details.
Tell the commenter to mind his own business. You can do this in a polite or not-so-polite way, depending on how you prefer to respond, who the person is, what their relationship is to you, and whether they were polite to you or not. One polite way to respond would be to say, "I really don't feel comfortable talking about that." A less polite but still effective option is, "That is not your business."
Try a sarcastic, humorous, or biting response. If someone is rude in their approach, giving them a taste of their own medicine can help them see how misguided their questions are. Try something like "Do you always ask other people personal questions, or am I just lucky?" or "These scars? I was attacked by a herd of rabid caterpillars." Then roll your eyes and walk away.

