 If you are playing with only two players, one deck of cards is enough. If you are playing with 3 or more players, use two decks of cards. If you are playing with 5 or more, use at least 3 decks. Shuffle all of the cards into one deck. Leave the jokers in the decks.;
, Deal one card at a time to each player until everyone has ten cards. Be sure to deal the cards facedown. Another variation of this game uses only eight cards per person with the cards lined up in rows of 4.If you have plenty of room, place the cards in a single line of 10 rather than two rows.
 The cards can be arranged in any order as long as they remain face down and you don’t look at them. This set is your original hand but all of them will be replaced, moved, or discarded during the game.
 Once everyone has been dealt 10 cards, place the rest of the deck in the center of the playing area facedown. This pile becomes the draw pile. Take the top card and lay it face up next to the draw pile. This becomes the discard pile.
 Take a card from the draw pile or the face up discard pile. If it is any card Ace through ten, place it in the correct spot. An Ace goes in the top left and the cards go in numerical order up to ten. A ten goes in the bottom row, furthest to the right. Pick up your original card and hold onto it until the next step which explains what to do with it.Jokers and Kings count as wildcards and can be placed anywhere. If you draw the number later that goes in the spot a wildcard is sitting, you can swap them out.
If you draw a card that can’t go anywhere (including Jacks and Queens which don’t count for anything) place the card in the discard pile and the play passes to the next player.
 Once you have have drawn and placed the card in the spot that it goes in, look at the card that was already in that spot. If you can place it in one of the remaining spots then do so.For example, if you draw a two and place it in the two spot, and the original card in that spot is a three, place the three in the three spot.
Continue replacing your original cards until one does not fit. For example, you already placed the two and the three, but in the three spot was a Jack. Discard the jack and the play passes to the next player.
 If you draw a card that would go in a spot that is already filled, discard it. If you flip over a card from your original hand that can’t be placed somewhere else, discard it., Once a player has filled all ten spots with cards Ace through ten (including wildcards), they have to say “Trash” to end the round. When this happens, each player gets to draw one more card to try and complete their set of Ace-ten. Anyone who successfully does so will move to the next level in the following round.You are allowed to place original cards in the place they belong, the same way as you did on other turns throughout the game.
 Collect each player’s cards and the draw and discard piles. Shuffle them. Deal nine cards to the winner of the first round, and any other player who finished with a complete set. Any player who did not have a full set at the end of the round is dealt ten cards.


Each round that a player finishes their set, they are dealt one less card in the following round.
 Continue playing each round in the pattern described until one player is only dealt one card. They must fill that spot with an Ace or wildcard. If they do so and they say “Trash,” this ends the entire game.You don’t have to play all ten rounds. Play a shorter game until one player is dealt 6 cards and fills all six spots.

