 Dogs are pack animals. They appreciate having a clear position within a social hierarchy. It should be clear to you which of your dogs is the alpha (the leader), the beta (the middle of the pack), and the omega (the bottom of the pack). Rather than working to make everything “fair,” it is important for you to respect and help maintain this social hierarchy.Doing so will reduce the need for fighting amongst your dogs.Feed the alpha dog first, and then the rest of the dogs in order.
Offer the alpha dog treats first, and then the rest of the dogs in order.
Allow the alpha to be the first to pass through doorways.
Give the alpha attention first, then provide equal attention to each dog in order.;
, Provide each dog with its own separate bowl, with plenty of space between them. If your dogs show signs of aggression while eating, you may even consider feeding them in different rooms. When feeding time is over, remove any uneaten food to prevent dogs from eating each others’ leftovers.Feed the alpha dog first, then each dog in the hierarchy.
If you provide a treat or bone, provide one for each dog (giving to the alpha dog first).
One water bowl for all dogs is usually fine.
 Just like food bowls, each dog needs a separate area (such as a dog bed or crate) to sleep. In multi-dog households, dogs will usually select where they sleep. They may switch beds at times or even sleep together. The important thing is to ensure that each dog has enough space when it needs it.You might consider crate training your dogs.
If you do this, be sure to provide a comfortable crate for each of your dogs.
 Anytime you bring a new animal home, everyone in your household needs a little time to adjust. If you introduce a new dog or puppy slowly and carefully, the dogs are less likely to fight, and are more likely to quickly determine their social standing with one another.Allow them to meet on neutral territory, such as a park. Ask a friend (or someone from the shelter) to bring the new dog.
When you bring it home, confine the new dog to one room of the house. Allow it to explore the house in time.
Expect some posturing. Dogs may need to tussle a little bit to determine their rank, but it should happen rather quickly.

