 Getting seven to nine hours of sleep a night is extremely important to maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Getting a good night’s sleep improves your ability to learn, make good decisions, and cope with change. Lack of sleep is also linked to depression, heart disease, and obesity.Everybody requires a different amount of sleep. Some will feel good and rested after six hours, others after 10. Experiment with sleeping a different amount of hours per night and see which quantity makes you feel best.Create a good bedtime ritual. Relax with a book for 30 minutes before bed, or stretch and drink herbal tea. It’s also important to stick to a sleep schedule, even on the weekends, so that your body can stay consistent., Yoga is a great activity for creating strength, flexibility, and mind-body awareness. It strengthens the core, back, arms, and legs, and allows you to focus on simply breathing and being present in your body.Invest in a few classes to learn the proper technique. After, you can either continue classes or practice on your own.
 Meditation helps you to become more connected with yourself and the world around you. It helps you to diminish ego and recognize your thoughts as simply thoughts, patterns that encourage mindfulness, joy, and contentment.


Start slow. Give yourself seven to 10 minutes a morning to sit and concentrate on your breathing., People who are open minded and curious about the world around them tend to have better mental health. Learning leads to creativity and higher self-esteem. Try to learn something new everyday!

Read a book that interests you for at least 15 – 20 minutes a day.
Learn a new language. Learning another language keeps your brain active. It broadens your perspective of the world and opens you up to new travel opportunities. Download the app Duolingo on your smartphone for an easy and accessible language learning tool. , Giving yourself time to spend with loved ones leads to increased happiness. Even if you’re busy at work, taking just 30 minutes a day to grab a meal or talk on the phone with somebody you care about will improve your feelings of connectedness and self-worth.