 Match it with the time you will need to run in a prior marathon in order to qualify:;
, Do this by doing the total time in minutes divided by 26.2. For example, a 25 year-old male will have to run 185 minutes/26.2 miles=7.06 minutes per mile. If you want to know exactly how many seconds .06 minutes is, just multiply that by 60. In this case, the man will have to run under 7 minutes 4 seconds per mile for all 26.2 miles to qualify for the Boston Marathon.
 It is often said that you must be able to run a 5k (3.1 miles) in under 19 minutes as a baseline in order to be physiologically capable of accomplishing such a task. This is because runners and endurance athletes in general can really only increase their VO2 max (maximum volume of oxygen an athlete’s body can use) by 15% which has been directly implicated with how long and fast you can run. Be realistic with yourself, as some peoples’ bodies simply are not capable of sustaining such a pace no matter how well trained.
 Do you have an extra 10-20 hours per week to dedicate to running? Do you regularly sleep 7-9 hours a night? If so, plan on integrating a specific daily running schedule into your everyday life. Interestingly enough, professional runners run 12-18 times per week (2-3 times per day)! You do not need to do this, but be aware the training will be rigorous.


Many professionals argue that sleep is the most integral part of success as an athlete. As mentioned above, this is when human growth hormone is released which has myriad muscular benefits. While asleep, the body recovers especially quickly as well. If you do not sleep regularly, you will not reap many of the benefits associated with quality rest (7-9 hours is adequate, but the more the merrier). Professional endurance athletes frequently sleep 10-12 hours throughout the day, including a nap (this allows for a double shot of human growth hormone—once at night, and once during the nap).
 Marathon training plans are typically 18 weeks but may vary depending on what shape you begin at and how fast you want to run. Pasted above is a more advanced training program, but feel free to modify it to fit your daily needs or look up more basic ones online:

, Do not skip runs, as this will come back to bite you in the butt on race day. Mental toughness is the biggest immeasurable variable come race day. Many elite athletes will lose to people who are far less fit but much more mentally strong. Ask yourself if you are mentally tough enough to fight through the pain. Almost everybody will say yes at this point, but during the 20th mile of the marathon, you will no doubt be exhausted.


Many runners hit the ‘wall,’ which occurs when the body is completely depleted of glycogen fuel sources (also known as ‘bonking’). This means the body must burn fat and protein as fuel, which is much more difficult and strenuous. One way to test yourself is to go on a long run—20 miles (32.2 km) or so—and hit the wall to see if you are mentally strong enough to push through. It is estimated that the great majority of runners only achieve 70-80% of their full fitness potential, and this is directly due to the lack of mental toughness.
 The simplest way is to do some high altitude training , which will benefit you immensely.


Conditioning in high altitudes, where the oxygen content in the air is more dispersed (less oxygen in each breath), increases the strain placed on your lungs and heart. The body responds to this by releasing erythropoietin (erythro=red, poietin=growth), a hormone that stimulates red blood cell (scientifically known as erythrocytes) production. An increase in red blood cell count will allow you to run faster and longer. This can be instrumental in your qualification and preparation for the Boston Marathon, and it does not take long to achieve—14 days at 6,500 feet or above is ample time for your body to acclimatize.
You may be familiar with erythropoietin (EPO) as this was the drug that Lance Armstrong took to become a faster biker. This is the artificial form, but the kidneys also produce this hormone regularly, and it can be very beneficial to endurance athletes.
 As mentioned above, this is when human growth hormone (HGH) is released which has myriad muscular benefits. While asleep, the body recovers especially quickly as well. If you do not sleep regularly or do not have time to do so, you will not reap many of the benefits associated with quality rest (7-9 hours is adequate, but the more the merrier). Professional endurance athletes frequently sleep 10-12 hours throughout the day, including a nap (this allows for a double shot of human growth hormone—once at night, and once during the nap).


HGH’s release from the brain at night strengthens bones, muscles, and burns fat. It also curbs ghrelin, which is a hormone that induces hunger—thereby causing weight loss.
 Especially focus on fruits and vegetables to maintain healthy red blood cell production and muscle toning. This will help increase your time and keep your heart strong for the entirety of the training regimen and race. It will also help you lose weight and increase your VO2 max.
 If you have already run a marathon with the corresponding qualifying time, feel free to just head to the Boston Athletic Association website to sign up for the next annual Boston Marathon (registration is typically open during September, and the race is held in the subsequent April). Good luck!

