 If you didn't meet this person in a group dedicated to bartering, politely let them know about the possibility of bartering before you get into the details. Use phrases such as "Are you interested in bartering?" or "I'd be willing to trade services instead of cash if you need any home repairs done." Don't begin by offering an exact quantity of goods or haggling over the price of the visit; make sure the other person is open to the idea first.
 If you were referred to a bartering partner by a friend, ask that friend about the partner's reliability. Request that the bartering partner show examples of his work if possible, and ask about his experience or certification, if relevant. The more valuable the deal, the more important it is to make sure you'll be receiving a high quality "payment."


If you are bartering for an item nearby, examine it in person. If bartering long-distance, ask to see photographs of the item on each side.
If you suspect the bartering partner might not live up to their end of the bargain, invite a friend or a neutral third party to come with you as a witness when you make the deal. Better yet, don't barter with people you don't trust.
 It's best to be exact about your offer before you get too far into the negotiating. Does "yard work" mean weeding the garden, or a full landscaping job transplanting trees? Are the items you are offering fully functional, or are there surprises the other person should know about? It's difficult to negotiate over a deal if the two parties have a different understanding of what's being offered, so clarify the offer as early as possible.


When offering an item, provide photographs of the item or, in the case of art commissions, photographs of past work. These don't need to be professionally taken, but make an effort to take non-blurry photographs in front of a solid-color background., For casual trades between friends, you might quickly decide in conversation that one French lesson is worth one home-baked pie. When dealing with strangers, or conducting more valuable trades, it pays to discuss the value more formally. Each party should explain how much they would normally charge for the good or service they are providing. Be open to haggling over this amount or reducing the price if it still results in a deal that saves you money. Once you've agreed that, for example, a treadmill is worth $50 and an hour of garden work is worth $15, finding a trade that feels fair to both parties should be easier.


Because you are not exchanging precise currencies, the value of each party's contribution is rarely exactly even. In the above example, the gardener might agree to work for 3 hours (worth $45) and receive a treadmill in exchange (worth $50), rather than work for exactly 3 hours and 20 minutes (worth $50).
 If you can't agree on an exchange of services or goods that sounds fair to everyone involved, throw in something extra. This can be cash, another item you're trying to get rid of, or another service., This strategy is more likely to come up among people who are experienced at bartering, or involved in a bartering community. Keep an ear out for people who need particular services, and see if you can work out a three-way trade. For instance, Alfred can walk Bob's dogs; Bob can repair Carol's roof; and Carol can mow Alfred's lawn.
 For larger transactions, or transactions with strangers, it's a good idea to create an agreement in writing. For many small barter trades, oral agreement or agreement in an email can be sufficient.Either way, make sure you agree on the following points before you close the deal:


Who is responsible for providing tools, ingredients, or raw materials? If something needs to be purchased, who pays for it, and who gets to keep the new tools or excess materials afterward?
What's the deadline for completing the service or delivering the goods? If it's a longterm or recurring service, pick a date in the future to talk to each other and check if both people are happy.
How much followup service is expected? For services which can require an unpredictable amount of additional time, such as website maintenance, it may be a good idea to agree on a maximum number of hours before a new agreement needs to be reached.
If someone is providing a service in your home or garden, is she expected to call in advance before she comes over, or is she allowed to stop by and work even if you aren't around?

, If you are communicating with phone messages or emails, make an effort to respond as soon as you can. If there is a delay before you can make a decision or provide the agreed-upon service or item, give the other party an estimate of the time it will take. Make it clear that you expect a response by ending emails with a yes or no question, and follow up with a polite request asking whether the other party has made a decision if you get no response within a few days.If you decide not to accept a deal, let the other party know as soon as possible. Do not assume they will get the message if you stop communicating with them.
 In the United States and most other countries, businesses are required to report their income from bartering based on the estimated value of the service or goods received. Even individuals are required to report capital gains if they end up "making money" on a deal, again based on the estimated value of the services or goods exchanged.If you're not sure of the value of the items exchanged, try to find similar examples online such as items being sold on eBay or Craigslist.
U.S. businesses should report their income on form 1040, schedule C or 1040, schedule C-EZ. If you already submitted your taxes and left the barter income off, correct this with form 1040X.
 Keep in mind that many people already barter with the people they know, but may think of it as a casual trade or an exchange of gifts. Your friends or family might turn down an explicit offer to barter, because it seems to them too transactional, or they might agree but not understand that you expect them to treat it as a serious obligation. In these situations, it may be best to stick with low-value, informal trades, and reduce your expectations of prompt or high-quality returns.

