 Avoid doing work that’s easy so that you can slack off. Instead, volunteer for the most difficult (and important) assignments. If you want to be indispensable, you can’t fly under the radar., You want to be the go-to person for certain skills. For example, your department might use a lot of PowerPoint presentations. Become the person most knowledgeable at troubleshooting PowerPoint.


Begin by analyzing your colleagues. What skill do they monopolize? If one of them leaves, you can take over their task.
Also look for new opportunities at work. For example, your business might bring on a new client in a new industry. Volunteer to work on the account. You’ll be one of the few people in your organization with knowledge of the client and industry.
 Instead of becoming territorial, you should welcome the arrival of younger colleagues. Try to get to know them and to work together, if possible.Show them that you are willing to go the extra mile so that they will see that you are irreplaceable.You can learn as much from your younger colleague as they learn from you. For example, they might have the technology skills that are in demand.Try to get your younger colleague to teach you how to use this technology.
 Any employee who resists change will be swept out of the workforce faster than someone who is willing to try something new. Resist the urge to cling to old ways of doing things.Instead, be open and flexible.


Often, people resist change out of fear. However, you’re probably already afraid of becoming less relevant at your job, so you have little to lose.
You might also be afraid of making mistakes. Nevertheless, everyone who tries something new makes errors along the way. Use this as an opportunity to show your boss that you are still open to receiving criticism.
 Don’t confuse doing a task quickly with doing it properly. Always prioritize quality. By working in a thoughtful manner, you can often uncover faster ways of completing tasks, which will help you in the future., You might not think your appearance has anything to do with your job performance, but people will judge you based on how you look. Drop extra weight and buy clothes that fit. You’ll send the message that you’re energetic and not slowing down.You may need to diet to take off pounds. Commit to losing 12 pounds this year—one pound for each month.

