 Sending a cute text can be very sweet. Sending a nice e-card (which is sweet sense you can add a little message). Call them every now and then. Just be sure you don't call her too little and or too much.;
, Think of things that can be special to you and her. If you go to the same school go to their locker and slide in a love letter (with your name on it or they'll think it's from somebody else), make sure it isn't too small and unnoticeable, or too big. About a 3X3 card with a cute ribbon on it should be nice, but only if you think she'll like it.
 Anything from dance classes, creating a band, and ice skating classes can be fun. If one of you doesn't like the activity, then try finding something else to do.
 Dating is very important, but don't date too much unless you both like it. Go somewhere she or he likes, somewhere new, not always the same place. Water parks, amusement parks, zoos, movies, restaurants, and concerts are good. Share drinks, food, and have fun! Anything should do as long as you're together.
,, It's romantic and sweet.
 When proposing make it romantic. She won't think you’re serious if you try to do it though the phone, email, or a text.
, Don't always give them advice (as this can be annoying) but sometimes when nobody else listens, you can be a good shoulder to cry on, and always comfort her.
 Girls like guys that smell nice and keep themselves clean and tidy. Comb your hair and always take a shower or bath to get rid of body odors.
 As a goodbye or a hello, sometimes a peck on the cheek, a 5-second kiss, or a passionate kiss can be sweet. Don’t always make out or she'll think that's all you want, or talk about it too much! Occasionally a surprise kiss can be cute! However, don’t keep it a peck; make it a long passionate kiss.
, This you will have to figure out and really talk through to your parents. Don’t just whine, actually sit them down and have a serious talk. Racial differences can have a huge impact on your partner so that is something you really need to prove to your parents that their wrong and your right. Maybe you parents don't want you kissing or having anything sexual at a young age. You will have to make sure your parents understand you are smarter than this and never lie to them about these things. You'll lose a lot of your trust and they'll most likely end up saying I told you so. Nevertheless, if you truly love your partner, then you can’t give up.
 This can be your rooftop, a tree, a hill, a restaurant, or a certain bench! Somewhere worthy of being called special, like where you’re first kiss was, or where you proposed, your first date, or where you asked them out!

