 There is likely an underlying root for not showing your emotions. Perhaps you grew up in an environment where showing your emotions was frowned upon, or you are suppressing strong emotions so you don’t have to deal with them.


Think about events in your life that may have been tragic that you haven’t dealt with. Do you fear talking about those events? Understanding why you aren’t showing your emotions will help you move forward and express your emotions in the future.;
, There are six basic human emotions: happiness, sadness, fear, anger, surprise and disgust. You must understand how each emotion is felt inside, and how to show them outwardly, so you can then express yourself appropriately.Positive emotions include happiness and surprise. Happiness is felt around the body and involves feeling content and safe.Surprise is felt as a sudden jolt in the head and chest region.
Negative emotions include anger, disgust, sadness, and fear. Anger is felt from the shoulder blades up through the back of your head as heat.Disgust, which is felt mainly in the stomach, often leads to feelings of nausea. Sadness feels physically painful in the chest and upwards.Fear involves a quickening heart rate, heavy breathing, and sweatiness., Emotions drive our decision making, according to recent neurological studies. Without feeling some emotion towards a decision, it is nearly impossible to define a position on a topic. Understanding that decision making and emotions are connected can help you become emotionally aware, which you can use to your advantage.

For example, if you are making a decision at work that frightens you, recognize your decision might be biased, and make a logic-based, instead of a fear-based decision.
 Every time you feel something, pause for a moment and ask yourself, “What is this emotion?” If you are in a meeting with your boss, and begin to feel agitated, instead of suppressing or ignoring the emotion, take three seconds to recognize that you are feeling something. Remind yourself that your emotions are valid and you are feeling this way for a reason. Physically label the emotion as “sad”, “happy”, etc. by writing it down on the nearest piece of paper or on your phone.Encourage yourself to continue to recognize emotions, so that it becomes easier overtime. Tell yourself that “I am not wrong for feeling this way” and “I admit I feel this emotion”.
 After you acknowledge you are feeling an emotion, accept the feeling and any consequence associated with it. By staying accountable to your emotional responses, you can make positive steps to fix or change the response.


For example, if you are feeling sad, and are mean to a loved one in response, take ownership of your emotional response. Then reach out to the person and apologize, explaining to them you were acting upon your emotions.
 Once you have the vocabulary associated with emotions, you can begin to articulate them with others. Carefully select a loved one who is willing to listen to you, and share the emotions you had in a given day. Talk about negative and positive emotions and how you dealt with both. Sharing your emotions with another person can provide clarity and perspective, and be quite relieving.


If you are still uncomfortable talking with a loved one about your emotions, try seeking therapy. Talking with a professional therapist will not only ease your mind about the possibility of being judged by a loved one, but a therapist is trained to help you express emotions and get to the root of your inability to share emotions with others.
Don’t feel ashamed or guilty for sharing your emotions with others or seeing a therapist. Learning to express emotions in a positive way with immensely help your physical and mental health.
 If you are feeling your emotions but don’t know or understand how to express them, study TV and movie actors. These are people who are trained to show emotions. They will exaggerate each emotion, which will give you a chance to understand the outward expressions associated with each emotion.The Notebook, Marley and Me, The Shawshank Redemption, Blood Diamond, and The Pursuit of Happiness are good movies with actors expressing a range of emotions., Writing down your emotions can help you become aware of them. Indicate how your body felt and how you outwardly expressed each emotion. For example, “I felt happy today after talking with my wife. To express my happiness, I smiled and gave her a hug”.


Writing your emotions and outward responses can act as a ‘study sheet’ that you can review when you are having an especially difficult time expressing your emotions.
 Think about how you might react to events happening in your future, and brainstorm alternative emotional responses. For example, if you know you are going to a wedding, you might initially feel dread or stressed about meeting new people. But, consider other emotional responses, such as happiness for the couple’s new life and the opportunity to meet new people.


Predicting how you will feel will help you be prepared to handle each emotion. If you prepare for emotional responses, you become aware of them as they happen., Empathy is critical because it allows you to be sensitive towards other’s feelings and emotions. Once you can feel for someone else, you can turn inwards, and express your own emotions. Listen to people, and really try to make a connection with them. Use your imagination to think about what someone else has been through and how they may have felt.Volunteer at a homeless shelter, elderly home, or food bank and talk with people who have been through many struggles in their life. Take note of how they express their emotions, and keep that in mind when the time comes to express your own.Read a book and imagine yourself in someone else’s situation. Grab a book you have read before or have been meaning to read. Pick one or two characters that you especially like, and try to put yourself in their shoes. Imagine what each character is going through, and try to imagine how they feel.
 Stand in front of a mirror with a list of emotions and practice making facial expressions for each one. Learn how the muscles around your face, eyes, and mouth move for each expression. Practice moving your hands in appropriate places for each emotion.For example, when you are practicing surprise, your eyes should widen and place your hand over your open mouth.
 You do not have to express emotions with every person you talk with. When you are first expressing your emotions, you may feel silly or vulnerable, so you must choose friends and family that you trust to withhold judgments, and accept that you are striving to make changes., When you are conversing with others, exaggerate your facial expressions, hand gestures, and emotional responses. If you go over the top with your emotions, you can learn to rein in your emotional response over time.


You may feel silly being over the top about your emotions, but if you choose the right people to do this with, it will not matter, and will be of ultimate benefit to you.
Be cautions when being overly expressive. Ensure you think about your emotions and actions before you act on them. If you are overly emotive about being angry, you might come across as hostile or dangerous. So emote with caution!

, Emotions are felt stronger when a behavior is attached to them, even if the behavior is not a natural response. You can ‘fake’ cry when you know you feel sad. This will elevate and intensify your emotional sadness, and may lead to real crying or, at least, a greater show of emotion.Emotions contain certain impulses (fear elicits the fight or flight response, anger elicits retaliation) that you have no control over.When you have these impulses, do not fight against them; instead amplify them so they show outwardly.
 Using physical contact can be helpful in expressing your emotions. Physical touch can impart emotion in a way our facial expressions or verbal tone cannot. Recent scientific studies have shown that humans have an innate ability to decipher emotions through physical touch alone.When someone makes you happy, gently place you hand on their shoulder. When you feel disgust, squeeze someone’s arm.
Physical touch is not welcomed by everyone, and if done incorrectly, may not be well received. Pick up on nonverbal cues from others about their acceptance of physical touch, and do it moderation.
 Not every situation calls for emotion, such as a work meeting, while others, such as talking with your significant other, require a more heightened emotive response. Judge each situation independently to decide the level of emotion you should show.

