 If you want to recover quickly, rest your vocal chords as much as possible. Talking can strain the muscles, which aggravates inflammation.Do not whisper. Contrary to popular belief, whispering doubles the stress on the larynx.
Speak softly or write down what you have to say.
 For a speedy recovery from laryngitis, it's important to remain hydrated and keep your throat moist to relieve irritation. Drink lots of liquids and try sucking on lozenges or chewing gum.When the throat is particularly sore, warm fluids can be soothing. Try drinking lukewarm water, soup, or warm tea with honey.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can actually increase dryness and irritation.
Sucking lozenges and chewing gum help increase the production of saliva, which will relieve throat irritation.
 Gargling—holding lukewarm water in the mouth, tilting the head back and using the muscles in the throat to make an “ahhhh” sound—can also quickly ease some of your symptoms. To experience the most benefit and recover from your laryngitis quickly, gargle several times a day for several minutes at a time.Try gargling with warm water and ½ teaspoon of salt dissolved in the water to increase saliva production, promote healing, and relieve your symptoms faster.
You can also gargle with a tablet of Aspirin dissolved in a glass of lukewarm water for pain relief. It is important to avoid swallowing the aspirin, and this mixture should not be given to children under the age of 16 to avoid the risk of choking.
Some people recommend gargling mouthwash, since it is supposed to kill germs and bacteria in your mouth.
Another gargling home remedy people is to try is a mixture of equal parts water and vinegar, which is thought to kill bacteria and fungi that may cause laryngitis.
 Smoke contributes to further inflammation of the larynx, as it will irritate and dry out the throat.Laryngitis sufferers are encouraged to quit smoking and avoid staying around smokers.
 Moist air can help lubricate the throat’s airways and decrease inflammation, so try inhaling steam or using an air humidifier to alleviate your laryngitis.Turn on the hot water in the shower so there is plenty of steam, and spend 15 to 20 minutes inhaling the steam.
You can also try inhaling the steam over a bowl of hot water. It often helps to put a towel over your head so the steam does not dissipate as quickly.
 Herbs have long been used to treat sore throat and other symptoms related to laryngitis, but they can cause side effects, especially when they interact with other supplements or medications. While it’s best to talk with a health care professional about whether or not it is safe to use herbs to treat your laryngitis, there is a list below of some of the herbs thought to provide relief from laryngitis.Eucalyptus can soothe an irritated throat. Use fresh leaves to drink as a tea or use as a gargle. Do not drink eucalyptus oil as it is poisonous.
Peppermint is similar to eucalyptus and can help treat common colds and sore throats. Do not use peppermint or menthol with infants and do not take peppermint oil by mouth.
Licorice is used as a treatment for sore throat. However, consult with your doctor before eating licorice especially if you are taking medications such as aspirin or warfarin. This may affect people who are pregnant, have high blood pressure, or who have heart, liver or kidney disease.
Slippery elm is thought to relieve throat irritation since it contains mucilage that coats the throat, but scientific evidence for this herbal remedy is limited. To test it on your laryngitis symptoms, mix 1 teaspoon of the powdered extract in a cup of warm water and sip slowly. Try to hold the mixture in your mouth for as long as possible before swallowing. Slippery elm might also impact the way your body absorbs medication, so talk with a healthcare expert and avoid taking other medication with slippery elm. You should also avoid this herb if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.

