 Everyone's scared of dead people. They're dead. That's scary. If you want to exploit this fear, you can learn to make yourself look like a zombie using basic make-up and safe products. Try out the following tactic:


Wash your face thoroughly, then apply some really pale foundation make up all over your face. You could also use some baby powder to dust your face gently and make it appear paler. The pallor of death.
Use dark blue or black eye shadow under your eyes to give them that sunken, fresh out of the grave look. Blend it gently to make it look more natural. Nice.

Make up some fake blood using food coloring and corn syrup, then draw a fake "wound" on your body somewhere visible with marker and bloody it up with the fake blood.
 For lots of us, the blood will curdle at the thought of visiting a deranged surgeon or dentist. It's time to have some fun with this fear. Dress up in rubber gloves, some blue scrubs, and cover your mouth like a real surgeon, so only your eyes are exposed. You can get most of these things at most drug stores.


You can even go all out and get some surgical equipment to make it as realistic as possible, or at least your dad's power drill from the garage. Unplug it, of course.
Splatter some ketchup or fake blood all over your scrubs and carry a knife and fork. You'll look super creepy.
 The classics are classics for a reason. They're scary. Dress up as a zombie, vampire, ghost, or mummy. You could also invent your own monster costume and be even more unique.


Look to famous horror-movie characters like Michael Myers, Jason, Freddy Krueger, or Ghost Face from Scream," and see if you can get your hands on a realistic looking mask.

Wearing a mask over your regular clothes can look somewhat creepy, but if you're wearing what you wore to school that day, it'll probably be a quick tip that it's you.
 If you don't have the time or energy to put together a creepy costume, you can use your acting skills to make up for it. It can be even creepier if you look the same, but seem off in some scary way. Try out the following:


Just sit in a dark room with the TV blasting static, rocking back and forth, mumbling the sentence, "They told me this would happen..." over and over. When your friend starts looking concerned, scream at the top of your lungs.
Walk into your sibling's room in the middle of the night and just stand over their bed with your mouth open, drooling fake blood and breathing raggedly.
Stand facing the corner in a dark room. Do nothing. When you turn around, have fake blood all over your face.

