 Robert’s Rules of Order are complex, and it can be difficult to memorize them all. Having a copy of the Rules available at meetings will allow an individual to look up any rules for which he needs clarification.The full text of older editions of the Rules are available for download on the internet. The current edition of the Rules, as well as other editions are available for purchase in book format.
The website for Robert’s Rules of Order also contains some quick summaries of the rules and treatments of specialized subjects., While the chairperson of the meeting bears much of the responsibility of running the meeting, Robert’s Rules of Order can only be effective if all members at the meeting are willing to follow the rules. Board meetings require multiple people to discuss ideas and proposals, and following the Rules allows for this discussion to flow in a courteous and respectful manner.


Members will also be disadvantaged in the discussion if they do not fully comprehend the rules. That is because there are many specialized maneuvers that speakers can use to their advantage in debates. There are so many of this, it can be hard for a novice to exert as much control over the debate as an expert.Circulate a summary of the basic rules to each member, and hold a meeting to discuss the rules and practice them. The Rules are fairly easy to understand, but putting them into practice while engaging in a thoughtful dialogue can take some work. It requires members to think about the Rules before speaking. The only way to get the Rules down is to practice them in a group setting.
 The chairperson will be responsible for moderating the debate and ensuring that rules are properly enforced. The chairperson might even be required to clarify and explain the rules to the members. It is, therefore, imperative that the chairperson be particularly knowledgeable of the rules., The only way to master the rules is to practice. After running many meetings under these rules, you should develop a good sense for how they work. You might even be able to find courses offered locally that will allow you to learn and practice procedures.

