 Twitter is another excellent venue for getting in touch with your fans, promoting your content, and getting more people excited about your music. To promote your music on Twitter, you should actively update your timeline with new information about events, promotions, and album releases. Here are some other things to try as you promote your music on Twitter:


Live-tweet events. If you have a unique perspective on something, from your own concert to the Grammys, use the live-tweet to keep your fans engaged.
Provide links to your videos or music.
Master hashtags to get more people interested in your music.
Take engaging photos that catch your followers' eyes and make them want more.
Take the time to reply to your fans. Reply to them publicly and let everyone know how much you care about your fans and make them feel special for reaching out to you by sending them DMs with more content.
Use the Vine app to promote your music through videos. Celebrities from Paul McCartney to Enrique Iglesias are already using this App., The best way to promote your music on Facebook is to create a Facebook Fan Page. This will allow you to connect with your fans and to separate your personal life from your professional life. Use your Facebook page to give fans basic information about your music, to provide exclusive content, and to give information about upcoming releases, concerts, and anything else your fans would like to know about your music. Here are some other things to keep in mind as you promote your music on Facebook:Don't annoy your fans by reposting the same information many times over. Once should be enough.
Use "likes" as a gate to distribute content like videos and downloads. If a fan "likes" your link, then he can listen to more of your music.
Connect with your fans. Ask your fans for feedback, and take the time to respond to your fans' comments. This will make them feel more connected to you and your music.
Reach out to other artists on Facebook. If you know a more popular artist or an artist whose music has a similar but larger fanbase, ask if he can promote your music on his page; this will drive up your likes.
Create events. Use Facebook to create events that invite your fans to your latest concerts. Even if the venue has already created an event, this will help get the word out to more people.
 You can use Instagram to reach out to even more fans. You should sync your Instagram and Facebook profiles to reach out to more people at once, and use popular hashtags to increase your visibility. Work on posting images from your band rehearsal, or even the occasional photo of you or your band members goofing off to show that you're human.


Take the time to engage with your fans. If they post a photo of your concert, you should like the photo.
Post your content during weekday afternoons -- they tend to get more traffic that way.
You can get more likes on Instagram by liking your fans' photos or commenting on more photos.
 Though social media is an excellent platform for promoting your music, you must absolutely have your own website. This will help steer fans in the right direction in the most professional way possible. Your website should have information about your concerts, music, origin story, and anything else that can help get your fans more excited about your music.


Use social media to promote your website, and include a link to your website in all of your social media profiles.
You should pay for your own domain name and your own unique website instead of promoting your band on a site for many other bands if you want to stand out.
 Have your music readily available on Spotify, RadioAirplay, Deezer, Singrush, and iTunes. That way, you'll look like a real professional the next time a venue manager or fan asks where he can find your music.


Use audio drops when you distribute and promote your music. This means telling your listeners where they can find your music at the beginning or at the end of every single, or at the beginning and end of every album.