 Even if your intentions may be pure, he will think you're returning his affections if you linger with him. At this point, his mind will be clouded, and he will be focused on getting something out of the relationship he has with you. Any action you perform that hints of romantic interest will only encourage him to continue, even if you truly didn't mean anything.;
, Avoid looking eager, even if you secretly might be. Responding to him or looking interested will only encourage him to continue, and he might hurt you badly in the process - physically and/or inwardly. Be firm when telling him "no," and show negative feelings towards him if need be. Don't be gentle or kind to him because he'll take it the wrong way at this point.
 If it becomes obvious that he is interested in you, ask him why he is playing around with you while he still has a girl. Chances are he will tell you she is boring, and he will claim he wants to break up with her for you. However, avoid falling for that. He is only batting around with your feelings in order to persuade you into giving him what he wants.


Note that he might deny it. However, keep your guard up and be on the alert for signs that he is flirting with you.
 Firmly tell yourself that he doesn't want you. He is only using you for his own selfish needs. Despite how intimate he may be with you, he truly doesn't care about your feelings. He only wants your body. Although it might feel good at the start, you will start to realize that you're only preparing yourself for a terrible crash. He will start to detach from you, and he will eventually leave you.
 You are no different. To him, you're just another girl whom he will use to get what he wants. Although he might tell you otherwise, he doesn't love you, and you should avoid hurting yourself.
 Remember you are still young, and you still have a chance to find someone who truly loves you. It's best to keep yourself pure for the one who gives you unconditional love so that you won't have to show him the scars you could have avoided. There will be plenty of guys who will rock your world and make you feel like the beautiful girl you already are.
 Think about the consequences, even if there might not seem to be any at the moment. Remember that you must stay true to yourself, and you come first - not him. Avoid scarring and wounding yourself by stepping into a horrible relationship like that. Do something that your future self will thank you for.
 If worse comes to worse and he won't leave you alone, approach a trustworthy adult, and tell them about the situation before it's too late. You could also share your worries with your good friends, but remember that they might not be able to help you or give you the best advice. Don't count out your family - realize that they will possibly be the most supporting and helpful in this situation.

