 It may be tempting to stay up late and sleep in on the weekends, but studies show that this can potentially wreck your whole week's sleep schedule.Instead, try to maintain your usual sleep schedule seven nights a week, going to bed around the same time and waking up at the same time every day., Napping feels great when you're really drained, and a short "power nap" may help you get through a busy day on little sleep. But even a short nap could reset your internal sleep schedule, causing you to lie awake and restless at night. Instead of napping to catch up on sleep, try going to bed a little earlier that night. You'll sleep more soundly and cut down on the risk of losing even more sleep at night., Your bedroom should be a room that makes it easy to relax and fall asleep. Bright lights upset your body's circadian rhythm, which is why it's important to sleep in as dark a room as possible.That may require thicker curtains or blinds to block out any outside light, and leaving a fan or air conditioner on (or a window open) to keep it cool.Optimal sleep temperatures range between 60 to 67 degrees Fahrenheit (15.5 to 19.4 degrees Celsius). That's because your body temperature lowers slightly when you sleep, and being in a cool room may help initiate the process.Use curtains or blinds to block outside light, and turn off all artificial lighting in your room.If it's still to bright (say, if you work at night and sleep during the day), consider buying a sleep mask. They're fairly cheap and can be found online or at many retail stores.Try to block out as much outside sound as possible. If need be, you may have to sleep with some type of white noise, like a fan or white noise machine. Earplugs can also help, if you live in a particularly noisy neighborhood., It may be tempting to respond to texts while you're lying in bed, or to surf the internet from your mobile phone or tablet in bed. But studies show that the glow from electronic screens can reduce your ability to fall asleep. Using electronics can also cause additional stress. For example, checking a work email or reading about upsetting news events may make it difficult to fall asleep.Turn off or set aside all electronic devices at least 30 minutes before bed. This will help you avoid stimulation and get ready to sleep., Some days you may be unaware of your evening habits and how they could be contributing to sleeplessness. Try keeping a detailed log of all your evening habits, including anything you had to eat or drink, any activities you engaged in, and the precise time you did any of those things. This may help you realize that certain habits are interfering with your ability to sleep, or if nothing else it may make it easier for your doctor to diagnose what may be causing your sleep problems.