 Forbearance provides a temporary suspension or reduction of your mortgage payments. For this reason, it may help you stay in your home until your financial situation improves. Forbearance can be a useful way to get out of a financial hole caused by illness, divorce, or the loss of a job.The lender cannot file foreclosure against you once you have negotiated a mortgage forbearance agreement, unless you default on the repayment plan.;
, Forbearance plans are primarily for those borrowers who have historically made their mortgage payments on time and in full, but have temporarily run into financial hardship. It is not useful for borrowers who are unable to afford their mortgage under normal conditions (those who have bought more house than they can afford). Borrowers asking for forbearance should be ready to make changes to their spending habits and make good-faith efforts to repay their mortgages.


Not all mortgages are eligible for forbearance. For example, adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) that have risen to unaffordable interest rate levels are not eligible., A forbearance plan does not forgive your mortgage payments. Rather, it delays them to be paid when you come out of financial trouble. At this point, you will be paying both your regular, monthly mortgage payments and additional payments used to cover the payments accrued during the forbearance period. If you don't budget for this increase in payments, you may fall back into financial difficulties.


In addition, a forbearance plan can lower your credit score. However, the reduction in your credit score from a forbearance plan is significantly less than the impact of multiple late or unpaid mortgage payments., If you've run into financial trouble and cannot make your loan payments, taking on a forbearance plan is just one of your many options. Your main options are loan modification, which re-amortizes your loan over a longer period, and refinancing, which can lower your interest rate. Other options may be available in specific circumstances, including:


Short selling your home. If you hold more equity in your house than you owe, you may be able to sell your house quickly and use the proceeds to repay your loan.
Refunding. VA loans (special loans provided to veterans) can be repurchased and serviced by the VA, giving borrowers more flexibility in making payments.
Principal reduction. Some government programs may allow you to restructure your loan using a lower value for your home. This would, in turn, reduce your payments., Your first step is to get in contact with your lender. The best way to do this is simply by calling and asking to speak to loan services. When you call, your lender will typically ask for the following information:


A description of your hardship.
Your loan number.
Your monthly, pre-tax income.
A list of monthly expenses.
Any unemployment benefits you may be receiving., In order to improve your chances of getting forbearance, you'll have to show your lender that you've already tried to cut expenses to make your mortgage payments. Have evidence of this ready when you ask for forbearance. Make sure to fully explain your situation., Prepare to demonstrate your financial hardship by submitting financial information such as copies of your unemployment compensation award letter, or your paycheck stubs showing your reduced wages, your recent bank statements, your tax returns and a list of your debts and assets., Check back in by phone or in person every few days until your case is given to a loan officer or negotiator.
 Even after your case is sent to a specialized loan officer, you still may not hear back for a while. This is because your specific situation is being analyzed. If your request for forbearance is approved, you will receive a letter that spells out the lender's proposed forbearance terms, including:


The amount of the reduction in your mortgage payments during the forbearance period.
Any other fees (insurance, escrow, etc.) covered by forbearance.
The duration of the forbearance period.
Terms for repayment of the payments not made during the forbearance period., Look over the forbearance terms and make sure they are a fit to your situation. For example, make sure the reduction in payment is large enough that it allows you to make the payments during the forbearance period. In addition, you should make sure that the forbearance period is long enough to give you time to get back on your feet. Finally, make sure the terms for repayment of payments not made during the forbearance period will be sustainable for you once the time comes for you to repay them.
 Lenders may make it seems like the forbearance terms they give you are set in stone. However, you hold some of the negotiating power here. The banks don't want to take on the costs of foreclosing on your house, so they may be willing to listen if you don't like the forbearance terms. Call or visit the bank in person to negotiate the terms to your liking.Keep in mind, however, that there is no guarantee that the lender will allow for your proposed changes. While borrowers have no legal requirement to accept the terms of a forbearance agreement, lenders are not required to make terms acceptable to the borrower.
 Your lender will let you know if there are any other documents that require your signature., If your forbearance period comes to end and you are still unable to make your payments, especially the forbearance repayments, your lender may be willing to continue to work with you. In this case, they may offer loan modification or refinancing as an option so that you can avoid foreclosure.