 Some joking poking and prodding, a light hug, and sitting next to each other is fine, but brushing her shoulders or cheeks, snuggling up next to each other, and (of course!) kissing are going to send a very different message. The best ground rule is to act like you were with any other friend, of any gender. Don't overanalyze every gesture or move -- that's what people do on dates! Just be yourself.


Try not to touch each other much -- especially if you construe it at all as sexual. If you feel like things are romantic, they are, so move on or find a way to create some distance., If one of you is buying the other's dinner or the movie tickets, you're starting to steer yourself into dating territory. Let her buy her food, and you buy yours. Remember, going out platonically is just like going out with friends -- and you wouldn't buy your buddy's taxi ride just for nothing.
 If you're your normal, friendly self, then you shouldn't have anything to worry about. Whenever you're together, try not to overthink things or worry about signals. Just relax and be a friend, like you would with any of "the guys." The more you keep things friendly in general, the more platonic you'll come off when you ask her out.


You shouldn't treat her like "girlfriend-lite." You want to treat her like a normal friend whose opinion you admire and who you like spending time with.
 One of the best ways to make it obvious that the date is platonic is to talk about the person you're actually dating. Even if you're not currently seeing anyone, you may feel comfortable enough to mention that you're not interested in dating, though you have to see how to conversation plays out. Some ways to be subtle include:


"You like that band? My girlfriend loves them too!"
"You would get along great with _______, I'd love you to meet her."
You should also ask about her love life -- asking "who are you crushing on?" or "any luck finding a new man?" will show that you're just friend's gossiping., If you run into other friends, go join them. If she suggests something different to do, or you change your mind, go with the flow. Don't worry about keeping things perfect or "running" the date well. This is just two friends hanging out, and overthinking things tends to give the impression of a "real" date.


Do not invite her back to your place, especially if you're just getting to know one another.

