 That way you can adjust the spacing between the stitches by experimentation before you end up with a giant clump of stitches that are too close together on your actual, precious project.
 Satin stitching is a zig zag stitch with the threads so close they touch each other. This is zig zag setting 1 on most machines.


You can change the width setting to any size that suits your design. Most satin stitches show up in buttonholes, outlines, and other narrow areas.
If you're not sure how to set your machine, look in the manual. You can find many sewing machine manuals online.
 A regular sewing machine foot will usually jam if you try to satin stitch with it. Buy a special satin stitch foot from any store that sells your brand of sewing machine. This foot has a groove on the underside so the stitch can pass through as you go.


A transparent foot makes it easier to see your design.
For intricate designs, you may use a free motion embroidery foot instead. This allows you to move the fabric in any direction while you stitch.
 For all but the simplest patterns, most embroiderers sketch their design onto the fabric. Use washable fabric pencil so you can remove the marks later.
 An embroidery hoop that attaches to your machine will keep the fabric taut for your stitch. If you are stitching an intricate pattern, you'll also need a stabilizer that adheres to the back of the fabric.


The choice of stabilizer depends on the fabric, thread, and type of project, so read the product description carefully before buying., Move slowly, especially if you're stitching an edge or outline. The stitches should be as even and close together as possible.


If your experimental satin stitch puckers, that means the tension is maladjusted. You can adjust upper and lower tensions ahead of time to prevent this.
Make sure the satin-stitches top-side and under-side are pretty much even in width. This is also a function of tension.
If adjusting the top tension doesn't even-out the top and bottom stitches, you can adjust bobbin tension by a tiny turn of the set screw on the bobbin case.
 If your piece has a satin-stitched outline, protect it with a fabric sealant such as Fray Check.


To further enhance the appearance, carefully trim the fabric just outside the satin stitches. Work with a magnifying glass to reduce the chance of cutting one of your stitches.

