 Getting your heart and lungs going is the absolute quickest way to burning fat. You don't just want junk in the trunk, you want toned, rounded goodness. Try these strategies on different machines at the gym or on the road:










On the road: Walk sideways. Pulling your leg away from your body works your butt at a different angle.

Treadmill: Jog, making sure that your heel hits the ground before your toe. If you're walking, increase your incline.

Elliptical: Bring your hips back so that your butt sticks out a little bit. When you step down, push your heel down first.

StairMaster: Lean slightly forward and take bigger steps as though you're trying to climb 2 stairs at a time. Also, let go of the bar so that your butt muscles are forced to keep you stable.

Bike: Ride an upright bike and concentrate on pushing down forcefully on the pedals.;
, Any personal trainer or fitness buff will tell you squats should be your main glute exercise. You can do these with a barbell or with dumbbells, depending on your preference.









To do squats with a barbell:

Start by placing your barbell on a squat rack about 3 to 5" (7.5 to 13 cm) below your shoulders. Lift up the barbell off of the rack and step out of the way (don't use your neck). Position your feet about shoulder-width apart with your knees and toes pointing outward. Make sure your knees line up vertically with your toes so that you don't overextend them.
Squeeze your glutes and lower your body until your thighs are parallel with the floor. Use your glutes and push yourself back into your original position. Do 8 reps at a heavy weight or 2 sets of 8 at a lighter weight.


To do squats with dumbbells:

Hold 2 dumbbells in your hands and stand with your feet slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Bend your knees, making sure that your knees line up vertically with your toes and don't extend out over your toes. Your toes and knees should angle slightly outward.
Squeeze your glutes and lower your butt. Your knees will bend, but they should still not extend beyond your toes. Keep your back as tall as possible. Squat down until your thighs are parallel with the floor. Focus on using your glutes more than you use your thighs when you're raising yourself back into an upright position. Do 2 sets of 8 reps.
 Add weights to your barbell, being careful not to add too much weight until you get the form of this exercise correct. Stand with your feet beneath a barbell shoulder-width apart so that the balls of your feet are directly under the bar. Turn your toes and knees slightly outward for stability.









Squat down and grasp the bar. Your grip should be slightly wider than shoulder width apart.
Lower your hips a bit more until your thighs are parallel with the floor. Make sure that your back is flat and that you are looking straight ahead for good alignment.
Lift the barbell off of the ground. Stand up, move your hips and shoulders upward at the same rate and keep your back flat.
Lower the barbell slowly back to the starting position. Use your glutes and stick your butt out as you lower yourself, as though you're about to sit down in a chair.
Do 8 reps. As you get stronger, increase the weight.
 Stand up straight with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold dumbbells in each hand, with your arms relaxed at your sides.









To do a front lunge, step forward with your right foot. Bend your right knee until your thigh and calf are at a 90-degree angle. Don't allow your right knee to extend beyond your toes. Push off of your front foot to place yourself back in a standing position. As you rise up, tighten your glutes, your thigh muscles and your calf muscles to bring yourself back to the starting position in a slow and controlled manner.

You can either repeat the lunges on your right side or you can step forward with your left foot and lunge, continuing to alternate sides. Do 2 sets of 8 so that you perform 8 lunges on the right side and 8 lunges on the left side.


To do a reverse lunge, place your left leg a step behind you. Lower your hips until your left calf is parallel to the floor and your right knee is bent at a 90-degree angle. Push off of your right foot and raise yourself up. Keep your back aligned with your hips, and use your glutes, quads, hamstrings and calves to push yourself upward. Bring your left foot back to the starting position. Extend your right foot backward and repeat the reverse lunge on your right side. Do 2 sets of 8 reps so that you get 8 reps for each side of your body.
 Start by getting down on your hands and knees. It's best to do these on a soft surface like a yoga mat.









Keeping your leg bent at a 90-degree angle, lift the outside of your right knee toward the ceiling until the inner part of your right thigh is parallel to the floor.
Hold the position for 5 seconds and then lower your knee back to its starting position. Do the same with your left leg.
Do 8 reps on each side and increase the number of reps or the amount of time that you hold your leg in the air to make it more difficult.
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your arms extended outward at shoulder height for balance. Do you feel like you're flying, Jack?









Lift your right foot behind you as high as you can while maintaining your balance. You should feel the squeeze in the right side of your butt.
Hold the lift for 5 seconds before lowering your foot back to its starting position. Repeat the same exercise on your left side.
Increase the challenge as you go by holding your kickback for longer or by doing more reps.
 Start by getting on all fours, preferably on a yoga mat or other comfortable surface. Keeping your knee bent at a 90 degree angle, open one leg outwards so that your knee is parallel to the floor.Hold for two seconds, then lower your leg again.
Do two sets of 15-20 reps on each side.
Make it more challenging by holding your leg up for longer and increasing the number of reps.
 Skater lunges work your glutes, plus a number of other muscles in your legs. Start by standing with your feet shoulder-width apart. With your left leg, step diagonally behind your right, and settle into a lunge so that your knee almost touches the floor. Then, return to your starting position.Repeat the movement with your right leg, stepping diagonally behind your left. Do three sets of 15-20 reps on each side.
You may not be able to complete 3 sets at first. Do as many as you can, gradually working up to three sets.
If you want to increase the intensity, hold a weight in each hand while you do the exercise.
 Your muscles need time to recover if you don't want them to shrink, which goes against your mission of getting a huge butt.


Muscles need time to repair, literally, the rips and tears that occur with extensive exercise. You may think going, going, going will get you the fastest results, but your muscles will burn out.
 mantra. Every muscle-tee-wearing sweaty guy at the gym may be pounding protein bars, shakes, and powders, but research says it's a myth. In fact, too much may lead to bodily harm.The only way to build muscle is through exercise. Bodies need a modest amount of protein to function well. Extra protein doesn't give you extra strength.For women, the US Department of Health and Human Services says that two daily servings for a total of 6 ounces (170 g) is plenty.
Teenage boys and active men can get everything they need from three servings, or 7 ounces (198 g).
 Cut out refined, white sugars. Instead, go with brown rice, lentils and beans. These "resistant carbs" can cut fat around your midsection, which will make your butt look bigger.


Processed, refined goods are generally a no-no for anyone wishing to sculpt their body. Sticking to whole grains, oats, beans and nuts can give you the carbs that are good for your body.
 If you tend to store fat around your hips and butt, upping your calories so that you have more padding in that area will really help you to get a bigger butt. If you tend to store fat elsewhere, like around your midsection, then you'll just end up putting fat in the wrong place.


If you store fat in your arms, stomach, and legs, cutting calories and losing weight will help your butt look bigger by comparison. Since it's hard to target areas completely, a calorie-restrictive diet may be necessary.
 Choose boot-cut or flared jeans, or wear cropped skinny Capris with heels. The right pants can be miracle workers. Check them from all angles and walk around in them before you take them out of the store.


Opt for a tight fit. Anything too baggy will hide your form and make your curves impossible to see. Skinny jeans will obviously do the trick, but any cut with a fitted rear can work wonders, too.
Consider pocket placement and color. Small, high back pockets and ones with eye-catching designs are great for giving the illusion of a bigger rear. Stay away from jeans with big pockets or no pockets at all.
Both high-waisted and low-waisted jeans will work in your favor. High-waisted jeans draw in at your natural waist, making your butt seem much larger in comparison; low-waisted jeans start at the widest place on your hip, drawing the eye to that area.
 Try Booty Booster Shorts, which have removable butt pads, or Naomi & Nicole's Firm Sheer Boy Shorts, which claim to pad your butt without jiggling.


Try girdles or spanx. They cinch in the fat around your midsection, pushing it to the areas it should be and giving you a shapelier, hourglass look.
 Cinch in your waistline or wear clothes that contour your hourglass figure. Anything that draws in at your smallest points is a safe bet. Avoid tops or dresses that cinch in just below your bra or that cinch around the hip.


Place a dark-colored belt over any shirt or dress at your natural waistline to elongate the line of your body and draw the eye to your smallest section.
 Heels will make you naturally tilt your pelvis forward, making your legs look longer and your butt look bigger. They also flex your calves, making your legs look more toned.


If you're uncomfortable in heels, it's best to start out with a kitten heel. No one will be looking at your butt (no matter how great it is) if you're constantly on the verge of spraining your ankle.
 A really intense lymphatic massage to reshape your rear, combined with an algae wrap to kill cellulite and water retention, will make your butt look awesome. Or you can ask for Lipomassage, which is a massage tool with rollers designed to make your butt look sleeker.Note: This will not directly affect the size of your butt. It may make the skin glow and give the temporary illusion of tone, but your rear will not get magically bigger overnight. If only, right?

, Creams like FDA approved Glutiplus claim that they can significantly increase your butt size. Keep in mind, these are just claims.


Again, the only thing that can truly affect butt size is exercise and weight loss/gain. Some people claim that the creams work, but know that there is no science behind it.
 If your butt is hopelessly flat or bony, then talk to a plastic surgeon about treatments. Some examples include:


The Body-jet system: A doctor performs liposuction of fat from the hips, stomach and thighs and then injects the fat into your butt while you're under a local anesthetic.
Silicone butt implants: A doctor will put silicone implants under your butt muscles. Just know that these can be painful, and the surgery carries an infection risk.

These are extreme, expensive, permanent solutions. Think long and hard before you go about doing something foreign to your body.



