 Spread some newspaper over your counter and drape a dyeing cape over your shoulders. If you don't have one, use an old towel instead. Put on a pair of plastic gloves.
 Be sure to fold the top ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) over so that the foil doesn't scratch your scalp when you insert it into your hair. You can also use pieces of plastic wrap instead; keep them separate so that they don't stick together.

Make the sheets about the same length as your hair and about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) wide.
 Ecaille focuses on adding golden tints into your hair in a pattern that is reminiscent of a tortoise shell. You can go as light as you want to, but avoid using anything over 30 volume, or you will risk damaging your hair. If your hair has been previously lightened, then don't use anything higher than 20 volume.For more dimension, use two different volumes., Purchase a hair bleaching or lightening kit from the store. Mix the powder and the cream developer together in a tray or mixing bowl according to the instructions. In most cases, you'll need to use 1 part powder and 2 parts developer., Part your hair down the center, then use the handle of a rat-tail comb to create a vertical section in front of your ear on the left and right side of your head. Clip these two sections out of the way. Split the back section horizontally just below your ears, and clip the top section out of the way as well., By now, you should have just the back section of your hair hanging loose. Take a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) wide section from the left-most side., Slide the teeth of your rat-tail comb upwards through the strand, starting from the middle and finishing at the roots. If you have thick hair, do this twice., Tuck a piece of aluminum foil under the dyed section of hair, with the folded edge against your scalp. Fold the foil in half over your hair, sandwiching it inside., Apply a thick band of lightener to the middle of the strand, then another to the bottom. Be sure to saturate the strand.For best results, use a brush with angled bristles., You can place another sheet of foil over it, or you can simply foil the existing piece in half., This time, only apply the lightener to the bottom half of the section. Cover the strand with aluminum foil when you are done., Alternate between using two bands and covering the bottom half of the strand. When you finish the row, let down more hair from the upper section. When you finish the back section, work on the sides.

When you reach the sides, consider angling the sections upwards, then angling the bangs downwards., How long this takes depends on the brand you are using, how dark your hair is, and how light you want it to go. Avoid going too light, however; you want the strands to maintain a golden color.Check on the color every 5 minutes. Your hair might process a lot faster than the recommended times on your kit's package.
 Do not use any shampoo or conditioner until after you have rinsed everything out. It would be a good idea to wear an old shirt during this process in case any lightener gets on you., Many lightening kits will include a shampoo and conditioner. If yours came with them, use them right now. If yours didn't, wash your hair using a shampoo and conditioner formulated for bleached, dyed, or damaged hair. This will help nourish and hydrate your hair and prevent it from getting too brittle., Even though you did not add color to your hair, you still want to use a shampoo and conditioner made for bleached, damaged, or colored hair. You will also want to use a hydrating mask weekly and limit the heat styling. When you do heat style, remember to use a heat protectant and a lower temperature.