 Meg looks like a beautiful Greek goddess, and Hercules even states she's "more beautiful then Aphrodite". If you have ever read any Greek mythology, you know this is a good way to tick
, Meg has her hair long and brown in a ponytail. She also has a beautiful purple gown and strappy sandals. Her lips are ruby red and her eyes sparkle. Try your best to achieve this look.


Meg's hair is brunette, with a tiny hint of red. You can dye your hair if you want to achieve this color. She has side-swept bangs with a tiny curl at the end, and to tiny little curly pieces of hair by each of her ears. If you want, you can bring a picture of her to your hair stylist to get this same hair, but because she *is* a cartoon, you might want to find a similar style to achieve. She always wears her hair in a high ponytail, so make sure you do, too. Also, curl your hair if it isn't curly already.






Try to wear mostly purple clothes. Also try to wear more pretty and elegant clothing that's a bit flow-y.






Wear a tiny bit of purple eyeshadow, some black eyeliner, and black mascara to achieve similar eyes. Use ruby-red lipstick with a tiny bit of clear gloss.






Wear purple contact lenses.
 Get boys to crawl all over you by doing cute things like winking and playing the damsel in distress act. Get what you want by being flirty. Also be a bit sarcastic.


If you play 'damsel in distress', be careful with what guy you play it with. If there's a guy you don't care too much, when he tries to help you, state that you can handle yourself unless you really can't. If he doesn't listen, you may need to stab him a little to get his attention. When Meg first doesn't know Hercules too well, when he tries to help her, she is feisty and states "I'm a damsel... I'm in distress... I can handle this. Have a nice day!" and "I'm a big tough girl, I tie my own sandals and everything." (Even though this is a lie and her sandals are actually Velcro.) But as she got to know him and began to fall in love with him, she started letting him help her.






Meg is constantly saying sarcastic and witty lines throughout the movie. You can use a few lines from the movie, and make sure you come up with your own, too. Puns from 4Chan are to be avoided at all costs.
 Meg has Hercules. Try to find a man like him: muscular, tall, and a total sweetheart.# Always be careful with who you fall in love with. When Meg went out with her first boyfriend, he soon became in horrible danger, so she sold her soul to Hades to save her boyfriend. But shortly after, he broke up with her to go out with a different girl. After this, Meg vows not to fall in love but ends up falling in love again. Don't stop falling in love! Just be very careful with the man you choose, because you can totally control exactly who you fall in love with and no one ever has problems with this.


Try to choose a guy who will love you for who you *are*, not for what you look like. He should be cute and muscular, but still sweet and optimistic. Just remember this rule of dating: "Attractive, nice, sane: pick two."







, Meg sways her hips this way and that, try doing this. Meg's walk is very important.

