 Scrapbooks typically have blank pages where photographs can be pasted or taped onto the page. Furthermore, you can typically buy extra pages to add to the book. When selecting a scrapbook, think about its purpose and design. You might want a small and portable scrapbook, or you might want a big one that can fit many pictures onto one page.


You can buy scrapbooks at art stores or stationary stores.Most scrapbooks will come with properly sized sleeves and paper pages. You can also buy additional sleeves or pages.
Photo albums are different from scrapbooks in that they have individual sleeves for each photograph. Photo albums do not typically have space for other documents. If you want to use a photo album, you can hand write your memories on the back of the photograph.
 You can use a professional printing service or your own printer to produce the photographs. To make sure that they last a long time, you should have them printed on a heavy weight of glossy paper. Choose acid free paper with a neutral PH.You might want to print out multiple copies of each image just in case you make a mistake.


If you print the photographs yourself, you can find glossy photo paper at an office supply store. Be careful while cutting out the images to make sure that your lines are straight.
 Scrapbooks are a great place to include all of the important documents of your loved one’s life. This includes newspaper articles, certificates, artwork, and other items from throughout their life. You can paste these directly into the book.


Be careful with originals as you may not have a copy if you make a mistake or tear it.
Make sure that this memorabilia is flat so that you can fit in the scrapbook.You can also include items that represent their life. For example, if your loved one was a gardener, you might include a pressed flower. Or if your loved one taught gymnastics, you might include a pamphlet from their gym.
 You can write your special messages to the deceased directly on the page or glue them on. You can either hand-write your words on card stock or paper, or you can type up your words and print them. Cut the words out of the paper before inserting into your scrapbook.


If you are handwriting messages or dates, you can use brightly colored pens. Gel pens, permanent markers, and fountain pens are a great way to add a personal touch to the scrapbook.
 Once you have printed your photos and messages, you can start to organize them on the page. Before you glue anything, organize the photographs, letters, and other memorabilia on the page to see how they look together. Rearrange the items until you have a design that you like. You can adhere the item to the page with glue, tape, glue dots, or photo corners.


If your scrapbook came with page protectors, slide the page out of the sleeve before adhering your items to the page. Allow glue to dry before sliding it back in.
 You can use paper, ribbons, pens, and stickers to decorate the scrapbook. Think about the personality of the deceased. What images and decorations represent them best? Look at your local stationary store or craft store for options and ideas.


Letter stickers can be used to spell out titles for each section.If your loved one had a favorite color, you can find that color in card stock. Use the card stock to frame or outline photographs. To do this, trace the photograph on the card stock, and then create a border of about half an inch outside of that. Cut out the card stock, and paste the photograph to it before putting it in the scrapbook.
If your loved one traveled frequently, you can find stickers of different flags and places to put next to their travel pictures.
While your scrapbook probably came with plain paper pages, you can also buy colorful pages or pages with print designs.

