 Dab a little perfume or cologne on before you meet him. Keep in mind that a little will go a long way; dousing yourself in perfume is more overwhelming than alluring.


Engage in a long-term enchantment by sticking with the same basic scent. The man in question will naturally associate that scent with you, and when he smells it—even if you're not there—his thoughts are more likely to turn in your direction.;
, High heels make your legs look skinnier and longer, increasing their visual appeal.Aside from creating a flattering leg line, high heels also change the way you walk. You'll generally take more deliberate, slower steps. Slow movements are more sensual, so they tend to be more enchanting, too.
Make sure that the heels you wear are comfortable and easy to walk in, of course.
 A short to mid-length skirt that shows off a bit of leg can pack a powerful punch. Moderation is key, though. The idea is to tease his imagination, not to reveal all of your physical assets off at once.

Your legs can be one of the easiest yet most powerful assets to show off. You can be provocative by wearing a mini skirt or a skirt with a long slit, or modest by wearing a knee-length skirt that hugs your hips in just the right way. Both options can be equally enchanting if you have the confidence to pull them off.






If you don't want to show off your legs, you can show your bare back or a bit of cleavage. Try to stick with one area at a time, though. If you want to wear a dress with a low back, for example, the neckline should be fairly modest and the hemline should be knee-length or longer.
 You need to feel confident in the clothes you slip on, so pick an outfit you feel great in. Clothing styles that hug your curves in all the right places can boost your self-image while increasing your perceived physical charm to the guy in question.


Understand that certain silhouettes flatter different body types. Learn to identify your body type, then dress to your specific body type. As a general rule, detail and perceived lines can be used to draw the eye to a certain area, while dark, solid colors can be used to direct the eye away.
 While it is not a strict rule, the general consensus is that black clothes and red clothes are more alluring to men than other colors are.


There's a reason why so many women have a little black dress in their wardrobe. Black is slimming and tends to give off a mysterious aura.
Psychologically, the color red is connected to love and lust. If a bright red is too bold for your tastes, you can try a deep shade of red or a deep shade of pink, instead.
 Wearing a little color on your lips will highlight them, thereby encouraging your man to take notice. Since the lips are a very sensual part of the body, making a man interested in yours can increase your physical charm.


Take some time to find a color that suits your skin tone and hair color. Your personality can also come into play. Bold colors can be very bewitching, but if your style tends to be more classic, subdued hues might work better.
Play around with different textures, too. Try both shimmery glosses and matte lipsticks.
 Even though a man may not consciously notice your manicure, well-groomed nails can make your hands look more sensual and feminine.


If nail polish isn't your thing, you should at least keep your nails trimmed and neat. Moisturize your hands on a regular basis to keep the skin soft and smooth, too.
As a general rule, short nails look better in clear and nude colors while long nails can be painted in deeper shades. Solid colors are more sophisticated than glitter polishes, so if you want to emphasize your womanly charms, solids are the way to go.
 You don't need to have the body of a supermodel, but it'll be easier for you to enchant a man if you are at least moderately fit. Good hygiene is also essential.


If you're fit enough to be healthy, you're more than fit enough to be enchanting. The basic idea is simply to show that you care enough about yourself to take care of your body. Demonstrating this basic level of self-respect can give you greater appeal.
 Meet his eyes before you even say “hello,” then maintain eye contact throughout your entire conversation.


Eye contact lets a man know that you're interested in him. Catching his glance before the conversation starts can give him the motivation he needs to approach you. Holding his glance during the conversation lets him know that he has your complete, undivided attention. If he has any reason to think that you're not interested in him, his interest in you may wane, too.
 Few things are as inviting and encouraging as a smile. Depending on the rest of your body language, you can shift a friendly smile to a captivating one.


When you're still in the process of getting something started, try smiling coyly whenever your eyes happen to meet his from across the room. This can have an even greater impact if you go out of your way to look over your shoulder, meet his eyes, and give him a smile.
When you're talking with him, you need to smile and laugh appropriately. Unless he's talking about something serious, a smile should be your default expression for the evening.
 Casually brush your hair behind your ears or run your fingers through it. Pass your hands over your neck and shoulders—the skin just beneath your hair—as well.


The trick is to keep your movements slow, gentle, and sultry. If you move too fast, he may not have enough time to take notice. If you move with too much force, you'll end up displaying aggression instead of sensuality.
 Look him over and let him know that you like what you see. Simply knowing that you find him attractive can make you seem more attractive in turn.


Make sure that he sees you looking him over from head to toe. Catch his eye and smile to let him know that you approve.
You can also come right out and compliment him directly. If you like his smile, tell him that you like his smile. If you love his eyes, tell him that you love his eyes.
 Your overall body language does not need to be provocative, but it should be open and inviting. If you act distant and uninterested, you might push him away instead of drawing him nearer.


Try arching your back and crossing your legs. Accentuate the gesture by lightly touching your own thigh. All of these movement can seem natural if done correctly, but they highlight your feminine charms and make you seem more enchanting.
 Close the distance between the two of you. Unless he can hear you when you speak at a low, whisper-like volume, you're not as close as you could be.


In fact, leaning in momentarily to actually whisper something in his ear is recommended. After the words are spoken, you'll need to pull back a bit, but you should still remain fairly close.
 Constant touch isn't necessarily recommended, but making brief, seemingly innocent contact now and then can tease and tempt him into wanting more.


If you're flirting with someone new, keep the touching to a minimum. Brush his arm as you speak or lean in against his shoulder. Keep the touches brief and light.
If you're trying to enchant a man you've been with for a while, your touches can be a little bolder. For instance, you could run your hand over the lapel of his suit while maintaining eye contact.
 In essence, he should see that you want him without feeling as though you need him. Show him that you're comfortable with who you are and capable of taking care of yourself.


Avoid apologizing for every little thing or acting notably nervous and uncomfortable. You may not be the most outgoing person ever, but as long as you seem comfortable with who you are, your confidence can show through.
While it isn't strictly necessary, it also helps if you can support yourself. A man with a stable lifestyle probably seems more enticing to you; similarly, a woman with a stable lifestyle usually seems more enticing to a man.
 It should be obvious to him that you want him around, but at the same time, you also need to let him have some personal space and time away from you.


Let him spend time with his buddies without pressuring him to invite you along.
If he's in a bad mood, let him know that you're more than willing to listen and help, but don't force him to talk about his feelings at that exact moment. Give him some space to cool down on his own.
 You don't need to have a bubbly personality, but you should let him see you as someone who loves life. Doing so will allow him to perceive you as someone who is pleasant to be around, thereby making him want to be around you even more.


Gravitate toward positive topics of conversation, like a pleasant memory or funny story about the day's events.
See the humor in things and laugh off the little annoyances. Instead of getting seriously angry about the way your frustrating co-worker treated you, convey the story humorously and brush it off as "no big deal" at the end.Laugh a lot when you're with him. Try new things and show him that you like to have fun.
If your personality is naturally serious, you can show him that you love life by simply approaching the things you enjoy with passion and zeal.
 Let him know that you really care about him by listening to him and taking an active interest in the happenings of his life.


People feel flattered and cared about when someone takes an interest in them. A guy is also more likely to reciprocate that interest when you demonstrate it first.
If you're getting to know a new man, ask him about his family, his job, his hobbies, his dreams, and his life in general.
When you're trying to enchant a man you've known for a long time, demonstrate your continued interest by asking him about his day and his present state of mind.
Make sure that you honestly listen to him, too. If you aren't paying attention, it'll probably be easy for him to notice.
 Turning yourself into a mystery can pique a man's interest, but each time you flaunt your mysterious side, you need to give him a puzzle he can solve.


It's much easier to seem mysterious when you're getting to know someone new. Be open with him on most fronts, but hint around about the fact that you still have a few secrets. When he finally does learn the truth behind those secrets, your appeal will increase even more.
When you're trying to enchant a guy you've been around for a long time, appearing mysterious can be much more difficult. Try showing him a side of your personality that you rarely act on. For instance, if you're usually a homebody, surprise him by dragging him out to a karaoke bar and putting on a little performance when it's your turn to sing. The contrast between what he sees now and what he has come to expect will suggest to him that there are still new things to learn about you.
If you want to keep a man enchanted throughout a long relationship, you'll need to exercise transparency, as well. Share your secrets with him once you know he can be trusted with them. Be vulnerable from time to time. Stop trying to hide your flaws and mistakes. Let your guard down so that he can sense just how much you trust him.
 At first glance, an enchantress may appear to have a devilish personality, but alternating between that side of your personality and the sweet, angelic side can make a bigger impact than sticking with one or the other might.


Your devilish side is a good asset to make use of when you want to create an enchanting moment. Display it by following most of the advice offered in this article concerning appearance and body language. The idea is to tempt him into wanting you.
Your angelic side is important when you want to increase your overall long-term charm. Demonstrate angelic behavior by being compassionate and considerate. Support him when he struggles and be sweet to him in general.
 If you really want to keep a man enchanted for a long time, you need to engage his mind. You won't be able to do that if you're constantly playing dumb.


Keep yourself updated on more than just the latest celebrity gossip. Pay attention to the world around you and build informed opinions. Even if they don't match his, being able to hold your own in conversation can still be an enchanting trait.