 Even though it’s tempting to slack on oral hygiene when you have loose baby teeth, it’s important to take care of both your old and new teeth. Continue a normal brushing and flossing routine, and use mouthwash to rinse away any food particles that might get caught underneath your loose tooth. Otherwise, you run the risk of letting bacteria grow between your teeth and in any gaps under the loose tooth. This could lead to painful infections, or cause your adult tooth to decay as it grows under your loose baby tooth.It’s good to be extra gentle about brushing around the loose tooth or teeth, especially if your gums are sore. If you have a really loose tooth, then you can even harm the inner ligaments of your tooth if you use too much pressure.
You don’t need to be too careful with baby teeth, however. They’re meant to fall out when the time is right, so you don’t have to baby them too much. If you are concerned, then you can always check on the age ranges for when a baby tooth is supposed to fall out, such as by asking your dentist or searching the internet.;
, You should encourage the tooth to come out on its own by wiggling it and going about your normal routines. However, you don’t want to force it out, so don’t yank it out or chomp right down on really hard food. Your baby tooth will come out when it’s ready once the root holding it in has completely dissolved leaving room for the permanent tooth to come out.Removing a baby tooth before it’s ready can lead to infection, pain, and bleeding. It can also lead to eruption disorders of the permanent teeth. There could still be some root left and bacteria will grow in it.
 Losing baby teeth is usually painless, but sometimes they can have sharp edges that dig into gums as they wiggle. Adult teeth can also cause sore gums as they erupt. If you’re experiencing sore gums or any discomfort as your baby teeth fall out and your adult teeth grow in, ask a parent for kid-friendly pain medication.Ibuprofen or a gel that gently numbs your gums can help with teething pain, but if it gets worse you should go to a pediatric dentist.
 Chewing food when baby teeth are loose and with adult teeth growing in can be uncomfortable or painful. Even if you have a sore mouth, it’s important to keep up a good, well-balanced diet. Try eating vegetable soups, pureed fruits, and drink plenty of milk so your body stays strong while your teeth grow.Get more calcium in your diet, such as by drinking milk and eating yogurt and cheese. However, don’t worry about supplementing with fluoride as long as you use a fluoride toothpaste two times a day. This will prevent any enamel defects such as hypomineralization or fluorosis.
 Sometimes, adult teeth grow in behind baby teeth before they fall out, making a double row of teeth. This isn’t a major cause for concern, just make sure you take extra care to brush between the two sets of teeth. This will help remove plaque and bacteria that can grow in the space between them.Visit a dentist if you don’t lose the baby tooth or teeth in front of the adult tooth after three months.

