 You will be adding whipped cream onto the cake. If it is still warm, the whipped cream will melt and make an oozy mess instead.

Leave the cheesecake on the springform pan's base. You can put it onto a regular plate or onto a cardboard cake circle.
 This will help the cookie crumbs stick to it better. If you made a 2-inch (5.08 centimeters) high crust, leave that part uncovered. For an extra touch, mix some finely crumbled Oreo cookies (the texture of coffee grounds) into the whipped cream first. Apply the whipped cream with a spatula.If the frosting is too sweet for you, add a pinch of salt to it. This will help cut the sweetness.
 You need enough to cover the entire top of your cake. How thick that layer is depends entirely on your preference. Use a food processor or a blender to grind the cookies into a fine dust., If you'd like, you can also press some into the sides of the cake as well. You can do this by cupping your hand, filling it with crumbs, and then gently pressing it against the side of the cake. When you are done, sweep any excess crumbs off the plate.

If you are adding cookie crumbs to the side of the cake, you will need to coat it with frosting first.
 Use a star-shaped decorating tip for the bag.You can also use a can of whipped cream instead—the type that you spray out of a nozzle., If you have any whipped cream leftover, you can add another small dollop of it in the center of the cake.

Aim to have about 16 dollops. This way, each dollop will get topped with one Oreo cookie.
 Be careful not to break them. You can also use mini Oreo cookies instead; this way, you won't have to cut them., If you don't have enough cookies, simply cut some more. These will serve as a guideline for cutting: each slice will get one cookie-topped dollop of whipped cream.

If you put some whipped cream in the center, top it off with another Oreo cookie.
 If you like your cheesecakes nice and cool, leave it in the fridge for 30 to 60 minutes. This will also help the whipped cream topping to set and harden.