 When writing a synopsis for a research paper or academic journal article, you should aim to make the end result no longer than one to two paragraphs.


Understand the function of a synopsis within the academic and professional worlds. A synopsis summarizes the article or essay and lets the reader know if the information is relevant to their needs or otherwise worth reading. As such, it needs to be short enough to read quickly.
When submitted to a conference, synopses must be submitted before the presentation so that those attending the conference can determine which presentations to listen to. Since many synopses need to be included in the conference materials, each one needs to be fairly short.
 The tone of your synopsis should be the same as the tone for your essay or article: clean-cut and intelligent.


Use third person. First person and second person comes across as being too subjective and biased.
State factual or scientific information. Do not write about your feelings, and avoid mentioning opinions that are not backed with evidence.
 Introduce the premise of your essay or article, then lead into your hypothesis or thesis and the arguments that support it.


For something like a history or literary article, you need to state your thesis and include a sentence for each of your main supporting points or arguments.
For a scientific research article, you need to explain what hypothesis you are trying to prove and the method you used to study it, including details about why the method used would present a valid argument or piece of support.
 Regardless of the subject or theme, each academic synopsis must state the overall conclusion you reached. Without that conclusion, the reader has no way of knowing whether or not the essay will come together in a sensible, beneficial manner.


With literary and history articles, you need to show how all of your arguments lead up to one crucial and seemingly inevitable conclusion.
With scientific research essays, you need to state the results of your experiment or research and quickly mention how that affects the topic as a whole.
 The synopsis should be included after your title page but before the actual essay or article.


Note that for some writing styles, the term “Synopsis” might be swapped out for the term “Abstract.”

