 Buying and wearing the proper shoes will go a long way to help prevent calluses from forming on your feet. There are several things you can be on the lookout for when shopping for new shoes, including:Make sure the salesperson measures both of your feet. Chances are, like most people, you have one foot that is larger than the other. You’ll want to select a shoe size that fits the larger of your two feet.
Leave shopping for shoes till as late as possible. Throughout the day your feet swell and you want to size your shoes based on your swollen feet. This ensures that your shoes are large enough to accommodate your swollen feet and won’t become uncomfortable as the day goes on.
Buy shoes based on how they actually feel on your feet, even if the size on the shoe doesn’t make sense.
While it may seem obvious, buy shoes that are shaped like feet. Many ‘stylish’ shoes come in odd shapes which can end up hurting your feet and causing calluses.
When trying on new shoes, make sure your whole foot feels comfortable inside the shoe — from the tips of your toes, to the balls of your feet, to your heel.
Leave approximately ⅜” to ½" of space at the tip of the shoe between the end of your big toe and the start of the shoes.
 Socks can be just as important as shoes in keeping your feet callus-free and healthy. Cotton socks, or socks made of a natural fiber, are the best type for keeping your feet dry inside of your shoes. This is especially important when you’re doing any type of physical activity where you’ll sweat more than usual.Make sure to allow your shoes to dry out before wearing them again — don’t put on wet footwear.
Avoid wearing the same socks two days in a row if you can, especially if they get wet or sweaty.
If you socks do get wet, change them as soon as possible.
Remember to wash your feet every day as part of your regular cleaning routine, including between your toes. Plus, after you’ve washed your feet, make sure they’re completely dry before putting socks on.
Also consider wearing flip-flops or sandals when walking around a public swimming pool and even inside a public shower., Calluses form because of spots on your feet that rub against your socks and shoes. But you can help prevent and heal calluses by moisturizing your feet every day and keeping the skin nice and soft.Keeping your feet moisturized and soft is even more important in the winter time when the air is colder, and therefore drier.Don’t apply moisturizer and then attempt to walk around in your bare feet, this can be dangerous!
Get into the habit of applying moisturizer to your feet right before you go to bed.
Take the opportunity to give your feet a massage when applying the moisturizer. This feels great, but also increases blood circulation in your feet.
If possible, buy and use only moisturizer designed for feet on your feet.
 Corns are calluses, but they’re calluses that form on your toes instead of other parts of your feet. Corns are usually caused by the tips of your shoes rubbing against your toes. And this in turn can be caused by shoes that are too small in the toe area, or by high heels that are forcing your feet downwards due to gravity.Removing and preventing corns can be accomplished using the same methods as you would for calluses, but make an appointment to see your doctor if they get really severe and painful.
 Resting your feet on a regular basis is also very important. Your feet need a break from the stress just like any other part of your body. Plus, if you tend to sit with your legs crossed, change the leg that’s on top every now and again to improve circulation.

