 Use one of the USB ports directly on the computer. Connecting to a USB hub may lead to slower transfer speeds or connection problems.


The AutoPlay window will typically open, but it may not if you've disabled it in the past. You can select "Open folder to view files" or read on to open it without using the AutoPlay window.
Windows may install a few drivers if you've never connected that particular USB drive before.
 You can find this in the Start menu, or by pressing ⊞ Win+E. You may have a shortcut on your desktop as well. In Windows XP, this is labeled "My Computer."

, Look in the "Devices with Removable Storage" section of the window. The USB drive may be labeled with the manufacturer or model name, or it may be labeled "Removable Disk."

, This will make it easier to send files to it later. The drive letter will be displayed in parentheses after the label.
 The bar underneath the drive will show how much space is available. Knowing the amount of free space can give you a general idea of how much music will fit on it.


See the chart at the bottom of the article for some examples on drive sizes and the amount of music you can store.
 Use Windows Explorer to find the music files that you want to transfer. Your music files may be located in several different locations depending on your media player settings.


Windows uses the "Music" folder as the default location for many programs.
Music that you've downloaded may be in your Downloads folder.
If you use Windows Media Player, you can right-click on an item in your library and select "Open file location" to view the folder that contains the files.
If you use iTunes, right-click on an item in your iTunes library and select "Show in Windows Explorer."

, You can copy anything in the window by selecting it. You can drag a selection box, press Ctrl+A to select all of the items, or hold Ctrl and click each item you want to select.
 Right-click on your selected files and select "Properties." This will let you see the total size of your selected files, which you can compare with the available space on your USB drive.
 You'll be able to easily identify the USB drive by the label and drive letter.
 The time this takes will depend on the number of files you are copying, the speed of your USB drive, and the speed of your computer. Make sure not to remove the drive while files are copying.
 This is the row of icons in the lower-right corner of the desktop, next to the clock. If you don't see the icon, click the arrow to display all of the icons.
 This will unmount your USB drive, allowing you to safely pull the drive out without damaging the files.

