 You might choose the closest post office to your home to purchase a Post Office (PO) box to have your mail sent to, but this could result in you coincidentally bumping into friends, neighbors, or even your parents. This might raise questions that you'd rather avoid. The safest option for secretive mailing might require you to travel to a post office farther away, like one in a neighboring town or on the other side of your city.Most national postal services have online locators to help you find local branches. You can do an Internet search for "post office locator," but some common branch locators include:US Postal Service: https://tools.usps.com/go/POLocatorAction!input.actionUK Postal Service: http://www.postoffice.co.uk/branch-finderCanada Postal Service: https://www.canadapost.ca/cpotools/apps/fpo/personal/findPostOffice
;
, You will need to fill out Form PS 1093 to apply for your PO box. You'll also need to provide the post office with a home address, a phone number, and a list of minors who will be receiving mail. You'll also need to provide two forms of identification when you apply with at least one ID bearing your picture.


Print out Form PS 1093 before you go to apply for your PO box. This will give you time to familiarize yourself with what you'll need and fill out necessary information. This way you're not scrambling or scratching your head trying to fill out the form at the post office.
Accepted forms of photo ID include: valid driver's license or state issued ID card, armed forces, government, university ID card, passport, passport card, or alien registration card.
Accepted forms of non-photo ID include: current lease, mortgage, or deed of trust, voter or vehicle registration card, Home or vehicle insurance policy.Getting the right ID necessary for your PO box can be tricky, but minors 16 - 17 years old can apply for passports with the proper documents without parental consent.Your second piece of identification could be a state issued ID, which most states will issue you regardless of age with the proper documentation., Some PO boxes, especially those intended for commercial purposes, can be quite large. You will, however, likely have to pay extra for a larger box. A smaller box should suit your purposes just fine; even in the event you have a large package shipped, if it is too large for your box, it will be held behind the counter of the post office.


Larger packages that don't fit in your PO box will be indicated by a slip that will be put in your box by post office staff. Simply present this slip to the postal worker at the counter and your package will be given to you., Explaining why you need a PO box will likely put the postal worker helping you with your purchase more at ease. There are many acceptable reasons you might want to get a PO box; telling the postal worker handling your PO box request why you need it can help them understand your situation. Some reasons you might need to apply for your box might include things like:


"I'm a collector and I buy a lot of stuff through online vendors. My parents were worried that something valuable might be stolen so they told me to come down here and get a PO box."
"This is part of a school assignment. I'm setting up a small business as my final project for my business class."Postal workers are within the scope of their duties to call or mail your parents to verify they know about your PO box purchase. Even with a good reason for your box, they still might want confirmation from your parents.
 You may be nervous when you go to apply for your PO box, but the United States Postal Service allows minors to get a PO box unless your parents send a written letter saying otherwise to the postmaster.Acting suspicious or overly nervous while applying for your box may lead to a postal employee calling the phone number you provided or sending a notification to your home address.


Sometimes running through what you will say can help you be more comfortable with the situation. You might even benefit from writing a loose script of what you plan on saying when you rent your box., Cash will prevent a suspicious charge that your parents might notice from appearing on your bank statement or credit card bill. Most post offices will require you to rent your PO box for six months to a year, and the cost of your box will depend on the post office and the size of the box you are renting. In most cases, $100 should be enough to cover the cost of renting the smallest PO box available for six months.


Make sure you get a copy of your receipt for the rented PO box. This will serve as verification that you paid in case you need proof. Additionally, a receipt may be required if you decide to cancel the service and get a refund., Use the information provided with your PO box to receive all incoming mail that you want kept private from your parents. Don't forget that you'll have to renew your box. This usually is required every 6 to 12 months, and to keep suspicious activity from showing up on your bank statement or credit card, you should continue to pay for your box in cash.

