 Before you report child abuse or neglect to authorities it's important that you know where the child is and that he or she is relatively safe.


Keep in mind that without a location, authorities will be unable to help the child. Even if you don't know where the child lives, you should at least be able to provide details about where the child goes to school.;
, Even though you may not have to provide your name to report child abuse or neglect, there are benefits to providing your name and contact information.


Keep in mind that although in most states you have the ability to make an anonymous report, law enforcement and child welfare authorities tend to discourage doing so. Providing your name gives workers a contact during the investigation, and you may be needed as a witness if the case goes to court.Even if you don't feel comfortable providing your name and contact information, you still may be asked your relationship to the child or how you found out about the child's situation.
In every state, you are protected for reporting suspected child abuse or neglect, even if your suspicions turn out to be incorrect, as long as you made the report in good faith., Most areas have toll-free numbers you can call to report child abuse or neglect.


You can always call the national Childhelp hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD. Professional crisis counselor work the hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and all calls are anonymous.The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services website has a list of state hotlines to report child abuse and neglect, available at https://www.childwelfare.gov/organizations/?CWIGFunctionsaction=rols:main.dspROL&rolType=custom&rs_id=5.
 If you believe the child is in immediate danger you should consider calling the police to protect the child or remove him or her from the home.The police will want to know specific information such as the name and location of the child, the names of the people currently with the child, the name of the person you suspect of abuse or neglect and his or her relationship to the child.Don't worry if you don't know the specific answers to all of the questions you're asked, but try to provide as many details as possible.If law enforcement decides to arrest anyone or press charges for child abuse or neglect, you may be contacted to serve as a witness in the criminal proceeding.Typically, if you notify police first, they will notify your state's child services agency and take action to investigate your report., If you provided a phone number or email address, you may be contacted by an investigator with further questions.


Keep in mind that unless you are a professional, such as a teacher or childcare worker, or a close relative of the child, you may not be able to learn any details about the investigation or what has happened to the child.The agency will weigh your interest in the case against the family's interest in privacy and confidentiality, and the family's interest nearly always wins out.