 Starting a meaningful talk with forced conversation starters is awkward and could make your girlfriend feel like you’re putting her on the spot. Try to engage her in small talk, and let the conversation naturally progress into deeper topics.For example, you might start off by just talking about your days at school or work. You could then go deeper by asking her, “If you could change anything about your day, what would it be?”

, Getting to know how your girlfriend thinks about the future will help you both get a feel for your relationship’s longevity. Early on in a relationship, understanding her hopes and dreams will help you get to know her better. As your relationship matures, knowing each other’s future plans will help you decide if you’re compatible in the long run.Ask her things like, “Where do you see yourself in five years? What’s your dream job? Do you want a family someday? How many kids do you see yourself having?”
Think about your own answers to these questions, and share them openly and honestly with your girlfriend.
Don’t interrogate her. Try to keep the conversation two-sided and be willing to share answers to your own questions as well.
 Have regular conversations about your relationship and share your respective feelings about its status. Start conversations by asking your girlfriend questions about how your relationship has progressed over time.Ask each other, “What was the first thing that convinced you we should start dating? What are the biggest changes in me that you’ve noticed since we started dating? What are my strengths and weaknesses as a partner? Where can I improve?”

, Try to keep a detached, calm tone when conversations about your relationship get deep. If you identify areas where you can both be better partners, keep an open mind and don’t take things personally. Focus on building a stronger relationship instead of criticizing each other.If you want to tell your girlfriend about something she does that bothers you say, "Please don't think I'm just being critical for the sake of it. I care about you and our relationship, and I just want us build the best partnership possible."
If your girlfriend lets you know about something you can work on, take responsibility for it and, if necessary, ask for more information about how can you be a better partner.
 Maintaining eye contact and nodding at appropriate moments are basic and essential ways of conveying your interest and attention. Try to keep your body relaxed, but don’t slouch so much that you seem bored or disinterested. You should keep your arms and legs uncrossed, face the other person, and sit or stand at the same level so neither of you looks down on the other.