 When you're posing in a still photograph, consciously drop your shoulders down slightly. When nervous, people often hunch their shoulders. Lowering your shoulders will both make you look more relaxed and elongate your body, creating a leaner look.Try to be aware of your shoulders throughout the shoot. You may find yourself unconsciously hunching them again if you get nervous during the shoot.
Try taking a few deep breaths from time to time. This may help you relax and lower your shoulders.;
, Try to position your head in a way that accents your best features. Turn your head slightly towards the camera. Do not look directly at the camera, as this may look awkward, but you have your head turned just a little towards the lens.Tilt your head down slightly as well. This will make you look upward with your eyes, making them look bigger.
 You do not want to be slouching in your engagement photos. This can make you look nervous and contribute to the hunched shoulder look. Be aware of your back throughout the shoot and try to arch it slightly the entire time. This will make you look tall and confident throughout the photos., Arms can be tricky, as people are often self conscious of their arms. If you do not want your arms to look too big during the photo shoot, hold them away from your body. If you're nervous about your arms, you may hold them closer to your body. This can actually spread out your skin, causing your arms to look bigger. Try to hold your arms at least six inches away from your body at all times. While this may feel awkward, it will look better on camera.Place your weight on your feet in leaning photos. If you're, say, leaning against a wall, do not place your weight against your arms. This may flatten out your arms, which can look awkward.You can also try posing with your arms if you don't want them just held out at your sides. You can hold your partner's hand or place your hands on your hips, curving your arms. Ask the photographer for suggestions on how to position your arms.

