 Many toddlers haven’t mastered communication yet so it can be very frustrating for them if they can’t make you understand what they want. For this reason, many parents have taught their children some basic sign language that can help them communicate their wishes. If you don’t want to teach them this, you can also try alternative ways to try and understand what they are asking for.For example, if you can see that your child wants something but you don’t understand what, try asking them to show you. If they point in a direction, look where they’re pointing to see if you can figure it out. If you’re still having a hard time, let them walk in the direction they were pointing to see if they will show you exactly what they’re asking for.
For example, some parents teach their children the signs for things that they often ask for (e.g. milk, water, food, bathroom, a nap, a toy, a movie, etc.).
It can sometimes be helpful to put yourself in their shoes. How would you feel if you wanted or needed something, but couldn’t find the right way to help someone understand?

, If your child senses that you are angry, it will only make the situation worse. Instead of yelling or talking in an angry voice, talk with you child calmly. Put your hands gently on your child’s shoulders, and ask them to tell you what they need from you.Children are greatly influenced by their environment. If you are able to remain calm and collected, they will be more likely to calm down quickly.
 There is value in a temper tantrum if you look for it. A tantrum offers an opportunity for you to help your child understand how they should behave when they are feeling negative emotions. Your child will have many emotions throughout their life. Hopefully the good will outweigh the bad, but they will definitely have negative emotions. Thus, you shouldn’t simply tell your child that they were bad for behaving that way. Instead, of pointing out that their behavior was bad, try helping them see healthier ways to express their frustration.


For example, if your child threw a tantrum because they didn’t get the toy they wanted at the store, try to empathize with them when they have calmed down. For example, you can say, “I understand why you’re mad. It’s hard when we don’t get what we want, but yelling and screaming doesn’t really help, does it? Maybe next time you are feeling angry you can try telling me why you’re mad instead of screaming.”

