 First of all, you should get away from things you've heard about and start with a clean slate. This is one way to learn Truth. Your first task is to learn about religions, not necessarily to pick one for yourself right off the bat. Go to the library and find books on some religions. After you get the preliminary information on each religion, go to their original texts if you wish. Keep reading and learning. Do not accept or reject anything at this point, just keep learning.;
, Ask them about their views on life, God(s), relationships, ethical conduct, and their daily practice of their religion. Ask friends and neighbors whom you trust. Think about the fact that religion is not just facts but accepting a tradition and a potentially important set of beliefs.
 Remember that religion can be an escape, much like a drug. Cults can especially provide a drug-like escape. What is the real reason that you want to follow a religion?

, Cults are social or religious groups that often control their members mentally, physically, maritally or sexually. Beware of their "Guru"s that claim to have all the answers to life's questions. Beware of tight groups that ask people to strictly conform to certain behaviors, abandon their friends and family, ask for mandatory donations, etc.
 Take the time to learn about the world. Learn about life, faith, people, religion and seek education including history. Then keep reading about your favorite religions.


It may help if good friends or family members share what their beliefs are and why they believe in them; learn about the their religions if you find them desirable.
 These include Buddhism and Buddha, Christian and Jesus Christ (the Messiah), Islam and the prophet Muhammad, Judaism and the Torah, or others.
 That very well may be far from true.
 It is important to know about negative and positive actions done by people who claim a particular religion. Decide for yourself if these people were properly following the religion or if they were simply abusing their power.
 If you believe in Gods (more than one deity), then your choice of religions is narrowed down to polytheistic religions. If you believe that God is all, and all is God, then your choice of religions is narrowed down to pantheistic religions.
 Some religions believe that God(s) is/are not a physical entity, while some religions do believe that God(s) is/are physical entities that have bodies of their own. Some believe that God(s) has/have been found in human form on Earth, while others believe that this has not happened.

