 Before applying your makeup, you want to get all of your hair up and out of the way. Since you will be applying makeup to your neck, including the back of your neck, it's best to put your hair up in a bun.;
, Apply wax with a brush to everywhere you will be applying the white makeup. This should be your whole face, your neck, the nape of your neck, and the chest area around your collarbones. This substance will act as base so that the white makeup you will use will stick in an opaque layer.Bintsuke-abura is the soy-based wax that many geishas use as their base. However, if you can’t get your hands on this, just buy a wax that will be safe to use cosmetically.This wax not only enables makeup to be applied smoothly and opaquely, it also helps to keep makeup out of the pores so that your skin won’t get clogged.
 Take a pot of white face powder, and mix in several drops of water. Mix the water into the powder with a small brush. Keep adding water while stirring until you achieve a paste. This is the paste that you will apply over your oil or wax base layer., Apply the paste to your face using a foundation applicator or a foundation brush. Leave about half an inch of space where your skin shows around your hairline. For the rest of your face, try to apply the white foundation in an equally-thick layer.


The strip of skin around your hairline gives the illusion of wearing a white mask.
Don’t forget to also paint your eyelids, lips and eyebrows with the white foundation.
 Take the white foundation and apply the makeup to the front of your neck. In the back at the nape of your neck, leave a W-shaped area of skin clear of makeup that leads up to the hairline. Then apply the makeup to the upper part of your chest under your collarbones.


In Japanese culture, the back of the neck is considered a very alluring area.
You may need to use several layers, as your face, chest and neck must be completely white.
 Use a large sponge and dab over all areas that have applied the paste to. This will pick up any excess moisture and leave you with a matte finish., White powder will help set the white foundation and make it less likely to come off. Use a pure white powder and a large, fluffy cosmetic brush to apply the powder. The traditional powder used by geishas is called kona oshiroi, but you can use any white powder.

