 Infants and elderly people are at a higher risk. Infants often receive little sun exposure and do not ingest much vitamin D from their diets, especially if they’re breastfed and do not take any supplements. Elderly people require more vitamin D than younger adults and may not spend enough time outdoors due to limited mobility.


The recommended daily allowance, according to the Institute of Medicine, is 600 IU/day for adults and 800 IU/day for the elderly.;
, Because the body can synthesize vitamin D when exposed to sunlight, people whose occupations or lifestyles limit their time outdoors, or whose clothing choices keep their skin protected from the sun, may not get enough sun exposure to produce adequate levels of vitamin D.People who live in regions with less sunlight are also at a higher risk. These include countries in Northern Europe and Asia, Canada, the Northern United States, Southern Argentina and Chile.Children in developed countries, like the United States, tend to spend less time outside, and are more likely to wear sunblock when outside, which inhibits vitamin D synthesis.
 People with darker skin have higher levels of melanin, which can inhibit the skin's production of vitamin D. For example, in the United States the rate of vitamin D deficiency is higher among African Americans., Obese people tend to suffer from low vitamin D in greater numbers due to their body’s inability to convert the vitamin into a hormonally active form, no matter how much of it they take in from food or sun exposure., If you suffer from cystic fibrosis, kidney or liver disease, gastrointestinal conditions causing malabsorption such as IBS, Crohn's or celiac disease, you’re at a higher risk for vitamin D deficiency. This is because, due to these conditions, your body might not be able to correctly absorb vitamin D from your food intake., People can get vitamin D through a limited amount of foods. Eating fatty fish such as salmon, sardines or tuna, eggs yolks, beef liver, some cheeses provides the body with natural sources of vitamin D3, one of its two forms. Vitamin D2 is instead found in grains and supplements.Consider vitamin D deficiency testing if you are a vegetarian or vegan, and make sure your diet includes fortified foods such as cereals and orange juice.