 To perform the hand motion, sit your baby in your lap so that you are both facing the same direction. Clap your baby’s hands together, then take the baby’s left hand and stretch it forward with the palm facing ahead. Then bring the baby’s hands back together to clap again. Move your baby’s right hand forward with the palm facing out just as you did with the baby’s left hand. Repeat until the song is complete.Check the song out online with a video of the accompanying hand motions so you can better understand how they fit together.
Later, when your child is better able to perform the hand motions, you can sit across from them and play Patty Cake together.Your child will be much impressed by both of you performing the same actions in tandem.
 Turn your left palm inward so it faces you. Place your right index finger against your left thumb and your left index finger against your right thumb. Then, at the same time, rotate both hands so that your right thumb and left index finger are oriented above your other fingers. Repeat for the first stanza of the song.The next part of the song describes rainfall. Put your hands up in the air and splay your fingers. Bring them down slowly while wiggling them.
The next part of the song describes a sunrise. Place one hand over the other and bring your elbows inward slightly so that your arms approximate an inverted “U”. Slowly lift your arms to indicate the rising sun.
Repeat the first hand sequence of the song to complete it.
Check the song out online with a video of the accompanying hand motions so you can better understand how they fit together.
 Instead of only setting your baby on their back or stomach, try setting them on their side. When babies are in new positions, they are forced to exercise different muscle groups and move in new ways.After your baby is about 4 months old, you can pull your baby up into a standing position by gripping them beneath their armpits. As they put one foot on front of the other, move your baby forward slowly. This will help your baby develop the motor skills eventually used to walk and run.Move your child to new environments, too. For instance, place your baby in their crib, then move them to the floor., Provide your baby with age-appropriate playthings of different types to help them understand how to grab, move, drop, and toss objects with different weights, sizes, and textures.For instance, your baby will have great fun with plush toys, soft blocks, balls, and household items like plastic cups and plates.
Make sure your baby has age-appropriate items and objects. Do not give your baby anything with small parts, or with parts that could break off, as the parts might get lodged in the baby’s throat. Similarly, avoid giving your baby anything that has a rope or string that could present a choking hazard.
 In addition to independent play, your baby will benefit from playing games with you using the objects you’ve provided for them. For instance, if your baby has a ball, roll it across the floor toward them. This will give your baby the opportunity to develop hand-eye coordination as they move to intercept it.You might also help your baby develop grasping skills by tugging gently on a particular object they are holding. This should, with repetition, inspire your baby to grasp more tightly to objects you tug on.
You could build a block tower with your baby. Your baby might also enjoy knocking such a tower down, which involves a different set of movements.