 If your child goes to school, you may be in the habit of picking up and dropping them off on a daily basis. Ask another parent if your child can carpool to school with them so you can rest in bed. Or see if a friend or family member can help you with the picking up and dropping off at school.If your child is involved in extracurricular activities after school like soccer, debate club, etc, they may need a ride home. Ask another parent or a friend to transport them for you while you recover. If you cannot find someone to help you, you may need to cancel their activity for that day.
 Though you may resist asking for help from others, do not be ashamed to do so when you are ill. Being sick happens to everyone and sometimes you just need another pair of hands to help you out. If you have a partner or spouse, let them know you are feeling ill and need them to pitch in. Ask them to help you with specific tasks throughout the day and let them do some of your chores or duties while you rest.For example, you may ask your partner to stay home for the day and help you take care of the kids while you rest in bed. Or you may ask your partner to pick up your children at daycare for you or drop off your child at an event so you can recover at home.
 Call your mother or father and ask them to babysit your child while you recover. Or ask your sibling if they would come over and watch your child while you rest in bed. You may also ask close friends to help you keep your child occupied when you are ill and to give you a helping hand.For example, perhaps you ask a friend to take your child out for a few hours on a fun outing so you can recover in bed.
 Be willing to reach out to other people in your life who could help you care for your child while you are ill. You may ask another mom you know if your child can go over to their house for a playdate or a sleepover so you don’t have to worry about keeping your child occupied at home. Or you may ask a neighbor to come over and take care of your child while you recover from your illness.You may feel uncomfortable at first with asking others in your community for help. But being honest about your illness and your need for help will often encourage others to pitch in and offer their time, especially if you are part of a close knit community or have a generous network of people in your life.

