 Some children may think that spending the holidays together means that their parents are reconciling. If this isn’t true, tell your child so gently but clearly. If your kids continue to have unrealistic expectations about your family’s future, it may be a better idea to celebrate separately., If your custody agreement doesn’t provide for shared holidays, plan them in advance and stick to your plan as much as possible. Don’t go back and forth about where you’ll be celebrating or how long you’ll be there--it’s unfair to your children., If you have a new partner, talk to your co-parent in advance about whether or not to include them. Depending on your family’s circumstances, your new partner may be welcome with open arms, or it may be best to leave them at home this year., Ask them to help with buying gifts, setting up decorations, and inviting extended family. If your kids are older, you can ask them for input on where to take a joint vacation or what to serve for dinner. This will help emphasize that the holiday is now about both co-parents spending time with their children, instead of a couple planning a holiday for their kids., Be as friendly and pleasant as possible around your former partner and their extended family. If you and your ex argue frequently, a combined holiday might not be for you., If it’s a gift-giving holiday, it’s rude to not bring something for the people you’re celebrating with, but anything big or expensive might make your ex or their family feel awkward or indebted to you. Bring a small gift like chocolates, a bath set, or a coffee gift card. If you're on a budget, don't stress about buying lots of gifts--bringing some cards with kind messages will get the same point across!, Don’t just have the same holiday you did before your split--it may give your kids false hope. Keep the traditions that everyone in the family loves, like everybody having their own Hanukkiah or watching a favorite Christmas movie. Add in new traditions, like letting the youngest kid pick out the turkey or making decorations together. And feel free to ignore traditions you never liked, or that draw attention to your split--if you always presented your ex with a new necklace for the Lunar New Year, you can skip that this year!