 Green leafy vegetables are some of the most important foods you can incorporate into your diet. These vegetables support the growth of healthy bacteria. They contain substances that bacteria use to produce anti-inflammatory substances and, incidentally, may very well help prevent cancer.Eat kale, spinach, Swiss chard, and greens from mustard, collard, beet, and turnip plants. Also include broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower.
You can eat one to five cups of dark leafy greens. You can never eat too many dark leafy greens.
 Sources of fiber don’t provide bacteria, but fiber is essential for a healthy gut microbiome. Fiber in the diet performs a number of functions. It can help you increase the regularity of bowel movements, help remove metabolic and toxic wastes, and provides ful for the gut microbiome.A deficiency in fiber could starve gut bacteria and force them to look for fuel from other sources, such as the mucus lining of the gut.


High fiber foods include whole grains, vegetables, and fruit. Eat the rind of fruit, such as apples, plums, prunes, peaches, and nectarines.
20 to 35 grams of fiber a day is a reasonable goal. If you can take more, that is even better. Some people do better with more fiber, though more fiber can cause gas in some.
 Cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower contain fiber, which helps aid in digestion.


Cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower contain substances known as glucosinolates. The glucosinolates are sulfur-containing chemicals which, during digestion, breakdown to form indoles, nitriles, thiocyanates and isothiocyanates. Indole-3-carbinol and sulforaphane have been the most studied of these substances, and have been found to inhibit the growth of cancer of the bladder, breast, colon, liver, lung, and stomach in lab animals. We also know that people whose diets include these vegetables tend to have fewer cancers., Beans contain lots of fiber, but they also release short-chain fatty acids (SCFA). These SCFA strengthen and support gut bacteria.


The SCFA also support the lining of your gut and improve the absorption of many nutrients. They may also help with weight loss.

