 Navigate to the 4chan homepage. You’ll find a quick description of the site and a full list of the boards. Since 4chan doesn’t have a system of usernames and passwords, you don’t have to sign up for anything before browsing.;
, You’ll find links to the rules and FAQ pages just below the site description on the home page. If you plan on posting anything, it’s worth your time to familiarize yourself with them in order to prevent getting banned.


For example, according the rules, you must be 18 years or older to access the site. You can’t post or discuss anything illegal, advertise, or complain about 4chan policies. If you post in a board that deals with specific content, like technology, your post has to relate to that board’s topic., The first time you click on a board, you’ll be required to agree to a disclaimer before you can browse. The most popular board is Random, or /b/, which is notorious for spawning many mainstream internet memes. Note you’ll almost certainly encounter pornography, gore, and otherwise offensive content on the Random board. If you’re not interested in that kind of imagery, there are plenty of other topics to browse.Technology, Video Games, and Paranormal are filled with interesting conversations on their respective topics.
LGBT covers issues like coming out, transitioning genders, and marriage rights with an unexpected degree of seriousness.
The Auto, Fitness, and Do It Yourself board can offer constructive content focused on these respective topics.
 Read through the first page’s threads, then use the page numbers at the bottom to navigate to other pages. Stick to “lurking,” or browsing without posting, when you’re just starting out. Lurking a board’s threads for two or three weeks will help you get a feel for its culture and vocabulary., Once you're in a board, you'll see a list of letters and abbreviations at the top of the page. These are links to 4chan's other boards. You can use these links to go to another board without having to return to the homepage.

If you hover your cursor over a letter or abbreviation without clicking it, a tooltip will appear letting you know which board it links.
For example, /g/ links to the Technology board, /o/ links to Auto, and /diy/ links to Do It Yourself.

