 These incredibly fine powders work as mini oil sponges, soaking up oil in your clothes and cleansing the fibers. As soon as you spill oil on your clothes, sprinkle on talcum or baby powder and let it sit for 20-30 minutes. Brush off the powder and run your clothes through a regular wash cycle.;
, The soap you use to wash your hair is specially formulated to cut down natural oils and grease in your hair, so it makes perfect sense that it could do the same for your fabrics. Pour a spot of shampoo onto the oil and scrub the area with your finger. Allow the shampoo to sit for 5-10 minutes, and then put your clothes into the washing machine. A regular wash and dry should have your clothes oil-free and good as new!

, Yet another hair product, a concentrated blast of hair spray may be able to break up the oil in your fabric and help it to rinse clean. Spray your oil spots with hair spray from 6–8 inches (15.2–20.3 cm) away, applying the mist liberally to the areas with the highest concentration of oil. Follow up with a regular wash in the washing machine and a little time in the drier.
 This magical cleaning solution removes oil stains, among other things. Fetch your can of the spray and apply it directly to the oil spots on your clothes. Let it soak for about thirty minutes, and then put your clothes in a regular laundry cycle. When you take them out, the oil should be gone!

, By far the most strange oil-removing item on this list, a heavy application of cheese whiz will break up oil stains in a jiffy. Spread a thick layer of the cheese over the spot, and allow it to sit for a few minutes. Then, simply toss the article of clothing into the wash and allow the whiz to work its magic.
 This dry soap is used in oil-filled garages all over the place to clean up messy spills. Sprinkle on some of this soapy powder to your clothes and allow it to soak for 30 minutes or so. Follow up with a regular wash and rinse cycle, and your clothes will be good to go!

, Great for soothing burns and removing oil stains! Use some of the thick gel directly from the aloe vera plant, or purchase a bottle from the store. Soak your oily articles of clothing in water, and then rub in the gel to the oil spots. Make sure they are thoroughly coated with the gel-y substance, and the proceed to a regular wash in your washing machine. Your oil spots should be gone, and you’ll have plenty of aloe vera left over for your next trip outdoors.
 Although seemingly counterintuitive, take your problems head on by fighting fire with fire. Or in this case, oil with oil. Pour on some lestoil (available in most hardware stores) and allow it to soak for 20-30 minutes. As with all the other methods, wash your clothes as per usual afterwards and be amazed by the disappearing act your oil spots have pulled., If you find yourself out for dinner and you manage to spill some greasy food on your shirt, don’t fear! Grab a packet of artificial sweetener and pour it directly onto the oil stain. Let it soak for 10-15 minutes before brushing up. Follow up later with a run through your washer with regular clothing detergent to remove that faux-sugar from your garments.
 Plain white chalk is such a fine powder that it gets in between fibers in your clothing and soaks up oil from the bottom up. Draw heavily over your oil stain with a stick of white chalk, or sprinkle on white chalk powder if you have it. Let it set for 10-15 minutes, and then brush off and wash your clothing as per usual.

