 Cleaning supplies are hip and fascinating these days and include designer gear to eco-friendly cleaning agents. Look for fun, colorful, and well crafted cleaning brushes, mops, dish cloths, sponges, scrubbing brushes, etc. from a quality bathroom and kitchen store. Look for innovative European designs in particular, as these often have edgy elements to them. For cleaning products, consider looking for eco-friendly detergents, cleaners, and other substances to get the bride and groom started on a healthy way to clean for their future. All of these items could be placed into a carrying caddy made specifically for keeping household cleaning items. Add a book on making household chores easier or one on making eco-friendly cleaning products, and it's all set!;
, The bride and groom will be delighted to carry on the pampering of their honeymoon experience if you've left them with a basket filled with goodies such as soap, bath gels, bath bombs, bath salts, body lotion, and other delicious shower and spa themed items. Include some massage tools, hairbrush and comb set, handheld mirror, body scrubbing gloves/brush, and eye covers for the ultimate experience of pampering. You might even include a voucher for a his and hers massage and facial at a local day spa. Add a book on massaging, bathing, spas, or other similar topics and the pamper basket is all done.
 Find out the bride and groom's preferred foods and hunt down the more unusual and interesting varieties of these foods, preferably from gourmet food stores. Include some cookbooks, a subscription to a cooking magazine, and perhaps even a voucher to a cooking class or course in a special food style you know they love.
 Sometimes a BFF just wants to give the bride something that's special just to her. And a crafty basket can fit that niche (don't worry, the groom won't mind). Fill the basket with sewing gear, quilt fabrics, craft books, sewing tools such as scissors and a rotary cutter, a measuring tape, thimbles, etc. and a voucher for a big buy-up at the local craft store. To tie it back to the theme of homemaking, add in some books about sewing soft furnishings, and household goodies.
 If you know that the bride and groom will have a garden, give them a head start with brand new gardening tools, some seeds for an edible garden and a flower garden, gardening gloves for both of them, a watering can, some seed-raising mix, a few lovely new books on topics like organic gardening, edible garden creation, and salad gardening to inspire them.
 Eventually newlyweds will discover things they never realized married people do, like cleaning up after each other, putting up with each other's snoring, and occasionally getting sick of each other and needing a few hours break! Prepare a basket that has books on being a newlywed, ear plugs for snoring, pop-out clothes baskets for dirty clothes, a laminated stain removal chart, a voucher for her and a voucher for him to have a few hours of pampering or enjoyment alone at a day spa/sports club/movies/galleries, etc., and a personal tale on the importance of kissing and making up after an argument.

