 Even if punk pop is fairly happy in comparison with other punk genres, you should still take a sense of rebellion to heart with you. Find opportunities in your day-to-day life to express yourself, whether or not it fits in with the status quo. At the same time, you shouldn't take rebellion as an excuse to be mean to people. Being punk pop means spreading good vibes around.


For a positive demonstration of rebellion, try to be outspoken with whatever you do. If you're in class, raise your hand whenever you have something to say, especially if it conflicts with the view the teacher is presenting.
Searching for your own style without regard to what others will think is rebellious in of itself.;
, If you haven't listened to much of the music yet, now's a good time to do some binging. Blink 182's Enema of the State and Green Day's Dookie are essential records to check out if you want to be taken seriously as a fan of the genre.


Although punk pop is usually seen as a singles-based genre, listening to albums from start to finish is a good idea if you really want to understand what punk pop is all about.Music videos are also worth watching.
 A lot of punk poppers also do skateboarding on the side. This is a great form of exercise that sheds pounds while you have fun. Some punk poppers also commit to vegan or vegetarian lifestyles. If you cut meat and dairy out of your diet and replace them with the proper iron-rich alternatives, you should end up feeling much better than you did.


Lentils, grains and nuts are all examples of high-iron alternatives to meat., Punk pop culture is based around the music, and the only place you can truly experience punk pop as it's meant to be heard as at a live show. Go to shows, preferably small shows at house parties or basement venues. These smaller venues lend themselves to a closer-knit group of people, and lower the risk of people coming there who might try to cause a problem.


Avoid drugs and alcohol when you're out at shows. If you need to rely on drugs to have fun, you're not having fun in the right way.

