 Before you begin any yoga practice, whether you're joining a class or just learning a few easy poses to do at home, get your doctor's opinion. Your doctor may have certain restrictions they want you to observe, at least at first.If your doctor has specific restrictions or recommendations, get them in writing so you won't forget them and can show them to your yoga instructor if you join a class.
Tell your doctor if you have any other chronic health conditions or concerns that they don't know about. This will help them to more accurately assess your fitness for yoga.;
, Moving between table pose to child's pose helps stimulate your joint's natural lubricants. Over time, this sequence decreases joint pain particularly in your hips, knees, and shoulders.For table pose, get on a yoga mat on all fours. Your knees should be directly underneath your hips, your wrists directly below your shoulders. Cup your palms to reduce the pressure on your wrists.
Roll your shoulders away from your ears so that your shoulder blades line up down your spine. Flatten your back, tucking in your tailbone. Your body should be shaped roughly like a table.
Tuck your head between your arms and slowly curl your back as you lower your hips until your buttocks are resting on your heels. If this is too hard on your knees at first, place a rolled towel or blanket behind your knees.
You can rest in child's pose, breathing deeply, or push back up into table pose and complete the sequence several times, with a breath for each movement.
 The cat/cow sequence is a staple of most beginner yoga classes, and helps open up and increase flexibility in your spine. This pose does put a little pressure on your wrists, so if you have wrist pain from arthritis you'll want to modify the pose.Get on your yoga mat on all fours, as you were in table position. On an inhale, arch your lower back and sink your belly down toward the floor. Roll your shoulders back and lift your head to gaze in front of you. This is the "cow" portion of the sequence.
As you exhale, curve your back upward, tucking in your tailbone. Lower your head, tucking your chin into your chest. This is the "cat" portion of the sequence, since you look something like a Halloween cat with an arched back.
Return to cow on your next inhale, then to cat with your exhale. Repeat the sequence through 10 to 20 breaths.
 With cow face pose you help open your spine and hips, as well as stretching your shoulders. If you're able to do the full pose, you'll benefit from increased circulation to your knees and ankles.Take a seated position, then bend your knees. Cross your right leg over your left, moving your feet just outside the opposite hip so that your knees are stacked in front of you. If you can't cross your legs this far without knee pain, you can simply sit cross-legged.
Make sure your back is neutral with your shoulders rolled back so that your shoulder blades are flowing down your back alongside your spine.
Extend your arms and rotate them inwardly, bending your right arm inwardly and under to rest parallel to your spine. Reach your left arm overhead and drop it down from the elbow. Clasp hands if you can reach that far without pain or discomfort. Otherwise, you can use a yoga strap to get the stretch you need.
Sit in this pose for 10 to 20 deep breaths, then release. Switch and do the pose again with your left leg over your right and your right arm overhead.
 Yoga is a gentle enough exercise that you can practice it every day. Most of the benefits you'll see from practicing yoga to ease your arthritis won't happen after one session. Rather, they accrue incrementally after several weeks of regular practice.When you start doing yoga, don't expect to see a lessening of your symptoms right away. In fact, you might feel worse when you first start because your muscles are sore – particularly if you haven't been very physically active.
If you experience soreness or discomfort, modify the poses so you can continue to do them on a regular basis.

