 Ensure that only friends with whom you don't mind sharing your personal life or photos will have access to that information.


If you don't want your boss or coworkers to see your profile, change your privacy settings to reflect that.
Be very careful what you share with "friends". Only very close, well known friends who can be trusted enough not to share very personal details should have access to them; even then you might want to think about keeping such private information in real life only.
Unless you've known one another for years in a social context, your boss and coworkers are not your close friends. They may be very nice people but you never can tell, so share wisely.
 Monitor your site frequently, especially if you allow public (visitor) comments, and remove anything offensive or inappropriate as soon as possible.


Always prefer the approve-before-publication feature of your blog or website. Why let nasty stuff fly when it can be ditched before it even gets published? Cut off the lifeline of people who want to spread half-baked truths, rumors and malicious gossip. Your reputation will be all the better for it.
That said, respond positively and openly to constructive criticism. Negative posts that are written without a view to being malicious or curse-filled deserve your response most times. This ensures openness and reveals to people that you're willing to defend what matters to you.
 Use an alias or alternate email address to post comments or make edits inconspicuously. However, be careful about the trail you leave. Some people love nothing better than recognizing similarities between the person they know you to be and your alias' behavior.


Never use anonymity or alias status to be mean-spirited, nasty or to behave like a troll. If you can't stand up for what you want to say and say it in a constructive and caring manner, then it's best left unsaid, and your reputation will thank you for it. The risk of being uncovered increases with the level of nastiness, and if you defame or threaten someone, legal authorities may become involved and you will most likely get caught.

