 Doing a cardio exercise that gets your heart rate up is the best way to lose calories and shed the pounds. You will want to be consistent and work out every single day if you want to drop the weight in a week.


Choose a cardio exercise like running, swimming, biking or using the elliptical.
To keep yourself motivated, set an alarm for a time to go to the gym or start exercising. This will integrate the exercise into your schedule and remind you to go.
Ask a friend to work out with you. Going to the gym or jogging is easier when you have someone with you to hold you accountable. It also makes exercise more enjoyable.
In order to burn calories faster, you'll want to increase the intensity of your workout. If you're on an elliptical or treadmill, bring up the incline and level of your workout.
Cardio exercises are most effective when they are 40-60 minutes long. Set aside about an hour to work out each day.
 Interval training is the practice of alternating short bursts of intense activity with intervals of less intense activity as you're working out. Interval training helps you to burn more calories as you work out.


Integrate interval training into your existing workout. For example, if you like to jog lightly, insert short bursts of sprinting into your workout. If you use an elliptical, set it up so that every 5-10 minutes, the level of your workout goes up.
Interval training improves cardiovascular fitness and also increases the body's ability to burn fat.
 Doing a few sets of push-ups and lunges every other day will help tone your muscles and make you look skinnier at the end of the week.


If you are going to be wearing something that reveals your upper body (a bikini top or a strapless dress), do more push-ups. They will target your upper body and make your arms and shoulders look more toned.
If you are going to be wearing something that reveals your lower body (shorts or a skirt), doing lunges will firm up your butt, hips and thighs.
 Try to incorporate as much exercise as you can into your daily life so that you can continue burning calories and toning your muscles.


Take away the lazy shortcuts. For example, if you usually take the elevator, start taking the stairs. If you drive to the post office even though it's a block away, walk instead. If the lights are on in the kitchen, get up and turn them off instead of asking somebody else to do it.

