 Parents may dismiss the early signs of drug use by labeling their teen's behavior as "experimenting". Unfortunately, even casual drug use can result in addiction. Early intervention is critical.Many parents hesitate to confront their teens because they, too, went through similar experiences.Even if you did the same thing in your youth without any negative effects, that does not mean the same will be true for your son or daughter.
 You need to conduct a thorough examination of your home environment to ensure that you are not reinforcing drug-taking behavior.Parents may occasionally use alcohol, but say that it is off-limits to the children. In addition, many parents become dependent on prescription pills themselves, which can increase the odds of your children becoming addicted.If there are two parents in the home, you need to carefully assess and discuss how readily available drugs and alcohol are in your home. It's highly possible that your tendency to turn to drugs may be influencing your teen.
 When parents are disconnected with their teenagers lives, they miss an opportunity to receive help and support. If you are not knowledgeable about your teen's behavior at school, you are losing a chance to intervene with problem behaviors.Reach out to your teen's teachers and guidance counselors so that they know you and are aware of your concerns.
The same goes for who your kid is hanging out with. Try to meet and get on speaking terms with the parents of your son or daughter's friends so that you are kept in the loop.
 Comorbidity, or coexistence, of an addiction and a mental disorder are very common in adults and teens. Many parents may overlook the signs of psychiatric disorders like depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, and eating disorders that may be affecting teens. Such disorders can result in your teen self-medicating with drugs to relieve emotional pain.Mental illnesses all have a very distinctive set of signs and symptoms. However, there are some signs that overlap among disorders. Below are some of the warning signs of mental illness:Worrying excessively
Seeing changes in eating habits--eating too much or too little
Seeing changes in sleeping habits--sleeping too much or too little
Experiencing a range of physical complaints (e.g. headaches, stomach aches, etc.)
Feeling angry or irritable often
Having problems concentrating or focusing
Having thoughts of hurting oneself
Feeling very sad or "blue"



