 Use a sharp, rounded shovel, and get your friends to help get it going. Make it as deep and wide as your skill level can handle: shoot for three or four feet deep and two feet wide for starters. Plan out the hole’s placement, so it’ll eventually form the area in between your jumps.Don't just throw the dirt anywhere. You’ll need it to form take-off and landing mounds.
Getting the ground soft by wetting it down before you dig makes this step easier.
Think of how you want the final product to turn out, making sure you leave room for deceleration.
If you prefer a loop, map out a circuit track that leads back to the start of the course with a hose, rope, or other long, movable object. Once you’ve decided on the best track, use a shovel to dig it out.
Use a backhoe or other heavy-duty digging equipment if you have access.
 Use the dirt that you dug out from the jump’s hole to build out the take-off and landing ramps. To make the cores of the ramps, use construction surplus, like broken concrete, cinder blocks, and bricks. Form them into a suitable mound shape and begin to cover them with dirt. Do not use logs, branches, or similar items that will decay and cause your jumps to collapse. Add thick layers of dirt, and pack them in to form a secure, solid mound.


The mounds’ heights varies on your skill level. Don’t bite off more than you can chew: don’t go over two feet in height if you’re a beginner.
 If you don’t have another vehicle to do so, use your bike to really pack in the dirt mounds. At a slow speed, roll your front tire up the ramp to make the lip. This also compacts the ramp more, making them more usable and stable.


The landing ramp should always be bigger than the take-off ramp and not as steep as the take-off ramp.
 Get the mounds wet and muddy, and pack them in even more. Use your bike wheels again and stamp your feet. After letting the dirt harden in the sun for two or three days, wet and pack them at least once more.It’s important to take time to make sure everything is compacted, otherwise your landing will hurt.
 Give the ramp a test, and make changes as necessary. You might find that you need to make the lips on either jumping or landing ends smoother by scraping off dirt. Or, on the other hand, you might find that you need to add more dirt. If so, repeat the process of wet packing the mounds.

