 Take your power drill and use an extra-long, 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) spade bit to drill a reference hole in the ceiling, where you intend to place the fan. Measure the vent fan housing.


Head up to the attic, find the reference hole and clear away the insulation surrounding it. Use the the fan housing measurements to ensure that the fan will fit in the chosen spot, between two joists.
Go back to the bathroom and measure the fan's intake port. You will need these dimensions to cut the appropriate sized hole in your ceiling.
Use a framing square and pencil to mark the outline of the fan's intake port on the ceiling, using the measurements you just took.;
, Use your jigsaw to cut out the portion of ceiling you just marked. If you don't have a jigsaw, you could also use a reciprocating or drywall saw.


Don't let the cut section of ceiling fall to the floor after cutting, as it could pull additional pieces of drywall or plaster with it.
Use your free hand to support the rectangular piece of ceiling and gently lower it to the floor.
Remember to wear safety goggles and a respirator while sawing through plaster and drywall to protect your eyes and lungs.
 Before you lower the fan into the hole you just cut, attach a 90 degree duct elbow (to which you will later attach the duct pipe) to the appropriate outlet port using foil duct tape.


Insert a cable connector through the removable knockout hole on the side of the fan's housing, then slide the supporting metal brackets into place.
Center the fan over the ceiling hole and lower it into place, making sure any connection points are oriented correctly.
 Once the fan is positioned correctly, extend each of the metal brackets until they reach the joists on either side of the housing unit. Use drywall screws to firmly secure each bracket end to the joist.


Now that the fan is secure, take the length of flexible duct pipe and attach one end to the 90 degree duct elbow protruding from fan housing using foil duct tape.
Now is also a good time to run an existing or new electrical cable through the connector on the fan housing. You can secure the cable by tightening the screw on the connector. Be aware that you'll need to use a three-wire cable if your new fan includes a light.
 The next step is to find the shortest, straightest route from the housing fan to the outside. The longer the duct pipe is, the less efficient the fan will be.


It is essential to vent the fan exhaust outdoors. Venting it directly into the attic would promote mold growth and potentially cause the rafters to mold.You can run the vent through the sidewall or roof, whichever is most convenient. Just make sure the duct pipe is as straight as possible and that it won't be stretched too tightly.
 The process for attaching the vent cap will vary depending on whether the exit point is on the roof or sidewall.


If your exit point is on the sidewall, pick a point between two wall studs and take some reference measurements on the inside so you can locate the same point on the outside. Use a 4-inch hole saw to cut through wall from the outside, then secure the vent cap in place.
If your exit point is on the roof, draw an appropriate sized circle on the inside and use a reciprocating saw to cut it out. Then get on the roof (taking all of the proper safety precautions) and remove the shingles covering the newly cut hole. Install the vent cap, using roofing cement and roofing nails, then replace any loose shingles.
Move back into the attic and attach the end of the duct pipe to the vent cap's connector duct using foil duct tape. , Depending on the type of fan, you may need to wire the connections from the attic or from the bathroom. Make sure to read the manufacturer's instructions and double check that the power is off before proceeding.


Open up the housing unit and pull out the fan wires from the electrical splice unit. Strip 5⁄8 inch (1.6 cm) back from each of the wires on both the fan cable and the electrical cable you inserted earlier.
Twist the same color wires together (usually white to white and black or red to black) and add the connectors. Wrap the bare copper wire around the green grounding clip or screw and tighten to secure.
Place the wires back in the electrical splice unit and reattach the cover.
If you don't feel confident about doing the wiring yourself, don't hesitate to call in a licensed electrician to install the fan or simply inspect your work when you're done.
Also be aware that aluminum (rather than copper) wiring requires special handling and any electrical work involving this type of wiring should be undertaken by a professional.
 Now you're almost finished. Plug the blower motor into the electrical receptacle and secure it with the screws provided.


Install the decorative plastic grille by slipping its mounting wires into the available slots in the housing unit. Make sure it sits snugly against the ceiling -- spread the mounting wires a little to create more tension, if necessary.
Turn the power back on and test your new bathroom fan to make sure it's working.

