 The idea behind minimalist pruno is that it’s more like making the type of pruno that inmates make, so it doesn’t require any fancy cooking tools or utensils. What you will need is:


One-gallon (3.8-L) sealable plastic bag
Three clean towels
A large bowl or sink
Hot running water
Spoon or t-shirt

, Break the oranges into wedges and place them in the sealable bag. Add the fruit cocktail and seal the bag tightly. With the fruit sealed inside the bag, squish the fruit between your fingers to break it up into small chunks.The fruit is ready when it becomes the consistency of fruit pulp mixed with paste.
You can substitute some of the orange with apples, peaches, pears, or any other fruit that’s available to you., Open the bag and pour in the water. Then seal the bag again. Place the bag of mashed fruit into a sink or bowl and cover it with the hottest water you can get from the tap. Let the fruit sit in the hot water for 15 minutes.Add fresh hot water every five minutes.


If you don’t have a bowl or a plug for the sink, keep the water from the tap running over the fruit for 15 minutes.
 Once the mixture is good and warm from the water, wrap it in the towels to help keep in the heat. Then transfer the mixture to a dark place for 48 hours.


The heat is necessary for the fermentation process, because otherwise the wild yeast will die instead of converting the sugar to alcohol.
 After two days, unwrap the towels from around the bag. The bag should have ballooned up with gases, so open the bag to release the gas. Add the sugar cubes and ketchup. Seal the bag and let the mixture sit for 10 to 15 minutes to let the sugar dissolve.The amount of ketchup you need for this recipe is equivalent to about 3.5 ketchup packets.
If you don’t have access to ketchup, you can also use a piece of bread broken up into small pieces., When the sugar has dissolved, knead the mixture to incorporate the fruit, sugar, and ketchup. Then heat the mixture with hot tap water again.


Let the fruit sit in the hot water (or under running water) for 30 minutes.
 After heating for 30 minutes in the water bath, wrap the mixture in the towels again. Stash it away somewhere dark and let the mixture sit for 24 hours.


Once you get to this point, the mixture will take another 72 hours or so to turn to alcohol.
 Over the next three days, open the bag daily to release the gases and reheat the bag under hot running water for 15 minutes. Then rewrap the bag in the towel and return it to its dark place until the next day.When the bag stops bloating, the pruno is ready.
 After three days or when the bag stops bloating with gases overnight, open the bag and skim off the fruit mash to leave the liquid behind.


If it’s available, use a tea strainer, clean sock, or clean t-shirt to separate the fruit mash and strain the liquid.Transfer the liquid to cups before serving, or return it to the plastic bag and drink straight from the bag.

