 While formatting a card erases all the data in the process, it is different than simply selecting all the data and deleting it. Formatting a card sets the file type and optimizes it for use in specific devices. Simply deleting the data often leaves fragments behind which can affect the capacity and performance of the card. It is recommended that you format new cards and old cards that you want to use in new devices instead of just deleting the old files.;
, This is a free tool provided by the SD Association and is the recommended tool for formatting SD, SDHC, and SDXC cards. The program is available for all versions of Windows and Mac OS X. Using this tool will increase the performance of your SD cards as opposed to formatting them with operating system tools.


Read and accept the terms and conditions on the SDCard.org website to start the download.
Only download the SD Formatter tool from SDCard.org.
 If you are using Windows, the installer comes in a ZIP file that will need to be extracted. Double-click the XIP file and then copy the "Setup" file to your desktop and then double-click it to run it. If you are using a Mac, simply double-click the PKG file.


You may need to enter the Administrator password in order to proceed with the installation.
Most users can keep the default installation options.
 Insert your SD card into your computer's SD card slot or external SD card reader. The SD card should be automatically recognized by your operating system.


Ensure that the Write Protection lock is switched off. See this guide to fix broken locks.
If you are inserting an SDXC card and a message appears asking you to format it, do NOT accept. If you format the card using the operating system's formatter, the card will no longer be SDXC format.
You may need to download the SDXC driver for Windows Vista or 7. The links to the driver download can be found on the SDCard.org site in the "About SDXC/microSDXC" section. Not all SD slots can support SDXC, even with driver updates.
 Formatting your memory card will erase all of the data on it. Make sure that any pictures or other files that are currently stored on the card have been properly backed up to another location if you wish to save them.
 With your card inserted, you can open SD Formatter to begin the formatting process. Select your card from the Drive drop-down menu. If your card is not listed, click the Refresh button.
 Click the Format Options button to set a few basic formatting options. Most users can leave these at their defaults, but you may want to switch the FORMAT TYPE option to FULL (OVERWRITE) if you don't want someone retrieving your old data.


In the Mac OS X version, these options are all selectable from the main window and there is no Format Options button.
 In the Volume Label field, you can enter a name for your SD card that will appear when it is inserted in a computer. This can be useful for organizing data across multiple memory cards, or helping you to remember what that card contains.
 The capacity of the card is displayed in the Size field. The actual capacity of the card is often slightly less than the advertised capacity due to the way storage is calculated and the space that formatting the file system takes up.
 Click the Format button to begin the formatting process. Depending on the format options you selected and the capacity of the card, the formatting process may take a while. You can monitor the progress in the window that appears.


Do not remove the card during the formatting process.

