 Surgery is one common treatment for non-small cell lung cancer. Surgery is an option if you have stage I or stage II cancer or some stage III lung cancers. During surgery, the cancerous tumor is removed. To do this, the surgeon has to remove the part of the lung that contains the tumor.Depending on how big the tumor is, the surgeon may only take a small section of the lung or they might take the whole lobe or the entire lung.
Usually the nearby lymph nodes will be removed as well. These lymph nodes will be checked for cancer cells.
Removing the entire lobe is often chosen over removing a small section. Removing the entire lobe has a higher chance of curing the cancer.
If there are cancer cells near the edge of the tissue removed during the surgery, you may (rarely) need a second surgery to go back and get any remaining cancerous tissue.
Some people cannot undergo surgery due to poor health.Surgery is used most often with non-small cell lung cancer., Chemotherapy is used for all stages of non-small cell lung cancer. It may be used after surgery, along with radiation, or for advanced stage cancer that has spread. Chemotherapy uses medication to kill cancer cells or prevent them from dividing, which keeps the cells from growing. Chemotherapy treatment is either done orally, intravenously, through an injection into a muscle, or placed directly into the affected area of the body.The type of chemotherapy you will receive depends on the stage and type of cancer. You may be given a combination of different drugs.
Chemotherapy usually takes weeks or months of treatments.In early stages of cancer (stage II), chemotherapy can help reduce the risk of the cancer returning.
Chemotherapy is most often used with small cell lung cancer, along with radiation therapy., Radiation therapy, also called radiotherapy, is a common cancer treatment. During radiation, high-powered x-rays, proton beams, and other radiation are used to stop the growth and destroy cancer cells. Radiation can be done externally by placing the machine over the affected area. It can be done internally by introducing radioactive substances into the body near the cancer through needles, seeds, wires, or catheters.Radiation may be the only treatment used to treat your cancer.
Radiation may be used in conjunction with other therapies. For example, you may have radiation before you have surgery to shrink the size of the tumor, or you may have it after surgery to kill any remaining cancer cells.
Radiation is also used when cancer spreads to other parts of the body to treat cancer in those areas., There are other less common treatments for non-small cell lung cancer that you can consider. These alternatives may be used if a patient can’t have surgery, can’t undergo anesthesia, cancer has come back, or in advanced cancer cases. These treatments may not be available in all hospitals.Photodynamic therapy uses a combination of drugs and laser lights to target cancer cells.
Laser therapy is when a laser beam is used to target and kill cancer cells.
Cryosurgery utilizes a special instrument. This instrument freezes and kills cancerous tissues.
 Targeted therapy is a newer type of cancer treatment. In this treatment, you are given medication that helps contain cancer cells by stopping them from growing and spreading.This type of therapy may be better because it has been shown to be less harmful to normal, healthy cells than standard chemotherapy or radiation therapy.Chemotherapy drugs stop all cells from replicating, including cancer cells, which is effective in killing cancer cells; however, because they affect all cells, healthy cells are also stopped from replicating when they need to. This causes severe side effects. Targeted therapy leaves healthy cells alone while fighting only cancer cells.
Targeted therapy fights cancer-causing processes in cancer cells; however, targeted therapy is not strong enough yet to kill the cancer cells alone. That means usually it is used in combination with chemotherapy to stop cancer cells and kill them. Because fewer chemotherapy drugs are used, the side effects are less than if you were just receiving chemotherapy.
Targeted therapy can be taken orally or given intravenously.

