 If the confrontation does not fix the issue, then you may need to avoid this person for a while. You can either reduce your contact with them or eliminate it altogether depending on the issue’s severity. By doing this, they may get the idea that you are serious about your weight loss.Alternatively, you can choose to just ignore the person whenever they begin to tempt you or make comments about your weight or weight loss. However, this method is recommended for those who have been committed to their diet for a while and feel secure in their diet.
 This is really helpful if your diet saboteurs are your colleagues and coworkers. Bring healthy alternatives like fruit, eggs, tuna, yogurt, and veggies to work with you. If your coworkers offer you a piece of cake or banana bread, you can politely say, “No, thank you. I brought my own snacks to eat today.”If they are very persistent, you can always accept the food, and “save” it for later. Then, once everyone has left the office, you can throw it out.
You can also offer to bring treats that contain less fat and sugar.
 Unfortunately, some saboteurs are unavoidable, like family members. However, you can avoid sabotaging moments by arriving to family gatherings after everyone has eaten. Instead, eat your own healthy meal at home and then make your way to the gathering.


You could also try hosting more family events at your house where you have a little more control over the types of food at the event.
 Help your close friends and family members, like your grandma who loves to bake pies, understand why you are making changes to your diet. Bring pamphlets from your doctor or a weight loss program to help them see and understand why you need to make changes. This will reinforce the idea that you are serious about making changes to your diet.Also, let close family members know which actions are helping or hindering your progress. For example, let your grandma know that offering pies is very tempting because you love them so much.
Make sure close friends and family know that your diet choices are not a reflection of how much you love or hate them.

