 If he is subtlety flirting with you, not overtly enough to warrant a direct “yes” or “no,” simply don’t flirt back. Continue to be polite, but don’t give him any special attention that he may take as a green light. Most flirting is subtle, so ignoring it won't necessarily seem like a snub to most people.Include other people in the conversation whenever possible. If he tries to talk only to you, ask someone else’s opinion, bringing them into the conversation.
Don’t accept free items from him that he isn’t giving everyone else. For instance, if he offers to buy you a drink, say you need to stop anyway.
 If you want to use open body language to flirt with someone, you want to do the opposite to discourage him. For instance, cross your arms and look in another direction. Move your body so it's not facing him.In addition, don't smile at him, as that will encourage more flirting. You don't need to scowl at him, but make sure you aren't giggling and laughing at him, as he'll take that as you flirting back.
 It’s like ripping off a bandaid. You don’t want to do it, but it’s the fastest way to get the situation over with. Be polite and concise. Just say you simply aren’t interested. It’s much kinder than stringing him along. Try saying something like, “Thanks so much for asking me out, but I think it’s only fair to say I’m not interested in you that way.”
Keep it short and too the point. Don’t give an elaborate explanation, and don’t leave any loopholes. Saying things like, “I already have plans tonight,” or “I was just leaving,” only give him the impression that you might have been interested otherwise, and maybe he should try again another time.
 If you can’t bear to just be honest, tell a white lie that lets you off the hook. Doing so will help you let him down easy, as it won't come off as much of a rejection. Again, always be polite yet firm when letting him down, so there are no mixed signals.Say you already have a boyfriend. You can only use this one if it isn’t someone close to you who will find out you are lying.
You can also say you aren’t looking for a relationship right now. Again, this fib can only be used if you aren’t close to the guy and he can’t easily find out you lied. You should also make sure you don’t leave wiggle room or suggest that you might be interested in the near future.

