 Before you choose a specific phonics program, review the basics of phonics, including terminology. Teaching preschoolers phonics begins with the alphabet.


Select alphabet flashcards of upper and lowercase letters. Preschoolers can interact with instructors using flashcards.
Choose clear graphic charts of the alphabet for your preschoolers. These should include upper and lowercase letters.
Try alphabet wheels. Children spin the wheel to match the letter to a picture that begins with that letter.;
, These are called phonemes.


Distinguish that, of these sounds, there are about 70 common spellings associated with them.
Apply letters used to represent these sounds, either singularly or in groups. These are called graphemes.
Note that a phonogram is a letter and sound combination that has more than 1 grapheme or phoneme.
 The basics of phonics instruction include alphabet sounds, short and long vowels, consonants, blends (which refers to how clustered consonants make sounds when blended together), and vowel and consonant digraphs (2 consonants or vowels that when blended make 1 sound. For example, the letters ph, sh or th).



Choose a program that teaches vowel sounds before any whole words are introduced to the child. For example, pronunciations of both short and long vowels are taught (a,e,i,o,u).
Look for a program that concentrates on the consonant sounds before whole words are taught.
Check that the 44 phonic sounds and 70 common ways of spelling these sounds (called phonograms) are part of the program.
Make sure at least 1 short vowel sound and several consonants are introduced to the child prior to teaching whole word sounds. For example, the short vowel of "a" would be taught along with the sound of "c" or "p" before forming the words "cat" and pat."
Look for a program that includes blending letters. An example of this would be teaching the sound of "ch" before a word like "chat."
Choose a program that includes incremental steps. This means that the program focuses on learning rules and practicing those steps before moving to another step. This is particularly important for beginning readers in preschool.
 Popular programs include Hooked on Phonics, International Phonics, Jolly Phonics, Letterland, Alphaphonics and Rocketphonics. Many programs can be downloaded, with costs varying between $200 to $500 USD. Each phonics program has several mediums of learning.


Choose workbook sets. These sets allow children to view, match and color letters and pictures. Look for workbook sets with a focus on pre-K, early readers.
Focus on a comprehensive preschool program involving worksheets, posters games and teacher guides. Use a comprehensive program as a stand-alone start to the alphabet and phonics for preschoolers, or as supplemental material for other phonics programs.
Choose programs that incorporate workbooks and flashcards with more sensory-based mediums, such as CDs with songs and videos featuring phonic-based games.

