 Examine your body in the mirror. Look at your proportions and the way your hips connect to your waist and bust. To be sure, measure the size of your bust, waist, and hips. Knowing your body type will enable you to choose clothing that fits properly and complements your body type.Some common body types are the pear, rectangle, diamond, hourglass, and the inverted triangle shape.
 Having bras and underwear that fit properly is as important as having clothes that complement your body type. Good-fitting bras and underwear will provide you with support in the places you need. Therefore, your clothes will hang on your body properly and your posture may improve, boosting your self-confidence further.Visit a lingerie store to get fitted. Invite your friends to come with you and make a day out of it.
 Determine which parts of your body you love and want to flaunt. Then choose clothes that accentuate these body parts. You can also do this by using color. Use bright colors to draw attention to your favorite body parts.For example, if you love your hips and thighs, then stock up on pants that accentuate these features.
 Accessories are a fun way to add some excitement to your outfit. Choose from belts, earrings, necklaces, bracelets and rings. You can also use accessories to accentuate the body parts you love.For example, if you want to accentuate your collar bone, then wear a bold collar necklace or a bib necklace.
Draw attention to your eyes by wearing earrings that bring out the color in your eyes; for example, if you have green eyes, try red hoop earrings.
Accessories are also a great way to stay up-to-date with fashion trends, if that is your style.
 Belts are also a great way to create a waistline when you are wearing oversized dresses and tops. You can also create a waistline by wearing tops and dresses that ruche at the waist, or that have details, like beading, that draw attention to the waist.Wearing a top and bottom that are two different, but complementary colors can also create a waistline.

