 No matter where you live or are traveling to, you should avoid food that is poorly cooked as it increases your risk of food poisoning and other causes of infection. Poorly cooked food is a major conduit of H. Pylori because the food is not heated to a temperature high enough to kill the bacteria. This can be hard to detect, but if your food is cold or raw, avoid eating it because it could possibly be a carrier of the bacteria. Avoid food that has been inadequately cleaned, like vegetables, or handled, like meats and fish. Improperly cleaned and mishandled foods also increase the risk of all types of foodborne infection.
You should also cook any food you make yourself to a high temperature as well. Since you may not know where all the food came from that you are cooking, you need to be certain you cook it well. This way you can avoid contaminating yourself with the bacteria as well.;
, One of the major ways that the H. Pylori bacteria is transmitted is through unsanitary conditions. This includes food and beverage production, living conditions, and activity areas as well. Food that is cooked in a poorly sanitized setting can transmit the bacteria from one individual to another. Avoid roadside locations or food carts where it is evident that there is no proper facilities for hand washing or cleaning utensils.


You should also avoid living arrangements near unclean water sources, sewage locations, and other areas where unclean and dirty water may be prevalent.
Avoid places where people don't use gloves, where there are inadequate restroom and cleaning facilities, or places where workers touch money and other people and then handle food or merchandise., The main way that the bacteria is transmitted is through the fecal-oral route or the oral-oral route. This means that food, water, and objects are contaminated with the bacteria because of poor sewage practices and poor hygiene. Since many individuals do not know they are carrying the bacteria, it can easily be transferred from one individual to another. Accidental transmission often occurs when a person is carrying the bacteria and does not practice proper hand washing practices.


The bacteria can be found in saliva, feces, vomit, and other gastric and oral secretions. Any of these substances from a carrier getting into your mouth, or if you touch your hand to your mouth after touching something with the bacteria on it, will increase the risk of infection with H. Pylori. 