 How often you change your litter depends on the type of litter you have. However, you should never leave it longer than a couple of weeks because your cat is sensitive to the smells and doesn't enjoy using a smelly litter box.Change out non-clumping litter biweekly. With non-clumping litter, you need to change it out frequently because the pee stays in it. You should change the litter completely twice a week, though you can do it more often if it starts to smell.
Change clumping litter bimonthly. Clumping litter does not need to be changed as often. That's because the litter soaks up the urine into clumps, so you can scoop it out. That means it doesn't sit in your litter box, stinking up the house and making your cat want to use the bathroom elsewhere.
 If you have a liner, you can simply just lift it into a new trash bag. Since many cats don't like liners, you may just need to tip the box into a bag. It's probably best to take it outside so you don't accidentally dump dirty litter in the house.The best way to dump litter is to slide the whole box into the bag, then turn it over so it dumps into the bag. Otherwise, you risk dumping it everywhere.
You may want to wear gloves and a respiratory mask. The gloves will protect your hands, while the mask will protect you from the powder that flies up. Cats carry toxoplasmosis, a protozoa that can pass to humans, so it's important to protect yourself. This protozoa can be especially dangerous to pregnant women., While dumping will get most of the litter out, you may need to scrape more of it into the trash. Use the scoop to scrape out the bottom of the box into the bag, until all or the majority of the litter is out of the box. Keep the box in the bag while you're scraping it out., Tie up the bag so the odors can't escape. It's best to take out the bag immediately, so it's not sitting around your house. Plus, your cats will smell it, and they may think it's a new place to use the litter box, which of course you don't want., Now, you need to thoroughly wash out the box. You can use a laundry sink or a bathtub, but you definitely don't want to use a kitchen sink because you'll be cleaning out germs from urine and feces. Outside is a better option, even if you need to use a bucket of water. Scrub the inside clean with soap and water. Make sure to use sponges or scrub brushes that are dedicated to the litter box.For soap, use dish detergent. Pick one that doesn't have a citrus scent. Cats are turned off by citrus smells.Rinse out the box thoroughly when you're done. If you used an inside sink or bathtub, make sure to scrub it clean afterwards.
 Once the box is completely clean, make sure to dry it thoroughly. If you don't dry it thoroughly, the litter could stick to the bottom of the box. Also, make sure you use an old towel or paper towels for this purpose. You don't want to use towel that your family uses for showering., When cleaning out the box, you should also tidy up the area round the box. Sweep up any litter that's on the floor. If you have a mat under the box, pick it up, and shake the litter into the trash bag you used for the box. Mop the floor with a cleaner to make sure it's thoroughly clean, and then let it dry., Once everything is clean and dry, you can set it all back up. Add your liner, if you're using one. Pour the litter on top, and set the box back in place. Don't forget to put the mat back under the litter box if you're using one.Don't put too much litter in. It may seem like a good idea to put a huge amount of litter in the box. You may think that you'll need to clean less. However, most cats aren't a fan of that much litter. You should keep the layer to less than 2 inches of litter.