 This is what most people consider to be the standard plank exercise, and it's a good place to start if you want to master the plank itself before moving on to more challenging variations.You can get into position either by starting on all fours or by laying face down on a mat. Line your elbows under your shoulders so that your upper body is supported by your forearms, and extend your legs behind you so that you are on your toes. Your body should be a straight line from your heels to the crown of your head.
Engage your core muscles to stabilize your body, imagining that you are lifting your weight up and away from your elbows. You can keep your forearms straight ahead, pressing your palms into the mat, or you can clasp your hands in front of you. No matter which position you choose, place your hands so that they line up below your eyes when you look down at the floor.
Start by holding the plank position for 10 to 20 seconds. You also can measure time by measuring your breaths. Make sure you are breathing slowly and deeply, controlling both your inhale and your exhale.;
, Once you can do the forearm plank for a minute or two without shaking, you may be ready to challenge your arms further with the high plank. For this plank, your arms will be extended straight, rather than bent at the elbows.Your body should be a straight diagonal line from your heels to the crown of your head. Really engage your abs and make sure your shoulders aren't crunched.
Your wrists should be directly below your shoulders. Cup your palms slightly and press all fingers into the mat to protect your wrists. You don't want all your weight bearing down on your wrists.
Hold the position for 10 to 20 seconds, breathing deeply. As the position gets easier, you can gradually increase the time you hold it. Only hold the position as long as you can with good form.
 Even if you have no problem with regular planks, you may find a new challenge doing a side plank because it targets different abdominal muscles than a standard plank does.Move into side plank from the forearm plank position. Breathe deeply, and on an exhale raise your left arm as you tilt your body to the side, stacking your ankles one over the other.
At first you may only be able to hold this position for a few breath cycles or a few seconds. Lower to forearm plank and repeat the exercise with the other side.
For additional challenge, you can also do high side planks with your supporting arm extended. Make sure your wrist is directly under your shoulder. You'll need a strong high side plank if you want to do marching side planks., You can create a dynamic plank workout by moving from forearm planks to side planks and back again. This movement prepares you to do marching planks with proper form.To create this exercise, lift your left arm on an exhale. As you inhale, lower back to forearm plank position. On the next exhale, lift your right arm to do a side plank on the other side. This is one repetition. Try to do 3 or 4 repetitions of this exercise, breathing deeply with a breath for each movement.

