 Look at whether their feet are pointed towards or away from you. See if they are leaning back and distancing themselves from your or leaning in towards you. If their body language indicates a need for distance, you should not try to hug them. However, if they look like they want to hug you and you feel comfortable offering a hug, go ahead and give them a hug.If it is a client and they look like they want to hug, let them initiate it.
If it is a relative you rarely see, you could observe how other relatives relate to them and then follow their example. If other friends and family members seem to be hugging them and they lean in, you could go for the hug.;
, If your friend, family member or colleague looks very sad or has just received some bad news and you would like to comfort them, you could ask them if they would like a hug. If you are close to this person, they may appreciate the offer and take you up on it. Simply ask them and respond accordingly:“Do you need a hug?”
“I’m so sorry to hear you had to experience that. Can I give you a hug?”
“I’m here anytime you need a hug or a warm cup of tea. Just let me know.”

, If you are at a social event such as a conference, wedding or graduation, you could observe whether other people are hugging. For instance, if there is a line up of people offering congratulations to somebody who won an award, you could observe how people in front of you are relating to the winner. If they are hugging, it may be okay for you to also hug.If you are not sure, observe their body language or explicitly ask them.
If you are in the receiving line at a wedding, you may be expected to hug the bride and groom. See what people in front of you are doing., If you are just starting to make friends with someone, it is usually best to give them plenty of space. Once you have a better sense of the amount of personal space they like to maintain with other friends, you can make better decisions about when a hug is appropriate.If your new friend is quite obviously a hugger and you are fine with it, you may be able to move from handshakes to hugs very quickly.
If your new friend prefers to maintain a lot of personal space, you could stick to handshakes in most situations.
 If you are not sure whether to give a handshake or a hug at a social event, wait to see what the other person starts to do when they are walking towards you. If they start stretching out their hand, you can put out your hand for a handshake. However, if they lean to the side, they may expect a hug. Follow their body language to determine whether or not to hug., It can be hard to determine when a hug is okay during courtship. The most important thing is to talk and respect personal boundaries, including in relation to hugs. For instance, you could simply ask your date if they would like a hug.You could also observe their body language, which may indicate a desire for a hug if they come to you with open arms or lean to the side during a greeting.
If your first date went well, you could start your second date with a warm hug.A hug at the beginning of a date can relax both parties and help break down barriers.