 When you see her struggling to calm down on her own, lead her into a deep breathing exercise that promotes the natural relaxation response. To practice deep breathing:Find a quiet, comfortable place in which the two of you can sit without distractions. Either sit up straight with a cushion or use a chair for support. Relax your shoulders and rest your hands on your thighs.
Both of you should place one hand on your chest and one on your abdomen. Breathe in deeply through your nose for 4 to 8 counts. The hand on your abdomen should expand with your belly. Hold the breath briefly, for 1 to 2 counts. Then, release the air out through your mouth, watching your hand fall with your belly, for the same number of counts as the inhale. The hand on your chest should move very little.
Repeat the inhale-exhale process for 5 to 10 min, or until she becomes more relaxed.;
, This exercise helps you to notice where you are holding tension in your body and know what relaxation feels like in these tense areas.


Grab comfortable seats in chairs or on the sofa. Start with a few minutes of deep breathing to stimulate calm.
Start at your feet and move up. Notice how your feet feel. Take several seconds to become aware of this feeling. Then, gradually contract the muscles in your feet until they are extremely tense. Hold for 10 counts. Release the tension, taking note of how it simply melts away. Stay in this state for about 10 counts, continuing to breath deeply.
Move slowly up through the body contracting and releasing each muscle group.
 The intensity of working out may not immediately come to mind when thinking of way to help calm someone down, but physical activity is a terrific way to relieve stress and promote a positive mood. Exercise generates those feel-good chemicals in the brain called endorphins that tend to make you feel more energetic and brighter about life.If you see her having a tough day, steer her towards a group fitness class like Zumba to get moving and form social connections.Other ideas include running, walking, yoga, playing basketball, swimming, and hiking.
 Guided imagery or visualization is another approach that promotes the body's natural relaxation response. This practice can be carried out by listening to an audiotape or following along to a YouTube video. Here's how it works:Find a quiet, serene place to listen to a guided visualization exercise or choose to use your own minds. The idea is start by deep breathing. Then, begin visualizing a place that makes each of you feel safe or happy, such as grandma's house, the local water hole, or an exotic beach.
Use at least three of your senses to envision this place. Don't just stop at how it looks in your mind. Also, bring to mind how it smells (e.g. freshly baked cookies or coconut) or tastes (e.g. chocolate chips or salty air). Move deeper and deeper into a state of relaxation as you take in the sensations and surroundings of your special place.
 Research shows that classical music is especially effective at producing a calming state of mind.However, it really depends on her, maybe she just wants to forget her problems temporarily and shake her hips to a tribal drum beat. Or, she may want to commiserate by listening to songs that describe her feelings.


As long as it's relaxing to her, it doesn't matter what type of music it is.