 This is a more direct approach than the imagery method.This can actually involve a suggestion to use your imagination, but suggestions, if successful, should seem to take less effort.
This method can result in more specific changes to behavior and/or perceptions than other techniques.
More careful instruction on the part of the hypnotist will be required.
 After the subject is in the hypnotic state, they are receptive to suggestions and the hypnotist can pass along the instruction or condition.The instruction needs to be specific, but simple.
Create a cue, such as the opening of eyes or ringing of a bell, to start and end the instruction's effect.
Do not deviate from your calm, steady voice during the conditioning.
Bring the subject out of the period of suggestion with the cue you created.
 If you are experimenting, it's best to try one suggestion at a time. If your subject choose a specific behavior they want elicited or stopped, modify your instructions accordingly.In the experimental setting, the hypnotist can try some practical suggestions as long as they are careful they will do no harm. The hypnotist can try suggesting the subject perform an action like take a drink, eat, write. The hypnotist could try having them respond to a command or stimulus such as doing one action when you play a musical note. The hypnotist can suggest something more complex--perhaps having them respond with a specific phrase when you give a command phrase.
Stopping habits like smoking, nail-biting, and the like is a common use for this technique.
This technique can also create behaviors and images like seeing lost friends, memory effects, and pain displacement.
 While this technique is not as drawn out as the imagery method, multiple sessions can still be useful for testing variations of the experimental version's effectiveness. Extended therapy sessions can also be beneficial.


Maintain communication between hypnotist and subject to determine if the therapy is improving behavior and/or lifestyle.
Make sure there isn't a more serious medical problem if prolonged sessions are not having an effect.
 If suggestion therapy isn't working, then the subject may need encouragement to pursue other methods.


Examine the other hypnotic tricks/approaches like image and cognitive therapy for their potential benefits.
Discuss with the subject if they are willing to try these other methods.
If significantly more pronounced mental illness is presenting itself, then a mental health professional should be consulted for further examination.

