 The call will be smoother and yield more results if you do not enter the conversation assuming the agent will not be able to help you.
 There are many things you can do to make your English easier to understand. Here are some tips; more are available in How to Communicate with a Non Native English Speaker:


You may find that it helps to pronounce some words as the non-native speaker does.
Avoid running words together ( Do-ya wanna eat-a-pizza?). One of the biggest challenges for listeners is knowing where one word ends and the next one begins. Give them a small pause between words if they seem to be struggling.
When possible, opt for simple words instead of ones that are complex. The more basic a word is, the better the chance is that it will be understood. ("Big" is a better choice than "enormous" for example. "Make" is a better choice than "manufacture.")
Avoid using filler and colloquialisms ('um...', 'like...','Yeah, totally.')
Avoid using contractions or short forms. Use long forms. “Can’t” is one word you must use the long form with.
 Although it may be frustrating, working slowly will ensure the most effective communication.


You might want to read How to Be Patient.
 Following steps that you only partially understand may cause further issues making the call even longer. Do not proceed with any step until you are sure you understand all the instructions. Do not get frustrated or feel guilty for having an agent repeat and rephrase the instructions until you understand. This applies to working with any agent even when communication is clear. Always be sure before proceeding with any step.
 To gain agreement, allow the agent to explain an entire step, and then repeat it back to them in your own words. If the agent tells you that you're correct, then proceed - if not, try again to gain agreement. Example:



Agent: Can I please have you press the power button on the front of your computer for 30 seconds or until you hear a loud beep.

You: So, to make sure I understand, you would like me to hold the square button on the front of my computer for 30 seconds or until it beeps at me?

Agent: Correct.
 If you or the agent become overly frustrated, then discontinue the call politely (do not simply hang up). Take a small break before calling back.


Be sure to get a case number or incident ID number before disconnecting so steps do not need to be repeated when you call back.
You might want to read one of the following during your break:

How to Release Anger
How to Meditate



