 Carly styles and combs and brushes it very well everyday, as to not letting it get ratty or have split ends, or at any matter, looking like she rolled out of bed. You must wash your hair only every other day because washing it everyday could cause your hair to dry out terribly and break. Always utilize a shampoo that is appropriate and works well for your hair type, and be sure to always leave in your conditioner for exactly three minutes to get a healthy, soft glow and feel while you're washing your body in the shower or bath, and rinse it out afterwards with very cold water, as cold water is better for your hair than hot water. (It seals in shine better and is more of help to your hair roots.) Whenever you want your hair to be down (Carly almost always wears her hair down), feel free to smooth it out with a flat iron. However, you must be very careful when using hot hair tools such as flat irons, as they may dry out your hair badly if you do not use them properly and efficiently. Always use a specific natural hair oil for your hair type (such as argan oil) to soften and protect your hair when using a flat-iron or other hot hair tools. Remember, your hair is a very important thing, and you absolutely must take very good care of it. Also, if you are younger, you can pin your hair back with bobby pins. Carly was often seen wearing her hair like this in the earlier seasons.;
, Carly is an extremely kind and friendly girl, but she can be sarcastic sometimes. Always try to crack jokes, because even though sometimes they're not uproariously hilarious, Carly always tries. Try to make a joke out of everything, but don't go too far. This can lead to misunderstandings and even fights. You can watch some videos to see her sense of humor, if you'd like.
 Carly is quite clean, has flawless skin, and wears very neat, key makeup. Always take showers/baths everyday, because Carly would never not take one. Do brush your teeth in the morning and at night with a decent brand of toothpaste because Carly has pearly white teeth, and always wash your face in the morning and also at night before you go to bed to make sure no pimples or blackheads show up on your skin, all the while using a face lotion with sunscreen in it to put on your face to keep it moisturized. Wear deodorant everyday as well to prevent perspiration and obnoxious odor, because Carly would never, ever, ever have sweaty, smelly, disgusting armpits. You might also want to shave certain areas of your body using a good-quality razor and shaving lotion, and apply a good-quality moisturizing body lotion to all parts of your body everyday.
 Carly is known for her brilliant ideas such as starting her very own web-show iCarly, so you might want to try to think of new, cool, and interesting ideas. She's full of creativity, so sign up for some kind of class such as sewing, crafting, or even learning a new language! If you do that one, try learning French, Mandarin, or Spanish, because Carly is known for trying to learn those.
 She is known for often wearing flats, black and white checkered vans, and nice boots. Starting in Season 2 (14 years. old), Carly loves to pair flirty skirts with mid-calf boots. Layer clothes a lot - but don't overdo it! You don't want to look like a clown. Try to also wear a lot of different patterns and colors, so you can stick out. Be creative and fun with what you wear!

, Carly tends to wear skirts a lot, so try floral or printed skirts. Be very feminine and girly whenever you wear clothes, and never dress like a tomboy (unless you are wishing to be like Samantha "Sam" Puckett, Carly's tomboyish best friend in the show). All of this information ties back to Step 5, so read that section again. Create outfits like Carly's and lay them all out so you can dress a little more like Carly, but remember that you are definitely your own person!

, Carly is very intelligent, and she always works hard and well in school, because she wishes for highly excellent grades on all of her exams and assignments. Try not to get into detention. If you need help in school, you could ask for help, or you could maybe try tutoring for classes in order to improve your academic effort in the class. You don't have to be the brainiest or greatest in school, nor do you have to be an overachiever, but you still need to have the best grades that you can get. Don't be afraid to ask questions, as they help you acquire knowledge and view the world in a different way. Help your friends with any assistance, too, because they might need it, and Carly would surely do that.
 Carly wears make-up everyday, and her make-up is girly and very natural. She generally wears a foundation that works with her skin tone, concealer, brown/white eyeshadows, face powder, a little brown pencil eyeliner, thin layers of mascara, and high-shine pink lip gloss. She also sometimes wears pink blush. Try wearing those cosmetics. However, if you don't want to wear any make-up at all, which is okay, always keep your face clean, shiny, and acne-free. (This goes along with the information that is in Step 3).
 Carly is very benevolent, polite, mature and respectful to adults and to children, and she never attempts to hurt anyone's feelings. However, at some times, once in a while, Carly can be snappy to people who just don't acknowledge her point of view and upset her, ex. Nora in iPsycho, Daka Company in iPromote Techfoots, Rona in iChristmas and Austin in iSpeed Date. Don't ever be discourteous to people, and think about calm thoughts if you are ever about to lose your temper and explode.
 Carly loves coffee, although she doesn't know that her supervisor always makes sure that it's decaffeinated. Also eat vegetarian pizzas and drink smoothies. Watch iCarly to find some of her favorite foods. (For example, in the episode "iWill Date Freddie," she and her friends are seen eating half a watermelon with spoons.) Try to drink juice a lot, and also never drink water without ice!

, Carly is shown often sitting anywhere in her apartment, typing away on her "PearBook". It will also let you appear more internet-saavy, which Carly is- after all, she did start her own web-show! Try to spend a lot of time on the internet. Carly loves and always will love being on the internet! If you have a couch or a beanbag chair, always click away on that chair. Carly has lots of gadgets, such as the "PearPhone" or the "PearPad". But of course, you don't need to only use the internet for schoolwork and how-to's - have fun! Watch funny videos, play games, update your Facebook or Twitter if you have it.
 Work on your gloss collection. You often see Carly glossing up her lips. She also likes mixing flavors; she makes a piña colada gloss out of a coconut and a pineapple-flavored one. If your lips are super dry, apply lip gloss every time they seem to start getting dryer again! Remember... reapply, reapply, and reapply!

, Always stick up for them and always make sure there well cared for. After all, that's what good friends are for! You need friends to help you on your way to success!

, Carly is always the one who plans out the web show and organizes everything. Also, don't be a procrastinator. Carly likes to get things done as soon as possible. She usually doesn't last-minute study for tests, for example.
 She likes to spend her money on accessories, clothing, and cosmetics. Make sure to get allowance when you can! Save up for some items that you really want!

, Carly likes to sing, and has some talent in the activity. You may try taking singing lessons, if you'd like, if you want to have better vocals. Or maybe you could try attending a choir elective if you go to middle school!

,