 For example, if you are a member of the armed forces and are soon traveling overseas, carriers must unlock your phone on request. Be sure to check with your carrier about any other specific circumstances you have.
 This information includes the following:


Account information - Typically, this comprises your first and last name, phone number, and a PIN (or your Social Security Number).

IMEI number - Your iPhone's IMEI number is an identifying tag found next to the "IMEI" heading in the "About" section of the "General" page, which you'll find near the top of the Settings app.

Other information - Your carrier may request details on your current plan, how long you've had your iPhone, and how much you've paid off if you're on a contract. Even though carriers typically have access to this kind of information, it's a good idea to have it on-hand just in case. If you're in the military, you'll need to bring your deployment papers.
 Ultimately, the decision is up to them; however, if you meet the proper requirements for carrier unlocking as outlined in your carrier's policy, you can usually get your phone unlocked:Verizon - Most Verizon phones come unlocked to begin with. Call or visit you local Verizon store to make sure your iPhone can support your preferred network.Sprint - Sprint will unlock your phone if it has been active on the Sprint network for at least 50 days, you have fulfilled the conditions of your lease or purchase, the phone isn't locked by law enforcement or flagged for criminal activity, and you haven't missed any payments. AT&T - AT&T will unlock your phone if it is designed for and used on the AT&T network at the time of the call and not flagged for criminal activity. You also need to have paid any early termination fees or contractual obligations.T-Mobile - If your phone is registered to T-mobile, you have completely paid for the phone, the phone has been on the T-mobile network for either a year (prepaid phones) or 40 days (month-to-month phones), it hasn't been flagged for criminal activity, and you haven't missed any payments, T-Mobile will unlock your phone for you.Ask your service provider about device compatibility on other networks. Some phones won't work on other networks' cellular frequencies., If you have the necessary information and your carrier is contractually allowed to unlock your phone, they will do so.

After your carrier unlocks your phone, you'll need to visit a different carrier whom you'd like to use and purchase a SIM card from them.
To use another carrier's network on your iPhone, simply insert that carrier's SIM card into your iPhone. The carrier must first activate the SIM.

