 The only way that you can really recover from PTSD is to come to terms with the fact that you have this condition. Otherwise, you will not seek treatment for it in the first place. If you are not sure whether or not you have PTSD, you should look out for four main categories of PTSD-related symptoms: Intrusive re-experiencing of emotions and images related to the traumatic event.
Feelings of avoidance, such as trying to avoid thinking about or talking about the negative event that occurred.
Hyper-arousal and sensitivity to things like loud noises.
Negative changes in thinking and feeling, such as emotional numbness, hopelessness about the future, and/or a lack of interest in activities once enjoyed.;
, Symptoms of re-experiencing are those that bring the sufferer back, mentally, to the traumatic event and the emotions associated with it. Flashbacks can arouse negative emotions in the PTSD sufferer. These flashbacks can completely override what is currently happening and replace the present context with thoughts that bring back memories of the past trauma.Re-experiencing can include flashbacks, nightmares, and irrational thoughts usually driven by fear.
 Avoidance can mean intentionally blocking out specific parts of the traumatic experience. This may not just be simply forgetting the events that transpired through the ordeal but can involve an intentional blocking of details in the hopes that this can make it all go away. Avoidance can also manifest as a refusal to go to the place where the event happened, see the people that were a part of the event, or be around items that remind you of the experience.
Avoidance can also manifest itself as the experience of emotional numbness; this is your mind shutting out the emotions you had during the traumatic event.
 Hyper-arousal symptoms are generally always present in a person with PTSD. Hyper-arousal can also be described as being constantly ‘on edge’. On edge can mean being started by loud noises or sudden movements. It can also refer to emotional overreactions to minor events.Hyper-arousal can lead to difficulty sleeping. You might find that the softest noise wakes you up or that you feel like you are constantly half awake when you should be sleeping.

