 Your seat belt won't work as effectively if your seat is reclining back. Look for a lever on the side of your seat. This is usually on the side facing the side door. Pull it up until your seat is as close to a 90-degree angle as possible., The farther you're sitting from the dashboard, the safer you'll be in a collision. Move the handle under your seat, usually right in the middle, to move the seat forward or backward. If you're driving, make sure you can see well out of all windows and at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) above the steering wheel.If you're vertically challenged, purchase an accessory specially designed to adjust your height in a vehicle. Pillows, books, and other quick fixes can slide and actually cause you to crash. Contact your local AAA club or auto insurance provider for assistance., Place your hips and back firmly against the seat back. You shouldn't have any room between the backs of your shoulders and the seat. This is to make sure your seat belt fits snugly and keeps you in place during a crash. If you slouch, you're putting yourself at risk for serious injuries like strangulation., The headrest is designed to keep your head from snapping back in a crash. Position it so that it's level with the tops of your ears and as close to your head as possible. Don't literally rest your head on the headrest while driving or as a passenger., Don't slip it behind your back or under your arm.If you're pregnant, make sure the strap runs between your breasts and clear of your baby bump.You can skip this step if you're in an older car whose seat belt only goes across the lap.
 Avoid placing it over your stomach. Make sure the belt fits snugly. If you're pregnant, adjust this belt below your baby bump to avoid fetal injury.A word of warning to expectant moms: Avoid positioning devices like the “Preggi Pillow” or harnesses with shoulder straps only. Crash tests have shown them to be even more harmful to you and your baby., Slide the metal end of the buckle into the latching device. You should hear a click. Make sure the belt is secure by tugging on it. If the belt doesn't come unlatched, the seat belt is secure.