 If you are looking to spice things up for yourself, you may try writing about yourself and your life in the third person. This means to describe what is happening as if you were an outside narrator. This activity can stimulate creativity, and may help you get a different perspective on your life for a moment. Best of all, it can push away feeling of tedium or boredom.For example, instead of saying “I woke around 8 and went for a walk,” you would say, “Kelly woke up around 8 and went for a walk. She was pleased to start her day with the sun.”

, Another interesting writing activity is to write with the hand that you don't normally write with (your subdominant hand). This slowed way of communicating can help generate unique thoughts, and boost your enthusiasm for writing in your diary..You may try having a conversation with yourself by asking questions with your dominant hand, and answering them with your other hand.
 One of the best ways to beat a writing rut is to use stream of consciousness writing. Set a timer for ten minutes (to start), sit down, and start writing. Do not allow yourself to stop, edit, or even think. Just let the words flow for ten full minutes. This is a great way to clear out the clutter, and keep you from getting bored. Plus, you may be surprised by what you create.An activity called “morning pages” advocates for writing 3 hand-written pages every morning to de-clutter your thoughts and open up your creative pathways.
 Some people may benefit from a daily writing schedule, while for others this will surely generate boredom. So give yourself a break. Perhaps aim to create 3 diary entries per week. Or just let yourself off the hook when you need to. A diary works best if you commit to it, but you should not make it a chore.
 List-making is a fun writing strategy to get your creative juices flowing. Beyond making lists of what you are grateful for, or what you’ve accomplished, you can expand this to create lists about almost anything. This a fun way to keep writing without feeling dull. Looking back, you will be surprised how well these lists describe you and capture a moment in your life.


List everything you ate that day.
List your ten favorite activities.
List five things you like about yourself and five things you don’t like.
List you five favorite songs or albums.
List every time you’ve been on an airplane.
List five hopes you have for the future.

