


If you have older, bulkier camping items, you will need to look for a larger camping backpack with greater storage capacity. Newer camping gear is much lighter and more compact than the older models. If your camping gear is fairly new, you will be able to take a more manageable-sized pack.
If you intend to go on trips where bears are present, make sure extraneous bulky items such as a bear canister to protect your food will fit into your pack while leaving room for your other supplies.;
,


If you plan to take shorter trips lasting one to three nights, you can get by with a smaller camping backpack than if you were to take a longer trip. Backpacking manufacturers call smaller packs Multi-day or Weekend Trip packs. They generally hold between 40 and 75 liters, with women's packs generally having a maximum capacity of 65 liters (17.2 US gal).
If longer trips of 5 or more days are in your future, a pack classified as an Extended Trip pack will be necessary to accommodate all of your gear, as they generally hold over 65 liters (17.2 US gal) of content. Furthermore, this type of pack is appropriate if you will be traveling with children and carrying their gear, or if you are camping in cold weather months for more than one night. This type of pack can carry extra supplies required for extremely cold temperatures.
If you plan to take some shorter trips and some longer trips, but only want to buy one backpack, your best choice is to select the larger pack designed for extended trips. That way, no matter what length trip you are going on, you will have enough space for your survival essentials and can avoid strapping things to the outside of your pack. Gear on the outside of your pack may snag on branches along the hiking path.
 This will help you and the salesperson narrow in on an appropriate pack more quickly.

Researching camping backpacks by price and size ahead of time will help you know brand names, price ranges and other factors that would help you make your decision when it comes to exactly what you can afford in a backpack.



Try fitting these items into the various camping backpacks available in the store to get an idea for how large of a bag you will need. Make sure there is enough room left for your other camping essentials, such as food, cooking and eating supplies, and clothing.



Camping backpacks range from ultra lightweight, which trade convenience to minimize weight, up to deluxe, which adds in comfort and space but that will be heavier. Lightweight backpacks fall somewhere in the middle and are a popular choice.



You should base fit off of whether it is appropriate for your torso length rather than overall height, and whether it fits snugly around your hips. Ask a salesperson to help you determine your torso length and hip size, then look at backpack specs to find one appropriate for your size.

