 You'll need about 3 tablespoons (22 g) of sweetened cocoa powder or 2 tablespoons of syrup to make an 8 ounce (236 ml) mocha. You can either place the chocolate into the mug you'll be serving the mocha in or put it into a metal steaming pitcher with your milk. Measure about 10 to 12 (295 to 355 ml) ounces of milk into the pitcher if you're going to make an 8 ounce (236 ml) mocha.You can also put the chocolate into a tiny metal pitcher. This way, you can pull the espresso shot directly into the chocolate which will help it dissolve. This is useful if you'll be making an iced mocha and can't steam the chocolate with the milk.;
, To make a double shot, place 15 grams of espresso grounds in a clean portafilter. Tamp it down so that it packs the grounds evenly. This will ensure that water passes through it evenly. Lock the group handle into the espresso machine and place a small metal pitcher underneath. Turn on the espresso machine to pull the shot. It should take about 20 to 25 seconds for the shot to pull through.It's important to weigh out your espresso grounds. If you don't have enough grounds, your espresso will filter through too quickly and taste weak.
Always follow the manufacturer's instructions for your espresso machine. Adding too many grounds to the portafilter could damage the machine.
 Turn on the steam wand on your espresso machine for a few seconds to clean it out before you steam the milk. Insert the steam wand into the metal pitcher of milk and turn on the steam wand. Keep the wand towards the bottom of the jug and only bring it near the surface of the milk a few times to make foam. Heat your milk between 140 and 160 degrees F (60 to 71 degrees Celsius).Clean the steam wand with a wet cloth and turn it on for a few seconds to clear any milk out of the tube.


You can either insert a thermometer into the milk while you're steaming or hold you hand on the side of the pitcher as you steam. Once the pitcher becomes too hot to touch, move your hand away and continue to steam the milk for a few more seconds.
 If you steamed the milk with chocolate in the pitcher, you'll simply need to pour the hot chocolate over your espresso shots in your mug. If you placed the chocolate in the mug or a small silver pitcher, you'll need to stir the chocolate with the espresso to dissolve it. Slowly pour the hot milk over your coffee and chocolate mixture.


You can thoroughly stir the mixture or practice pouring an intricate design. To pour a design, place the espresso in your mug and carefully pour your hot chocolate over it so that it doesn't break the surface of the espresso. Wiggle your your wrist back and forth to create a rosetta pattern.
 Most coffee shops top caffe mochas with whipped cream. This is an easy way to add extra creaminess and style to your drink. You can also sprinkle sweetened cocoa powder over the top or drizzle chocolate syrup over it.Or, you could top it with mini marshmallows.


If you garnish with whipped cream, don't forget to leave about an inch of space at the top of your mug. Otherwise, your mug may overflow as the whipped cream melts.

