 Having fringe hanging down from the top of your tapestry may not look very appealing. This method hides the top fringe behind a board or piece of wood, creating a cleaner and more polished look. 







, You will use a piece of wood to hold up the tapestry so the size of wood required depends on the weight of the tapestry.









For normal applications you can use a piece of 1x2 (22mm by 44mm) or 1x3 (22mm by 72mm) wood but if your tapestry is particularly large or heavy you should consider larger sizes. , Paint the wood using to prevent acid deterioration of the tapestry where it will be touching the wood.









You will be able to see the board on the ends so use a color that either matches the wall or the dominant colors of the tapestry. , Cut a heavy canvas-type fabric so that it is a few inches longer than the width of the tapestry. Hand sew this canvas to the top front edge of the tapestry.









The canvas fabric should be about six or seven inches wide, but if more support is needed for heavier tapestries then you can use a wider strip.
Make sure the stitches are straight even if the tapestry end is not perfectly straight or else you will end of with a crooked tapestry.
You may need several rows of stitches when sewing on the canvas, especially for heavier tapestries.
Make sure each stitch covers at least two warp threads and use heavy cotton thread that matches the dominant color of your tapestry. , Fold the ends of the canvas strip around to the back of the tapestry, enclosing the fringe and edges of the tapestry on the top. Then flop the entire piece over so that it is facing the back. 







, Drill holes near the ends of the board so that they are centered and even. They should also be equidistant from the ends. 







, Use a level while placing the board against the wall to mark the locations you will be drilling into the wall. The best option is to use a stud finder to find studs to drill into. Alternatively you can use drywall screws and place them directly into the drywall.









Insert wall anchors if you are drilling into drywall or masonry.
Make sure the screws you will be using are strong enough if you have an especially large tapestry. Check the manufacturer’s label for their strength.
 Slide the painted board underneath the flap so that it is between the canvas and top of the tapestry. Use wood staples to staple the canvas directly to the backside of the piece of wood. 







, You may need help to hold up the tapestry while you are driving screws through the board and into your wall. Make sure the board is secure and level.









The canvas wrapped fringe and top edge of the tapestry should be between the board and the wall. Make sure you secure the board tightly against the wall to secure the tapestry in place. , Now that the board is securely attached to the wall you can bring down the flap of tapestry that was being held up. Make sure everything looks even and straight and admire your work!








