 When you see him, walk right up and start a conversation.Spark his interest by showing him yours! Demonstrate how confident you are by seeking him out right away, rather than forever waiting for that "perfect moment" that may or may not come.Don’t worry about declaring your undying love right away. Simply get the ball rolling by showing him that you would like to get to know him better.


Don’t feel super-confident just yet? That is all the more reason to go straight up to him! Dawdling will just give you more time to overthink things and stress yourself out.Also, you don't want to give someone else a chance to get in there first and hog his attention.
 Don’t stress yourself about flooring him with the most clever thing that you could possibly say. Instead, start small and build from there. Draw him into a conversation with you by posing an offhand question or asking for a quick favor.Whichever you choose, be sure the topic is something that will lead to an actual back-and-forth conversation, instead of a one-word answer. Open with something like:


“Is that the new iPhone? Could I take a peek at it? I need to replace my phone and I’m not sure what I want to get.”
“You have Ms. Novak for first period, right? What was her test like? I have to take it eighth period.”
“I like your Smiths t-shirt. Real quick: what’s your favorite album and why?”

, When you approach, make direct eye contact and maintain it. Even though you’re nervous, stop yourself from glancing away to stare at your feet or something in the distance. Gain his attention and keep it by keeping yours on him from start to finish!Smile, too! Put him at ease with a grin as you approach. Remember: you want him to like talking with you, so show him that this conversation is going to be a good thing by opening with a big friendly smile.
 Once you draw him into a conversation, keep him engaged by sticking to a subject he knows about: himself! As you move from topic to topic, show him that your main interest isn’t the topic itself, but what he thinks about it. Flatter his ego so he feels eager to share. At the same time, avoid the stress of being in the spotlight by keeping it trained on him!Think of yourself as an interviewer. Ask lots of questions. For example, if he happens to have a book with him:
Ask him what he thinks of it so far.
Then ask what other authors he enjoys.
Quiz him with: “Which five books would you bring if you were stranded on a desert island?”
Then ask if he could only recommend one to read, which one would it be.
 Don’t overdo the questioning and make him feel like this is an interrogation! Start peppering the conversation with your own opinions and anecdotes. Even though you feel nervous at first, share a small piece of yourself when he shares something with you. As you grow more comfortable, expand and offer him a wider view so the conversation grows to be equal parts give and take.For instance, if one of the books he picks to bring with him to a desert island is the same as one of your picks, say so!
Then use that topic to direct more questions at him: “Which character do you most identify with? What was your favorite part? What did you think of the movie?”
When he shares his answer with you, return the favor by answering your own question.
By asking lots of questions and sharing your own answers, you can control the course of the conversation and share exactly what you want to share.
 As the conversation builds, stick to topics that the both of you enjoy. Even though you may want this guy to be your shoulder to cry on when you need one, save that for later. For now, show him that you are fun to be around by keeping the conversation carefree.If he brings up a topic that stresses you out, redirect the focus to something more positive.
Let’s say he brings up a flood that recently hit the city where your favorite aunt lives.
Instead of focusing on the flood, use that as a segue to talk to about a happy memory of your aunt or that city.
From there, shift the focus back onto him by asking about his favorite family member or city.

