 Tougher and/or low-fat cuts like flank steak, sirloin, skirt, flat iron, round, and hanger steaks are best for marinating. The marinade soaks into the meat, adding flavor and helping to tenderize the meat.


Don't ruin expensive steaks by marinating them; quality cuts like rib-eye, porterhouse, T-bone, filet mignon, and NY strip are great as they are don't need to be marinated.
For more info, see How to Understand Cuts of Beef.;
, Marinade works because acids break down muscle and connective tissue, which is a slow process; if the meat is thick, the outside can get sour by the time the marinade actually penetrates the core.


In general, the more surface area that's exposed to the marinade, the better the marinade will do its job.
 A basic marinade consists of an acidic liquid (which will break down muscle fibers), oil, and other flavorings, such as sweeteners, herbs, and/or spices. Marinades can be sweet and salty, Italian flavor, barbecue flavor - if you have a taste for it, chances are you can make it into a marinade. Choose a bottled marinade or mix your own using one of the ingredient lists in this article.


Most marinades use one of the following acidic liquids as a tenderizer: wine, vinegar, or lemon juice. However, don't go overboard: while acidic marinades work by breaking down (denaturing) protein bonds, putting a steak in a highly acidic marinade (pH around 5 or lower) for more than two hours has the opposite effect, tightening the protein bonds, drawing out moisture, and making the meat tougher.
There are also tenderizing enzymes in ginger, kiwi, papaya, and pineapple. It's possible to go overboard with these, too, turning the steak into mush.
Dairy products like Greek yogurt and buttermilk can also have a tenderizing effect, although the way this works is not fully understood. Most likely, it’s due to the lactic acid content.
 You can use any type of plastic, glass or ceramic food storage container. Pour enough marinade over the meat to cover it entirely. Don't worry about adding too much.


Marinating a flat cut of meat in a large ziploc bag can be very useful since you will need less marinade to completely cover it here than you would inside a bowl.
If you're running low on time, you can work in the marinade by massaging the meat. Otherwise, time will do the work.
 Put the sealed container in the fridge for 2 to 24 hours, depending on the strength of the marinade.
 Shake off excess marinade, let the meat come to room temperature, and grill, bake, fry, or otherwise cook the meat according to your recipe.

