 Grab a 6-inch veterinary thermometer, and shake it out till the temperature reads somewhere around 95 degrees. Add a bit of petroleum jelly as lubricant to the end of the thermometer, and clip a clothespin to the other end for better grip. Stand just to the side at your horse’s rear, and insert the thermometer into their rectum. Allow it to set for 2-3 minutes, and then remove it and check the temperature.


The average temperature of a healthy adult horse is 99-101 degrees. For a foal, this is slightly higher at 99.5-102 degrees.
A temperature change in 1-3 degrees is no problem, but if your horse’s temperature has risen 4 degrees or more there may be an issue.
Remember to consider things like hot weather or a heavy workout before jumping to sickness as the cause of your horse’s rise in temperature.;
, For the easiest way to check the pulse of a horse, use a stethoscope. Hold the end of the stethoscope to the horse’s chest, just behind the left elbow. A single ‘lub-dub’ is a single pulse; time yourself for one minutes and count the number of pulses you hear. For a healthy horse, the resting heart rate should be somewhere between 35-42 beats per minute. Anything much higher or lower than this may indicate a health issue.
 Make sure your horse’s breathing isn’t out of sync by checking their respiratory rate. Stare at their rib cage, and watch for it to rise and fall. Time yourself as you count the number of times you see their rib cage expand over the course of a minute. A healthy horse will have a respiratory rate of 8-20 breaths per minute.


If your horse has recently exercised, has been in hot or humid weather, is pregnant, or is very old, they may have a higher respiratory rate without being ill.
 When it is especially hot, your horse has been working very hard, or you are concerned about possible illness, check your horse’s hydration levels. Pinch a piece of skin from their chest or shoulder between your forefingers, and then let go. If your horse is hydrated and has plenty of fluids, the skin should return to its normal state in a second or less. If your horse it mildly dehydrated, it will take 2-4 seconds to return to normal. Severe hydration is indicated by peaked skin lasting 5-10 seconds., If you’re worried about your horse experiencing a toxic reaction, shock, or severe hydration, test their gums. Lift their lips and apply pressure to a spot on their gums with your finger, waiting until it turns white. Then, release the pressure and count how long it takes to return to its normal pinkish hue. A healthy horse will have color return in 1-2 seconds.


If it takes 3-4 seconds (or longer), your horse may be experiencing health problems and you should consider calling a vet.
If the gums are not pink but red, your horse may have consumed a toxic substance.
If the gums are whitish in color all around, your horse may have had blood loss or may be in shock.
If the gums of your horse are blue or turning blue, contact your vet immediately as it is a sign that they are close to death.