 This may seem counter-intuitive to an article on having a healthy sex life, but consider this: if 2/3s of teenagers are engaging in sex, that means 1/3 are not. Also, abstinence does not mean not feeling sexual: it means not having sex. If this is the choice you and your partner have made, then do not be ashamed of it. Neither should you be ashamed to have sexual urges with your partner—it would be unnatural not to. There are some things you can do to help calm those urges, and still share the kinds of intimacies that people in love share:

, If his (or her) wandering hands land where you don't want them, don't just try to block the move with your body language: move them away with your own hands, and say "No, I'm not ready for that." They should get the idea immediately, and respect you enough to stop that approach.
 It's completely natural to feel desire, but it's not required that you act on that. If you find yourself suddenly overwhelmed with passion, but are committed to remaining chaste for now, simply back off a bit and say something like "wow, that's hot, but I'm not ready to go further right now. Let's go watch a movie."


If your partner doesn't understand, or is insistent, don't be surprised: they may not be quite as ready to stop as you are, and might be a little confused and flustered. However, if they remain insistent, or demanding, or even attempt emotional blackmail such as "If you loved me you would keep going," send them home to cool down, and re-think if you want to be in that situation with them again.
 Surprisingly, abstinence actually has a higher failure rate than condoms in preventing STDs and pregnancy. This doesn't mean you can get pregnant from kissing, of course. What this means is that a large number of abstaining teens lose their resolve and have some form of sex in the heat of the moment, often without protection. Educate yourself about pregnancy and STDs. Understanding these risks can help you stick to your plan, or run out and buy a condom if you change your minds.

