 When you are going to intentionally hide a relationship, your boyfriend or girlfriend needs to be in on that conversation. Otherwise, he or she may feel like you are embarrassed by him or her. Discuss the reasons why you want to keep it secret, being open about your feelings., People hide relationships for all sorts of reasons, from being of different religious backgrounds to having a significant age difference. Of course, you may also want to have an affair, too, which is another type of secret relationship. However, most of the time, people don't want to be kept hidden, so you may ruffle some feathers if you make this suggestion.
 At some point, you won't be able to keep your relationship a secret anymore. You and your significant other should be in control of when the news comes out. Therefore, make an agreement about when you will give out that information. It can be a specific amount of time, such as 3 months, or a certain number of dates, say 8. The most important thing is that the two of you be in agreement., Just like with a romantic work relationship, if you want to keep a romantic relationship secret from your friends and family, keep pictures of you two together off of social media. In addition, of course, you don't want to change your relationship status., If you are around family members who will be looking at your phone or other communication devices from time to time, it's important to delete any communications from that person. Delete text messages, instant messages, phone calls, and voice messages from your significant other as soon as you can on your phone, tablet, and computer.An alternative to this step is to buy a cheap phone specifically for your secret relationship, though it is more difficult to keep up with two phones.
 If anyone has access to your email account, you may need to get a second one to hide your relationship. Pick a different service than you normally use, and try using a different name so that it won't be linked to you., If you're visiting sites that may be suspicious, even if it's just a fancy restaurant, you need to clear your browser history when you're done with the computer. Of course, you only need to clear it if you're using a shared computer, but it's best to be safe if you're trying to keep a relationship secret.Some browsers, such as Google Chrome, have a feature that allow you to browse without the computer tracking what you do. However, if your browser doesn't have that feature, you can simply clear the history and the cookies when you are done with each session, located under the main menu and the history section., If you have shared bills with another person, use a separate credit card when you go out with your new fling. Otherwise, pay in cash if you can. Otherwise, the family member may wonder at the charges.If your family members look through your wallet, it's best to keep this card somewhere secret., That is, you know where many of your friends and family hang out. Try to avoid any location where you might meet up with them. If you must, drive a little out of town to a suburb, so you don't run into people you know.

