 The curtains should be a few inches than your window. They can be the same length as your window or a little longer; they can even go all the way down to the floor. Here are some common curtain lengths to get you started:


Floor-length curtains are ideal for a formal dining room.
Curtains that touch and puddle on the floor work great for a family or living room.
Curtains that reach the windowsill or fall just below it are perfect for the kitchen.;
, Add 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) to the width measurement, and 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) to the length measurement. This will be enough to give you double-folded hems, which will make your curtains look more professional., This is an important step. Washing and drying your fabric will help remove any starches and shrinking. Ironing your fabric will get rid of wrinkles, and give you a smooth base to work on.
 Turn the fabric so that the wrong side is facing you. Fold the long edges down by 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and press them flat with an iron. Fold them down by another 1 inch (1.54 centimeters) and press them flat once more. If you need to, use sewing pins to keep the fabric in place.


If you are using iron-on hem tape: sandwich the hem tape inside the hem, then iron it according to the package instructions., Sew as close as you can to the folded, inside edge of the hem. Use a thread color that matches your fabric, and remove the pins as you go.


If you used iron-on hem tape, you can skip this step.
 Fold the hems down by 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) and press them flat with an iron. Fold them down by another 4 inches (10.16 centimeters), and press them once more. If you need to, use sewing pins to secure the fabric.


If you are using iron-on hem tape: fold the edges down by 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) and iron the hem tape to the folded edge. Peel off the paper backing, then fold the hem by another 4 inches (10.16 centimeters). Press the hem flat with an iron., Choose a thread color that matches your fabric. Sew as close to the inside, folded edge as you can, and pull the sewing pins out as you go. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling.


If you are using iron-on hem tape, you can skip this step.
 Clip some curtain rings to the top hem of your curtain, making sure that they are spaced evenly. Slip the curtain rings onto a curtain rod, then hang the rod up.

