 If you know nothing about upgrading laptops or anything other than just checking emails and doing basic internet things, then consider getting some help.;
, Many people do not use their laptop anymore because of many reasons. Whether if it's out-of-date and they're replacing it with a new one soon, or whatever because, ask if they are willing to let you have it either free or next to nothing.
 Look at all the ports, optical drive, and slots it has. Like Ethernet ports, USB ports, PS/2 connector ports, floppy disc slot and has a CD drive or a DVD drive or an old combo CD or DVD "Read only" drive, etc. As well as anything else, it might have. This will allow you to know any possible abilities it can handle and stuffs you could do. P.S: Most optical drives on laptops older than 10 years old might only be "Read Only", meaning that you will not have the ability to burn anything off onto a disc.
 Sometimes a reason people don't use old laptops is because it doesn't start up or doesn't work anymore. So see if it starts up at all and will start up.
 Determine what specifications it has. Such as the RAM, Hard drive space,

, If your laptop still uses Windows 95, Windows 98, or Mac 9 on an old Mac, then see if it is possible to upgrade the system software to a Windows XP or Mac (10.1). Doing so, will most likely give you more improved user-friendly OS software interface. At least update it to Windows 2000.
 Because then you can also use it as a portable DVD player if it can handle DVD playback.
 You might be able to connect an external hard drive of some sort to give you the extra space you might need. Alternatively, consider putting it in good use.
 Some old laptops might not be possible to have a wireless card installed into it, allowing wireless internet access but it might be possible to connect an Ethernet cable through the Ethernet port via Modem. Most of the old laptops might be capable of internet if it is connected through the modem via Ethernet cable. You will have internet ready to use for your laptop if it can handle it.
 Whenever you buy a copy of Norton Anti-Virus software, it will require you to pay again for new updated software after 1 year's subscription. The software is the same except for some few minor changes and updates, so it is not exactly worth paying $100 or more every year just for slightly updated software.
 Having a 2nd USB port will help you connect more current devices onto it.
 It's an old piece of technology so putting too much demands on it might make it run slow.

