 You'll find the Settings app on one of your Home screens. It may be in a folder labeled "Utilities.";
, You'll find this in the fourth group of options.
 You'll need to be signed in with the Apple ID that is associated with the iTunes purchases you want to find.


If the wrong Apple ID is currently signed in, tap it and then tap "Sign Out."

, Make sure to enter the same account that originally made the purchases you are trying to recover.
 Once you are signed in, tap the Home button to return to your iOS device's Home screen., This may be in the same "Utilities" folder that your Settings app was in.
 You'll find this in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 This will display all of your iTunes app purchases, including apps that you downloaded for free.
 This tab is at the top of the list, and will display your device type instead of "Device (e.g. "Not on This iPhone").
 The list will be organized by purchase date, so newer purchases will be at the top. Apps that were installed for free count as purchases as well.


If you're not seeing an app in the list, it may have been de-listed from the store, or it may be for a different device. For example, if the app only had an iPad version and you're using your iPhone, you won't see it in the list.
 This button is to the right of the app in the list. Tapping it will begin downloading the app to your device.


If you have a lot of apps that you want to download at once, using iTunes may be easier. See the next section for details.
 iTunes comes preinstalled on macOS computers. If you're using Windows, you can download it from apple.com/itunes/download. See Download iTunes for details.


Using iTunes allows you to mass-download all of your old apps, which can save you a lot of tapping when you're restoring your device.
 The button is directly to the left of the Search box.
 You'll need to be signed in with the same Apple ID that originally purchased or downloaded the apps you want. Enter your Apple ID and password to sign in.


If the wrong Apple ID is signed in, click the "Sign Out" button and then log in with the correct account.
 The "..." button can be found in the upper-left corner of the iTunes window.
 This will display the iTunes App library.
 This will load the iTunes App Store home page.
 The Quick Links section is on the right side of the App Store home page., This will show all of the apps that are not currently downloaded to your iTunes App library.
 This will begin downloading all of the apps in your library for any of your devices. The apps will be added to your queue, and will not appear to immediately begin downloading.
 Click the Downloads button in the upper-right corner of iTunes to view your active downloads. If you're downloading a lot of apps, it may take a while for all of the downloads to complete.
 All of the apps that have been completely downloaded will be displayed in this tab.
 Now that the apps are downloaded to your computer, you can connect your iOS device and sync them to it. Use the USB cable that you charge the device with to connect it to your computer.


If this is your first time connecting the iOS device to iTunes, you'll be prompted to set it up. This will only take a moment and will not affect any of your data.
 It may take a moment for your device to appear after connecting it to your computer.
 This will display all of the apps in your iTunes App library on the left, and the Home screens on your iOS device on the right.
 You can add and remove apps from your device by dragging and dropping them. You can also click the "Install" or "Remove" button next to each app in the list to accomplish the same task.


Hold ⇧ Shift and click to select a large number of apps at once. You can also hold ⌘ Command / Ctrl to select multiple individual apps.
You can drop apps onto each other to create folders. These folders will be displayed as separate sections in your Home screen previews in iTunes.
 The apps will be transferred to your iOS device. This may take a while if you're transferring a lot of apps.


As you add apps, you'll see the predicted space on your device adjust accordingly at the bottom of the window.

