 As soon as you notice that you’ve gotten oil-based paint on fabric, use a utility knife, plastic knife, or even a piece of sturdy cardboard to scrape it off. Next, blot the paint stain with a clean white cloth or rag to absorb any excess moisture from the paint stain.It’s important to use a white cloth to blot the paint stain to ensure that no dye transfer from the cloth to the fabric that you’re cleaning.
 After you’ve scraped off and blotted the paint from the fabric, use warm or hot water to rinse the area. You can squeeze the excess moisture from the fabric afterward, but don’t allow it to dry completely.Check the care instructions for the fabric that you’re cleaning. Use the hottest water appropriate to rinse the paint stain.
 Once you’ve rinsed the fabric, place it on a clean white towel. Use a clean white cloth to blot the area with turpentine to help lift the paint stain from the fabric.Turpentine may cause some fabrics to fade. Test a small, inconspicuous area of the fabric to ensure that it won’t be damaged.
If you don’t want to use turpentine to blot the stain, you can use minerals spirits.
You may need to blot the stain with turpentine several times to remove all of the paint.
 After you’ve blotted the stain with the turpentine, rub a small amount of dishwashing liquid over the remaining stain. Next, place the fabric is a tub or bucket filled with warm water and allow it to soak overnight.Use a dishwashing liquid that’s designed to cut grease.
You can soak the fabric in a sink if you prefer.
 When you’re finished soaking the fabric overnight, remove it from the tub or bucket. Use warm water to rinse the dishwashing liquid from the stain in the sink. , After you’ve rinsed the fabric, wash it your washing machine. Use your usual laundry detergent and the hottest water setting that’s appropriate for the fabric. When the item has finished its cycle, dry it as you normally would.If the stain remains after washing the item in the washing machine, treat the area with a prewash stain removing product and wash it again.

