 For example: you may use a strand of hair, yarn, medical sutures, sewing thread, etc.;
, Ensure that you do not clamp the calipers too hard around the sample in order to ensure you are taking an accurate measurement.
 Use the formula A=π*r^2. You will have to divide the measured diameter in half in order to find the radius. Make sure that you are using the correct units; you will have to convert the original measurement from millimeters to meters., When secured at the bottom, clamp the other end of the material to the top of the base. Make sure that your sample is taut, but not stretched.
 The measured section should be from the point of contact at the bottom of the base to the point of contact at the top.
 This is the number of millimeters per minute that the machine will move, separating the top and bottom pieces of the base in order to stretch your sample. On the test stand, press the leftmost button for "menu," and scroll through the options using the designated buttons. On the strain rate slide, press the middle two buttons to increase or decrease the strain rate as desired. Press the rightmost button to enter the strain rate.
 At the bottom of the screen, check “invert load” in order to correctly graph your travel vs. load curve.
 The machine will pull the sample at the designated strain rate., The software will continue recording, but you will disregard the data collected after the sample breaks.
 You will see a graph of load vs. travel. On the left-hand side, you will see a data table. From this data, you will find the maximum force the machine applied to your sample. Press the circle button on the tensile testing machine to end the trial., You will be asked where you would like to save the file. Save it to your desktop, a flash drive, or any designated place on your computer. The data will be saved in a .txt file.
 You may use software such as Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets. Once the data from the .txt file has been copied into the document, add in the cross-sectional area and original length of the sample.
 This is done by “normalizing” the data, specifically by zeroing the travel from the start time. This is completed by using a code to subtract the adjacent cell by the initial reading value of the travel. This code utilizes the ‘$’ sign to ensure the initial reading value is fixed, and then the code is copied to all cells in the column corresponding with the remaining data data.
 This is done by creating a code to divide the change in length data by the original length. The ‘$’ is again used to fix the original length value, and the code is copied for all corresponding cells in the column. As strain is unitless, the original values were kept in millimeters.
 This code also utilizes the ‘$’ symbol to ensure that the value of the cell remains the same when copying the code into the rest of the column. As the number outputted was quite large, it was converted into megapascals by dividing by 10^6. Note that the units for load are Newtons and the units for cross-sectional area are in square meters.
 This can be achieved using the graphing features of excel.

