 Belly fat can make your hips look smaller by comparison. Losing weight overall can cut down on belly fat, and make your hips look bigger. To lose weight, the first step is a healthy diet.Your diet should be primarily plant-based. Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains should make up the bulk of your diet. Go for brown rice over white rice, and whole wheat breads over white varieties.
Stick to lean forms of protein, like fish and poultry, and low fat dairy products. For example, go for salmon for dinner instead of steak.
 Sugar can contribute to weight gain overall, so look into cutting back on sugar in your diet. Sugary beverages can be a big culprit, as many people fail to think about liquid calories in their diet.Avoid sugary beverages like soda, specialty latte drinks, and alcoholic beverages including cocktails, wine, beer, and wine coolers. Drink plenty of water instead and opt for unsweetened beverages like unsweetened iced tea and club soda. You can even flavor water and other zero calorie beverages with lemon or lime juice.
Read labels before making a purchase. Sugar is found in surprising places, like breads, yogurts, and pasta sauces. You should also look for words like fructose, dextrose, and maltose in the ingredients list. These are all names of added sugar.
For women, strive to limit added sugar to 24 grams a day, which is about 6 teaspoons. For men, limit added sugar to 36 grams, which is about 9 teaspoons.
 Many times, you are eating more calories than you realize. Portion sizes, especially when eating out, can be quite large. Be conscientious of portion size.


Try to avoid going out to eat. When you do, split an entree with a friend to halve the calories. If a restaurant has a special menu of low calorie foods, try ordering off of that.Be aware of how much food you should eat at home. One serving of carbohydrates is about the size of a hockey puck. An ounce of dairy is about the size of six dice. A serving of protein should be no bigger than a deck of cards.It can also help to eat slowly. Your body will feel more satisfied, and you will realize you're full quicker.
 It can be helpful to keep a record of your eating habits, any weight loss you have, and any inches you lose off of your waist. This can help you stay on track and see what days of the week you're likely to slip up. It can also keep you motivated to have a running log of your progress to look at each day.You should also be sure to include other factors that can affect weight loss. For example, note things like your stress level, your sleep schedule, and your daily exercise.

