 The first step to gauging his interest is to simply talk to him. If you don’t feel comfortable having a full conversation with him, try just saying “hello” or “how are you” the first couple of times you speak. Each time, say more and more until you feel comfortable asking him out.You also might chat about something you both are doing or witnessing. For example, if you’re in the same class, you might ask him what he thought of the readings or the last test you had.
 Even if you are too nervous to out right ask this guy on a date, you can still flirt with him to see if he’s interested in you. When you see him, make eye contact for a few moments and slowly smile. If you have a chance to speak to him, put your hand on his shoulder or arm when he makes a funny joke. Compliment him and tell him how nice he looks., When you are flirting with him or simply talking, notice if he leans in to you when you’re speaking or lights up when he sees you. These are signs that he might be into you. He might also smile or wink at you a lot.The more signs that you have that he likes you, the more confident you will be to ask him out.
 Say “have you heard of the new restaurant downtown that has sushi? I really want to go.” You might find that he will ask you out instead. Even if he doesn’t, if he says he’s interested in going too, you can use that as a natural way to ask him out., When you know you are going to see this guy, try to look your very best. Be sure that you are showered, your hair is neat, and that you have on an outfit that fits you well. You might also consider wearing some perfume or cologne, as well.


You can also post attractive pictures on social media if he follows you.
 If you’re friends already, reach out to him to communicate with him more regularly. Text him occasionally throughout the week to check in, tell him a funny story, or just to see how his day is going. If he responds quickly, in multiple sentences and is flirty, he might like you. If he is short or unresponsive, it is best not to ask this guy out.


After you have been texting for a while and the conversation is going well, you can ask him if he’d like to go out sometime.

