 The main base of your wings will be composed of paper plates. You'll need a pack of plates or around 20 plates. It's a good idea to have a couple extra plates around in case you make a mistake. You can use whatever color you want. You can also use plastic plates. You'll additionally need:


A marker or pencil
Scissors
Ribbon
Glue (Hot glue gun or crafting glue);
, Starting at the center top edge of your first paper plate, draw a curved line down to the center bottom edge. The separated section should look like a crescent moon and should mostly be the ridged part of the plate. Repeat this drawing on 15 other plates., The second crescent moon shape should be the exact mirror of the first. The second crescent moon should have the same beginning and end points. A football or eye shape should remain in between the two separated sections.
 Cut out the crescent moon shapes and set them aside. These will be the feathers for you wings. The center section can be discarded.
 Line eight of the paper plate feathers along one side of a whole paper plate. You can judge where the feathers should be by looking, but they should be placed close together. The edge of the feathers should all be facing downwards. Look at the whole plate and imagine that it were a clock face with numbers. Starting from the left side, your first feather should be positioned around the 10 or 11 o'clock mark.


The plate should be facing up, or the position you’d normally eat from.
It helps to position everything before you begin gluing.
The angle of the top feather should be aimed outward. The feathers that follow should gradually begin pointing down and in.
The lowest feather should end around the 8 o'clock mark.
 Complete the exact process with the remaining feathers. Starting on the right side, the top feather should be around 1 or 2 o'clock mark.The last feather should end around the 4 o'clock mark.


Again, the angle of the top feather should be aimed slightly outward. The feathers that follow should gradually begin pointing down and in.
 Once you feel satisfied with how the paper plate feathers look, you can glue them into place. It might be helpful to make small marks with a pen or pencil so that you can remember where the feathers start and end. Apply a dot of glue from a hot glue gun to the tip of each feather where it will be attached to the base. Press each feather to the inside of the whole paper plate.


Make all visible glue marks on the inside of the plate.
 Apply a thin line of glue in the center of the paper plate. The glue should be applied to the inside where the attached feather tips are exposed. Press a second plate over the first to secure the feathers.
 Each piece should be around 23 inches (58 cm), or however long they need to be to slip comfortably over the wearer's arms and shoulders. Use a gold ribbon or an ornate ribbon to add to the presentation.
 The top of the ribbon should begin around the same area the feathers begin at. The bottom of the ribbons should end around the same area the feathers end. Apply a small dot of glue on both ends to adhere the ribbons to the plate.
 To cover the edges of the arm straps and for added security, fix a third plate over the second. Glue around the edges of the second plate and secure the third and final plate over it.
 Once the glue has finished drying and cooling, the wings will be ready to wear. Wait between 20 to 30 minutes for the glue to dry.

