 Beside or in your bed, take some time to put your cares in the hands of the universe. If you pray, try talking a little about your fears when you pray. If you meditate, try thinking of nothing at all, or repeat a mantra such as, "I have fears, but they do not hurt me," or "I am safe; I am home." Sit so you are comfortable and take your time., This can help you relax. As you breathe, concentrate on the feeling of the breath coming in and out of you. Feel which parts of your body rise and fall. Pay attention to your breath, and remind yourself to do so when you begin worrying about other things., Instead of getting scared at night and fleeing your bed, try treating your bed like an oasis. Dedicate your bed to relaxing and sleeping only. If you do anything in your bed other than sleep, make sure it is extremely calming. If you watch movies in bed, watch comforting ones. Save dramas and action films for the couch.When you get in bed to sleep, spend some time paying attention to your bed. Touch all the fabrics. Squeeze your pillows and pet your sheets. Get anchored in the present moment by letting yourself notice all the sensory information you are taking in.
Make your bed in the morning., If you are afraid of the dark, you might need to sleep with some sort of light on. Light disturbs your sleep, so pick a night light that turns itself off automatically. If you are afraid of waking up to pitch dark, choose a very dim night light, or try keeping a light on in the hall instead of in your room., Feeling alone at night may be one of your biggest triggers. To remedy that, find ways of opening your room to others. If you live with other people, keep your bedroom door open at night. If you live alone, put up pictures of loved ones, and get in a phone call in the evening. If you have someone you can really rely on, like a parent, sibling, or best friend, ask them to call you at the same time every night.Sleeping with a pet nearby may help you feel safe. Some dogs and cats like sharing your bed. You may find that just having a pet in the house helps you feel less alone.
Sleep with a stuffed animal, a prized blanket, or an object that reminds you of a person you love.
Wear soft pajamas you feel good in.
Decorate your room with things you like to see, and remove anything that has the potential to frighten you at night.

