 Place the origami paper color-side down and oriented like a diamond instead of a square. Bring the top corner down to meet the bottom corner, folding the paper in half as you do.


Press along the fold to secure it.
The model should like like a triangle after this step.
 Fold the right corner down until it meets the bottom corner. Fold the left corner down until it meets the same point.


Press along both folds.
The model should look like a small diamond after this step.
 Turn the paper over to its back, then fold it in half vertically.


The paper should still be positioned as a diamond instead of a square. Fold the right corner over until the meets the left corner, creating a fold between the top and bottom corners. Press along the fold to hold it in place.
After completing this step, the model should look like another triangle.
 Grab the bottom corner of the triangle and bend it upward, creating a fold just beneath the horizontal center.


Only fold the upper layer of the bottom corner.
This fold should move roughly one-third of the upper layer, bringing it to rest over another one-third. The remaining third should remain uncovered.
The resulting flap will eventually become the wing of the chick.
 Turn the model over to its other side. Fold the bottom corner over so that it mirrors the bottom corner fold previously made on the first side.


Like the other fold, you should only fold the upper layer of paper. The fold should only move roughly one-third of the surface, causing it to overlap another one-third.
Note that the top and bottom of the model should still remain the same. Do not rotate it.
The resulting flap will become the other wing.
 Make an inside reverse fold into the top corner.


To make the fold, push the top corner down and toward the body of the model, allowing it to fall in between the layers of the model.
The resulting point should stick out of the diagonal top edge, and the base fold should connect from the top of the folded wing to a point roughly one-quarter down from the tip of the top diagonal edge.
 Apply another inside reverse fold to the bottom corner of the model.


This portion should be roughly the same size as the previous inside reverse fold.
Push the bottom corner up and toward the body of the model, pulling it in between layers of the model as you do. The resulting point should stick out from beneath the diagonal bottom edge.
 The chick should be done and able to stand on its own. Rest the model on the edges of the bottom (final) inside reverse fold, and allow the rest of the folds to gently flare open.

