 Pitbulls are known to be “dog aggressive” depending their history, when you receive them into your home, and their general personality. It’s important to do as much research into your dog’s history as possible to understand their behavioral issues as best you can.If you adopted or rescued your dog, get in touch with the shelter to see if they have any information on your Pitbull’s history.
 Socializing your Pitbull is a great way to keep your dog happy while also providing them with the necessary exercise and mental stimulation they need. However, as Pitbulls have a reputation for being aggressive, you may want to use caution when they’re socializing with other dogs.


Socialize your Pitbull as early as possible. The earlier they begin interacting with other dogs, the more likely they are to develop tolerance, avoid aggressive behavior, and enjoy social interaction.When ready, take your dog to an off-leash dog park.
Taking your Pitbull for pack walks is a great way to combine exercise and social interaction.
If your Pitbull engages in an aggressive encounter with another dog it is important to intervene as soon as possible and to use the right tools. Consulting guides on addressing Pitbull aggression will provide you with the necessary information should your dog aggressively engage with others.
 House training can take quite a long time with Pitbull puppies, but it can be done with enough patience and effort. Establishing a routine, whether that be crate training or taking them outside, is the key to efficiently house training your Pitbull.Let your dog outside first thing in the morning and every night before bed.
Puppies have limited bowel and bladder control and need to be taken outside at least once an hour.Don’t leave your Pitbull in their crate for more than 6-8 hours a night.
 In order for any training to be effective you need to establish consistent structure. Most behavioral issues are rooted in the owners, not the dogs themselves.


Use the same commands and the same wording when trying to train your dog and correct behavioral issues.Buy a book on training Pitbulls to learn how others have created consistent training structures.