 The vocals in Black Metal music evoke a primitive sensation in audiences through shrieking, snarling, and screaming.While these sounds may be grating to your ear at first, note how the explosive, guttural noises conjure a savage and driving atmosphere. You might think of the vocals as an insistent reminder of a feral shared past and the animal within all human beings.


You might not be able to relate to the content of the song, but you may have an event in your past that fills you with the same primitive feeling expressed by the vocalist. Making this association may help you connect with the emotional message behind the music.;
, Throughout the genre, you may have noticed a lack of bass while the upper range, the treble, is raw and piercing. This creates an agitated kind of distortion that blurs one sound with the next. This distortion/blurring effect is intended to give you a feeling of suspension in time., The speed of Black Metal is general very fast, often with many repeated notes played in rapid succession. This drawn out effect can add to the indistinct atmosphere, with the repeated notes adding a sharp, continuous spike in the distortion.


The English Speed Metal band, Venom, is largely credited for contributing this characteristic to the Black Metal genre. By listening to Venom and other Speed Metal bands, you may gain a better understanding of and appreciation for Black Metal., Unlike many other kinds of metal, Black Metal is notable for its strong stance against contemporary established religion, especially Christianity. This counter-culture may be reflected lyrically in the form of Satanism, medieval paganism, or other kinds of pre-Christian religion.


Many Black Metal bands also utilize the mythic imaginings of writers, such as J.R.R. Tolkien, writer of The Lord of the Rings. It's likely you'll find that some of the names used in your favorite Black Metal songs allude to characters or places in Tolkien's books.
The writings of Anton LaVey, founder of the Church of Satan, are also prominently featured in Black Metal.You'll find the basic tenets of Satanism widespread through Black Metal culture.
Another theme you'll want to be on the look out for is the use of language that yearns for a return to times long since past. This may manifest in the form of medieval clothing, practices, or anachronistic actions, like the sacrifice of animals., The variety within Black Metal makes it notoriously difficult to pin down exact features, though there are many similarities throughout the genre. You'll have to come to terms with the fact that not only are there many different kinds of Black Metal, but there also many different opinions of what Black Metal is. Within the genre, there are two main camps:


The purists. You'll find that these fans revere the genre in its original, underground form. If you find yourself more drawn to the raw, straightforward style of non-mainstream Black Metal, you may be a member of this group.
The inclusives. These kinds of fans use a much broader definition for Black Metal. If you enjoy the raw underground but think it's just as Black Metal as the more technical work produced by mainstream bands, you're likely an inclusive., Many Black Metal artists wear clothing that resembles peasant or noble garb of the Dark Ages, but you may also want to try out spiked collars, leather articles of clothing, or military themed outfits.For accessories, you might think about adding an upside down cross necklace or jewelry that reflects pagan or Satanist culture, like the pentagram or the triskelion.


Shedding your normal, hum-drum clothing can help you transform your mindset from the everyday mentality to one that is darker and edgier. This can also help you feel more at place when attending Black Metal events.
 There may be Black Metal themed bars or venues around you where you can meet like-minded fans. If this isn't an option where you live, you might join Black Metal message boards or online communities to become a more active part of the community and the culture.


Taking part in the Black Metal community can help you better understand and internalize many of the feelings of the culture at large. However, as individualism is a noted feature of Black Metal, you may also want to think about the culture in terms of what it means to you., You should be prepared for the often gruesome theatrics that are frequently involved in a Black Metal show. In some cases, this might involve the killing of animals, like sheep or pigs, on stage. Sometimes bands will even throw parts of a slaughtered animal into the audience.If violence to animals or the representation of blood and gore upset you, you may want to avoid a live Black Metal performance. However, you can still enjoy the Black Metal sound on CD or by downloading your favorite albums.
The volume at live performances can be quite loud, so you'll want to take steps to protect your hearing. In many cases, you can buy a pair of suitable earplugs at your local drug store for this purpose.
 To gain a better understanding of Black Metal and how it relates to you, you might find it helpful to read some of the material commonly referenced in the genre. In doing so, you may find that lyrics otherwise unintelligible take on a new, personally accessible meaning.


Due to the heavy Satanic influences, you may want to delve into the writings of Anton LaVey. However, the anti-Christian elements of Black Metal also make Nietzsche's famous work, The Antichrist, useful to know.
To gain a fuller understanding of medieval allusions in Black Metal, you may want to read Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, Beowulf, Dante's The Divine Comedy, the Elder Edda, and more. These books give you a better perspective of the olden days to which many Black Metal artists desire to return., The first wave of Black Metal took place in the 1980s, establishing many of the audio characteristics of the genre.The raw, unpolished sound of these bands will give you insight into how Black Metal has changed over the years and whether or not you prefer the lower-production value highly esteemed by purists or the more technical sound appreciated by inclusives.


There are many bands you might choose to listen to while investigating the first wave of Black Metal. Some bands to consider include Bathory, Hellhammer, and Celtic Frost., This era in Black Metal finds its roots in the early '90s and was led by many then-prominent Norwegian bands. At this time, the genre began to define itself more narrowly, though many divisions as to what was "true" Black Metal remained.


Some notable second wave Black Metal groups include Carpathian Forest, Darkthrone, Emperor, Gorgoroth, Immortal, Mayhem, and Satyricon. You may find the second wave most suitable for your Black Metal taste.
 Within Black Metal you'll find many sub-genres, and some of these may be more palatable to you. As each sub-genre highlights a different feature within Black Metal, the focus on these may also help deepen your understanding of the genre as a whole. Some sub-genres you may want to look into include:


Ambient Black Metal. This sub-genre can be less abrasive than other varieties. In many cases, it incorporates strong atmospheric sounds to give a dreamlike sensation to its music. Two artists prominent in this sub-genre are Agalloch and Wolves in the Throne Room.Black 'n Roll. This version of Black Metal combines the styles of hard rock, glam rock, and adds a dash of rock 'n roll. Some examples of Black 'n Roll include Kvelertak, Vreid, and Khold.Symphonic Black Metal. You'll find that this style uses more symphonic and instrumental sounds in its production. Some examples of instruments that might be used include the piano, violin, and cello.

