  You'll need silk flowers, colored craft stems (pipe cleaners), two or three 1" wooden craft beads, needle nose pliers, scissors, a black Sharpie fine-line marker, and tacky or hot glue.  Glitter, sequins and glitter glue are optional.


If you want to make a red and green Christmas-themed petal lady, poinsettias are a good flower option. For Hanukkah, go with a blue flower.;
,  Pull the flowers section from the wire stem using as much muscle power as it requires; they vary in tightness.  Keep all parts that fall out, plastic stamens, etc. for use later.
  Use two green or other colored craft stems held tightly together in your fingers.  Push both pipe cleaners through the center of the flower.  This might require a bit of effort, but the fuzzy stems will go through the tiny hole.  Position the flower at approximately the half way point on the pipe cleaners.
  At the point above the skirt, thread a wooden bead or two on the pipe cleaners for the torso.
  Thread a small piece of holly or the plastic stamen configuration above the beads for a collar.
,  Cut down a larger petal if necessary.  Try various configurations of flowers and leaves for the headdress.,  Separate the two pipe cleaners and turn one down toward the head and wrap the remaining pipe cleaner around the loop tightly.
  Place it horizontally under the collar and twist two or three times to secure it.  Trim an inch off each end.  Create the hands by turning the ends back and twisting at the wrist.
  Separate the two pipe cleaners beneath the skirt for legs.  Turn up the ends if the pipe cleaners an inch or so and twist around the ankle to form feet.
  Decorate the legs by twining small flowers or leaves around the legs.  Secure these decorations with a dab of tacky glue or hot glue if needed.,  Simple works well, just eyes and a tiny mouth are all that is needed.,  Embellishments such as glitter or sequins are fun to add, but not necessarily everyone's taste,,  This will give you a way to hang the figure.
  If you find it hard to pack her away after the holidays are over, wait a bit and repeat the same steps with spring flowers!

