 There are going to be a number of formulas and equations that you need to solve in order to learn chemistry. If you can't remember how to solve logs or quadratic equations, it's a good idea to review some algebra problems. They will help you to do similar problems in your chemistry coursework.;
, Learning the elements is essential to success in chemistry. Just as you would struggle with math if you did not know the difference between numbers, it is vital to learn the periodic table to learn more complex concepts in chemistry.


A band called AsapSCIENCE has a 3-minute song called "The New Periodic Table Song (In Order)" that may help you memorize the periodic table easily., This would begin with the basics of learning measurement systems, the scientific method, chemical nomenclature and atomic structure. The reason many people find chemistry difficult is they do not fully understand these fundamental concepts before trying to study more advanced subjects.


Many of the fundamental concepts of chemistry can be learned through university websites that provide learning materials free.You can also find helpful guidebooks, such as SparkNotes or the "For Dummies" books, at your local bookstore.
Write concepts out by hand.Studies have shown that when you write by hand you're more likely to remember the concepts., Anytime you learn a new word or concept, make a flashcard for it. This is great for the periodic table as well as many other principles. Go through the flashcards several times a week to keep the information fresh in your mind.
 Try thinking of each element as a different symbol, such as an apple or a football. It can be anything you can picture in your mind when you think of the element. It may seem counter-intuitive, but by creating strong associations you will have an easier time remembering information., Use visual aids to help understand the texts.You are trained to read the textbook with 2D drawings of molecules, but keep in mind that chemistry is in the 3D world. Use a 3D model or train your mind to picture any molecular structure in 3D.


The University of Liverpool runs a website called ChemTube 3D that has free interactive animations and structures for many chemistry concepts. It will even run on your phone or tablet.