 Most advertisements only appeal to a specific group of consumers, which may be a particular age group, education level, country of residence, gender, income range or even sexuality. This is especially important as your spoof ad could not appeal to everyone, just like every advertisement.
 It is usually helpful to carefully find out their targeted audience by the presence of colloquial language, their platform of advertising, or the details in the images used. For example, cigarette suppliers evidently target an age group from teenagers to young adults., When choosing the perfect fitting picture, you should keep the original advertisement's target customer in mind. Teens and young adults tend to appreciate humour and follow trends set by celebrities, in other words, the definition of ‘cool’ is what you have to appeal to. They also respond to peer pressure, therefore by successfully influencing a small number of teens would allow you to reach into their whole community., If you use 2 pictures that contrast each other, the idea conveyed through the spoof ad would leave a deeper impression on the audience. Do you want to demonstrate to the audience the harm of the product? Or maybe you are looking to deter them from consuming the product? Continually check back to the target consumer – will they respond to this spoof ad? A carefully created or chosen picture would allow you to deliver your message while scaling down the amount of words you use.

For example, if you are adbusting a cigarette ad, you can put one picture that appeals to the teenagers on how smoking improves their self-esteem but another one to bring out the potential damages to the human body and can be brought along when smoking.
 After inserting an image, you must come up with a body copy. Keep in mind the amount of words used in the original advertisement, and use a similar amount of words in your spoof ad. Fast food restaurants and modern ads tend to have a shorter body copy while cigarette ads and the traditional ads usually bear a longer and more detailed one., As adbusting is supposed to deliver the opposite message from the original advertisement, make sure that you use facts to back up your message to overcome the one brought by the original advertisement. However, make sure that your use of facts doesn’t bore your audience or else you would fail to deliver your message., In order to leave a deeper impression on your target audience, you must find out the problems or debatable potholes present in the original advertisement or the product itself. Then, aiming at these flaws, mock them by using irony or satire. This would allow you to distinguish yourself from the original ads and to point out their weaknesses in a stylish and classy way while promoting the opposite idea of the original advertisement., Apart from irony and satire, introduce a string of 3 to 4 rhetorical questions into your spoof ad. The questions may be used to reinforce of challenge certain knowledge or ideology that prevails in society. It may also be to appeal to the self-esteem of your audience or to challenge them. This can help lure the audience into thinking for themselves the conveyed message and helps your spoof ad achieve its desired effects., Throughout the whole body copy, avoid mentioning the name or detail of the product that you are adbusting. In the last sentence or towards the end of the body copy, reveal to your audience that you are in fact adbusting the advertisement and are deterring them from consuming the product. The building up in the body copy is all down to this last sentence to provide a final show of hand to deliver your message., A picture says a thousand words, and if a logo is effective, it can render text unnecessary. Include a Photoshopped logo of the brand you are adbusting., Ideally, you should change the words in the original ad to words of a similar spelling, pronunciation or even homophones. But bear in mind that the words must have a negative meaning, which contrasts from the usually positive words used in the brand names.