 If you send or receive sexts, you can be charged with child pornography. This applies to sexts that happen on the phone or over the internet.Visit the Mobile Media Guard website to find the sexting laws and regulations in your state.If you receive any sexts, do not share them with any of your friends. Doing this can get you in even more trouble.
Do not be terrified and let this stop you from notifying an adult. You will not automatically go to jail or get in trouble for receiving sexts, but you should be aware that this is very serious.;
, Once you send a message or a photo, it is no longer in your control. You cannot control if the other person shares it with other people, posts it online, or saves the message forever.Your text messages, social media activity, and online activity are not private.Before you send the message, ask yourself, "Would I be fine with everyone seeing this?"
If you do not want your parents, friends, family, future employer, or college admissions officer to see the message, you probably do not want to send it.
Do not give into pressure to send messages to a person, even if you care about the person. Ignore their requests or just block them.
 If you receive a nude or semi-nude picture of another person, delete the message. If there happens to be a police investigation, the police can contact your cell phone provider and pull the records. The records will show that you deleted the message as soon as you received it.Deleting the picture immediately can keep you and any person you show the picture to out of legal trouble.
If you show your teacher or parent the picture, both of you could be charged with child pornography. You can always tell an adult that you received a picture and that you deleted it.
 If someone is sexting you or pressuring you to send pictures or messages, contact a parent, police officer, or another trusted adult. Even if the person is another adult or teacher, you need to report it. Get an adult involved as soon as possible.If you talk to an authority figure (e.g. teacher, counselor, policeman, etc.) the law may require that your situation is reported to the authorities.You can get some anonymous advice by contacting Lifeline Crisis Chat (an online service)or calling the Kids Help Phone at 1-800-668-6868. You can only use the Kids Help Phone if you are 20 years old or younger.