 Each piano teacher teaches different styles of music. Before seeking a teacher, you must establish the style you want. Some teachers may teach classical or jazz styles whereas others may teach new age or worship styles.;
, Each piano teacher uses a different teaching method. Some teachers will start with teaching your child how to read music before playing the piano and may use books and programs as guides. Other teachers may use the Suzuki teaching method, which focuses primarily on having your child watch, listen, and imitate the teacher.
 Some teachers may adhere to strict teaching styles, whereas other teachers may practice a more relaxed and less-structured style. If your child responds better to visual aids such as pictures, inquire about the teaching tools used.
 Some teachers may have basic knowledge, whereas other teachers may be advanced enough to teach your child as lessons become more complex. You may want to choose a teacher that can teach your child for an extended period of time.
 You may want to choose a teacher who is easy for your child to get along with and also makes them feel relaxed and at ease. If the personalities collide between the teacher and your child, the lessons may not be as effective.
 You may want to interview teachers with your child before you make a final decision. Take note of how they respond to each other and determine how comfortable your child is with the teacher. Some piano teachers may offer a free or introductory lesson for your child.
 Some teachers may teach from a studio or out of their home and may require children to remove shoes or wash their hands. You may want to ask how last-minute cancellations work and learn about attendance and make-up lesson policies.
 Each piano teacher will charge differently according to experience and materials needed. Some piano teachers may charge a higher rate to cover the costs of piano tuning and repair, lesson books, and in some cases, to help further the teacher's piano training and education. You may want to determine if the teacher will provide your child with training materials or if you will have to pay for them yourself. Understand all fees and costs upfront before deciding on a piano teacher.
 Be sure to note how often he/she leaves the room to call someone, use the bathroom, eat lunch, etc. If your piano teacher makes a phone call in several lessons, you may want to re-evaluate the quality of the lessons. The best piano teachers just teach for the whole time. Never ever leave your child alone with the teacher either. You need to watch the whole lesson because your child is not the teacher's son/daughter. There's always a chance the teacher simply couldn't care less about your child's progress in piano and take any chances he gets to be lazy (ex. offer him/her ice cream during the lesson).

