 Children of any age may be worried about fitting in if they have allergies. Talk to your child about any fear or anxiety they may have because their allergies inhibit the activities. Make sure to keep your explanations at a level appropriate to your child’s age.Research places your teen or tween may go with friends. Formulate a strategy with your child in advance to go someplace without feeling singled out or embarrassed because of their allergies.
Explain to smaller children that everyone has some kind of challenge. For example, “You know how your friend Lily has to wear glasses, Luca? Your having to stay away from bees is like Lily wearing glasses. Everyone has something that makes them a little different.”Consider visit a pediatric psychologist if your child has severe anxiety, worry, fear, or even depression about their allergies. A doctor can help your child be vigilant about their allergies without being fearful or restrictive.
 Your child’s teachers and school nurses are there to support your child and create a safe space. Informing your child’s educators about their allergies can reduce your child’s anxiety about uncomfortable or potentially unsafe situations. Recognize that educational professionals are required to this information confidential, so your child shouldn’t worry about other students or parents finding out.Tell teachers, administrators, school nurses and counselors about your child’s allergies and how you manage them. For example, “Mrs. Wiener, I wanted to let you know that Clemens is seriously allergic to peanuts. He knows this and is really great at staying away from potentially bad foods, but occasionally may need a reminder.”
Ask for accommodations if necessary. For example, your child may carry an EpiPen for potential reactions throughout the day. Make sure the school is aware of this so your child can carry it without a problem.
Ask one of your child’s favorite teachers if they would serve as a point person in case your child needs a safe space. For example, “Hi Mr. Sarver, Josie really loves your class and working with you in your lab. Her allergies have gotten so bad that she can’t go outside during recess. Would she be able to come and work with you during this time or seek you out if she’s having a problem?”

, Tell your child that teachers and the school nurse are always there to help. Make sure your child knows that teachers, nurses, and counselors are available at any time to talk or deal with a problem due to allergies.Allow your child to approach teachers on their own. For example, “Callie, I let Mr. Steele know about your allergies. He cares a lot about you and said that you can always talk to him and get help during school.”

