 Use a gentle facial cleanser to remove dirt and old makeup. Pat dry and apply any spot treatments as usual. Brush your teeth at this time, as well.;
, Lauren prefers using a moisturizer with SPF to protect the delicate skin on her face from the harsh California sun. , Use a concealer brush to dab and blend in concealer on trouble spots throughout your face. Usually, a green-tinted concealer can cover up redness from acne and Rosacea, whereas an orange-tinted concealer can cover blue tones under eyes. Use your best judgment with what works on your skin.
 Generally, Lauren has a dewy tone to her skin that can be easily achieved with a liquid or cream foundation. A powder foundation will matte your skin tone. Use a foundation brush or the up-and-coming egg-shaped spongeto blend the foundation into your skin. Be sure to blend into your neck and along your hairline.
 Make sure they are neat and tidy in whichever shape of brow you choose. Fill in any missing spots with an eyebrow pencil or eyeshadow that is the same tone as your eyebrows. Use short strokes to mimic the appearance of eyebrow hairs, instead of one long swipe along the brow.
 Lauren lives in California so she has a tan all year round. Use the "3 E" rule, starting at the forehead, rounding back to your temples, going down your cheekbone, back to your jawline and down to your chin on both sides. Lightly run the brush down your t-zone for an extra sunkissed look.
 Try to keep the blush on the apples of your cheeks as you blend it in.
 Matte or light metallic is preferable over glittery or shimmery. Use a slightly darker shade in your crease and blend well.
 Using black or dark grey eyeliner, trace along your eyelashes, and then flick it out at the end. Liquid eyeliner works best for cat eyes, but gel, pencil, or powder eyeliner can get the job done. Apply waterproof eyeliner in the same shade to your top waterline, but leave the bottom waterline free of liner.
 Apply one coat, curl your eyelashes, then apply a second coat. Lauren has really long eyelashes, so make sure to use the mascara liberally to achieve length, darkness and volume.
 Lip liner and lipstick are optional, but not necessary for a day-to-day Lauren look.

