 Whether they’ve brought home a puppy, a rescue with behavioral issues, or even a well-behaved dog learning to respond to a new name, the new owner is likely to burn through lots and lots of treats while training them. So help them out by stocking them up. Give them both low-value and high-value treats that the dog will be excited to work for.


Kibble and small amounts of regular canned dog food (low-value treats) are perfectly fine for basic training, like “sit,” “down,” and “come.”High-value treats, like fresh meat, cheese, peanut butter, or high-quality packaged doggie treats from the store are great rewards for exceptionally good behavior and/or stressful situations, like visits to the vet and cleaner.
Dogs can sometimes be picky about what they like. Offer a variety so the owner can figure out which ones they respond to the most, as well as identifying any ingredients to steer clear of if the dog has an allergic reaction.
 Whether the dog sheds a lot or likes to dig through the couch cushions, they can easily dirty up or even destroy furniture. Spare the owner the inconvenience of having to constantly clean or even replace couches and armchairs. Buy them some machine-washable slipcovers to pull over their seating, which can then be easily removed whenever they need cleaning. Brands offering pet-specific seat covers include:Elegant Comfort
Leader Accessories
Sofa Shield
Sure Fit

, If the owner likes to take the dog on day trips to the park or anywhere else they’re likely to get dirty, get them a machine-washable car seat cover. Ensure a quick cleanup whenever the dog tracks mud into the car or gets car-sick. Buy a hammock-style cover, which can either be hung between the headrests to the front and back seats to form a hammock, or simply hung from the back seat’s headrests and tucked in between the cushions like a regular seat cover. Other gifts for the car could be:A seat belt tether and harness, which will keep the dog in the back seat and out of the driver’s way.
Either a water bottle with a specially-designed cap that doubles as a water bowl, or a regular water bottle and a collapsible water dish.A dog-friendly tick and flea spray to keep handy for impromptu romps through the woods.
 If the owner appears to be all set with the basics and doesn’t need any items to care for the dog, don’t worry. Celebrate the new addition in their life with gifts that tie in the doggy theme without being directly related to dog-caring. These could be:


Shirts, jewelry, bags, or other accessories with dog-themed graphics or messages.A donation in the owner’s name to their favorite animal shelter or service animal organization.
A session with a professional photographer specializing in pets.
A gift card to a pet store for future expenses.

