 Pull your hair back and wet your skin with plenty of warm water. Using hot or cold water can be abrasive to your skin, while warm water is gentle and won’t cause irritation.









You can splash water on your face using your hands, or moisten a towel and use that to wet your skin.
Wetting your skin before applying cleanser will help the soap slide more easily across your skin, preventing you from having to use too much.;
, Use a dime-sized amount of cleanser that works with your skin type. Apply it to your face in a circular motion, making sure each spot gets covered with a tiny amount of cleanser. Keep massaging in a circular motion for thirty seconds to a minute.








Avoid using hand or body soap as your facial cleanser. Facial skin is more sensitive than the skin elsewhere on the body, and harsher soaps can cause it to get dry and irritated.If you’re wearing makeup, you may also want to use a special makeup remover, especially around your eyes. Plain coconut oil is a great natural makeup remover.
 Exfoliating is the process of gently scrubbing your skin to remove dirt and dead skin cells. Exfoliating every few days will keep your pores from getting clogged and help your facial skin look fresh and bright. Use a facial scrub or a washcloth to rub your skin in a circular motion, focusing on areas that tend to be dry or oily.








Exfoliating too often or too vigorously can irritate your skin. Do it just a few times a week, and make sure you don’t scrub too hard. On the days when you don’t need to exfoliate, just skip this step when you wash your face.
You can make your own facial scrub using a few household ingredients. Try mixing 1 teaspoon honey, 1 teaspoon granulated sugar and 1 teaspoon water or milk.
 Use warm water to rinse your face, making sure to wash away all traces of your cleanser and scrub. Use a towel to pat your face dry. Try not to rub your face when you dry it, since this can encourage wrinkles and irritate the skin.
 Using toner is an optional step that’s nice to try if you want your skin to look smooth and reduce the appearance of pores. Apply toner using a cotton ball, focusing on areas where your pores appear large.









Many store-bought toners contain alcohol, but this can dry out your skin. Look for an alcohol-free toner, especially if your skin tends to flake.Natural toners tend to work just as well as store-bought toners. Try a mixture of half lemon juice, half water for a great homemade option. Aloe, witch hazel and rose water also work well.
 Choose a moisturizer formulated for facial skin and smooth a dime-sized amount over your face. Moisturizer helps to protect your skin from the elements, keeping it youthful and bright.









If you wash your face just before bed, try a heavier moisturizer meant to help your skin renew overnight.
If you’re heading outside, use a moisturizer that contains sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher to protect your face from the sun’s rays.

