 Getting "fired" does not refer to driving your boss to the point where he or she wants to fire you. This refers to speaking to your boss about leaving under the official reason of getting "fired." By leaving under this term you are able to collect unemployment and any other benefits you might have lost by quitting, such as stock options, until you find another job. Unemployment is only offered to people who lose their jobs through no fault of their own.

This only works in certain circumstances. For example, if you are working for a company and the responsibilities are too much for you to handle, speaking to your boss frankly can lead to the company agreeing to let you go on good terms.
If you'd like to choose this method, you should have a good reason for wanting to "get fired." This means that you were valuable to the company but want to take time off to try a new project, or to spend time with your family.
This method only works if you're not transitioning into a new job. If you're switching to a new job, then you'll be able to get the benefits and compensation of that job.
To make this work, you have to have a strong relationship with your boss. Your boss should know you pretty well and should understand where you're coming from and how much value you bring to the company.
 This is a difficult thing to do but this could work out better for both of you. After telling your boss that you want to leave, you should have an honest conversation about wanting to be "fired." Here's what you should do:

Explain why you want to leave. Be honest. It may be because you have too many current responsibilities at your position, that you need to take a mental health break, or that you want to pursue your own projects.
Try to sway your boss to let you go rather than having you quit. While you can't "ask" to be fired, it should naturally come up in a conversation. If you are close to your boss, he might offer to let you go with the understanding that it can improve your post-job situation.
Realize that this means you have less control of your "leave-date. If you are trying to get fired, then you have no control over what your last date is. It could be immediate, or it could be much later.
 Once you've made the agreement with your boss, you can file your application for unemployment to meet the requirements of your state.

You'll receive unemployment checks until you can find another job.

