 A lot of people tend to use blue tights or even go as far as wearing a full body morph suit to achieve the gorgeous blue skin of an avatar. If you wish to do this, fine. However, it doesn't look half as amazing, realistic or striking as using your own skin! Or, you can paint your entire body including your face a vibrant blue colour. Use a tanning mitt or sponge to get a more even coverage! Try snazaroo paint. It's clean, easy to apply and the vibrant, long lasting colours are perfect for partying!;
, Be careful to leave the tummy area clean with the lines pointing inwards!

, This sounds ridiculously "cringey" but you really want it to blend into your skin and make it look like you're not wearing clothes! When you're finished, everybody will be too stunned by your awesome creation to care if you're wearing tight bicycle pants.# As far as clothes go, Ney'tiri wore very little! As you are already wearing a tank top and so are fully covered in that respect, you can leave your top area bare as she did. However, if you're feeling a little shy you can always wear a brown bikini top!


She had a kind of brown "flappy" material piece over her bottom half. Wear a pair of brown bikini bottoms and temporarily sew a patch of brown suede material onto the front like a flap. Cut the bottom edge in rough zigzags like hers. Remember, thanks to the cycling shorts, you are covered up anyway so this flap just makes the shorts look even more skin-like and realistic! If you are not feeling so brave and bold, you can always opt for tan/brown shorts instead of the flap and blue cycling shorts!

, This is the key to this costume and put LOTS of it! Simply attach feathers and random beads to a string. It looks incredibly realistic this way! You can get moonstones and gems bracelets, anklets, anything with leaves or natural designs is great!

, If you don't have black hair or it's too short, you can always get a ready braided wig. It would save you a lot of hassle! String a load of coloured beads onto some braids at the front and attached some feathers onto your earrings!

, They are much easier, comfier and more convenient to use than a piece of folded blue fabric.
 Bent it in half so you have a gap about an inch thick inside and then wrapped blue material like felt around the wire to create a realistic and possible tail! Paint dark stripes on the end of the tail then attach to the costume!

, Remember to get an even, smooth face paint coverage and use a darker colour for the stripes. The white dots should be tiny and dainty like hers!

,,


You can be even portray the personality of Ney'tiri- fierce, independent, wild-spirited, up for anything, bold, fun and brave!

,