 You only need one requirement in order to create a Guild: 1 Emperium. Emperium is mainly dropped from MVP monsters such as Baphomet, Golden Thief Bug, Angeling, and Ghostring.


Other than that, there are normal monsters that drops Emperium but only has 0.02% chance. Monsters that drop Emperiums are Mineral, Shining Plant, Requiem, and Orc Zombie.;
, After obtaining an Emperium, and have it on the character you want to make the guild on, create a guild by typing /guild (guildname). (e.g. /guild FiveMinuteMeal)


The character you made the guild on is now the "Guild Master". Once you have made a guild, the name and who leads it cannot be changed unless there's something that goes against the game rules such as inappropriate guild name, in which case Gravity may either change the name and ask you to come up with a new one or disband it.
 If you want to delete or disband your guild for any reason, you have to kick all your guild members first, and then type /breakguild (your guild name), e.g /breakguild FiveMinuteMeal. This can only be done by guild masters.
 Inviting guild members is as easy inviting people in a party. You can invite using your Friend's List or meeting players in the game. All you have to do is right-click their name or their character and then choose “Invite to Join Guild.”


Players being invited to the guild has the right to decline your invitation.
 Now that you have created your very own guild, you can access the guild window by pressing alt+G. This window is the interface used to change anything related to the guild, and to view information such as online members, number for recruits and many others.
 This tab shows the general guild information such as guild level, guild alliances, and rival guilds. Also, under this tab you will be able to find the Emblem button which you can modify your guild's emblem.
 All guild members are listed in this tab. The leader is always first, with other members being ordered according to their title. Online members will be highlighted and you're able to see who have been taxed to prove the guild with experience.


You can also see how much they have contributed to your guild as well. Titles of each member can be modified from this tab.
Assigning guild officers helps in building a good guild since officers will take care of the group during your absence. They can invite recruits and kick unwanted members.
 A total of 20 titles are available and can be set here by the guild leader. The order of titles here will influence the order of members in the Guildsmen tab.


As mentioned, titles give members the right to kick or invite people in the guild so choose people who you can trust.
 Guild skills are displayed here. Upon obtaining a new guild level, the extra skill point is allocated in this tab. Using active guild skills is also done in this section.
 During your absence, selected guild officers may or may not have kicked someone out from the guild. You can see the list of people who are kicked out from the guild under this tab, including the small note of reasons why they have removed the player from the guild.
 Lastly, this tab is where the guild leader writes a two-line guild notice which will be displayed to each member upon logging in or switching maps. It is useful for important announcements.
 The amount of members a guild can hold is 16, this includes the guild Master, by default. This limit can be increased using the Guild Extension skill up to a maximum of 58 members.


To have a high number of guild members can be an advantage when it comes to War of Emperium.
 It's necessary to level up your guild in order for you to unlock the guild skills which can be used during the War of Emperium. To do this, members in the guild must donate their base experience through taxes.


After a guild gains a level, one skill point is obtained, which can then be used on a variety of guild skills.
 To have a functional guild, as a leader, you need to become an example. In order for your guild to win the War of Emperium, members must have at least a decent set of equipment.


Helping hand in hand, hunting boss monsters together, and even contributing extra weapon or equipment will likely increase your chance of winning. Most of all, this strengthen everyone's trust.

