 After all, creating a video is a project. It has:


Start and finish dates. At least estimates.
Tasks breakdown. How will you approach creating the video, in a step-based format.
Human resources. Who is in? Who will do what?
Other resources. What video editing programs does your team have in total? Who has what?;
, This is one person who will be responsible for supervising the whole process. This is a responsibility not a badge. The rest of this article assumes the reader has taken this role in various situations. This person will have to:



Keep the records. Things like time schedules, reminders, tasks progress … etc will be the coordinator's responsibility.
Centralize the various efforts in one final place. The coordinator should keep an eye on the different tasks assigned to different team members. When one member finishes her/his task, the coordinator should make sure that this member's work is added to the project's final outputs' template. This is after coordinating and communicating the feedback on the member's finished work from other teammates (if necessary).

Keep everyone posted of where the project stands. Any emergency that might occur (like an editor leaving the team, a new member coming, changes in the main conceptual design of the video … etc) must be communicated to everyone so they adjust their plans and efforts accordingly.
 Every member of the project should have a task that is in accordance with their skill set and their resources (software they have, time they can spend on the project … etc)


Since this is a collaborative effort, everyone should approve their role. Even more, you might need everyone to volunteer to a specific role.
There is a lot of tasks layout schemes and methodologies out there for breaking down the tasks related to creating a video. This article provides a simple alternative or two. Those are not in any way conclusive, comprehensive or suitable for all situations. Your team members have to work together to reach a suitable model for your specific project.
 However, it's not going to do all the work for you. You will need other tools ranging from a communication platform (email, forums, wiki pages) to an offline video editor.
 This is a general casual description of tasks, based on the fact that the article is targeting amateur small teams of online collaborators.


Scripting. This includes writing the transcript of any dialog that takes place between actors in the video. It also includes any narration. People with strong linguistic abilities usually are fit for this. This does not have to be a language guru's job (if you can find one, it won’t hurt however). It also depends on the type of language usually used in your specific kind of video. For example, whether your video is about orchestra music, chewing gum, cars, sports or nuclear physics will dramatically change the type of language used in the video.

Directing. This is the person that will suggest changes on the way actors act, scripts are spoken, scenes are ordered, graphical effects are applied, transitions are implemented between scenes, and other creativity issues. Think of the director as a quality control officer! Creativity and taste is a must for directors. However, the online collaborative experience might allow most members of the project to contribute.

Voice Actors. Those are the ones who will speak the lines of the transcript. These are the persons with natural “broadcasting voices”. Some videos might only contain voice actors. For example, a video explaining how to use a certain software product might never require someone actually showing their faces, but hearing the steps while you see them will be nice.

Video Actors.

Counter-intuitively, those might not be human at all! Some of the most successful videos are cartoons! If you decide to implement the video using non-human actors (cartoons, comics, image slide-shows … etc) you will need people who can actually produce those actors.
Another type of counter-intuitive actors are "body parts". Some successful videos only show the hands of the actual actor! For example, a cooking recipe how-to video does not require the cook showing their face (although that might be nice)


Sound/Video "Engineers". Well, since the article is targeted mainly towards amateurs, they do not have to be actual engineers, only people who can use audio/video editing software.
 Following is a list of areas where Popcorn might be used to enhance the experience. Sometimes, it can even be used to actually implement the whole task.

