 Visit the American Kennel Club (or the similar organization in your home country) to review a list of reputable breeders. The AKC offers accurate information about finding a trustworthy breeder, buying a healthy puppy, and how to plan for your dog’s ongoing care.You can also check with the Miniature Pinscher Club of America. This organization offers invaluable information about local breeders, min pin rescue organizations, and reputable retail locations to purchase a min pin.Many breeders also have their own websites. Check these for information about current and past litters.
If a breeder has an online presence, they may also have reviews online from customers that could be informative.
Check social media of local breeders as well. These sites often have unfiltered feedback from past buyers, photos of past litters, and other information that may prove helpful.
 You’ll need to establish a relationship with a vet prior to bringing home your new min pin, so seeking advice from your local veterinary practice is a beneficial starting place. A breeder who has a good relationship with a veterinarian is already a good sign, since this means they bring puppies in for treatment. If a vet believes the breeder is adequately caring for and raising healthy dogs, they are likely a safe bet.


If you already have a vet who treats other animals in your household, start there. If you don’t have a vet, it’s good to find one before you get a new pet. Ask friends and family members for recommendations, read online reviews, and visit the veterinary practices to ensure you choose a safe practice for your new pet., This is a good first step before deciding to buy from a breeder or even wasting time visiting them. The initial contact is a great opportunity to build rapport with a breeder, gather information about their policies, and start to gauge whether they are reputable. Take time to ask questions that will give you basic information about the breeder’s practices.


Ask how many litters the breeder produces each year. Breeders who are constantly producing litters may be what is referred to as a “puppy mill.” This is a breeder who forces dogs to mate too frequently, which may produce weak or unhealthy puppies.
Ask how many dogs the breeder has and how many are being bred. This is a red flag if breeders have more than two or three breeding pairs of dogs at a time.
Ask how often the dams (females) are bred. Reputable breeders shouldn’t push their dams to carry litters more than two or three times each year., Once you’ve had a chance to speak with breeders and have a few you would feel comfortable buying from, ask to visit their facility. A reputable breeder should be happy to show you around, allow you to spend time with the parent dogs, and interact with any current litters of puppies. Good min pin breeders are usually proud to talk about their dogs and litters.
 Many pet stores purchase their supply of puppies from “puppy mills.” These breeders are constantly mating dogs and often don’t allow them to rest between litters. If you wouldn’t buy a dog from a breeder without information about the health, personality, and pedigree of the parents, you shouldn’t accept this from a pet store either.


If your pet store buys from reputable breeders, they will provide information for you about where the puppies were bred, and in most cases, contact information so you can contact the breeder directly.
If the pet store doesn’t provide information on the dog’s and parent’s healthy history, pedigree, and breeder, don’t buy pets from that store., There are numerous miniature pinschers bred each year who need good homes, but for any number of reasons are not housed. That’s why adoption is so important. Rescuing an adult or puppy is also a great way to get a min pin at an affordable price. Purebred min pins can cost between $400 and $700, but rescues typically cost between $50 and $100 from shelters or a small rehousing fee from other rescues.


Check with the Internet Miniature Pinscher Service (IMPS) here http://www.minpinrescue.org/.
The Miniature Pinscher Club of America also has a division devoted entirely to rescuing dogs http://www.minpin.org/?page_id=23821.

