 In most countries, you can purchase tax free bonds directly from the national treasury or some other government agency. You can make these purchases directly yourself or through a broker.In the United States you can buy U.S. Treasury Bonds by opening your own online account with the U.S. Treasury.
In Canada, for example, you can learn about buying Canadian bonds at their government website, http://www.csb.gc.ca/products/the-canada-premium-bond/.
 Run an Internet search for the name of your state and the phrase “tax free bonds.” You will find listings for agencies that sell tax-free bonds in your state. Review those to find information about sales offers.


For example, in Massachusetts, the site www.massbondholder.com lists specific bonds that are currently for sale or coming up for sale soon. You can read investor disclosure statements and get answers to questions about the bonds., Similarly, you can search online for your city or other municipality. You should find links to the finance office website. You can get information about bond projects that are coming soon. Read the information carefully to learn the type of bonds, the interest rates and their ratings.


If you search for “Chicago tax free bonds,” for example, you will find the official site of the City of Chicago. The City Finance Office reports bonds for sale and financial disclosure statements., Know the par (or "face") value (the amount being invested), the interest (or "coupon") rate being paid by the issuer, the frequency of interest payments, and the maturity date (when the full amount of the principal will be repaid)., Bond maturity will vary. Bonds can range in length from a few months to many years (although the shorter securities are sometimes called bills or notes). There are usually penalties (partial loss of principal) associated with withdrawing money before the maturity date. If you need to have access to your money, you may need to select a bond with a shorter maturity date. If you can accept a more long-term investment, you are likely to earn higher interest., Bonds can pay interest either at the time of maturity or at specific intervals over the life of the bond. For example, a five-year bond may pay interest annually. Semi-annual payments are common with U.S. Treasury bonds., Not all bonds are tax-free. Before you invest, you should speak with your broker, if you are working with one, to ensure that the bond provides the tax incentives you want. If you are buying on your own, you need to read the financial disclosure for the bond to verify its tax status.