 Open the folder where you have your pictures stored. From here you’ll have the option to view, move, edit and delete your saved photos. Search your files until you find one or more you want to eliminate.


If you don’t remember where you put a photo or aren’t sure which folder your PC saves to automatically, you can use your PC’s file search option to locate it. Simply type in the name or keyword from the photo and the file and its location should appear.
For the sake of convenience, save all your photos in one location (i.e. a folder labelled “Photos” in your “Documents” folder). Creating different folders to categorize photos can help keep them organized.
 Right click to bring up a drop-down menu of options. Look for the “delete” option near the bottom of the list. Left click this option once to delete the photo.Deleting a file relocates it to the trash folder on your desktop.
You can pinpoint specific files you want to delete by holding the “Ctrl” key and then clicking the files individually. This is a much faster and more efficient way to get rid of multiple photos than deleting them one at a time., Rather than clicking the photo to delete it, you can also drag it straight to your computer’s trash. Left click and hold the photo in question. Then, move your pointer to the trash can icon on your desktop and release the photo to drop it in.


On computers that run Microsoft Windows, the trash folder is known as the “Recycle Bin.”Drag multiple photos to the trash simultaneously by clicking and dragging your pointer around a group of files to select them all., The trash folder holds files that have been deleted but not erased entirely from the hard drive, so they’ll still take up memory. To permanently remove these files, you’ll need to empty the trash can. Right click the trash can icon and select “empty trash can” from the drop-down menu. After you empty your trash can, the files you’ve deleted will no longer be on your computer.Make sure you’re okay with losing the photos you’ve deleted before emptying your trash can. Once they’re gone, the only way to recover the deleted files is to run a system restore, which reverts your computer to the way it was at an earlier date.
Emptying your trash can regularly can help free up storage space on your PC.

