 Having a purpose will help you focus. Ask if there is a specific type of question you want answered. If you are reading fiction, ask what the theme of the book is. For history, ask why it matters to the present day. If you are reading for class, think about what your teacher will want to know. Try to answer these questions as you read., Once you know what you are looking for, take note of it when you find it. Underline or highlight text that is relevant. This will help you find it in the future, but it also forces you to ask yourself throughout what the most important parts of the book are.


Be selective. If you highlight everything then you aren’t really focusing on what is important., When you come across an important idea, write a short note to the side of the text in the margins. This will force you to engage with the ideas and leave some record for you to go back to. A short note is usually enough to interact with the text without taking up too much time., Headers are a good clue as to what the text is about. Pay close attention to them. Reframe them as a question and while you read through the chapter, then try to answer that question.


For example, if the header is, “The Attitude of the Founding Fathers toward the Government” ask yourself “What was the attitude of the founding fathers toward government?”

, Most people can only maintain an optimal level of focus for about fifty minutes, meaning that regular breaks are important.The end of a chapter is a good place to stop, because it usually concludes a major idea. Write some notes at the end of the chapter, describing the major ideas and/or events of the chapter. Relax for five to ten minutes.


Do something pleasant during your break, like drinking a cup of hot chocolate or playing a short game. This will give you some incentive to focus and finish up the chapter.
 To keep your place and your focus, scan your finger along the text as you read. Keep your figure directly under what you are reading. This step should only be necessary if you find it difficult to keep your place., If you are still having trouble focusing, try reading aloud. This will require you to process the text more and make it harder to lose your focus or fall asleep.