 The hair dryer must be on a cool setting, as warm or hot air may worsen symptoms or burn skin. Blow the air from the dryer between the cast and your skin., Using a wooden spoon or your hand, vibrations to your cast may help relieve an itchy sensation. Vibrations through knocking are safer than sticking objects inside your cast for relief. , By massaging the skin nearby the itch, there may be some relief. Be careful when massaging exposed skin near your cast to avoid painful areas. The massage may generate sensations on the skin that redirect your focus away from the itch.


Massage also increases circulation in the area of the cast, which will speed up healing.
 By wrapping a water-tight ice pack around your cast, the cooling sensation may help to provide relief. Considering using an unopened bag of frozen vegetables as a substitute for an ice pack. Just make sure the condensation from the ice pack doesn’t leak., Consider using an over-the-counter antihistamine, or a prescription from your physician. Medications by mouth such as Benadryl can be used to reduce itchy feelings if the other options aren't working. This will help calm your body’s reaction to a skin irritant., Do not stick objects inside your cast as a way to calm your itch. Scratching your skin with these objects may break skin or lead to infection. You also may end up going to additional doctor's visits, or need to get a new cast put on, due to items that are now trapped inside the cast. These items include: Chopsticks
Pencils or other writing tools
Coat hanger wire

, Powders and lotions may reduce perspiration on the skin, but should only be used outside the cast so that the skin stays clean and soft. Powder inside a cast can cake and cause sores. If your cast has a perspiration odor, this is normal; however, if you notice an unusual or foul odor coming from the cast contact your doctor., Even though that itchy, scratchy feeling may feel miserable, damaging your cotton lining to your cast, or loosening your cast, may make matters worse. For some casts, the cotton lining is used to protect the skin from a saw blade when the cast is removed. Without that protective lining in its proper place, the skin may get scratched during removal., A cast needs to stay away from water or anything that will add moisture. Though at certain times, getting your skin wet will happen due to perspiration, there are ways limit your exposure to water or excess moisture: Bathe in a bathtub with your arm or leg out of the water. If you must use plastic to cover your cast while bathing, use duct tape and secure it with multiple layers of plastic.
Avoid walking or standing in water while wearing a cast.
Cover your cast shoe before walking in the rain or snow. Your cast shoe should only be removed when bathing or sleeping.
 Reduce your time in hot and sunny areas, since you'll sweat more. Strenuous exercise should be done in a climate controlled environment to reduce sweat and moisture that can create that itchy feeling.
 Any grainy materials that end up inside the cast may generate further irritation and make the itchy feeling worse. Keep your cast clean and dry is best. Use a damp cloth and scouring powder to clean soiled spots on the cast. Be sure to brush away plaster crumbs or other objects from the edges of the cast, but do not remove or rearrange any padding. Do not break off or trim cast edges.
 While an itchy cast may be frustrating, it’s common. Be on the look-out for these possible complications with your cast: Pressure sores due to a cast that is too tight, or not fitting properly
Unpleasant and strange odors from mold or mildew, after the cast and your skin have been wet for a prolonged time
Compartment syndrome, with symptoms like numbness in your affected limb, cold or pale skin with bluish color, increased pain or swelling, and burning or stinging sensations
You develop a fever or skin problems at the cast edges
Your cast breaks, cracks or develops soft spots
Your cast becomes badly soiled
You feel blister or sore developing inside the cast

