


Examples include SUVs, pickup trucks, and cars.;
,


Contact people in your network to find out if any of them have recommendations regarding sellers.
Search the Internet for used vehicles that interest you. Common sites to use included Ebay and Autotrader.com.
Visit the websites of and/or call local used vehicle dealers to get listings of their used inventories.
,,,


Ask why it is being sold.
Ask how many previous owners there have been.
Ask if there are any problems with the vehicle.



Check the ground under the vehicle for spots. These could be a sign of a fluid leak.
Check for cosmetic damage, such as dents, scratches, or cracked glass.
Make sure the headlights and brake lights work.
Make sure each turn signal works.
Test the air conditioner, heat, radio and any other systems that you have access to as a driver.
Make sure the seats adjust properly.
Lift the hood. Pull the dipstick out from the engine and check the oil level. The dipstick should be marked with low and high points, which indicate an acceptable amount of oil. Clean oil should have a golden color. Brown oil is not clean and should be considered a sign of poor engine maintenance.
Pull the dipstick from the transmission if it is not sealed. Repeat the same steps as with the oil, except that the fluid should be red.



Make sure the brakes work well.
Be sure that the vehicle handles to your liking.



Many sellers now offer these at no charge.
Carfax is a service that will provide the history of a vehicle, including reported accidents and a service history.
If the vehicle has been in a serious accident or was once in a flood zone, avoid purchasing it.



Kelly Blue Book offers pricing guides for most vehicles. Visit their site at Kbb.com and enter the vehicle's information for specific pricing.
If you have reached your highest price, state that it is your final offer.
Be willing to walk away if you do not believe the final price is fair.



The mechanic should not be affiliated with the individual or dealership you are purchasing from.



Be wary of any last minute add-ons if you are purchasing it from a dealership. Many of them are unnecessary. Research any add-ons thoroughly before you agree to purchase them.

