 Your bank will send your ATM card to you in the mail. Most banks will also send you a separate document that contains a temporary PIN number. Some banks send the PIN number first. When you get the information with your PIN number, your card should arrive within a few days.


Some banks don't send you a PIN number. Instead, they require you to either activate the card and choose a PIN number, or use the 3-digit security code on the back of the card to activate the card before choosing a PIN number.If you are getting a replacement card, your old PIN number will still work.;
, If you're not expecting an ATM card, contact your bank immediately to find out if the card you received is legitimate. Some banks will issue a new debit card if there was a problem, like potential fraud, associated with your existing debit card.If you did not request a new debit card, make sure to find out if you need the debit card. Make sure to read the fine print or contact the bank to make sure the debit card doesn't have hidden fees or that switching to a new debit card is required.Examine the card's expiration date. If the expiration date is approaching soon, contact your bank. This is often a sign of a fraudulent card.
 As soon as you receive your new debit card, sign the back of it. If this is a replacement debit card, or you received a temporary card, destroy those old cards now.Cut the card up so that the name and number cannot be identified. This helps protect your identity and information.
 Choose an ATM that is well-lit, situated in a visible location, and owned by your banking establishment. Insert your card, use your PIN or your temporary PIN, and follow the instructions on screen.Some banks may require you to go through an activation screen, while other banks may automatically activate the card when you enter the PIN. Others require you to do a balance inquiry.You may conduct transactions at ATMs that are second- or third-party owned once you activate your card, but they cannot perform the functions necessary to activate your card.
 Most banks provide a toll-free number you can use to activate your card. This number may be located on a sticker on your ATM card, in the letter mailed with your card, or on their website. Call the toll-free number. Give the information requested when prompted, which usually includes the last four digits of your social security number, zip code, and security code on your card., Many banks provide an activation service via the Internet. Log in and select the option to activate your card. Most online activation services require you to enter the security code on the back of your card.Some banks offer mobile apps that allow you to activate your card.You may have to have a preexisting online banking ID to use this option.
 Another way to activate your card is to take it to any branch of your bank. You can ask the bank attendant to activate the card for you., Some ATM cards allow you to make a purchase to activate the card. Use the card in the store, enter your PIN number, and the card will be activated., If your bank sent you a temporary PIN number and allows you to create your own, change your PIN number. Creating your own PIN number for your ATM card creates an additional level of security for your account. Memorize your new PIN number, and do not carry that number with you in your wallet.