 Consider cutting the number of calories you consume each day. Eat normally for one day and keep a log of your caloric intake. Try to reduce that intake based on the weight you’d like to lose. For example, a pound equals 3,500 calories. If you currently eat about 2,500 calories per day, you could reduce your daily intake to 2,000 calories, and potentially lose 1 pound in about 7 days.Don’t cut your caloric intake too drastically right away. Not only could this be potentially unhealthy, it could also lead to what is called “yo-yo” dieting. This is when a dieter loses a lot of weight quickly, but then ends up gaining it back by returning to their normal caloric intake. It’s best to shave calories off your daily intake slowly.
If you don’t usually count calories and aren’t sure about your maintenance level, there are many websites and apps that can give you an estimate. Simply punch in your gender, age, height, weight, and activity level, and these tools will tell you how many calories you need to eat to maintain your weight.
 In addition to reducing your overall calorie intake, try to consume smaller individual portions, taking care not to eat too much at any one time. Eating too much at once can cause bloating and gas, so spread your calorie consumption evenly throughout the day. Read nutrition labels on foods. These will tell you the actual serving size for that food.Try using smaller dishware. When you use a smaller plate size, for example, you can fill it up and trick your brain into thinking you’ve eaten more than you have!
To further enhance the effects of eating smaller portion sizes, try eating slowly and taking plenty of time to chew each bite. You may eat less, and you’ll also avoid bloating by swallowing less air.
 Processed foods will only hinder your efforts, as they tend to be high in some combination of sugar, fat, and sodium. Use your calorie allotment on whole foods instead: fruits, vegetables, lean meats, and low-fat dairy.Dairy is a whole food, but note that if you are lactose intolerant, it will cause bloating, gas, and other digestive issues. Get your protein and calcium from other sources instead. Try taking a multivitamin if you are worried you aren’t getting enough calcium, and add a low-carb protein shake to your daily routine.
Take particular care to avoid sweets and snack foods made from refined white flour, sugar, and trans fats. These foods will make your problem worse, not better.
 Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are much better for you than saturated fats and trans fats. Oils that are derived from plants, like olive or sunflower oil, as well as things like nuts and avocados are all great sources of monounsaturated fats. These can help lower cholesterol and are heart-healthy.Substitute olive oil for butter or other cooking oils, or combine it with vinegar for a homemade salad dressing. Even just drinking one or two tablespoons of non-virgin, extra light olive oil each day is said to kickstart weight loss., Your body needs fiber, especially when it comes from healthy vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole grains. Incorporating high-fiber foods can make you less hungry and help you lose weight. Don’t overdo it, though – too much fiber can contribute to gas and bloating. Aim for about 30 grams of fiber each day.One way to get your fiber without risking excess bloating is to eat high-fiber cereal for breakfast. Try having a bowl of raisin bran, shredded wheat, or another type of high fiber cereal.
You can also try having a bowl of oatmeal or whole wheat toast for breakfast. Starting your day with high-fiber complex carbohydrates is a nutritious choice for eliminating extra weight: these kinds of carbs take time to digest, do not cause a blood sugar spike, and keep you feeling full.
 Although the research is controversial, many people think grapefruit can help you burn fat. It does, at least, seem to help regulate your metabolism and your blood sugar levels, and it contains phytochemicals that can reduce insulin levels, prompting your body to burn fat. Try eating a fresh grapefruit before each meal to help curb your appetite and help you feel full.For best results, eat the white part of the grapefruit as well, and try eating it first thing in the morning to jumpstart your metabolism.

