 As with the other Heisman forms, this exercise works your entire core and lower body, so dynamic stretching and mobility exercises are an ideal warm-up.


Jumping jacks and jogging in place are two great ways to warm up for this.
No matter what warm-up exercise you choose, try to perform it for 30 seconds to five minutes, especially if you're doing these at the start of your exercise routine., Bend your knees slightly, but keep your legs otherwise straight and parallel to one another. Hold a medicine ball in the center of your chest, with both elbows pointing slightly out and away from your body.


Note that this is your starting position.
Unlike the other Heisman exercises, this version also tests and enhances your balance.
 Take a big step back with your left foot. Extend your left foot as far back as possible, keeping your left leg straight, and bending your right leg at the knee.


Your arms should remain bent and holding the medicine ball in front of your chest.
 Allow your left knee to bend and touch the ground. As it touches the ground, twist your arms, medicine ball, and torso to the right, passing over your front right knee.Your right leg should remain bent and your back should remain upright.
 Stand up and move out of the reverse lunge stance. Do not allow your left leg to touch the ground; instead, bring it up to your chest, bending the left knee and keeping your entire weight on your straightened right leg.


Twist your torso simultaneously so that the medicine ball moves over your front left knee.
You'll normally ease into this position as slowly and comfortably as possible. To turn this into a plyometrics exercise, though, jump up and into the Heisman kick instead of drawing your knee up slowly. This jump should be similar to the jump you practice in the Airborne or Double Heisman, and it will intensify your workout.
 Unlike other Heisman exercises, you won't switch legs in the middle of the exercise. Instead, repeat the "reverse lunge to Heisman kick" motion on the same side for a full 30 to 60 seconds.


To work out both sides of your body equally, you should switch sides afterward: reverse lunge, stepping back with your right leg, then kick up into the Heisman pose with your right leg, as well. Make sure to always twist your upper body over your front knee.

