 Wash your hands for 30 seconds with warm water throughout the day. Wash well after using the bathroom, shaking hands, and touching door knobs and other commonly handled surfaces. Always wash well before handling or preparing food.Avoid touching or cleaning things like litter boxes, bird cages, and fish tanks., It's important that you stay clean to avoid infection, so make sure that you regularly bathe and wash up if you get dirty. Depending on your day, you may need to wash yourself more than once.

After your bath or shower, put on clean clothes. You may want to wear your favorite pair of pajamas or sweats all of the time, but these can become soiled.
 Cat litter is teeming with bacteria, as well as the parasite toxoplasma. Toxoplasma can cause an infection in those with a low white blood cell count, further weakening your immune system. If you have a cat, ask someone else to clean its litter box.Say, "I know it's unpleasant, but could you please clean the cat's litter box? I can't risk an infection."

, Soil, standing water, and dirty animals both harbor germs and bacteria, which can set back your recovery. If you are receiving get well plants or flower arrangements, ask someone else to change out the water or tend to them. If you have a pet, take care when you interact with it. Have it groomed if it goes outside, and wash up after petting it.

Don't do any gardening or activities that involve you coming in contact with dirt or soil.
 Hot tubs are home to a lot of bacteria, but the big concern is that the heat and bubbles from the hot tub combine to make the bacteria more dangerous. Bacteria can become part of the mist that forms over the hot water, making it easy to inhale the infectious agents. If you have low white blood cells, you can easily succumb to an infection from hot tub bacteria., Crowds are an invitation for germs. Stay away from shopping malls, theaters, restaurants, and anywhere that people congregate. When your white blood cells are low, you are more likely to contract an infection, which will further take a toll on your body., A low WBC count makes getting scrapes or cuts especially hazardous. With a weakened immune system, these can easily turn into major infections. Avoid dangerous activities and make small daily adjustments to avoid minor injuries.Take special care when brushing teeth to avoid bleeding gums.
Ask someone to cut vegetables or meat for you when preparing food.
Use an electric shaver instead of a razor to avoid cutting or nicking yourself while shaving.
 In the past, patients with low WBC counts were told to avoid raw fruits and vegetables, but this is no longer advised. However, you should carefully wash any fruits and veggies before eating, especially those that don’t have a thick skin or peel.Oranges, bananas, and melons are examples of fruits that are peeled before eating.
Use a clean veggie scrubber and cool running water to wash your produce.
Even if a salad package is marked pre-washed, use a colander to rinse its contents under running water.
 Make sure your refrigerator temperature is below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius). Don’t let foods that should be refrigerated sit out for more than an hour. Avoid foods that are past their expiration date or appear slimy or moldy.Always thaw frozen meat in the refrigerator.
 Always avoid undercooked or raw eggs, meat, fish, and poultry. When cooking these items, use a thermometer to check for doneness.Cook red meat to 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius) and poultry to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (82 degrees Celsius).
Cook eggs until both yolks and whites are solid and not runny at all. Consider using pasteurized egg whites, and make sure egg-containing products, like mayonnaise or eggnog, are pasteurized.

