 You can also buy fiberfill and fill the pillow with stuffing yourself. This project is easily customizable according to the size of pillow you want to use.;
, You can get really creative here. Lots of people choose a solid color for one piece of fleece, and a coordinating pattern for the other. Some people choose to go simple with two different solid colors. The possibilities and combinations are endless! Depending on the size of your pillow, you will need about 1 yard (0.92 meters) of each type of fleece.
 It may not make much of a difference if you are using a solid color, but some patterned fleeces may be blank on one side, which would make a difference.
 Use a sharp pair of fabric scissors, or rotary cutter, and a straight edge to cut through both pieces of fleece at the same time. This will ensure that both pieces are even and that they match up.


If you are working with a large pillow, or if you'd like a longer fringe, cut the fleece so that it is 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) longer and 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) wider than your pillow.
 Consider drawing the squares first with a ruler and a piece of chalk to ensure that the squares are neat and even. If they are crooked, your fringe may not turn out right.


If you are working with a large pillow, or if you'd like a longer fringe, cut 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) squares out of each corner instead., Be sure to cut through both layers of fleece at the same time. This ensures that the fringes match up. Use a piece of chalk to draw the lines, if you need to.


If you are working with a large pillow, or if you'd like a longer fringe, cut the slits 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) deep instead.
 Tie the top piece to the matching bottom piece in a tight double knot. Keep doing this until you have completed three sides.


If you are using fiberfill, tie most of the fourth side shut, but leave four ties undone., If you are using fiberfill, simply stuff your pillow with that instead.
 At this point, your pillow is all done! If you used chalk to mark off your lines, brush it off the fringe.

