 If you don't have this knowledge, you will do better to gloss over the event until you do know. Note dates and times, things that led up to the event, people involved and most significantly, the immediate results.;
, Use your research to build this, then project as many repercussions as you can into the future. If, for example, a retail corporation had a very poor fourth quarter, will you need to close stores; lay off people; borrow money? Identify all the bad things that are likely to come of this.
 You can't do anything about things that happened - they happened - but you can present them differently.


People didn't buy from lower-priced competitors; they delayed premium buying decisions.
You didn't have ineffective marketing; you delayed premium advertising to coincide with the delayed buying decisions.
You aren't going to close stores; you're repositioning for market acquisition.
You aren't laying off sales employees; you're elevating the consumer's experience through added independence.
 You will need several "devil's advocate" types to listen to the presentation and slice it to pieces. You want to know every possible argument ahead of time. Use small focus groups and make the presentation, then tweak it, then do it again. Each time the backlash is reduced, you've made an effective improvement. Eventually (after 4 or 5 sessions) you should get to a stable point.
 You want the audience to be receptive to your information. Start leaking information that is favorable to your position and negative to any alternate position. You will neither confirm nor deny this information, but you will caution people that any information about your corporation will come from official sources, only.
 Let the audience have time to absorb and process the information - they need time to reach equilibrium.
 Publicly and loudly. A surprise press conference (that was rumored to be in the works) is an effective and time-tested method. Whether you have a Q&A session after will really depend on how good your spin is and, to a large extent, how prepared you are. It's also a matter of personal taste.
 Eventually, the future catches up to your timeline, and you'll need to make new announcements. Start planning for how you'll do that, now. This is really an endless cycle and there is strong job security for somebody that's good at it.

