 Water will help your body heal and will keep your irritated throat moist. Stick with warm water, which will help to relieve the inflammation in your throat. Cold water can hurt more than it helps.
 If you get up early and stay up late at night to fulfill all of your obligations, your body won't have time to heal. If you don't want that sore throat to progress to a full-blown cold or flu, you need to take time to rest and get a good night's sleep every night.


When you feel the first pricks of a sore throat coming on, take it easy for the rest of the day. Get plenty of fluids, eat healthy meals and stay in for the night instead of going out.
You might need to take a day off of work or school to let your body rest. If that's not possible, find times during the day to take a nap or at least be still for 15 minutes.
 The steam from the hot water will moisten your dry, irritated throat and help with both soreness and congestion. Try to breathe in the steam through your nose and your mouth, allowing it to enter your throat and nasal passages.


If you decide to take a warm bath, add some herbs or essential oils to the tub. Try a few drops of peppermint or eucalyptus oil to help soothe your throat the same way a vapor rub would.
If you just want a quick steam, but not a bath, close the door to your bathroom and run the water at its hottest until it produces steam. Stand or sit in the bathroom and breathe the steam for 5 to 10 minutes.
You could also do a quick facial steam by bringing a pot of water to a boil on the stove. Turn off the heat, drape a towel over your head and put your face over the pot, letting the steam bathe your nose and throat.
 If the air in your home is dry, it can wreak havoc on your throat, especially when it's sore. Humidifiers add moisture to the air, making it friendlier to the soft tissues and membranes in your throat that need to be moist to stay healthy. A humidifier might be especially useful during the winter months, when the air tends to be drier.
 Sometimes a little heat goes farther than any other remedy when it comes to pain relief. Run some hot water over a dishcloth, wring it out, fold it, and lay it on your throat until it cools. The heat will aid circulation in the area and help to bring down the swelling a little.


Be sure not to scald your skin. The water shouldn't be so hot that it hurts when you apply the cloth to your throat.
You could also use a hot water bottle for a longer application.
 Make sure your home environment is clear of chemicals that could be further irritating your throat. When you breathe in harsh chemicals and smells, they might cause your throat to swell and become scratchy. Clear the air of the following irritants:


Chemical perfumes, such as those found in cleaning supplies, air freshener, body spray, scented candles, and other scented items around the house.
Cleaning products like bleach, window cleaner and detergents.
Smoke from cigarettes and other sources.
Allergens, like dust, cat dander or hair, mold, pollen, and anything else you might be allergic to.
 If your sore throat doesn't go away on its own after a few days, and new symptoms arise, make an appointment with your doctor to see if you're dealing with something more serious than the common cold. You might have a viral or bacterial infection (in the form of strep throat, chickenpox, the flu, or other infections) that won't be cured without proper medical treatment. If you experience the following issues, see your doctor as soon as possible:Difficulty breathing or swallowing
Joint pain
Earache
Rash
A lump in your neck
A fever over 101ʡF (38ʡC)
Blood in your phlegm.

