 This is first sign of your baby being infected with botulism.


If your infant has gone more than 3 days without defecating, it indicates your baby is constipated.
Although constipation can be sign of botulism infection, it can also be due to inadequate feeding.
It usually takes 18 to 36 hours for the symptoms to take effect after infection.;
, During botulism infection, your baby may exhibit unusually slow or rapid breathing.


This is because when the toxin travels all over the baby's system, it can affect any of the exposed organs, including the respiratory system.
Sometimes, it can cause respiratory muscle paralysis, which is a fatal condition.
 If your baby is unwilling to eat or unable to suckle properly, he or she may be suffering from botulism.


Toxic substances produced by C. botulinum can affect the infant’s sucking mechanism and manifest as poor feeding behavior.
The toxin can block nerve functions, leading to muscular paralysis in the mouth.
 Uncoordinated or floppy movements can be a symptom of botulism in infants.


This is also a result of muscle weakness due to the paralysis induced by botulism toxins present in the body.
 If your baby's eyelids look low and droopy, and it is not time for them to sleep, this could indicate the presence of a botulism infection.


This is another symptom of the neurotoxin that can create systemic muscle weakness throughout the baby's body.
If the eyelid muscles are not functioning properly, the eyelids will droop and may even shut.
 If your baby drools excessively, this indicates the presence of botulism's neurotoxin creating weakness in the esophageal muscle and making the infant unable to swallow properly.


However, if your baby is drooling a normal amount, don't worry.
Drooling from botulism is uncontrollable, as if the baby cannot stop the drool no matter what he or she tries to do.
 Botulinum spores are mostly carried by dust and dirt.


If your baby has ingested infected dust or dirt, the botulinus will grow and multiply on the infant’s large intestine, developing neurotoxins.
If the infant has been exposed to an environment full of dust and dirt, there is a high chance that your infant has acquired botulism.
 Honey is a primary source of botulinum spores. If ingested, the spores can release bacteria that are toxic to the human body.


You should never feed honey to babies that are less than 12 months old, as they don’t have the capability to fully digest the spores.
This makes them susceptible to botulism spore germination.
 Once you suspect that your baby has infant botulism, it is best to go to the hospital and get confirmation.


If you noticed any of the previously mentioned symptoms, even 1 or 2, don’t hesitate to seek medical care, as this medical condition can easily be treated and has a good prognosis if immediate medical intervention is received.
However, if you delay, your baby could suffer severe and even fatal complications.

