 For most people that look at a lot of porn, the impulse is simply a habit. One of the best ways to overcome a bad habit is to replace it with a good habit; you need to give yourself something else to do when you would normally be looking at porn. What that is will depend on who you are, but you can try:


Exercising. When you reach the time of day when you would normally start looking at porn, go out and get some exercise instead. Go for a jog around your block or do some jumping jacks. You can even do some more involved but fun exercises, like going swimming at your local pool.
Cleaning your home. You’ll probably know the basic things to clean (dishes, laundry, etc) but don’t forget about all the cleaning that a lot of people forget about, like cleaning around the toilet and scrubbing the bathtub.
 Pornography is easy to fall back on if you’ve got a lot of free time. By keeping your day booked solid, you’ll easily be able to keep yourself away from porn because you’ll have too much other stuff to do! Try taking on a new hobby (editing on wikiHow is good), teach yourself a new skill (learning a language is useful and fun), or finding another way to occupy your time (spending more time with your friends and family is always good).


For example, you can begin teaching yourself a new language online using free services like DuoLingo. Learning a new language will help fill up your time and keep you busy (and away from pornography) but it will also help you for the rest of your life too!
If you want to try something away from the computer so that you’re not tempted, try martial arts. The Japanese martial art of Aikido is designed for people who might not be all that strong and uses minimal movements to achieve the greatest effect, making it a good one for people who don’t have much experience or aren’t in very good shape. You can usually find Aikido classes as local community centers, universities, and community dojos.
 If you’re really having trouble getting your habit under control, you should consider seeking guidance from a spiritual counselor. While religion can’t help everyone with this problem, it does help some people and shouldn’t be dismissed. Do whatever works for you and don’t worry about what other people say.


Go to the local place of worship for whatever religion you believe in and ask to talk to a priest, imam, or rabbi. You might need to set up an appointment but someone should be available to talk to you.
 It shouldn’t be the first thing you try, but finding another way to get a satisfying sexual release might help you kick your habit. Find a sexual partner that you can be on the same page with about what you expect from your relationship and try to develop a more satisfying sex life. By keeping your sex life varied, mutually satisfying, and fresh, you should kick a lot of your desire to look at pornography.


If you’re already in a relationship, do what you can to spice up your sex life with your partner. You’ll probably have to make some real effort, but it will be worth it.
 For some people, keeping in mind all the reasons why they should stop is enough to curb the bad behavior. With significant enough motivation, if you can find it, you should be able to control your urges. However, this will work best if you combine significant motivation with the other behavioral techniques we talked about, like giving yourself something else to do and setting up an internet censor.


Consider the impact on your family. For some people, the effect that their porn habits have on their wives, girlfriends, or the fear of what their children might see is enough to deter them and help them control their habits. The same goes for if you’re young and still living with your family. What would your little sister think if she saw what you watch?
Consider your own feelings and free time. For some people, it’s easier to be motivated knowing the negative impact that pornography has on yourself. Survey’s have shown among men who stopped watching porn, 60% saw in increase in their sexual performance. Almost two thirds felt more energetic and productive. Porn can be very time consuming for those with really bad habits, so just imagine what you could do with all that reclaimed time.
 If you really can’t control yourself, think about talking to a doctor or psychologist. You may have larger problems that need to be addressed and if this has a negative impact on your life then that alone makes it important enough to deal with.


Talk to your family doctor about your problem. Even if they can’t help you themselves, they should be able to refer you to someone who can help.
You can also find specialized resources, like Sex Addicts Anonymous. Groups like this one deal specifically with this problem and they will know what you’re going through and how to help you.

