 Place the flour, baking powder, salt, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of sugar in a large bowl. Stir until combined.While not strictly necessary, consider sifting the flour once or twice before adding the other ingredients. Doing so removes lumps and introduces air into the mixture, which should create lighter buñuelos.;
, Form a well in the center of the flour mixture. Add the egg, melted butter, and vanilla extract to the center of that well. Mix to combine.


When mixing in these liquid ingredients, knock a little flour from the sides of the well into the liquids, then mix without disturbing the rest of the well. Repeat, working with small amounts of the flour mixture at a time. Once the liquids are thick enough to hold their form, you can incorporate them into the rest of the flour.
Continue mixing until all the ingredients are combined and the resulting dough seems like coarse crumbs.
 Add warm water to the dough 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time, mixing after each addition. Continue until you've added 3/4 cup (80 ml) of water total.


Once the dough comes together, start kneading it after each addition, too.
Continue working with the dough for about 5 minutes, or until it seems soft, stretchy, and smooth.
 Cover the bowl of dough with a clean towel and set it aside. Let it rest in room temperature to warm conditions for approximately 30 minutes.


Continue with your preparations as the dough rests.
 Combine the cinnamon with the remaining 1 cup (250 ml) of sugar. Stir until evenly mixed.Set aside the cinnamon-sugar mixture until later. You'll use this as a topping for the buñuelos once they're done.
 Pour 1 inch (2.5 cm) of oil into a large frying pan with heavy sides. Set it on the stove over medium-high heat.


The oil will need to reach a temperature between 350 and 360 degrees Fahrenheit (177 and 182 degrees Celsius) before you can fry the buñuelos. Monitor the temperature of the oil using candy or frying thermometer.You should also prepare your working area at this time. Sprinkle flour over the counter and over the rolling pin. Line a plate with clean paper towels or brown paper bags.
 After 30 minutes pass, divide the batch of dough into 12 small, evenly sized balls.


If the dough starts sticking to your hands, dust your hands with flour before you continue working with it.
 Flatten each ball of dough using a rolling pin, inverted bowl, or your hands. Each portion should be flattened until it is very thin and roughly 6 inches (15 cm) in diameter.


To use a rolling pin: place the dough on your floured work surface and roll over it until you get an evenly round tortilla.
To use an inverted bowl: place a pastry towel over the bowl and spread the ball of dough over it. Use your hands to gently stretch the dough over the sides of the bowl, pulling down on the dough very gently as you work.
To use your hands: dust your hands with flour and pat each ball of dough in between them. Gently pat and stretch the dough into a round tortilla.
 Place the raw dough into the hot oil. Fry each buñuelo for about 3 minutes, turning once halfway through.


When ready, the buñuelos should become puffy, crispy, and golden brown.
Note that you should only fry one portion of dough at a time. Add more oil as needed and check the temperature in between batches.
 Remove the finished buñuelo from the hot oil and transfer it to a plate lined with paper towels. All the excess oil to drain off for several seconds.
 Sprinkle the finished buñuelos with the cinnamon-sugar mixture and enjoy them while they're still warm.


If you pile the finished buñuelos together, they should remain warm until you finish frying the last one. If they seem too cool, however, preheat your oven to its lowest setting and place the batch of buñuelos inside for 5 minutes.

