 Access your account on your computer or other devices. When prompted, enter your username, email, or phone number tied to that account. Then type in your password in the marked field. After that, click “Sign In.”

, If you are making a one-time call to Jamaica, or only plan to call there rarely, estimate how many minutes you will need to complete your call. Check Skype’s current rate-per-minute and then purchase credit to cover that amount.However, if you anticipate calling Jamaica frequently, compare Skype’s rate for a monthly long-distance subscription versus the total cost of purchasing credit for each individual call you plan to make in that same period. If the monthly subscription is cheaper, go with that.


Or, if both you and the other party have Skype accounts, have a video chat with them on your computers, at no additional cost, instead of calling their phone., If you won't be calling Jamaica often enough to warrant a subscription, either click the “Buy Credit” button or, if you have already purchased credit in the past, the “Add Skype Credit” button. When prompted, choose the dollar-amount that will cover the duration of your call. After that, provide Skype with your billing country (in this case, the United States), as well as your payment method. Once you have finished, press the “Pay Now” button and follow any additional prompts to complete payment.Note that if you have made any previous purchases through Skype, your previous payment method has been saved. Be sure to change it if you wish to use a new method.
 If you plan on calling Jamaica frequently enough to justify a flat-rate subscription, visit Skype’s subscription page. Select Jamaica as the country you wish to call and then click the “Continue” button. When the webpage offers you billing options, decide whether you wish to be billed monthly, quarterly, or yearly and select the appropriate option. Enter your payment method and follow the prompts to complete your purchase.If you have purchased Skype credit in the past, you can apply any remaining credit to pay for a subscription.
 Go back to your homepage on Skype. Click on the “Call Phones” button. When the dial-pad appears onscreen, select “Jamaica” from the drop-down menu of countries that appears above the pad. Then enter “1,” followed by the Jamaican area code “876,” and then the seven-digit phone number you wish to call. After that, click the blue call-button icon to dial.