 Many composers report hearing music in their head when they sit down to compose, as if the piece they're working on is already complete and just needs to be written down for the sake of others. Creative intuition isn't the sort of thing that can be forced, and a lot of it will depend on the way you're feeling at the time. However, if you can pick up an interesting musical idea in your head, don't hesitate to run with it.


It's easy for our inner judge to get the best of us and censor ideas before we even try them out. When you're composing music, it's best if you drop this self-doubt. Even if you think something is a bad idea, there's a chance it may lead to something more promising when you start playing around with it.
 The experience of watching films has had a major impact on the way we associate music with visuals. In your mind's eye, try to picture a scene that would spark the same sort of emotions you'd hope to evoke in this composition. For instance, if you want a gentle, soothing composition, you might envision a quiet lake in springtime. Likewise, if you want something angry and dramatic, you might think of a warzone. From there, imagine what kind of music might score a visual shot like this.


This technique doesn't always work, but if you're a visual thinker, it's certainly worth trying out.
 This may be the most time-consuming part of your composition. It's all about latching onto the first part of your composition and running with it once you get it. Playing scales and experimenting with different chord shapes can turn this process into a sort of enjoyable play.
 If you play around on the piano and come up with a great idea, you should play that motif in your head and imagine what might come before or afterwards. Follow-up ideas should generally have the same tone and direction of your original idea. For the first while, focus on making ideas that work together. If you want a composition with surprising twists, you should only figure out that part of it once you have a firm structure in place.
 One of the great things a piano has going for it is its sensitivity to volume and dynamics. Making some parts louder and others quieter is a tool that beginning composers often tend to overlook. Dynamics can make a world of difference to the emotional effect of a piece of music.


Dynamics is defined as a show of change or difference within something. In the case of a musical performance, it refers to a player's treatment of volume. Some pianists play naturally louder than others, but a truly gifted performer will use quiets and lows to his advantage.
 As you piece your song together, some ideas will be more deserving of building the song around them. A typical composition will have at least one or two recurring motifs therein. While repetition is used to emphasize an idea, repeating too much will rob the music of its interest. If your composition has a lot of repetition in it already, you should try to gradually modify the idea somehow. Adding or switching a single note can change your audience's response towards an idea.


The idea of relying on repetition and slowly changing it over time is referred to as Minimalism.
 A piano functions beautifully on its own, but like a guitar, it can help if you add vocals on top of it. Vocals are a great match for the texture of a piano. Vocal melodies can copy from the melodic right hand of your piano parts, or you can write a totally fresh part to add to the arrangement. Although vocals are tricky to pull off successfully while you're playing piano, it gives you opportunities to add harmonies that wouldn't have been possible with two hands on a piano.



Lyrics are an obvious requirement in most cases if you want to add voice. Lyrics give you a chance to tell a more vivid story with your music. Of course, if you'd prefer it, you can sing without lyrics. Some compositions prefer to use the voice as another instrument, with "oooohs" and "aaahs" taking the place of lyrics.
 Once your composition starts coming together, there's a moment of truth when you finally show it to someone else. Play a rough run-through of your composition for a friend whose taste you respect. Once you've finished playing it, ask your friend what he or she thinks could be improved upon it. It's important to see this as a step in the creative process rather than a time for judgement; whether they like it or not doesn't matter until you've put the final seal of approval on it. Take what they say into consideration, and contrast it with your own feelings towards the work.
 Even if you like the version you've drafted, it's a good idea to run through the song and judge which parts of the composition could be improved, changed or removed altogether. Much like a good piece of writing requires editing before it's finished, a great composer will look at a piece carefully and do everything they can to refine it before calling it finished.

