 Hair gets poofy and frizzy when it’s dry. While washing your hair cleans it, it also strips your locks of the natural oils that keep it moisturized and more manageable. To keep your hair from getting poofy, wash it every other day at most.If you already wash your hair every other day and it’s still poofy, try two days between washes.
When your hair looks a little greasy between washes, add a little dry shampoo to freshen it up.;
, When you do wash your hair, it’s important to use the right products to keep it from getting too big and poofy. Your best bet is a moisturizing shampoo that will clean your hair while still keeping it hydrated. Look for a shampoo that’s infused with moisturizing ingredients, such as argan oil, macadamia oil, vitamin-E, and other emollients.Make sure that your shampoo is sulfate-free. Sulfates are the sudsing agents that allow a shampoo to work up a rich lather. They can be extremely drying on the hair, so it’s best to avoid them.
 When you’re finished washing your hair, drying it in the right way can help keep it from getting poofy or frizzy. Rubbing a towel over your hair can cause breakage that makes it look poofy. Instead of rubbing, gently blot the towel over your locks to get rid of the excess water.It’s best not to twist the towel around your hair either. That can also lead to frizz.
For the best results, use a microfiber towel to dry your hair. It creates less friction so your hair isn’t as likely to become poofy.
 When you want to keep your hair from getting poofy, you’re better off letting it air dry rather than blow drying it. That’s why it’s best to wash your hair before you go to bed so it has all night to dry. Wash at least 30 minutes before you plan to go to sleep, though.To wake up with the most manageable hair, apply a styling cream from root to tip after washing it. Next, pull your hair back into a tight bun at the nape of your neck and go to sleep. In the morning, undo the bun and you’ll have soft, sleek waves. Run your fingers through them to gently separate them.
 Your hair is more likely to become poofy if it’s dehydrated. To make sure that it has enough moisture, be sure to follow up every shampoo with a rich conditioner. Look for a formula that contains proteins, natural oils, and emollients such as shea butter.For the most hydrated hair, leave your conditioner on for 3 to 5 minutes in the shower. That will give the moisturizing ingredients enough time to penetrate your hair.
 While a traditional conditioner will help moisturize your hair, you ultimately wash it out so your hair may start to get dry and poofy over time. To keep it sleek, use a leave-in conditioner that will hydrate your hair throughout the day. Work it through your hair while it’s still damp to lock in the moisture.If your hair is thick and coarse, use a lotion or cream leave-in conditioner.
If your hair is fine, use a spray leave-in conditioner.
 Even using a traditional conditioner and leave-in conditioner every time you wash your hair may not be enough to prevent it from becoming dry and poofy. Incorporate a deep conditioner or hair mask into your hair care routine for an intense dose of hydration at least once a week.Follow the instructions on the hair mask’s packaging to determine the proper way to use it. In most cases, you apply it to wet hair after you’ve washed it and allow it to sit for 20 to 30 minutes before rinsing it out.
Wear a shower cap or plastic wrap over the hair mask to create some heat when you’re wearing it. That will help it penetrate the hair more easily, so it is fully hydrated.
If you hair gets extremely poofy, you may want to use a deep conditioner every time that you wash your hair. You can also wear the mask overnight and wash it out in the morning for more hydration. Just be sure to cover your head to keep the mask from getting on your sheets.
 Some haircuts can encourage frizziness and leave you with poofy hair. To keep your locks from getting poofy, avoid short and heavily layered styles. Instead, opt for styles that feature blunt ends with just a few long layers. The length and weight of the cut will help keep your hair from poofing up.You should also avoid texturizing, thinning or razor cutting, which has a tendency to promote frizziness.
 When you get out of the shower, don’t use a brush to detangle your hair. Brushes are too rough and can snag your hair when it’s at its most fragile. Instead, use a wide tooth comb to gently work through the tangles so your hair doesn’t become frizzy.A wooden comb is the best option because it won’t generate static electricity, which can lead to frizz.
When you need to use a brush on dry hair, opt for a natural bristle style. They are less rough on your hair than synthetic bristles.
 If your hair is dry, it will soak up all of the moisture in the air, which means that it can become super poofy in humid weather. To ensure that your hair behaves no matter what the weather, use a hair oil, such as argan, jojoba, or coconut, or anti-frizz serum to seal and protect your hair.If you’re applying oil to wet hair, place a few drops in your palm, rub it between your hands, and gently smooth it throughout your hair.
If you’re using oil on dry hair, apply a drop to the tips of your fingers. Gently work it through the ends of your hair from the ears down to fight the poofiness.
 Heat styling isn’t a good idea if your hair is prone to poofiness -- but using a flat iron can give you sleek, smooth hair, so straightening it can be tempting. If you must heat style your hair, always use a heat protectant product beforehand. It coats your hair so none of its natural moisture is striped when you use the heat.For thick, coarse hair, look for a lotion or cream heat protectant.
For fine, thin hair, opt for a heat protectant spray.

