 One way to make money from growing vegetables is to sell your produce directly to your customers at a local farmer’s market. It is a good idea to shop around to multiple different markets the year before you want to begin selling. This way you can find a market that gets a lot of customers and is in need of more vendors. You should also speak with the people running the market in order to find out what the application process is and what you need to do in order to be eligible to sell at the market. These rules will vary between markets so it is important you talk with people and make connections.Each farmer’s market also has a different vibe. For example, some markets cater to busy shoppers who are in a rush and others develop a community vibe with music and games for kids and families.
Choose a market that works for you!

, Once you have selected a suitable farmer's market, you will need to plan out your booth in order to ensure that your produce sells. There are a number of different things that you can do to attract customers to your booth and develop relationships with your customers. This will help to encourage customers to return to your booth each week:


Start small: when you first start selling at a market don’t have too much produce or invest in a large tent. You want to test the market and find out how much you will need before spending a lot on decorations.
Display your vegetables in groups to make blocks of colour: For example, bright vegetables, such as bell peppers, catch the customer’s eye and should be placed together.Design your stand: Make signs to name and price all of your crops. Drape a colourful table cloth over your table in order to make the display more visually appealing and to hide stored items under the table.Hand out recipes that use your produce.Find your niche: Sometimes it helps to specialize in a specific product, for example varieties of garlic, or package your vegetables in a unique way (ie wicker baskets). Connect with the customers: Be friendly to your customers. Tell them stories about how your products are farmed, and show pictures of the farm in order to connect them to the growing process., If your farm is located on a fairly busy road in the country you may want to try selling vegetables at a roadside stand. By selling at a roadside stand you can save on transportation costs and sell vegetables immediately after being harvested. Familiarize yourself with any government regulations surrounding the sale of fruits and vegetables at a roadside stand. Try these tips for making your roadside vegetable stand profitable:Make sure that your stand is visible to cars as the drive by.Ensure that there is a space for cars to pull over and park at the side of the road
Situate your stand near your garden so that customers can actually see the vegetables growing.
Decorate your stand with flowers, well labelled products, and garden tools.
You can sell produce with blemishes at a discounted price. It is often difficult to sell vegetables with minor blemishes at a farmer’s market. At a roadside stand, however, you could have a discount bin. This is a great way to make some money off of vegetables that are more difficult to sell.Staff the roadside stand with a family member or consider a self serve stand in order to save on costs., Some customers will want the ability to pick their own vegetables. This type of farm is called a “you pick” field and is ideal for people who want to buy vegetables in bulk (ie people who can vegetables or make sauces and jams). Before you set up a “you pick” farm make sure that you have contacted your local governing body to see if there are any regulations associated with this style of farming. For example, you may need to provide onsite washrooms and hand washing stations for your customers.Try opening a pick your own pumpkin patch during the fall season to attract families and increase sales.
This type of selling can help you save on labour costs as the customer actively harvests their own produce, however, you will want to demonstrate how to pick the vegetables so that the customers do not damage your plants.
Make sure there is ample parking and signage for your customers., Community supported agriculture (CSA) is a term used to describe when a customer purchases a season long subscription to a farm. Each week they receive freshly harvested vegetables that are delivered to a specific pick up location or they come directly to the farm to pick up their share of the crop. This type of marketing allows a farmer to receive payment upfront and encourages community member to buy local produce.


Try advertising your CSA at a local farmer’s market in order to gain customers.
Produce a weekly newsletter to describe the vegetables your customers will receive each week. You can provide them with information about growing crops, and how to incorporate the fresh crops into their meals.
Give customers recipe cards that will provide them with examples of how to prepare and cook the vegetables each week.