 When you first get braces, your teeth will likely feel sore and irritated for several days to a week. Your lips, cheeks, and tongue may also become irritated or sore as they get used to the new metal rows in your mouth. Soothe any soreness by doing a salt water rinse of your mouth once a day. This old fashioned remedy is great for rinsing your mouth of harmful bacteria and will reduce inflammation.Dissolve one teaspoon of salt in a glass of lukewarm water. Gargle and rinse your mouth with the warm salt water for a few minutes in the morning before you start your day, or before bed. Try not to swallow any of the salt water, as this can lead to an upset stomach.
You can also add a half spoon of baking soda and mix it in with the saltwater until it dissolves completely. The baking soda will provide protection against acids and help your teeth remineralize.
 You can also buy dental wax at your local drug store. Dental wax can be placed over your braces and will act as a barrier between your braces and your lips. This can help sore or irritated skin your mouth to heal as you get used to your braces., This means even after a small late night meal or a quick snack from the vending machine. Food particles can get trapped in your braces after you eat, and the longer those particles remain trapped, the higher your risk of developing dental issues. It’s important that you practice diligent and consistent dental hygiene when you have braces to prevent staining, infection, and the development of cavities.Try to brush for at least two minutes after every meal to ensure you remove any food in your braces and keep your braces clean.
 You will likely need to replace your toothbrush more often, as your braces can wear out your toothbrush rather quickly. You may want to invest in an electric toothbrush, as these are very efficient at cleaning your teeth. Your orthodontist may recommend a Waterpik, which can make brushing around your braces easier.


Use toothpaste that contains fluoride. Your orthodontist may also recommend a fluoride rinse that you can use once a day as part of your brushing routine.Rinse your mouth with water before you brush to loosen any food particles that are stuck in your braces. You can also use an interproximal brush, which is designed to fit under the wires of your braces, to remove plaque and food particles in your braces.Brush for at least two minutes total, taking care to brush each tooth at the gum line, as well as below and above the brackets. Start with your gum line first. Hold the toothbrush at a 45-degree angle and carefully make small circles along your gum line. Then, clean the brackets by moving the brush at a downward angle on the top of the brackets. Finish brushing the top of your brackets by holding the brush at an upward angle from the top of the brackets and moving the brush in small circles.
You can also try using an electric toothbrush for general cleaning and then use a manual toothbrush with soft bristles and a small head (such as a child’s size toothbrush) for a more detailed cleaning.
Rinse your mouth with water to remove the toothpaste. Then, rinse your mouth with mouthwash that does not contain any whitening products.
Check that your braces and mouth are well brushed by confirming your braces appear shiny. Dull looking metal on your braces means your braces are still covered in food and/or bacteria.
 Another key element of good dental hygiene is flossing at least once a day. It can be tricky to floss when you have braces, as you should floss between your braces and under the wires of your braces. Make flossing easier by using a floss threader or an orthodontic flosser. You can buy these products at your local drug store or ask your orthodontist for a sample.Use waxed floss, rather than unwaxed floss, as it is easier to slide between your teeth and less likely to snag on your braces. The floss threader works by allowing you to attach the floss to a threader, making it easier to slide the floss under your braces and reach your teeth.
Always floss well along and under your gum lines. It may take practice to master flossing with braces, but be patient and take your time. Use gentle pressure while moving the floss back and forth between your teeth. Move the floss along the front and back of teeth as well. Keep in mind that if your gums bleed a little while you are flossing, this normal. It is a sign of inflammation.
If you have spaces between your teeth, use the interproximal brush to go between these spaces when flossing.
 Occasionally, a wire or band may come loose on your braces. In most cases you can carefully push the wire under the arch wire so it does not poke your mouth. Use the clean eraser of a pencil to push the wire so it slides back into the arch wire. You can also place dental wax or wet cotton on the wire or band if it continues to irritate your mouth.If the wire continues to bother you, schedule a checkup with your orthodontist. You should see your orthodontist right away if you notice any broken or damaged brackets or wires on your braces so they can be fixed properly.
 Your lips may get dry due to your irritated mouth, so keep them happy by applying lip balm regularly throughout the day. Avoid licking your lips when they are dry, as this only dries them out more.Be sure to apply lip balm before and after your orthodontist appointments, as your lips will likely chap due to keeping your mouth open for a long period of time.

