 Some equalizers are designed for installation in your dash while others are designed for a remote location such as the trunk. The installation location will depend on your particular choice of equalizer and preferences.


Many prefer to install their equalizers in their trunk near the amp so that they have the option to easily add additional amps later.
Some vehicles will not have space in the dash for an equalizer and will need to remote-mount their equalizer.
Equalizers can be installed anywhere between your amp and receiver.
Most remote-mount equalizers will come with a remote so that you can change the controls from the driver’s seat.
 Most people prefer to mount their remote-mount equalizer in their trunk near the amp. This way they can easily add additional amps later on by connecting a close wire. Other possible locations include under a seat in the vehicle.


Remember that wherever you mount your equalizer, you will have to run wires to your head unit, or receiver, and amplifier.
 To run a signal from your stereo receiver to the equalizer and back again, you'll need 2 sets of RCA cable (the same kind that is usually used to connect source components like turntables and CD players).


The length of the RCA cables should match the length of the distance between the receiver and the equalizer.
 Remove your receiver from the dash so that you can access the wires behind. Usually you can pull off the plastic piece covering the dash and then pull the receiver slightly out.
 Plug the two RCA cables into the receiver’s preamp outputs. Tape them together so they will not come apart.
 Route the cables through the dash to the equalizer. You should use tape or wire ties along the way to connect the two cables together. Plug the cables into the preamp inputs on your equalizer., Do not mount your equalizer directly to the metal chassis. This will interfere with the sound. It is better to mount the equalizer on a platform or some kind of rubber material to prevent interference.


If you must bolt the equalizer directly to the metal chassis, then you should use rubber pieces between the equalizer and the vehicle.
 Turn off your ignition completely and remove your keys before you begin installation. This is for your safety while you connect the wires to avoid getting shocked.
 On your equalizer you will see three wires. The black one is the ground wire. Remove a bolt near the equalizer mounting location and scrape away any paint covering the location around the bolt. Crimp a ring on the end of the wire and bolt this to the vehicle.


If there is no location available then you will have to drill a hole in the chassis. Be very careful not to damage the gas tank or brake line while doing this.
 The yellow wire (could be red or another color- check your manual) on your equalizer is the 12V power cable. Connect this cable either to the power cable attached to the receiver or to a 12V variable power source in the fuse box (such as the wiper fuse).


If your receiver does not have a wiring diagram to show which wires are switched power cables, then you should use a digital multimeter to identify the correct cable. Connect the multimeter to the cable when the key is in the off position and make sure the voltage reads at zero. Then turn the key into the on position and see if there is now 12V. If the wire follows this pattern then you have found the correct switched 12V power wire.

Splice the wires together and wrap the exposed metal with electrical tape completely. This prevents the exposed areas from touching other wires and potentially shorting the system.
You can also crimp the wires together but this is not as strong as splicing.
This wire will need to be routed from the receiver to wherever the equalizer is mounted.
 This wire will usually be a blue wire with a white stripe, and should be labeled on your equalizer. On the receiver should be a blue (usually blue but can be other colors) wire that goes to the amplifier. Connect this wire to the blue wire on the receiver after routing it through the vehicle from where the equalizer is located.


Splice or crimp the wires together to make a connection and then wrap the connection in electrical tape.
 Put the key in the ignition and turn it to the “on” position. Then turn on the radio to check that everything is working well and that the equalizer turns on with the radio.
 Put the receiver back into its bracket and place the frame covering back into place. Be sure all the wiring is pushed inside the dash beforehand.

