 In addition to providing monies for daycare services, there are some colleges that go above and beyond by providing free on campus daycare for students. If possible, find a college in your area that will provide this as this is the most convenient form of childcare., In addition to childcare, be sure to select classes that will provide you with some flexibility. Many professors post their lectures online and can potentially exempt you from physically being in class if you check with them. Other classes are online exclusively.Make sure that you are still taking the classes that align with your major and field of interest, however, even if they are not online.
Be sure to know the tardiness and absentee policy. Many professors will excuse up to three absences per semester, but no more.
 Before your classes begin, email or meet your professors and explain your situation. Tell them that you have a child and may need to stay out of class with them occasionally if they are sick. Avoid making any promises that you can’t keep, like saying that you will complete every assignment on time, as you cannot predict the future and never know what will come up. Say something like “Hi Professor Richardson, I will be taking your Economics class this Fall and before classes begin, I wanted to let you know that I have a child. While I plan to always be in class, I also know that sometimes my child gets sick and I will have to stay home with him. I just wanted to let you know beforehand so you know that I’m serious about your class.”
Be sure to be early and prepared for class as much as possible to make up for the times when you will need to be absent.
 You may need to space your classes out or have them in a certain location in order to facilitate nursing your baby or accommodating your child’s schedule in general. Also, make sure that you are not overloaded and try to start off small. Start with taking a small courseload of no more than 4 classes or twelve credit hours.Avoid night classes when possible.
 If you're a first year, there are usually certain classes you are required to take during the first semester. If these classes are on opposite ends of the campus or at odd times and it will cause you a lot of anxiety to juggle the classes and a child, talk to the head of department for the class and see if you can form a curriculum for you to do the work independently. Many campuses often this level of flexibility, and even if they don’t, at least you will know that you tried.

