 Although not scientifically verified, there are several herbal remedies which are thought to help hypertension. Holly leaf extract is used as a tea in China and is supposed to help blood vessels enhance circulation and blood flow to the heart.


This is available in liquid form, and is usually taken as a few drop ingested throughout the day., Hawthorn berry extract is purported to improve the supply of blood to the heart and also help to support the metabolism of the heart. This is available in a capsule or tablet for and is generally taken 500 to 1500 mg daily.


It is important to note that this can interact with other medications and should not be taken in conjunction with other medication for high blood pressure. , There are other herbal remedies that might work to help prevent a heart attack as well. Hibiscus can act like a diuretic and may have actions that mimic ACE inhibitors. Make a tea with one to two teaspoons of dried hibiscus in one cup boiling water. You can drink this tea two to three times daily.


Coconut water contains potassium and magnesium, both of which help with normal muscle function. It is recommended to drink eight oz, one to two times daily. Make sure you keep a check on the calories you are consuming, since coconut water is not calorie free.
Ginger-cardamom tea is used in India to naturally reduce blood pressure. This can be drunk one to two times daily., There are some nutritional supplements which have be shown to decrease the amount of fat in your blood and lessen your chances of a heart attack. Try buying fish oil. Omega-3 fatty acids, specifically the ones called DHA and EPA, are found in over the counter as supplements in pill form. You can also get omega-3 fatty acids from oily fish such as anchovies and tuna or nuts (especially walnuts), flaxseed and leafy vegetables. Eating one to two servings of oily fish or taking 1 gram of a fish oil supplement daily has been shown to reduce levels of triglycerides and the risk of death from heart disease.


You also need to get more plant stanols and sterols. These are found naturally in a variety of fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, and legumes. It is also added to commercially prepared products such as margarines like Promise Activ and Benecol, orange juices such as Minute Maid Premium Heart Wise, and rice milk such as Rice Dream Heartwise. You can also get them as dietary supplements such as Benecol SoftGels and Cholest-Off. Plant stanols and sterols are thought to act by preventing the intestines from absorbing cholesterol.Keep in mind that not all herbal remedies or alternative supplements are FDA approved, nor is there always enough scientific information to support their use or determine appropriate dosing. Make sure to consult your healthcare professional prior to starting new supplements.

