 Write articles on a given product and find free places online to post them, such as review sites and article directories. Be sure to check if you are allowed to include an affiliate code link to the product you're promoting. Some sites only allow you to link out to a non-commercial website.


Use strategic keywords in your articles. Place links in the headline, the first few sentences, and throughout the body of the article to attract the search engines.
Research long-tail keywords to target. If you are selling a weight-loss product, the phrase "weight loss" will pair you with tons of competition. Instead, break your topic down into more specific phrases like "lose weight in two weeks" or "lose weight for wedding."

, This might include forums, discussion boards, chat rooms, and blogs. Post often on the forum, and build a good reputation among the community members. Once people trust your judgment, you can start to include affiliate links in your posts. Do not simply spam the forums with product codes. You should sprinkle the affiliate links within genuinely useful content.


Review member policies on every community website. Verify whether you are allowed to post affiliate links to a site. Some online communities may prohibit affiliate links and consider the links advertising spam.
Review your account settings on every website. If you belong to a forum or discussion group that requires you to register for an account, you may be able to take advantage of a signature box in which you can post affiliate links. You can choose to display the signature box each time you reply to or write a post on the website.
 For example, if you team up with an affiliate that sells fitness equipment, you may want to write an e-book about different workout techniques that involve the fitness equipment. Embed affiliate links into sections of your e-book. For example, if your e-book is about fitness, you can write about the importance of wearing appropriate running shoes during your workout, then embed affiliate links for a specific brand of running shoes that you recommend to your readers.


Choose a topic you are knowledgeable about. You may earn more from your affiliates if readers gain value from the information you are providing.
Include affiliate banners and pictures within your e-book. Banners and pictures that contain affiliate links may catch the eye and draw clicks.

