 Since song ideas come at all times, like when you are riding the bus to school, getting off the soccer field after practice, or raking leaves in your yard, make a habit of writing everything down. Carry a notebook or use a memo app on your phone. Every few days, read through what you have written and see if you can expand on something.


You might come up with the lyric “you’re like a shirt that doesn’t fit,” but at the moment, it seems not to mean anything. If you look at it a week later, maybe you’ll have an idea for how to write a whole song around that idea. Or that line may fit into another song you are working on.
If you don’t keep a specific memo that has all your ideas, you may misplace them, so it works best if you always jot them down in the same place.
As an exercise, once in a while, sit down and make yourself write a song using one of these small phrases. You may actually come up with more than you would have thought.
 Teenagers often want to think about being older, but it can be helpful to stay firmly planted in your experience as a teen. You know how you are feeling and what goes on in your life right now, so use that. People that are older often lose the memory of what being young is like, so take advantage of it.On the other hand, sometimes it is a good exercise to really try to get outside of yourself and write from the perspective of someone else. You could try writing a song of what you wish someone older would tell you.
 Think of your favorite song, and pick out what parts of the song make you see specific pictures in your mind. This is a great technique when trying to figure out what to write. You want your song to show people images of what you are talking about, so try to use concrete descriptions.


For example, you want to describe a girl sitting alone in her room. Tell what her room looks like: pink walls painted before she was born, stuffed animals abandoned in the corner long ago, postcards of places she has never been covering the walls. These details make the image more vivid.
Try to describe a beautiful place you have visited, including every color and feature you can think of. Images like this put people in the place you are describing.
 Often the first round of a song is not what becomes the final copy. You have to get your ideas out first, and then you can go through and see how to rework it. You may switch verses around, find a better way to word something, or add a section you didn’t think of the first time.Editing and reworking a song doesn’t mean it’s no good. It means you think you can make it better. Make sure you keep the original copy, as you are changing things, because you may end up liking that version better than what you come up with later.
It can also be helpful to put the song aside for a few days or a week and come back to it fresh to see what you might want to change.
If you can get your point across with less words, this is usually a good idea. Thoughts and lines that try to say too much can be hard to work into a rhythm.
 Topics for songs are around you constantly, if you allow yourself to really see and consider the world. Snow falling, dropping your books in the hall, the swing of a golf club, a homeless man on the street are all worth writing a song about if you have something to say about them. Don’t discount any experience as unfit for inclusion in a song.


Great songs are often about simple, even boring, occurrences, but they are written in such a way that makes them interesting and beloved. For example, you could write about a carwash: “I’m trapped inside, water rushing over me, but I’m here, and now I’m coming clean.” It’s an everyday thing, but you can give it deeper meaning.
Think of a book, TV show, or movie you love and try to write a song about one of the characters, or from the perspective of one of the characters.

