 Whether you can bring a wrongful death suit will depend on state law. Generally, a spouse, children, and the parents of unmarried children can sue. In other states, more distant family members, such as grandparents or siblings may sue.Still in other states anyone who would suffer financially can sue, regardless of blood relationship.
To see if you can sue, find your state’s wrongful death statute. You can search the Internet by typing “wrongful death” and then your state. Alternately, you could ask a lawyer.
 You will initiate the wrongful death lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. Your lawyer should draft it for you. The complaint alleges the facts that surrounded the death and asks for relief. The complaint is then filed in court and a copy is served on the defendant.


You shouldn’t wait to file. Each state has time limits for filing a wrongful death lawsuit. These are called the “statute of limitations.” Each state sets its own deadline, but generally you will have two years, which begins from the date of the misconduct that caused the victim’s death., “Discovery” is a process whereby the parties exchange information in their possession or control. Discovery can be a long process in a wrongful death lawsuit. The most common forms of discovery include:Requests for Production. The parties can request documents from each other. In a wrongful death suit, you might request a copy of the defendant’s insurance policy.
Interrogatories. These are written questions posed to the other party, who must answer them under oath. If you are bringing a wrongful death suit based on medical malpractice, you might ask the doctor to list other lawsuits filed against him. You could also ask whether he or she has ever been disciplined by a governing medical board.
Depositions. During a deposition, questions are posed to a person face-to-face, who answers them under oath. Depositions usually take place in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present. Typically, your lawyer will depose the defendant as well as other witnesses.
 Civil trials (like wrongful death claims) involve the filing of many motions before trial. Some of these motions try to dispose of the case altogether before ever getting to trial. One common motion is a motion for summary judgment. You should expect the defendant to file one.


In a motion for summary judgment, the defendant argues that there are no issues of material fact in dispute and that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Practically, this means that the defendant wants the judge to decide that it is so obvious that the defendant is not to blame for the death that a trial would be unnecessary.
Your lawyer will oppose the motion for summary judgment and argue that factual or legal issues remain to be resolved at trial.
 On the first day of trial, you will select jurors from the jury pool. To find jurors helpful to your case, the lawyers will ask the potential jurors questions. This process is called “voir dire.”


You will want to identify jurors who might be prejudiced against your case so that you can strike them from the panel. Your attorney can draw out prejudices by asking jurors if they have ever had a family member killed, or if they have ever been the defendant in a lawsuit.
You should think about taking a bench trial. In a normal jury trial, the judge decides questions of law and the jury decides facts. But you have the option of using the judge to determine both the law and the facts. One study showed that you are twice as likely to win a medical malpractice case if you take a bench trial (as opposed to a jury trial)., Each wrongful death lawsuit is different. If you bring a wrongful death lawsuit based on medical malpractice, then you will need to prove medical malpractice at trial. By contrast, if the victim was killed by assault and battery, then you will need to prove that at trial.
 As the plaintiff, you will present evidence first. You will call and examine witnesses and get records admitted into evidence. You must carry your burden of proof. In an unlawful death case, you must prove that it is “more likely than not” that the defendant caused the victim’s death. This is called a “preponderance of evidence.”You may also need to call an expert witness. Experts are often needed in medical cases, to show that a doctor’s treatment fell below a required standard of care or to show that a medicine “caused” death.You do not always need expert witnesses, but they are useful in complicated cases.
 Your attorney will have the opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses presented by the defense. Your attorney will try to show the gaps in their testimony or try to undercut their testimony with prior inconsistent statements.


Your attorney will also get to cross-examine any expert witness for the defense. Your lawyer will challenge the expert’s credentials or suggest that he is a “paid witness” for the defense. Your lawyer may also try to impeach the expert through use of an expert treatise that contradicts the testimony given by the expert.
 During the closing argument, your lawyer needs to explain how the evidence presented at trial satisfies the legal requirements.


In a bench trial, the court will often request that the attorneys write briefs and then argue those briefs. These briefs contain lengthy legal arguments and apply the evidence to the controlling legal authority.
 In a jury trial, the judge will read the jury instructions, and then the jury will retire to deliberate. In about half of all states, jury verdicts for civil trials do not have to be unanimous.Instead, a plaintiff can prevail if 10 out of 12 jurors decide for her.

