 Sometimes managing bipolar disorder can seem anything but funny. But using your sense of humor is a great way to develop a positive attitude.Humor can reduce stress, tension, and negative emotions you may be feeling. Find the lighter side of situations and learn to laugh and smile when things seem tough.


Don’t be too hard on yourself. Laugh at yourself when you do something goofy or even something embarrassing. For example, if you get ketchup on your shirt, laugh it off instead of getting upset.
Keep something with you that makes you chuckle. For example, use a funny picture as the screensaver for your phone.
Do things that are fun just because they are fun every now and then. For example, go swing at your neighborhood playground.
 Purposely looking for things in your life to be grateful for will make it easier for you to maintain a positive focus even when your bipolar disorder is challenging you.Don’t focus on all the things that are wrong or can go wrong. Focus on all the things, big and small, that you have to be grateful for.


Make a list of the things that you are grateful for. For instance, you might write, “I’m grateful for waking up and for the bacon I had for breakfast.”
Each day add something else to your list that you are grateful for. For example, you might add gloves, friends, or sunshine to the list.
Show other people your gratitude. Say ‘thank you’ or do things to let people know that you appreciate them. For example, tell your mom thanks for making you lunch.
 When you do something nice for others (or for yourself), it can improve your mood and help you feel good about yourself. Showing compassion can also help you take a more positive perspective on life in general. These positive feelings about life in general can help boost your optimism about your bipolar disorder.


Pay someone a compliment or do a small favor for them. For instance, walk the dog for your roommate, or pick up coffee for your cubicle buddy.
Show compassion to yourself by talking gently to yourself and doing kind things for yourself. For example, give yourself a break if you make a mistake.
 There are countless things in life that you have no control over – the weather, natural disasters, or the line in the lunchroom. Instead of allowing yourself to sink into negativity by focusing on things you can’t control, make an effort to accept that you can’t control them. Try focusing on the things you can change and how you can have a positive effect on them.


For example, it’s normal to empathize with disaster victims. But, you can’t give in to feelings of despair about the world. Remind yourself that you can’t control what happened, but you can help the victims by sending supplies.
Do what you can to bring a positive outlook to all situations. For instance, instead of letting the daily new depress you, use it as a way to inspire you to take positive social action.

