 If you have a small bedroom, you may want to put lighter shades on the wall, since lighter shades create a wider, more open appearance. If you have a large bedroom, you can experiment with bright and rich hues that close the space in, creating a cozier ambiance.
 Many individuals only think about what color to put on their walls, but you can paint the ceiling of your bedroom to give the room an entirely different mood. If you have a low ceiling, you can open it up by sticking with white or light yellow. If you have a high ceiling, you can create a warmer, more enclosed space by painting it a shade or two darker than the color you have on your walls.
 Generally, warm colors create a cozy feeling, but bright shades of warm colors can be energizing and oppressive. Cool hues almost always promote a sense of calm.
 Walls painted burgundy red or burnt orange can inspire warmth and passion in your bedroom. Bright, neon shades can quickly overwhelm the space, making it too vibrant and energetic to relax in.
 Golden hues create warmth, while pale hues open a space and create the illusion of additional light. Sharp yellows are often too dramatic to use as wall paint, however.
 Light blues are reminiscent of the sky and sea, and as a result, they create an open, free ambiance. Medium to deep blues have a more sober effect, but can be just as soothing.
 Violet has romantic connotations but is less bold and in-your-face as red or pink tends to be. A violet on the cool side of the spectrum can also create a peaceful, harmonic sensation, especially when used in light shades like lavender.
 Medium and dark browns have an especially soothing effect. Light greens can also work well for bedroom paint, but deep, saturated greens do not flatter most skin tones and should be avoided.
 Neutral paint colors are the most versatile and can be made to work with nearly any color scheme you choose for your furniture and decorations. Stick with stark white to open a space up, grays to introduce a cool edge into the room, and beige and tans to add a touch of warmth.

