 Get a large mixing bowl and pour the pudding mixture into the bowl. Make sure the bowl has a lot of headspace on top after adding the mixture. You will be adding a lot of other ingredients, so it's vital you make sure your bowl is big enough., After pouring your mixture into your bowl, measure out your chilled milk. Pour the milk into the instant pudding mixture. Use a spoon or wire whisk to stir into the milk until you have a smooth mixture.It's best to go for a wire whisk over a spoon. The milk will mix in much quicker with a wire whisk.
 Measure out your Bailey's and Kahlua. Pour these two liquors into the milk and instant pudding mixture., Use a wire whisk or spoon to mix all your ingredients together. Liquor will not mix into the pudding and milk without some effort. Stir continuously for a minute to get a smooth, even texture. Do not stop stirring until all your ingredients are mixed evenly., Pour your container of cool whip on top of the mixture of milk, pudding, and liquor. Use a large metal spoon or rubber spatula to fold it into the mixture.Folding in ingredients is different than stirring. Run your spatula or spoon around the side of the bowl. Then, fold the mixture over, pulling some of the pudding mixture over the whipped cream. Turn your bowl 90 degrees and repeat this pattern. Keep folding the mixture and then turning the bowl until everything is mixed evenly.It's important that you fold in the whipped cream instead of stirring it. Folding will combine your ingredients without removing air from the batter, allowing the shots to come out like pudding.
 After mixing all your ingredients, you may notice the batter is not quite green. If you want something greener for the season, stir in a few drops of green food coloring.Make sure to only to use very small drops of food coloring. Too much food coloring can affect the taste of your mixture.
 Set out shot glasses along a tray. Use a small ice cream scoop to scoop out your mixture and divide it evenly between your shot glasses. Fill the shot glasses so there's a small amount of headspace at the top. You will need this space later to garnish your shots.How many shots you will make depends on the size of the shot glasses.
 Your pudding needs time to set. Place your shot glasses in the refrigerator. Let them cool for an hour. When they're done, your shots should have a solid, pudding-like texture.If your shots are not solid enough after an hour, keep them in the fridge for a bit longer.
 You can use sweetened or unsweetened whipped cream to garnish the shots. Spoon a dollop of whipped cream on the top of each shot.If you want more green, try mixing a few drops of green food coloring into your whipped cream to turn it green.
 You can buy green sprinkles at most grocery stores. Sprinkle a small amount of green sprinkles over the whipped cream on top of your shot glasses. This adds a festive touch to your Saint Patrick's Day shots.You can also use green M&Ms if you want to add some extra flavor.
 Guests will not be able to take shots by drinking them. As your shots are made of pudding, have small spoons nearby when serving the shots. Your guests will eat the shots like pudding.

