 Everyone has neighbors who are noisy from time to time, and we are generally able to accommodate for this with little difficultly. However, you may have something big coming up such as a job interview or a change in work schedule, and are worried that your neighbor's noise may become a problem for you.


If this is the case, it's better to be proactive and let your neighbors know ahead of time that you'll need a bit more quiet than normal.
For example, in the days before your important event or schedule change, stop by your neighbor's with a plate of homemade cookies and try the following: “Hey Sam, I've got final exams all next week, and will need extra quiet time. Would you mind rescheduling your band's practice on those days, or maybe even temporarily moving it to a different location? It would help so much.”

, While talking to your neighbors directly is probably the most mature strategy, and is often the most effective—particularly if you are able to connect with them personally and get them to sympathize with your predicament—there may be times when you'd feel more comfortable writing them.


If you don't know your neighbors at all or if your schedules don't line up to where you ever see them outside of their home (at the mailbox, in the driveway, etc.), then leaving them a very politely worded note in their mailbox or on their door could be an effective way to alert them to the problem.
Make sure that your note explains specifically what the problem is: For example, explain that you can hear their television at 11pm when you are trying to get to sleep, and note that it is loud enough that you can hear all of the dialogue on the program.
Be sure to offer a proposed solution in your note: For example, suggest that they reduce the volume by a third, or ask that they move the television to the opposite side of the room, away from your shared wall.
In case the situation is not resolved, you should keep a dated copy of the note for your records.
 Keep in mind that just because you can hear your neighbors, this doesn't automatically mean that they are being too noisy and that you would be justified in asking them to quiet down. Remember that people do have the right to make noise in their own home.


Of course, what one person finds mildly annoying the next will find unbearable—these are somewhat subjective terms.
In your effort to decide if you really ought to confront your neighbors, ask yourself whether their noise is significantly interfering with your ability to sleep, work, listen to your own programs, etc. If so, then a conversation probably is called for.
If, on the other hand, your only complaint is that you can hear their kids playing in the middle of the afternoon while you are trying to read your novel, your request to make them have their kids knock it off will come off as being overly antagonistic. Perhaps you can just move to a different room or wear earplugs while reading.

