 This method requires no special tools, but does take a significant amount of prolonged rubbing. It is especially suited to stains on natural fibres such as linen and cotton. Fabrics whose surfaces fragment into small round surface balls, known as "bobbles" or "pills," require a longer period of more gentle rubbing. These fabrics include wool and most artificial fibres.;
, In this position, water can work at the stain from the back, pushing it outward and off the fabric. Rinsing in this position is more effective than running the water directly onto the stain.You may need to turn clothing inside out to achieve this.
 Even an old stain typically hasn't worked its way into the fabric completely, so start by removing the loosely attached surface portions. Run cold water over the back of the fabric, so it pushes through the stain. Hold the fabric in the running water for several minutes, and the stain should be at least slightly smaller.


Warning: never wash a blood stain in warm or hot water, which may cause it to bond permanently to the fibres of the fabric., Turn the fabric over so the stain is face-up. Rub bar soap into the stain generously, to produce a thick lather. Any soap can be used, but traditional solid block laundry soap may have a stiffer, more effective lather than milder hand soap.
 Roll or scrunch up two areas of fabric, on either side of the stain. Grip one in each hand to provide a good grip on the area, allowing you to rub it together.
 Turn the two handfuls of fabric so the stain is in two halves and facing each other. Rub the stained fabric against itself vigorously, or gently but quickly if the fabric is delicate. The friction you generate should slowly loosen the remaining particles of blood, which will remain in the lather rather than re-adhering to the fabric.


Gloves may be worn to protect the skin from abrasion or blisters. Tight-fitting latex or nitrile gloves may provide the least hindrance to grip and dexterity.
 If the fabric starts getting dry or losing its lather, flush the stain with fresh water and re-apply the soap. Continue rubbing each stained area in this way until it is gone. If you see no improvement after five to ten minutes, try rubbing more vigorously or move on to a different method.

