 Take the bowl from your salad spinner and fill it approximately halfway with lukewarm water. Next, mix in some laundry detergent for delicates according to the bottle’s instructions until the water becomes soapy.If you don’t have laundry detergent for delicates, you can substitute baby shampoo because it’s gentle enough not to damage the clothing.;
, Once the salad spinner is filled with soapy water, gather your delicates and fasten all of the closures, such as buttons, hook-and-eyes, and buckles. Turn the items inside outside to protect them during washing as well.If there are any loose buttons or other damaged closures on the delicates, repair them before washing them in the salad spinner. While the spinner doesn’t move the items as aggressively as a washing machine, the movement can still cause buttons and other closures to come loose.
 When the delicates are ready for washing, place them in the salad spinner so they’re submerged in the soapy water. Allow them to soak for 2 to 5 minutes to give the detergent a chance to penetrate the fabric.When you first place the clothing in the water, it’s a good idea to knead them gently. That helps work the detergent into the fabric so it can get the dirt and stains out more easily.
 After you’ve let the items soak for several minutes, place the lid on the salad spinner. Next, pump the spinner to spin the items in the water several times to ensure that delicates are washed thoroughly.The number of times that you should spin the items depends on how dirty they are. If they are lightly soiled, spinning the items for one minute is usually sufficient. For items that are dirtier, you may want to spin them for two to three minutes.  

, Once you’ve finished spinning your delicates in the soapy water, remove them from the spinner and place them on a towel. Dump out the dirty water, and rinse the spinner thoroughly to ensure that it’s clean.There’s no need to dry the inside of the salad spinner after rinsing it, but you may want to quickly wipe it down with paper towel to make sure it’s not dirty.
 When the spinner is empty, place your delicates back inside. Add enough cool water to cover the items, and spin the spinner several times to thoroughly rinse the delicates of the dirt and soap residue.If the items still seem soapy after you rinse them, you may want to repeat the process. Dump out the water, refill the spinner with cool, clean water, and spin the delicates again until they are completely rinsed.
 After the delicates are fully rinsed, take them out of the spinner and dump out the water. Rinse the spinner’s bowl under running water to remove any residue, and wipe down the interior with a piece of paper towel to ensure that it’s clean and dry.Place the wet delicates on a towel after you remove them from the spinner. You can squeeze the items inside the towel once or twice to start the drying process.
 When the spinner is clean and dry, place the delicates back inside. Spin the items several times to drive the excess water out of the fabric to help dry them.The longer you spin your delicates, the less time it will take them to dry afterward. On average, though, spinning them 4 to 5 times is usually sufficient to drive out the excess moisture.
 After you’ve spun your delicates to remove the excess water, take them out of the spinner. Lay them flat on a clean towel to air dry.You can also hang your items to dry if you prefer. However, be sure to use a non-metal hanger to avoid warping your delicates.

