 You don’t need a huge group of friends, so do your best not to stress about popularity. You just need a few close friends you are able to confide in, have fun with, and connect with.Make sure you are comfortable talking to your friends. You want to have people you can turn to when you need support or a listening ear. You also want to be able to trust that they won’t spread your secrets around.If your friendships are too full of drama or backbiting and often seem like they are more trouble than they are worth, you might want to distance yourself from these people and look for new friends. For example, friends who love you one day and give you the silent treatment the next are probably not worth the angst they are bringing to your life.
Don’t ditch your good friends for other friends who make you seem more popular.
 Expressing your emotions can be tough sometimes, but being able to do so indicates confidence and helps to boost your self-esteem.Speaking up -- for your own feelings and for others’ -- can be scary, but it is another one of those things that gets easier with practice.


If you feel self-conscious about sharing your feelings with others, think about a time when someone disclosed some tough information to you. For example, what if one of your friends confided in you that she was struggling with depression? Would you judge her for being weak or laugh at her? Most likely, you would do your best to comfort her, relate to her, and let her know you were glad she reached out to you. If you have friends you trust, they will probably react the same way.
Think about situations when you might need to express your emotions or stand up for yourself. For example, imagine you have found out that your friend is saying mean things about you behind your back. Letting them know how it makes you feel (angry, sad, or disappointed in them, for example) indicates to your friend that you find their behavior unacceptable. Your friend knows you won’t put up with that kind of treatment, and will hopefully not treat you like that again in the future.
When you are expressing your feelings, try saying “I feel hurt that you didn’t include me,” rather than “You never invite me to hang out after school.” The first sentence conveys hurt, while the second sentence is accusatory and will have the other person feeling defensive.
 Have people in your life who’ve got your back no matter what. Having a community of people who you can rely on to support you will help you boost your confidence. You have a safe place to fall back, and a safe place to be yourself, in a group of people who care about you.


You may find this group of people in your extended family, faith community, or athletic team, for example.
If you do not feel like you have a group like this in your life, you could consider joining a religious youth group or a scouting group, for example. You want to find a group of people who value support and inclusion, perhaps with adult leadership that enforces these values.
 Trusted adults or older members of your family can offer you advice and perspective on what you are dealing with. As difficult as it may be to imagine, they were once teenagers themselves, dealing with problems similar to what you face today.


Adults can help you realize you are not alone in your feelings. Not feeling like you are the only one to go through this helps you feel more confident that you are normal and on the right track.
Ask your parents or grandparents what they were like when they were your age. What were their worries and concerns? Find an adult you can trust not to sugarcoat adolescence and ask them to paint a realistic picture of what life was like for them as a teenager.
You could ask, “Dad, you’re always telling me about the fun stuff you did in high school. Do you remember it ever being not fun, or even really hard?”

, There are so many ways to connect with your peers. Sharing a common goal, project, or vision will help you become closer to others, as well as help you become more confident in yourself in all you can accomplish.


Join an athletic team. Whether you get involved in sports in your school or your community, athletics are a fantastic way to build self-esteem and self-confidence.You will make friends and enjoy the camaraderie of a team, as well as get in great shape and improve your self-esteem.Perform. Getting up in front of a group of people to sing, dance, play an instrument, or act can take a lot of courage sometimes. If you can survive opening night nerves, it often feels like you can accomplish anything! Performing an artistic talent for others can be a huge confidence boost.Join a club. Find a group of people with a common interest in a school club or in your community. Maybe you are into robotics, outdoor adventuring, or film. Whatever your interest, you will likely find opportunities to get to know others in your school or community who enjoy similar hobbies. Making new friends and having new social opportunities can increase your confidence.

Volunteer. Get involved with a cause you support -- animal rights, the environment, fighting homelessness -- and become an advocate for it. You will gain confidence with your knowledge and by using your voice to help those who may not be to use theirs.