 This classification method considers articular involvement, as well as radio-carpal and radio-ulnar joints and the presence of absence of an ulnar fracture. There are six varieties of distal radius fractures under the Frykman classification system.


Under this classification system, “Type I” refers to an extra-articular and transverse metaphyseal fracture.
“Type II” refers to a “Type I” fracture that also includes a distal ulnar fracture.
“Type III” refers to an intra-articular fracture that involves the radio-carpal joint.
“Type IV” refers to a “Type III” fracture that also includes a distal ulnar fracture.
“Type V” refers to a severe fracture that includes the distal radio-ulnar and radio-carpal joints.
“Type VI” refers to a “Type V” fracture that also includes a distal ulnar fracture.
 This classification method is used for intra-articular fractures only. It considers the shaft, radial styloid, and dorsal medial and palmar medial parts. There are four varieties of distal radius fractures under the Melone classification system.


Under this classification system, “Type I” refers to a fracture that is stable and minimally displaced.
“Type II” refers to a die punch fracture of the radioscaphoid joint, which is unstable and moderately to severely displaced. This kind of fracture involved backward angulation and a shortening of the radius, and percutaneous pins are typically used to maintain reduction. In “Type IIb” fractures, there is a double die punch fracture, with fragmentation of both the inner and rear piece. This type of fracture is typically treated surgically, with internal fixation and iliac bone grafting.
“Type III” refers to a die punch or lunate load fracture, which also includes a radial shaft fracture that projects forward. The lunate bones puts pressure on the lower end of the radius. The surgical placement of small screws or wires is typically necessary to stabilize the joint.
“Type IV” refers to a severe fracture that involves all the major joint articular surfaces, including the radioscaphoid and lunate joints. Broken fragments may be separated widely or rotated. In almost all cases, a “Type IV” fracture needs surgical treatment: open reduction and internal fixation.
 This classification method is the simplest; it considers only articular involvement and displacement. It also differentiates stable from unstable fractures. There are four varieties of distal radial fractures under the Melone classification system.


Under this classification system, “Type I” refers to an extra-articular and undisplaced fracture.
“Type II” refers to an extra-articular but displaced fracture.
“Type III” refers to an intra-articular and undisplaced fracture.
“Type IV” refers to an intra-articular and displaced fracture.

