 Ironically, while state and local government has the most influence on our day-to-day lives, most people know much less about it than they do the Federal government. This can make it frustrate a citizen trying to make their initial contact with elected officials, not knowing if they need to talk with a city, county, or state official. Therefore, it’s best to do some preliminary research before you start venting your problems or paying visits.Say your issue is a car-killing pothole on the main road just outside your neighborhood. You need to speak with a city, county, or state official with the power to fix the road. Start at the lowest level and work your way on up, first talking to city officials, then county officials, and finally a state official. For a city or county, the department in charge of roads will probably be the Department of Public Works; for a state, the Department of Transportation. Just call them up and ask if that level of government maintains that stretch of road. If they don’t , they can probably tell you who does.;
, It also means talking to the right kind of official. An executive official, like one at the Department of Public Works or Transportation will have some latitude to decide what gets paved and repaired, but maybe not as much as you might think (and sometimes they’re unelected). If you make no progress with them, speak to your city or county council member or your state representative or senator. You’ll be able to find information on city and county officials on city and county government websites, and state government websites and ballotpedia.org are great sources of information on state officials.
 Whatever issue has led you to engage with your local officials may very well make you angry, frustrated, and disgusted—and that’s okay. You’re entitled to feel whatever way you want to feel, but it’s important to recognize that feelings alone probably won’t persuade anyone to do what you want them to do. The best way to persuade someone to act is to make them feel as you do, and to do that, you need to have facts on your side.Returning to the example of the pothole, it would be important to measure the size of the pothole in terms of circumference, diameter, and depth. Compare the depth of the pothole to the size of a wheel on a car. Explain how its position on the road makes it difficult to dodge. If you end up having to make a personal visit to your elected official, you will want to bring pictures showing all of the above.
 The council member or state legislator representing your district will spend at least some time in their office, and working for constituents like yourself is theoretically what they’re supposed to be doing. Call their office, find out when their office hours are, and try and set up an appointment with them. If and when you do meet with them, don’t forget the ground rules:Bring factual documents or any visual aids, such as photographs along with you.
Clearly, calmly, and respectfully state your problem, how long it’s been a problem, what you’ve already done about it, and how you want it resolved. For example, "The pothole around the corner from my house has been a problem for the last three months. While it's always been an annoyance, it's getting to be downright dangerous. If we let it go on another month, it'll be a sinkhole. I've already made some calls to the Department of Public Works, but they say it's not in the budget. Can you speak with them?"

, Public servants work for the public, and if you can’t get their anywhere with them in a private meeting, you might need to get your issue out into the open. Voicing your concerns at city and county council meetings and other public events (such as town halls, forums, and ribbon cutting ceremonies) might be the best way to get your issue the attention it deserves.If you’re trying to deal with a state issue, it’s probably for the best if you steer clear of actual legislative sessions. The public is not usually free to comment on pending legislation or other assorted problems within the legislature itself. Pressure state officials at other public events.
 Strength in numbers is not simply an idle saying. In a democratic government, it is the foundation upon which power rests. If you as an individual can’t make any headway, talk to your friends and neighbors about the problem issue. They’ll probably think it’s a problem too, and when they hear how your pleas have fallen on deaf ears, they might get mad enough about it to support your efforts.At these levels of government, there are probably three ways in particular to make your voices heard. The classic method is to come in force to a public council meeting. That’s still very effective. The sight of a few dozen energized voters can change minds very quickly.
Another method is the petition. You collect your signatures and present them in a public setting for maximum effect. Paper petitions are much more effective. A thousand signatures on paper looks more substantial than a thousand names on a webpage.
Finally, you can hit your representative or council member with a social media bomb. A few dozen posts on the county’s Facebook page highlighting their inaction (or bad action) can have some intense ripple effects in terms of bad press.

