 In order to download and install apps from the App Store, your iPod will need to be logged in with your Apple ID. See this guide to learn how to create an Apple ID and log in with it.


You can double-check that you are logged in by opening the Settings app, selecting "iTunes & App Store", and then ensuring that your AppleID is displayed at the top of the screen.
When creating an Apple ID, you will be asked for credit card information. This will be used for making purchases on the App Store. See this guide for instructions on creating an Apple ID without a credit card.;
, You will need to have an active wireless network connection in order to access the store and download apps. See this guide for details on connecting to a wireless network on your iPod Touch.
 Updating your iPod will ensure that you have access to the most apps possible, as some apps are only available for the latest versions of iOS. See this guide for details on updating your iPod Touch.
 Tap the App Store icon on your Home screen. This will open the main page of the App Store. You will need to have an internet connection.
 You can use the search bar to look for specific apps, or you can browse through the categories on the main page.


If this is your first iPod, check out the "New to the App Store?" section. This contains a selection of Apps that Apple feels are essential for most users.
 When you select an app, you will see various details about it, including price, description, user reviews, and details on the company that created it. If you don't know much about the app, give the reviews a quick look over. You may be able to discover potential problems with the app.


This is especially important if you're going to be purchasing the app. You don't want to buy an app that ends up not working properly.
 If the app costs money, the price will be listed below the app image. Tap the price to purchase the app. If the app is free, it will say "Free" beneath the app image. Tap "Free" to add it to your app list.


You will need to have a credit card associated with your Apple ID, or you will need to have redeemed an iTunes gift card.
You may be asked to enter your Apple ID password if your account is set to ask for passwords upon purchase.
 Once you've purchased that app (or tapped the "Free" button), the "Install" button will appear. Tap the "Install" button to begin downloading the app. The button will turn into a circle, and the progress will be displayed on the border.


Wait for the app to download and install. Larger apps may take a while on slower connections.
 Once the app has been downloaded and installed, you can run it like any other app. You can open the installed app from the Store page by tapping the "Open" button, or you can start the app from the Home screen.

