 Perform a web search for free song mixing software. Review the functionality of each program to make sure it can blend the songs the way you want.There are many platforms that make mixing songs user friendly:


Mixx - Free DJ mixing software
Acoustica Mixcraft - Free 14 day trial available to download
ACID Pro - Sony Professional music software with free trial available
Mix Pad Multitrack Mixer - Allows users to record their own music or import track;
, After selecting from the many available options, download and install the program you would like to use.


Follow the installation instructions for the program.
 After installation is complete, you can start mixing songs right away. Some free demo versions of software are only accessible for a limited time after downloading. Get started mixing songs right away to take advantage of the free trial period.
 Songs can be blended for many purposes. You will want to think about why you are making the mix when you are selecting songs to blend.Choose music with distinct beats for dance mixes.
Find songs that have similar instrumentation for back to back blends where one song fades into another.
Try blending an instrumental song with a song containing lyrics to create unique sounds.
 Familiarize yourself with the tempo and musicality of the songs you are trying to blend. Make a note of any specific parts of the song that you want to stand out when you mix the songs.
 Listen to the sound of the songs together to make sure the songs mesh well together.


Make a note of the tempo of each song to determine if one should be sped up or slowed down.
Consider the key of each song to make sure they are harmonized.
Listen for complimentary parts where both songs can be played together.
 In a good musical blend the sound flows from one song to the next. Try to alternate starting and stopping the two songs to hear how they sound one after the other.


You can save time once you begin to blend by listening for the natural transitions in the songs between verses, chorus, and bridge. Make a note of when these transitions occur.
 Import the song into the mixing program. Depending on the program you choose you will need to start a new project or file to begin mixing.


Follow the software prompts to import the original track.
 You can adjust the speed of songs by changing the BPM (Beats Per Minute) setting on most programs. Speed up or slow down the song if you are mixing with another song that has a different tempo.


Look for options in the software to “BeatMap” or “Set Project Tempo”
Use the program's metronome setting to determine the BPM for your song by setting the metronome to be in time with the song.
 Add another audio track to your project and import the song you would like to blend with the first.


Add instrumental tracks to combine with a vocal original.
Combine multiple songs to create unique remixes.
Create your own mash ups by combining two songs.
 Use the BPM adjustment tools to change the tempo of the second song to match the first., Listen carefully to each song and adjust the pitch up or down depending on the sound of the song. Make sure that the pitches match or the two songs will not sound good together.


Look for software options to for “Key Change” or “Adjust Pitch”

, Make sure that your songs are playing the same rhythms by listening for the heavy drum beats and adjusting the songs so they are in the same place.
 You can fade between one song and the other, or let both songs play simultaneously. Make the mix your own by bringing each song in and out of the mix., Some programs will allow you to export your finished song as a new MP3. Check the software you are using for available options to save.

