 If you want to impress a guy, then the best thing you can do is to pursue your interests and work on becoming a more interesting, well-rounded person. Though you can certainly love watching two seasons of Gossip Girl back to back, you should pursue an interest that is a bit more productive for your mind or body, whether it's yoga, painting, singing, ballet, or creative writing. If you work hard to achieve your goals while pursuing a variety of interests, any guy will be impressed by your talent and dedication.


And if you have many interests, more power to ya -- then you'll have even more room to grow and more things to talk about.
If you're not really sure where your interest lies, it's never too late to find your passion. Finding something you really care about will make you a more interesting, dynamic person.
 Another way to impress a guy is to be so happy with who you are or who you're becoming that you don't care what other people think about you. This doesn't mean that you should be a jerk to anyone who comes your way because you don't care about how people feel, but it does mean that you should be kind and courteous to people without obsessing over how you can please people, make everyone happy, and avoid having anyone say anything negative about you at all costs.


Don't spend all of your time trying to please your friends or enemies, or any guy will see that you're not being true to yourself.
Don't constantly check your reflection in any mirror you see, or reapply your makeup a million times in public -- this will make it look as if you're insecure about your appearance.
Don't let other people get you down. If people criticize you for no reason, don't listen to them or change who you are for the benefit of others.
 If you really want to impress a guy, then he has to see that you're just fine without him. No guy wants a girl who is desperately looking around the room or checking her phone, hoping that the right guy will approach her or send her a message. Instead, guys want a girl who looks like she's having a great time with her girlfriends and couldn't care less if a guy comes along -- this will make you look much more appealing and hard to get.


When you're out with your friends, work on living in the moment and laughing, dancing, and generally having a great time instead of wondering who will walk up to you.
You don't have to ignore guys who approach you or notice you when you're with your friends, but you shouldn't look desperate for male attention.
 If you want to impress a guy, then you can't be afraid to be different. You need to learn to embrace whatever makes you an individual, even if you're afraid it's a little dorky or retro. If you love drawing comic strips, reading science fiction, or dancing the polka, then good for you -- that's something that will make you even more interesting.


Don't be afraid to not mention, or even not pursue, the things that really make you happy just because you don't think it appeals to guys.
Don't be different just for the sake of being different -- that will make it look like you're trying too hard.
 If you really want to impress a guy, then you have to know how to not take yourself too seriously. A guy really wants a girl who is comfortable enough in her own skin to poke fun at herself, to let others make harmless jokes about her quirks, and to generally pal around and know she's not perfect. Being able to laugh at yourself will make you more self-aware and confident -- if you don't think you have any flaws or think you should be taken seriously at all times, then you won't be much fun to hang out with.


This doesn't mean you should let others make cruel jokes at your expense -- it does mean that you should be comfortable with taking a well-meaning joke.
If you know how to laugh at yourself, you'll also be comfortable teasing a guy and being teased, which is a great flirtation strategy.

