 They can be stylish, but make sure that they are comfortable and won't get in the way of your education.


Avoid choosing clothes that are too tight or too loose. Also avoid clothes with tears and stains.
Try to choose clothes that express your personality.
Follow your school's dress code. Generally, this means that revealing or suggestive clothing is prohibited. If your school requires a uniform, make sure to wear that.;
, That way, you can grab your bag and go in the morning, and not have to worry about it.


If you pack your lunch, try putting your lunch in your lunch bag and then in the refrigerator if necessary.
If you prefer to buy lunch, make sure you have your lunch money.
Make sure you have all of the essentials (your pens, pencils, erasers, folders, planners, etc.) packed.
Avoid unnecessary items, as they can just become unnecessary weight.
 Chances are the adult you want the slip signed by won't have time to sign it in the morning.
 If you've prepared very well the night before, you probably can wake up a little later. If you do go to bed fairly late, you'll definitely need extra sleep in the morning.
 It's a good idea to shower everyday. However, doing it the night before saves time in the morning. On the other hand, many people get hot and sweaty at night and prefer to wash in the morning.
 Brush your teeth, wash your face, put on deodorant, and turn on straighteners and curling irons if you plan to use them.



You could also take them into the bathroom with you so that you can change right there, as opposed to going back and forth between the bathroom and your room.
 If you want to, use those straighteners and curling irons. Now is also the time for you to put on jewelry, style your hair, and if you wear makeup,to put that on as well.



Make sure to wear a clean pair of socks every day.
 It can help keep your room looking tidy. If you don't have time to do this, you can do it after school, before bed, or you could just wake up a little earlier.
 Having breakfast is a crucial part of the day, so make sure that you have enough time for it!


As a last resort, you can just grab a granola bar.
 Do you have extra time? Go ahead and do homework, tidy your appearance, or watch T.V. Keep an eye on the time!

