 Remove the Wagyu beef from the refrigerator 20 minutes to 1 hour before you plan on cooking it. This will take the chill off of the meat and make it cook evenly., Sprinkle one side of the steak with salt and coarsely ground pepper. Avoid pushing the salt and pepper into the steak since you want to avoid over handling the beef., Pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of extra-virgin sesame seed oil into a cast iron or large skillet. Turn the heat on to medium-high and heat the oil for about 30 seconds. Slice 2 large cloves of garlic and add them to the oil. Heat the garlic in the oil for about 30 seconds.The garlic will flavor the neutral-tasting sesame oil. Avoid using toasted sesame oil because it will have a strong nutty flavor.
 While you may be tempted to marinate your Wagyu steak, the meat really doesn't need it. Marinating the Wagyu beef in acidic ingredients can toughen the meat and hide its rich flavor.Remember that you can always season the Wagyu beef steaks once they've finished cooking.
 Hold one end of the Wagyu beef with one hand and use chopsticks to lift the other end. Carefully lay the beef seasoned side down in the heated skillet.Avoid over handling or stretching the steak because it will make the meat tough.
 Sprinkle more salt and coarsely ground pepper over the top of the steak in the skillet. This should be the side that you didn't season earlier., Leave the beef in the skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute. This will give it a chance to brown a bit. If your steak is over 1/2 to 3/4-inch (12 to 19 mm) thick, you may need to cook it another minute.You should see liquid appear on the top of the steak after it's seared for a minute.
 Use a wooden spatula and chopsticks to gently flip the steak over. Cook the steak for another minute or two. You should see both sides become browned, but the inside will be pink., Once the Wagyu beef has reached medium-rare, carefully lift it out of the skillet using a wooden spatula. Avoid using tongs to pull the steak out of the skillet since this could stretch the beef., Let the beef rest for 5 minutes. The steak will continue to cook a little as it rests. Insert an instant read thermometer into the thickest part of the steak. For medium-rare, the beef should reach 145 degrees F (60 degrees C).To keep the delicate flavor and texture of the Wagyu beef, don't cook the steak past medium-rare.
 Use a spoon or ladle to scoop up any pan juices left in the skillet. Pour these over the Wagyu beef to give it extra flavor. Sprinkle a little extra salt and pepper over the beef and slice it into strips., While you can serve the Wagyu beef as simple strips, consider making white rice to go with the meat. You can also arrange flavorful garnishes that will enhance the richness of the beef. For example, set out:Lime wedges
Wasabi
Coarse salt
Minced chives

