 Download the version you need. The full version is not required to have security, you can get by with the free version.
 Follow the instructions on the screen., Then create a new vault., See the tips section for tips on choosing a master password. Remember, this will be the password to everything you own., In the File menu, go to Preferences and click on the Browsers tab. From there, install extensions for the browsers you use., Then go to the General tab., This will very easily sync your passwords to Dropbox. Your passwords are encrypted, so this process is secure., If you previously installed 1Password on a computer, or you have 1Password synced to Dropbox from another device, install Dropbox before continuing., Look for 1Password in the Apple App Store or Google Play and install it., If you are retrieving your passwords from Dropbox, do not create a new vault. Instead, connect 1Password to the Dropbox app with the button on the first screen of 1Password. Alternatively, if you are using 1Password for the first time, create a new vault and continue.

In the Settings menu on the 1Password app, go to the Sync section. Turn on the switch labeled "Dropbox sync". Skip this if you loaded your passwords from Dropbox already.
, Then press the "Save login" button when the 1Password window appears. If you have not entered your master password recently, you will be prompted to do so.,, If you have not entered your master password recently, you will be prompted to do so., Enter your master password or pin., It stand in the top right corner of the app.,,, Enter your username, password, and if applicable, the URL of the login page.,,,,, Either tap "Copy" or "Reveal"., If you copied the password, tap and hold in the password field, and tap "Paste"., Log in if needed., Click "1Password". If you have not entered your master password recently, you will be prompted to do so., Generate a strong password. Click OK and the password will be automatically copied to your clipboard, as well as automatically filled into the password and confirm password fields., If you have not entered your master password recently, you will be prompted to do so.

If 1Password prompted you to update, and you clicked Update, you may skip the rest of this part. However, if you did not see an option to update your password from 1Password, continue.
 You may be prompted for your master password.,, Select "Copy Password"., Then double click the password at the bottom., Then click OK., Go to the change password section., Enter your master password or pin.,,,,,, Paste your new password and save it.