 You can boil them for 10 minutes or simply run them through the dishwasher's hottest cycle. Be sure to sanitize the lids and rings as well. When you're finished, set the canning supplies on a clean dishcloth until you're ready to fill up the jars.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions to heat up your canner in preparation for canning beets. You can use either a plain open water bath canner or a pressure canner., After scrubbing and trimming off the green part, put the beets in a large pot and cover them with water. Boil the beets for 30 minutes, until the skins start to come off on their own. Let the beets cool before peeling them.
 Slicing them into small pieces will allow you to pack more beets into your canning jars, and the seasonings will penetrate the pieces more easily., Using the method for making traditional pickled beets, mix up the vinegar, water, sugar, and garlic to a large pot. Bring the ingredients to a full, rolling boil.
 Carefully put them in the boiling brine and cook them for 5 minutes. Make sure the mixture is boiling before you pour it into the jars.
 Fill each jar to within 1/2-inch of the top. It's important to leave a little headspace so that the jars don't pop open in storage from the pressure. Put the lids on the jar and screw the rings on until they're snug, but not too tight.
 Operate the canner according to the manufacturer's instructions. The standard processing time for beets is 30 minutes, but this can differ depending on what type of canner you're using as well as your altitude.
 Lift them out of the canner using a jar lifter and let them rest on the counter until they come to room temperature.
 If the jars were properly canned, the lids should be sucked down. Remove the rings from the jars without removing the lids to be sure they are properly suctioned in place. If the jars were properly canned, place them in a cool, dark pantry for storage. They have a shelf life of about one year if kept in cool, dark conditions.


If the lids pop off when you remove the rings, the canning was not properly done. You can still eat the beets if you place the jar in the refrigerator right away, but you won't be able to store the jars for a year with the other properly canned beets.

