 Being a Civil War buff isn't just about sitting at home and reading books. To make it a real hobby there are other activities you can partake in. One of the most popular is to visit Civil War battlefields.


Many of the important battlefields of the Civil War now feature prominent monuments, tours, and more. The Gettysburg battlefield is particularly rich in historical attractions.If you can, plan a trip to visit one of these fields.
While some battlefields have been well preserved, others have been destroyed by development. Many Civil War buffs take part in conservation efforts to help preserve important sites from the war., Civil War re-enactments give you an opportunity to see a re-creation of the historical events you've read about.These events usually include battles and encampments with living-history demonstrations by participants.
 Many Civil War buffs collect artifacts from the war, giving them a chance to own a piece of history.Civil War relics can be found online or in antique stores.


Collecting Civil War artifacts can get very expensive, but for the beginner, small items like bullets, uniform buttons, and Confederate money are sometimes available at a reasonable price.
 Some Civil War buffs are enthusiastic about music from the period. There are active musicians who perform Civil War music who you can see perform. If you are a musician yourself, you might decide to start playing some of these songs yourself.


The Library of Congress has a searchable database of sheet music from the Civil War that is free to download.The Smithsonian and other organizations make collections of recordings of Civil War music available for sale.The soundtrack to Ken Burns's documentary is also popular among Civil War buffs.
 Some Civil War buffs enjoy collecting scale models and miniatures, often using them in dioramas creating important scenes from the war, or for table-top war games.Many companies sell Civil War miniatures. If this interests you, visit your local gaming or hobby shop, or search online.
 Being a Civil War buff can be a social activity, even if you don't want to put on a uniform and re-enact the war. Many Civil War enthusiasts like spending time with like minded individuals and have formed clubs to discuss books, host speakers, and participate in other activities.Search online to see if there is a group near you, and find out when they meet.

