 IMEI (international mobile equipment identity) is a unique 15-digit code assigned to phones by manufacturers to be used for identification purposes. Using your phone’s keypad, dial *#06* and its IMEI code will appear on the screen.


Take note of this code.;
, Once you have your phone’s IMEI, it’s time to get an unlock key. Unlock keys are 8-digit codes used to remove the restriction placed on your contract phone. There are several websites where you can request an unlock key. All you need to do is select your phone’s make and model from the list on the website and enter your phone’s IMEI code.

You’ll also need to provide an e-mail address where they can send the unlock key after they’ve processed your request.
 Once your request has been processed, you’ll receive an e-mail containing the unlock key from the site where you requested it from. This usually takes about a few days, depending on the site you chose.
 Press the Power button located either at the top or along the sides of the phone. The Power button’s location depends on the make and model of your phone, but is commonly placed on these parts.
 Removing the SIM card depends on the make and model of your phone:


Some phones have the “hot swap” feature. This means that the SIM card can be taken out of the phone without shutting it down. Look for a slot around the sides of your phone. If you can see one, carefully open it and you’ll see the SIM card. To remove it, press it a little inside the phone and it will pop out. Some example of phones that have the “hot swap” feature are iPhones and some Android phones from LG and HTC.
If you’re phone doesn’t have the “hot swap” feature or you can’t find any SIM card slot around the phone, this means that you can take out the SIM card by removing the back cover and battery of the phone. Turn off your phone. Find a notch, either at the top or bottom side of the phone, that you can use to lift off the back cover. Once the cover is off, take out battery by following the arrows guides located on the battery itself.
 Insert the SIM card in place of the contract SIM card you took out, and place back the battery and back cover.
 Press the Power button and wait for the screen to light up. Instead of the normal home screen, a screen that requires you to enter a key will be displayed.
 Using your phone’s keypad, type in the 8-digit unlock key. Press the “Enter” or “OK” button to enter the code.


A confirmation message will appear on the screen notifying you that the key has been accepted.
Your contract phone has been unlocked and is now ready to be used on any service carrier.

