 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation of 20 chain stitches.


If you do not know how to make slip knots or chain stitches, please see the "Tips" section at the end of this article.
 Make three additional chain stitches, then work one double crochet into each stitch of your foundation chain. Chain three at the end of this row, turn, and work one double crochet into each double crochet of your previous row.


If you do not know how to double crochet, please check the "Tips" section for further instructions.
This step and the one before it merely creates a foundation for you to work with when creating a cable stitch. These two steps are not actually part of the cable stitch itself.
Note that cable stitches can also be worked into foundation rows of single crochet,but it is more commonly seen with rows of double crochet, half double crochet, or treble crochet.
 Chain three, then double crochet once into each of the next six stitches.


This step starts the crossed cable row, or the row in which you'll make your crossed cable stitches.
Crossed cables, in general, are made by skipping stitches, working a set of front post stitches, and returning to the skipped stitches to make additional front post stitches. In this example, you'll skip three stitches, and work cables across six stitches. The number of skipped stitches and stitches you'll work over may vary based on the specific pattern instructions you're following, however.
 Skip over the next three stitches. In the fourth stitch, double crochet once into the front posts only.


Work the front post stitch by inserting the hook through the front of the post, behind it, and back out to the front of the work.
 Work one double crochet into the front posts only of the next two stitches, giving you a total of three front post double crochets lying side-by-side.


Note that these stitches should all be slanting to the right.
 Return to the first of your three skipped stitches and double crochet once into front posts only. Double crochet once into the front posts only of the second and third skipped stitches, as well.


This step creates a cross cable with stitches that slant to the left.
 Work one double crochet into each of the remaining stitches until you reach the end of the row.


This step completes one crossed cable stitch row.
 Turn the work and chain three. Skip the first stitch of the previous row, then double crochet once into each of the next six stitches.


You're starting what is known as a "wrong side" row in this step. This row will balance out the cable row and help keep the overall work lying flat.
 Work one double crochet into the back posts only of the next six stitches in the row.


Work a back post stitch by inserting the hook through the back of the post, in front of it, and out again to the back of the work.
 Work one double crochet into each stitch until you reach the end of the row.


When you reach the end of the row, you've completed one wrong side row.
 You already have a full crossed cable at this point, but you should alternate between the crossed cable row and the wrong side row as often as needed until the cable pattern becomes as long as you would like it to be.


Once the pattern reaches your desired length, the process is complete.

