 Look at a stable object, such as the horizon. The visual cues of movement will enable your brain to synchronize the visual and physical cues of the swaying vehicle.If you are in a car, focusing on an object that is too close for you to clearly see, like trees by the side of the road, may make you feel worse. If you can't see the horizon (you are on a winding road, etc.), then close your eyes instead.
Don't read or play games — these things may actually worsen your symptoms.;
, This lessens the conflict between the physical sensations of movement and the visual signals indicating that you are sitting still. Things to try include:Sitting in the front seat when you are riding in car.
Choosing a seat towards the front of the plane and over the wings.
Selecting a cabin on a boat that is level with the water and in the middle of the boat. This will help reduce the amount of swaying you experience.
 Don’t eat foods that will be difficult to digest. This includes:Spicy foods
Greasy, fatty foods. This may mean avoiding heavy fatty meals at rest stops, airport cafes, or at the ship’s bar.
Alcohol and caffeine. If you are offered a complimentary drink on the plane or boat, you may want to consider turning it down. Ask for water instead.
 These snacks are easy to digest and may help settle your stomach and lessen your feelings of nausea:Munching on dry crackers or other carb-heavy snacks
Sucking on hard candies. Mint is a popular flavor which will also freshen your breath.
Slowly drinking carbonated soda

, Fresh air will help combat nausea. You can usually control air flow in whatever vehicle you are in:Open a window if you are in a car. Chances are the air blowing into your face will give you instant relief. If it is raining and you can’t open the window all the way, try cracking it slightly.
Go up on deck if you are on a boat. On deck you will get fresh air and be able to see the horizon. Even if the boat is rocking, the wind and cool air should help.
Open an air vent if you are on a plane. Each passenger usually has access to an air vent overhead. Reach up, open yours, and aim the air flow at you. You should feel a cool breeze and reduction in your nausea.
Smoking, or being exposed to smoke, or other strong scents from air fresheners or perfumes may also aggravate motion sickness.
 If you are nervous about feeling ill, worrying will make you more vulnerable to it. Use relaxation techniques before you even start feeling ill. You can try: Meditation
Listening to music
Deep breathing
Progressively tensing and relaxing each muscle group in your body
Visualizing a calming landscape
Closing your eyes and taking a brief nap. Even if you are only asleep for 10 or 20 minutes, you may find that you wake up feeling much better.
 These are cloth bands that fit snugly around your wrists. They have a button or knob that should press on the inside of your wrist between the two tendons running down the middle of your forearm.They should not be so tight that they hurt. If your fingers tingle or the blood flow is reduced, they are too tight.
Acupressure bands have not been demonstrated to be clearly successful in clinical trials treating motion sickness; however, some people feel they help.

