 Round cabbages have tightly packed leaves and are spherical in shape. Common varieties include green cabbage, red cabbage, and savoy cabbage.
 Use your hands to peel off any tough or damaged outer leaves from the head of cabbage.


Round heads of cabbage with tightly packed leaves have thick outer leaves. Even if these leaves are in good shape, you should still remove them before cutting the cabbage, since they tend to be tough and not especially appetizing. This is especially true if you plan on eating the cabbage raw.






Any wilted or discolored portions must also be removed.
 Place the head of cabbage on its core end and slice it in half lengthwise, from the top center straight down and through the core.


If you cut the cabbage open and suspect that worms or insects have caused damage to the interior, you can still use the cabbage. You need to soak it in salt water for 20 minutes before continuing any further, though., Place each half cut-side down and cut in half lengthwise once more, creating quarters.


You can stop here, but the wedges may still be too wide for use in many recipes.
 Flip the quarters over to reveal the cut sides. Cut a wedge at the bottom into the core of each quarter. Only cut away part of the core, however, not all of it.


Keeping part of the core connected to the leaves will make it easier to keep the layers of leaves in each core held together.If you cut out the core completely, the leaves are likely to separate. The cabbage will still be edible, but the wedges will be ruined.






While looking at the core, cut a triangular wedge into the top portion of the core but not all the way through it. Slice a large portion of the wedge away while leaving a thin layer behind.






If you are anxious about cutting away some without cutting away too much, you could also simply leave the core intact. The core is tougher than the leaves, but it becomes tender and edible once cooked.
 If you want smaller wedges, place each quarter whole-side-down and cut the quarter in half lengthwise, from the top tip through the remainder of the bottom core.


This is usually the preferred wedge size. If you cut the wedges any smaller, you run the risk of causing them to break apart.
 Gently rinse each wedge of cabbage under cool running water. Drain dry on clean paper towels.


The inside of a cabbage is usually clean, but you should still rinse it under running water just to be on the safe side.






Hold the cabbage wedges over a colander in case any of the leaves separate and fall off under the pressure of the running water. The colander will catch the leaves while letting the water pass through.






You do not need to scrub the leaves when cleaning them.






To dry the wedges after rinsing them, lay them out flat in a single layer on several layers of dry paper towels for a few minutes. The excess water should fall off on its own.







