 You will never get anywhere in middle school if you are unorganized.
 Get rid of clutter by getting rid of old papers and other miscellaneous items that you don't need anymore. Otherwise when you're looking for something, you might not find it because the thing you're looking in is too messy.
 in an organized fashion in your binder or backpack.
 Write down when handouts are due, permission slips, homework, papers, projects, and everything else. Don't just think, "I'll totally remember this!" or, "I'll get the homework assignment from a friend" most likely you won't. Just stay organized and it will improve your grades because in most schools part of your grade is whether or not you hand in homework/projects are on time.
 Write those days down in your homework planner so you can plan out when the week before is, and plan time to study.
 Well written notes taken from class can be a great study buddy! Try to study your notes a little bit every night, it can be a life saver when it comes to pop quizzes! Studying will obviously improve your grades because studying will lead to good grades on assessments and all assessment grades whether it's a test, quiz, or pop quiz.



Start with making a simple list or plan. Write all of your ideas and all of the others ideas. Often, when the plan is done, it tends to be a little too much of all your ideas. When you work together to find the best ideas, let loose of the ones that aren't as impacting or important. Don't try to be sneaky and have the outcome end up being all of your ideas. The other people will notice and get annoyed and might even say something. Make sure the outcome consists your ideas and the other peoples ideas.


Plan times when everyone involved is free and you can get together and work on the project. Don't get mad at them because of an accidental mistake. Academics always come first if you want to get good grades. Try to get as much done as possible at your meetings so the project/paper will be done fast. Usually people get into fights about what to contribute to the assignment. This shouldn't happen in your case, because of the plan.


Make sure you listen to what other people have to say. This will help your overall report card grade because you would have worked well together and gotten the project/paper done on time.


When you get everyone to make the plan, make sure everyone else knows and agrees that the outcome is the final decision and there is no switching around. This will really avoid fights.
 If they complain that you're being too bossy, apologize and try to be less bossy.
 Now you should have great grades which lead to happy parents.
 Nobody is going to like you or appreciate you for the true gem you can be unless you're nice, kind, sweet, and caring!
, Don't copy other peoples ideas, make your own personal creative ones that really show your personality. If you have to; ask people before you use their ideas.
 Don't compliment the same people day after day. It might get really annoying for that person; not to mention, the other people will start getting jealous.
, Everyone is at least worth a chance to be your friend! When you do this you'll eventually figure who know who is a backstabber, who is nice, who is a good friend, and who is smart.
 They will realize you guided them in to the right place and can be really thankful and really want to be your friend! Plus, they'll always think of you as "the true friend that has been nice to me from the start".
 This step may even give you a good friend from just a simple act of kindness.


If you know who the popular people are, talk with them.
Don't be afraid to make friends of the opposite gender.
Don't be afraid to get involved with those people outside of school.
Be nice to the younger kids.
Respect the older kids.
 Dating and perhaps kissing is fine. Don't go too far though. Remember having a boyfriend is not a big deal and is not worth your time to be obsessed and worried over. Be happy with your friends and yourself.
,
,,, If you use the right brand for you, antiperspirant will not only make your sweat smell less; it will also make your armpits stay dry.
 This will really screw them up and make the hair just grow darker and faster. You can wax your arms, but no shaving your arms.
 Any brand is fine, as long as it is good quality and works.
 While the conditioner is in your hair, comb out the knots in your hair with a nice wide tooth comb. This way once your hair dries, it will feel nice and smooth.
, Dead skin is gross and unattractive.
,, It's unattractive and will make your shirt look like an Appaloosa with all of it's wet spots.
 Nobody will like being around you if your breath stinks and you have tons of food globs in between your teeth!

,, The key is to not overdo it. Nothing looks worse than too much makeup. Also, do what works best for you and what you feel most comfortable in. For most middle school girls, a cute simple look would be mascara, eyeliner, blush, & pink or clear lipgloss. The mascara color depends on your eyelash color.
 If they're brown or any other color, use brown.
 Black can look totally natural on some people, but really fake on others. Test out both and decide which is most natural. A thin line on the bottom lid, top lid, or maybe both is all that is needed to avoid the "raccoon" look.
 If you have more faded colored lips, then pink lip gloss is better, or even a little lip stain before the lip gloss for even more color.
 (This depends whether your skin is light or dark. Use powder for light skin, bronzer for more tanned or dark skin.)

,, Experiment with the way you look and see what fits you!

,, There are some people who only wear jeans and Uggs/Converse/All Stars, everyday, but they won't really look sophisticated. Yes, I suppose it is "trendy" but it's also a really boring look!

, This is important, because if you buy one that's too loose, it'll gape when you're bending over, and if you buy one too tight, it will be very uncomfortable.
 This isn't necessarily important unless you like to wear form-fitting pants or skirts.
,,



If you get Fuggs try them on and compare them to real Ugg boots. They need to be good quality knock-offs because how embarrassing would it be if your Fuggs just fell apart when you're out. People will remember you as the cheap girl who wears cheap Fuggs if that happens!

, If you can get more than one pair, high-tops, low-tops, and different colors are all great! Only buy real Converse or All Stars, if you can't afford them (they are only like $20-$40, it depends where you find them) then don't buy them. Do not get the fake converse sold at Payless/Justice et cetera. They are terrible quality.
,, If you have curls, let 'em show girl! Hot waves? Hit the beach babe! Straight haired Hun? Throw it out of that bun!

, You're natural color is usually what looks best on you.
 A good trim every month or so for healthy ends works. Maybe an occasional cut for when you want a change.
, Do whatever your heart desires!

