 Unless you plan to lose more than one friend, leave mutual friends out of the drama. No one wants to be forced to pick between you and your new enemy. They also aren’t likely to enjoy listening to you talk badly about someone that they still consider a friend. If you need to talk to someone about the situation or vent your frustrations, do so with a friend that doesn’t know your former friend. You could also talk to a family member, counselor, or other supportive figure.If your mutual friends bring up your new nemesis, simply change the conversation and say something like “That situation is between the two of us. I think it’s best that I don’t involve our friends.” Anything you say could upset your friends or find its way back to your former friend.
 An enemy that was made from a friend is likely to be holding on to some sort of grudge. They may try to upset you or entice you to argue and bicker with them. The best thing that you can do is ignore any immature behaviors and focus on conducting yourself in a respectable way. Otherwise, you will be seen as being just as childish as your enemy.For example, if your enemy does something like leave a nasty note in your locker, just throw it away. There is no need to write a note back or confront them about it. Actually, you don’t even have to read it at all.
 When a social situation forces the two of you to interact, not only should you be prepared, but you should also be polite. Being rude will only invite your enemy to do the same. It can also ruin the event for everyone else. Avoid as much conversation as possible, but keep any conversation that you do have pleasant.For example, if you go to a mutual friend’s birthday party, you might have to say something like, “Hi. How have you been?” After a short exchange you can move on.
If you are rude to the other person or complain about them being invited, you might make the whole situation stressful on your friend who’s having the party. This will make things tense between you and your friend.
 When you do interact with your old friend, make your boundaries clear. Though you may have to exchange pleasantries, you do not have to entertain your enemy for long conversations or reminisce about the ‘good old days.’ If you have no interest in rekindling the friendship, do not agree to meet up for coffee or hang out. Politely decline the offer and move on.For example, your enemy might say something like, “We used to have a lot of fun together. We should grab coffee sometime and catch up.” You can politely respond with something like, “I’m not sure that’s a good idea. We had a pretty rough falling out, and now we can be in the same room peacefully. I wouldn’t want to mess that up.”

