 Wednesday normally wears simple clothing in dark colors. However, don't be too sexy, as Wednesday's a minor. Use minimal lace but if you don't have the dress, then wear simple but dark clothes. Be subtle.;
, Braid your hair into two, skinny braids if you have long hair. However, note that the braids should hang down, not stick out. You don't want to look like Pippi Longstocking.


While black may look more like the original Wednesday, it takes a while to come out, and you may look silly with black hair and blonde roots be careful about dying your hair.
 In the musical, Wednesday also cuts her hair short. Don't worry about it. If you're really into details, you can purchase a wig.
 Wednesday's face appears flawless, and you'll want to maintain the complexion of a young girl. If you have a perfect face, keep cleaning it on a daily basis to prevent breakouts. However, if your face is scarred and blemished with acne, consider using clay masks or different remedies to fix it. You could also use a little concealer on pimples, but remember that makeup often worsens the condition of your face.
 To avoid sunburn and hurting your skin, apply sunscreen as instructed by the product. Remember that the paler your skin is, the easier it will burn.
 Wednesday has them painted in that shade in both movies. Ask a parent or a friend for help if you're not sure how to paint your nails. However, if you dislike painting your nails, you may skip this step.
 Examples would be a death or a natural disaster. Wednesday rarely smiles, and when she does, it appears terrifying and frightening.
 Bombard others (especially cheerleaders, Girl Scouts, etc.) with witty, disturbing comments. For example: when someone asks you where someone is, reply "Which part?"

, Tell random facts about these things at parties or at school. However, avoid appearing as a nerd, for your goal is to sprinkle Wednesday's personality onto yours.
 Its hard to be imposing when you're stuffing your face with potato chips. Wednesday appears to be a slender girl.

