 The more, the better. LEDs are so ridiculously cheap that you may as well buy a bagful of them in different varieties.




  Cheap LED keychains might be the best way to get your individual LEDs.

Individual LEDs, of course, give you the most precise control over your lighting. Unless you know what you're doing, don't buy LEDs by themselves; you'll have to worry about power sources, wiring and so on, all of which takes time better spent on having fun taking photographs. The easiest (and hardly more expensive) way is to buy some cheap novelty LED key-chains; they invariably come with batteries included, and you get a free switch thrown in, too.




 A multi-LED torch, diffused with cigarette rolling paper, is an excellent addition.

Cheap multi-LED torches are another good source of LED lighting. You'll want a couple of these. Bear in mind that the directed, multi-LED light from one of these will massively overpower your single LEDs. You'll want to diffuse the light with thin paper, such as cigarette rolling papers. Don't buy anything that doesn't have batteries included.;
, You'll want a plain-coloured backdrop to shoot against; find yourself a relatively thick piece of A2 or A3 card, or a few sheets of paper if you want to be really cheap. Optionally, a piece of glass under your subject works well to cut out harsh shadows under your subject, and the reflections look somewhat cool to boot., When photographing small things, every last speck of dust will show up in your final picture, and you'll find yourself spending way too long clone-brushing it out in Photoshop or GIMP later on. Make sure both your subject and your studio are meticulously clean, or at least as close to it as you can be bothered to get., Because nothing's moving, speed doesn't matter here, so you can take as much time as you need to get it looking as good as it can — that means low ISOs, small apertures for depth of field, and (consequently) long exposures. You'll also need to set up your camera to deal with the weird colour balance typical of LEDs.
Get it on a tripod. If you don't have a tripod, get one, even the cheapest, nastiest plastic tripod you can find. You'll be looking at taking some very long exposures (into the seconds), so you can rule out hand-holding the camera. If you have a remote release (or self-timer) and a mirror lock-up, use these too.
Set your white balance. Bright "white" LEDs actually have a significant blue/purple shift. If you're too lazy to use a grey card and set a custom white balance (even if your camera supports it), your best bet here is to set it to "Auto", and pray (which is how all the example photos here were done). If your camera guesses it wrong, you can always fix this later in software.




 Depth of field is critical close up; at f/2 at half a meter, depth of field is almost non-existent, as illustrated by the defocus visible here.

Set your camera to aperture-priority auto-exposure if you have it. Because we're taking photographs of relatively small things at short distances, you're going to need every bit of depth of field you can get. Use the small aperture you have, typically anywhere between f/16 and f/32.Turn down your camera's ISO as low as it will go, and don't use "Auto" if you have it. Lower ISOs mean less noise and longer shutter speeds; we don't care about the latter (since we're not in a rush and nothing's moving) and less noise is always better.




 This old 58mm (90mm equivalent) lens took most of the photographs in this article.

Use a longer focal length. The 55mm end of a digital SLR kit lens will do just fine if you don't have something longer. Just don't get closer than you have to; small things look weird if you get too close., This is art, not science, so nobody can tell you how it should look. Just take your many LEDs and move them around until things look just about right, and your scene is consistently lit (or inconsistently lit, if your art requires that)., The point of using LEDs is for total, minute control over your lighting; with their limited power, even the weakest incandescent lightbulb can overpower them. Close your curtains and turn off the lights., Look on your LCD and check the exposure. If it's consistently over - or under - exposed (look for blown-out or nearly blown-out highlights, or crappy shadows), set some exposure compensation and try again. If only part of it is incorrectly exposed (assuming this is not the effect you're looking for), then keep moving lights around and adding new ones until it looks good. Digital makes this easy, and free, so experiment away.Don't throw away anything but the most pathologically badly-exposed shots; you can keep these around for painting in lost detail with layer masks, ghetto HDR style, in software later on., This will inevitably involve removing dust, fixing the colour balance and probably some selective sharpening as well.