 A high school diploma would be the minimum educational qualification. If you choose college knowing you want to go into the jewelry field, choose courses that allow you to become familiar with basic computer skills, computer-assisted drafting (CAD), business, and even gemology if they offer it., Working in a jewelry store requires a clean background check and no possible security risks on the part of the store.With the expensive items that are in a jewelry store, any issue with shoplifting, for example, would probably disqualify you., Even though you want to work in a jewelry store, it might not work out the first few times you apply. Gaining retail experience before applying again is a good idea. This will give you customer service skills that will be essential in working in a jewelry store.
 Informational interviews can be very revealing. Tell the person you want to talk to that you would love to buy them a coffee and ask about their job. Most people will be willing to talk to you. You will find out what people actually do and how they feel about their jobs. Think about doing interviews with people who work in a variety of different jewelry stores. The kinds of questions you might ask them are:What does a typical work day look like?
What do you wish you had known before you took the job?
What is the most challenging part of your job?
Do you have any recommendations or suggestions for me?

, This resume should reflect your education as well as your experience in sales and customer service. Make sure you have people who are familiar with your work that can be references. If you’ve just graduated from high school and have no experience yet, think about how you can present the kinds of activities you’ve done in school as potential parallels to your proposed work in a jewelry store.If you sold concessions at school events, that’s retail experience.
If you were the treasurer for a club or activity group, you successfully budgeted and kept track of the group’s money -- great experience for working in a store.
If you were part of a team or on the staff of a student publication, you might have helped order supplies. This could translate into experience ordering for the store.
 In the letter, explain why you want to work in jewelry and the steps you have taken to make yourself an attractive candidate. Explain your passion for jewelry, retail work, and any other relevant skills you may have for the position., It will depend on where you live, but there are typically job-focused sites like Indeed or Monster or others like craigslist that have multiple kinds of postings. Ask around the people with whom you have done informational interviews where their business typically posts openings. Watch for any open jobs., Even if you think you want to work in a small local business rather than a chain (or vice versa) it’s always good to apply to an array of positions. You never know what the experience of working at that particular job will be.
 Few people get the first job they apply for. Keep honing your retail and customer service skills as you wait for a jewelry store job., Talk to the people there and demonstrate your interest. Be upfront about your interest in a position.
 Now that you’re closer to getting the job you want, you need to make a good impression in your interview. Have professional clothing and a copy of your resume to take along. Get a good night’s sleep, and always leave early so that you have plenty of time to get there., Do research online about the kinds of jewelry they specialize in and the people who work there. Formulate some questions to ask of the people that will be interviewing you.What do you like best about working at this jewelry store?
How do you see this position fitting with the rest of the team?
What are the most difficult parts of this position?

, Do your best in the interview -- show your interest and knowledge while learning more about the company and the position. Wait to hear from them about whether or not they will be hiring you.

