 You may find that you feel full after eating very little food. If this is the case, eating the standard three meals a day may cause you to not eat enough at these meals. Instead of trying to eat three large meals a day, break those meals up, eating more frequently.Eat five to six meals a day, instead of the three or two usual meals.
Add toppings and extras to your food for a caloric boost.
Eat as much as you can when you do.;
, Try to eat foods that contain high levels of nutrients to ensure that you are still receiving enough nutrition. Simply eating more food to gain weight won't guarantee that you stay healthy. Try to eat some of the following foods to get the right amount of nutrition.Grains, pasta and breads should be whole grain. Avoid processed versions of these.
Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, dairy, nuts, seeds, and lean meats.
You may want to try shakes or smoothies.
As always, monitor your diet to provide appropriate levels of sugars.
 Some people may find that drinking a beverage of any type before a meal can spoil their appetite. Drinking a beverage may lead you to feel full, before you have actually eaten any food. Avoid this by not drinking anything at least half an hour before a meal.If you do want something to drink before a meal, make sure it's something that has nutrients and calories.
 If you enjoy snacks throughout the day, between meals, make sure they offer a great nutritional value. Snacks should be additional fuel for the body to hold you over between meals. They should not be an opportunity to graze on junk foods, especially if you have diabetes. Gaining weight will require an increase in caloric intake and health requires proper nutrition. Try some of the following foods to make sure you get both calories and nutrients in your snacks:Nuts
Cheese
Peanut butter
Avocados
Dried fruits

, Increasing the amount of carbohydrate levels can be a great way to add weight and provide energy to the body. However, diabetics should be aware that carbohydrates can affect blood glucose levels. Try eating the following foods to add carbohydrates without causing dangerous levels of glucose.Whole grains
Beans
Milk
Yogurt

, Fats are some of the most calorically dense foods available. By eating a diet rich in fat, weight gain can happen quickly and easily. However, not all fats are the same in regards to your health. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are considered "good" fats in moderation, while you should try to avoid saturated and trans fats all the time. Eat some of the following foods to get the healthiest types of fat you can in your diet.Use olive or canola oil when you cook.
Eat nuts, seeds, and avocados.
Try natural peanut, cashew, or almond butters.
As always, monitor your glucose levels as you make changes in your diet to keep them at a safe level.

