 The number of perks you get at work is an important measure of your overall approval rating by management. If you began your job with fully reimbursed travel expenses and paid lunch breaks, but now receive none of these, your job might be at risk., If your company was recently acquired and/or merging with another, you might lose your job. Staff positions – that is, non-specialist positions that the acquiring company already has covered within their own workforce – are especially at risk.Since the acquiring company does not know or value you, you should update your resume.There are several ways to determine if your company is about to be acquired or merge with another. If you work for an honest employer, you might get advance notice from them about the goings-on at higher levels.
But if your company is less honest, you might find out about the acquisition through reading the news or through word of mouth. Pay attention to business news and cultivate healthy relationships with your coworkers to increase your odds of knowing in advance whether the company will be involved in a merger or acquisition.
 One sign that you should look for a new job soon is that materials, services, or office space that were previously allocated to you are now going elsewhere.For instance, if your office has been commandeered by someone else in your department or another department, it might be part of a conscious effort to make your workplace unpleasant for you.You might also lose access to funding, client lists, or databases.
 If your job is getting absorbed by another department or is no longer necessary for the company you work for to function, you should update your resume. This can happen over a long period of time or over a relatively short period of time. If you’ve been seeing – or begin to see – others in your department getting dismissed due to “restructuring” or “workforce reductions,” you could be next.For instance, if you work in the cup-making department of a tableware manufacturer and the company decides that it no longer wants to produce cups, you should update your resume.
 If you see your company post an ad online seeking someone to do your job, or a job that has identical or nearly identical responsibilities, they could be looking for your replacement. Brush off your resume and prepare to find a new job.Browse the classifieds regularly and search for your job, or browse the “Open Positions” section of your company’s website.
 If you’ve been asked to provide detailed time and expense reports but your coworkers have not, you should update your resume. If you’re asked to make special reports or called to account for some sort of budgeting issue, for instance, you should look for a new job. Ask your coworkers if they’ve also been forced to fill out the same reports and are under a similar level of scrutiny.Other signs that you’re under increased scrutiny include being forced to answer to new (or more) members of the management team.

