 Being "hot" has the connotation of being an adult who people have an instant sexual attraction toward. This stands in contrast to being "cute". Usually when someone is considered cute, they are attractive in more of a youthful way and less of a sexual way. So if you want to be a hot woman, you can accentuate your curves. If you want to be a hot man, then you have to be more George Clooney than Justin Bieber.


There is also a misconception that "hot" means "sexy", but they are not actually the same thing. "Sexy" means attractive in a more grown-up, mature way (where you do not need to have an edge). Think of the difference between a Megan Fox and Angelina Jolie. Angelina Jolie is mature and classy (which is where she gets her sexiness from), while Megan Fox is edgy, daring, and seductive (which is mostly what makes her "hot").;
, To look hot, you need to be a little intriguing and mysterious. When people see you, you want them to think "ooh" rather than "aww". You can do this by not telling everyone everything about yourself at once, not always being available, and just taking a longer time to open up. This will keep people wondering and guessing about you.


You need to have a little edge. Think of the difference between a stereotypical rock star and a stereotypical teacher. If both are good-looking, you'd probably think of the rock star as hot, and the teacher as cute. Both are good, but if you want to be considered hot, flirting subtly or a tinge of rebelliousness helps.
 To be sexually attractive, you need to be comfortable in your own skin and know how to emphasize your best qualities. That doesn't mean you have to show skin, but being just a little seductive doesn't hurt. If you feel comfortable doing it, let people see the parts of your body that you love the most—or just enough to intrigue them. Whether you're showing your sculpted arms or just a bit of cleavage, you'll be on your way to being hot.
 Stand up straight and look proud and happy to be who you are and to look how you look. Keep your shoulders up, your head looking straight ahead, and your arms at your sides. Avoid slouching, or you won't look confident. People who are hot have good posture because they're proud to own what they've got—and they love to flaunt it. If you're a woman, walk like a diva and smile seductively from time to time.
 There are many hot people who aren't in the best shape, and there are many people in great shape who aren't hot. However, if you want to add some more attention from others, work to lose weight if you are overweight, or do muscle-building exercises if you are underweight or skinny. Make an appointment with the local gym to see which machines/workout routines are best for you.


Exercising will also make you feel more comfortable in your own skin and happier to be who you are. This will make you look and feel hot, too.
 This means brushing your teeth and flossing at least twice a day, washing your face to get rid of blackheads or acne, washing your hair on a suitable schedule, and generally taking care of your body. You should also use deodorant, trim your fingernails, and smell fresh. If you want, try a nice-smelling fragrance, or treat yourself to a spa day.


No matter how hard you work out, if you show up smelling like you haven't showered in a few days, not many people will consider you hot.
 Make sure you look sharp in your outfits by picking clothes that flatter your figure. Remember that hotness is in the eye of the beholder, but take the time to shop around for clothes that complement you in color and style. Here are some things to keep in mind as you get hotter:


Trying fashion trends can help you become more noticed.
Use jewelry. Look for earrings, necklaces, bracelets, rings, or bangles.
Don't wear gym clothes, running shoes, or free crew neck T-shirts. Save those for when you work out.
You can dress casually as long as you appear as though you put effort into the way.
 A few great styles include straightening, curling, crimping, a bun, beach-like waves, a fishtail braid, a ponytail, or a messy bun. Hot people are dynamic. They are always mixing things up and keeping people on their toes. Think of J-Law chopping off her locks for a short hairdo—she looks even hotter!


As for guys, if you find one cut that really works for you, you can stick to it for a while. If you're going bald, don't underestimate how hot a fully shaved head can be. And a bit of gray is definitely hot, too.
 The key is to keep it at a minimum. Eye shadow, mascara, eyeliner, and lip gloss or balm is all you need, unless you have acne or a skin-related disease, in which case concealer and optionally foundation is a good choice. Makeup can tell guys that you like their attention (as unrealistic as this sounds, anything "sexy" can give a message that you're begging for attention, so be careful not to go overboard with makeup).


Feel free to try makeup if you're a guy and open to that style. Eyeliner in particular can be attractive on people of both genders, or you can just use concealer to cover up imperfections.
 If you're a guy, you can skip this step. For clothes, tanks, shorts, layering tops, yoga-leggings, and jeans are just some ideas. If you are young, you can get in the way with wearing anything (as long as you aren't made fun of for wearing it). Think of Beyonce or what The Saturdays wore in their music video "What About Us". Remember: skimpy clothes don't make you any more hot.
 You cannot be "hot" if you remind people of a young child by complaining constantly, picking fights with others, and acting immature. Stay classy in your attitude, present yourself with poise, and be polite to everyone you meet. Treat people with respect, avoid whining, and take responsibility for your actions. If you act mature, people will see that you're a person worth knowing, and someone who should be taken seriously.


You don't want people to be turned off because they think you're a crybaby or a complainer. Make sure to project an image of yourself that isn't childish.
 Ironically, being hot means being cool. For instance, think of Brad Pitt. He is considered by many (but not all) women to be hot because he has a cool demeanor, is handsome, and he's not always smiling or talking (this does not mean you can't smile or talk to others).


Hot people say things that are necessary, witty, or things people want to hear.
During terrifying situations, hot people impress others by simply not freaking out, telling others that it's nothing or okay, and sometimes handling it.
Someone who's hot isn't usually hyper, or nervous.
 Hot people know they're hot and have the confidence to back it up. Be proud and happy with who you are, walk with your head high, and talk about positive things and things that make you happy. If you walk around looking like you're waiting to get noticed or like you don't know who you are, then you won't come off as hot. Instead, smile big when you enter a room, be friendly to people, and give people the benefit of the doubt when you first meet them instead of being instantly suspicious of anyone outside your social circle.


If you want to be confident, then try hanging out with people who make you feel good about yourself.
Of course, it's okay to doubt yourself. You don't have to act happy with yourself all the time. When you have doubts, talk to a close friend instead of letting everyone around know that you're feeling insecure. However, if you doubt yourself too much, then people will believe that you are weak and not confident, which you must exude in order to be supposedly "hot".
 You can be really happy or really mad, sure, but in general, hot people keep it pretty even keeled. You don't see them crying for joy, shrieking when they see their friends, or snapping at their teachers. Instead, they pretty much know when to show that they're happy or sad, but they don't overdo it. They don't draw attention to themselves because of how they are feeling. People will notice them because they're awesome, not because they're having a hissy fit.


If you're talking to a friend and feel yourself getting angry, take a minute to take a breather and get to feeling calm again.
 It's a myth that really hot people are only nice to other hot people and ignore the people "below" them. If you're truly hot, then you should be able to see past the exterior and to know which people are worth knowing. Don't just hang out with people who are hot and who make you look good; instead, spend time with the people who you respect and like the most. Look around you and ask about the company you keep; are these people really the nice, kind people you want to be?


If you're nice to everyone, people will be even more impressed by you, because they'll think, "It's so awesome that he/she is really friendly to everyone in spite of being so hot. He/She really isn't letting that get to his/her head."
This goes for strangers or people you just meet, too. Don't go into a new conversation with suspicion; try excitement or curiosity instead.

Don't be a snob. Don't walk by that girl in your history class and look the other way just because you think it's not "cool" to say hi to people.
 Just because you think you're hot, it doesn't give you an excuse to go on and on about how much weight you lifted at the gym, how great you look in your new outfit, or how many phone numbers you got over the weekend. If you're really hot, then other people will notice and they will do the work for you. People won't feel like you're really hot if you're constantly trying to prove it to them. The next time you open your mouth to brag, stop yourself and praise someone else instead.



Being humble and modest can go a long way in making you look and feel hot. If you brag all the time, people won't like you because they'll think you're full of yourself.
 Hot people don't get all obsessed over one crush, or spend 100% of their time fawning over their boyfriends and girlfriends. Instead, they play the field a little bit. If they find someone they like, then yeah, they'll stick by them, but in general, hot people take things lightly and enjoy exploring their options. If you're out at a party or a club, don't just home in on the one person you like as if you're a laser: instead, talk to a variety of people, and you may end up liking someone you didn't expect to click with.


Hot people also don't get too disappointed by rejection. Sure, rejection sucks, but don't spend too long feeling sorry for yourself -- it's just not worth it.
 If you're hot, then you should know it. Don't check yourself out in windows outside, and don't take out your mirror and start adjusting your makeup in front of everyone. Your hotness should look easy and effortless. If you need to check up on your appearance, do it in the privacy of a bathroom, not out in the open. Otherwise, you may come off as insecure.
 Hot people should be gracious and happy for what they've got. They shouldn't be sore losers, mad over the little things, or rude to waiters, teachers, or strangers. Gracious people treat everyone with kindness, help people out, and recognize that they're lucky to be alive. Don't act like you deserve to be treated like a million bucks while everyone else is chopped liver; this kind of behavior is ugly and will turn people off.


Gracious people know that they have to work for what they want and don't think that they "deserve" to get the best of everything. If you really want to be hot, then you have to be kind and grateful about it, too.
 There's a stereotype of people who treat their friends more like accessories (think: Regina George in Mean Girls) because they're just so hot that they can do anything they want. Well, it's up to you to break that trend. Don't treat your friends like lemmings, sidekicks, or followers who are at your beck and call. Instead, treat them like equals, and let them have equal say in what you do. Ask them how they're doing, take the time to do something nice for them, and make sure your friendships are meaningful.


Don't be the person who gossips about his or her friends the second they turn around, either. You'll quickly get a reputation for being fake.
 If you want to be hot, then you have to be able to flirt a bit when you're talking to someone you like. However, this doesn't mean that you have to put it all out there and come on too strong. Find a balance between keeping your cool and giving the person a little bit to work with; that way, you'll come off as hot, but people will still want to get to know you. If people think you're an ice queen or in love with yourself, you won't be getting many dates, no matter how hot you are.


And if someone who you're not into comes up to you, be as nice as you can about it. Just because you don't think that person is hot or cool doesn't mean you shouldn't treat him or her like a human being.
Don't act like you're a queen or a king and that the person should beg for a minute of your time. Always be on equal footing with anyone you're talking to.

