 If you want to keep your hamster healthy, you'll need to periodically make sure he's not showing signs of illness. As hamsters are prone to colds and infections, check his nose and eyes on a weekly basis.


Check your hamster's nose. If it's wet or you notice running or discharge, he may have a cold. You should monitor his symptoms for a few days and take him to the vet if he does not improve. Hamsters can catch colds from humans, so avoid handling your hamster if you've been sick.A hamster's eyes should be clean and clear. Unusual discharge or reddish eyes can be a sign of infection. Certain breeds of hamsters, like Winter Whites, get eye infections easily. You should not wait out an eye infection as infections often require antibiotics. Take your hamster to a vet if you notice anything wrong with his eyes.If your hamster is having nose and eye irritation and medical causes have been ruled out, he may be allergic to something in his cage. Remove any new items, like new toys or accessories, and see if symptoms improve. You may also want to try a different bedding or litter., Older hamsters may have bald patches or thinning fur. However, if your hamster is younger his skin and fur should be free of bald patches, scaling, rashes, and scabs. Unexpected hair loss or skin changes should be evaluated by a veterinarian.Skin and hair changes can be the result of something benign, like mites or fleas. However, it can sometimes be a sign of a chronic condition like Cushings Disease. This is why veterinarian evaluation is so important. If skin and fur changes are the result of a serious condition, the sooner you get it checked out the better., If your hamster is experiencing digestive problems, you can tell by examining his rear end. Loose stools, staining, or a wet tail can be an indication of diarrhea. Such ailments should be evaluated by a veterinarian. Your hamster may need a change in diet or he may have an infection or illness that requires medication.Stress can also trigger diarrhea in hamsters. If there have been any recent changes to your home, your hamster may experience diarrhea.If you have a female hamster, an infection of the womb called Pyometra can be detected by examining the rear end. If you notice any discharge or a foul smell from the opening above the anus, take your hamster to the vet for evaluation., You should also periodically pick up your hamster and gently feel for any lumps and bumps. Hamsters are prone to cysts, most of which are benign. However, in rare cases a cyst could be a sign of cancer. In the event a lump is cancerous, the sooner it's treated the better. Any new or growing lumps should be evaluated by a vet.Some hamsters have scent glands on the top of their hips. They're often mistaken for rashes or lumps but are in fact a normal part of your hamster's anatomy., A hamster's weight should remain relatively stable. If your hamster is gaining or losing weight inexplicably, you'll need to take him to the vet.


Hamsters tend to gain weight steadily until they're around 6 months old. After reaching the age of 18 months, hamsters will lose weight each month. Between 6 months and 18 months, your hamster's weight should remain stable.Weight loss or weight gain can be caused by a medical condition or your hamster's diet. Take your hamster to a vet for evaluation if you notice any changes in his weight., Keep track of how much your hamster usually drinks on a day-to-day basis. For example, know roughly how often you refill his water bowl. Hamsters can develop diabetes and one of the early warning signs is an increase in water consumption. If your hamster is suddenly drinking more water, take him to the vet and have him tested for diabetes.