 Bad moods can lead to lowered energy.However, exercise can not only help you feel more energetic, but it can help turn your bad mood around.


Try traditional types of exercise such as playing sports, running, walking, lifting weights, and doing sit-ups.
Or, if you are feeling adventurous, try fun physical activities such as: doing yoga, dancing, hiking, rollerblading or skating, skateboarding, paddle-boarding, bowling, and kayaking.
If you don’t belong to a gym, you can easily look up free videos online (on YouTube for example) with instructions for everything from Pilates to rock-climbing.;
, When you are in a bad mood, one of the best things that can help is to do something nice for yourself. Some examples include: buying a new scarf, taking yourself out to lunch, getting a massage, or getting your nails or hair done.


Engage in retail therapy if you wish because this can help improve your mood.However, bad moods can increase risky behaviors.Don’t overindulge or make irrational or expensive purchases during this time. Focus on small treats or things that you were already planning to purchase.
Remember that treating yourself can cost money. However, if you don’t have the resources try treating yourself with things you already have at home. For example, you could do a spa night at home where you make a nice meal for yourself, paint your nails in a fun way, put on a face-mask, put on some yummy smelling lotion, and pamper yourself. Get your partner or friend to give you a shoulder massage.
 Doing things that bring you pleasure can help distract your mind and assist you in changing your mood.It can also lead to increase resilience so that you’ll be better at shaking off a bad mood in the future.Make a list of activities you enjoy and keep it in a safe place. When you feel a bad mood coming on, get out your list and pick one thing to do. If you still feel moody, do another one.
Art can serve as a way to increase positive mood.If you like creative activities try: painting, acting, dancing, sewing, sculpting, knitting, gardening, playing a musical instrument, cooking, drawing, or writing poetry.
Distracting yourself can even include things like watching television, watching a movie, reading articles on wikiHow, or playing video games., Leisure time is a powerful coping resource to help battle bad moods.Spending some time alone can also be useful if you are feeling angry or irritable.


Take a nice hot bath. This may help relax your muscles and give you time to reflect. Try lighting candles, and adding bubbles, bath salts, or bath oil for a more relaxing effect.
Try aromatherapy with a lavender candle or smelling salts.
Get out in nature if that is something you enjoy. Go for a walk in the park, sit under a big shady tree or nap on the beach (make sure you wear sunblock).
 Many people find that listening to positive music can help lift their mood. Studies have even shown a link between listening to music and mood improvement., Humor can help reduce a bad mood.This means that people who laugh or engage in humor tend to be in better moods overall.


Watch a funny movie or television show.
Find a stand-up comic on television or go see a comedy show.
Watch funny videos online.
Spend time with a funny friend you have and share jokes.
Do something silly. For example, you could dance around like a child might.
 Some people may resort to eating fattening snacks, seeking instant gratification, or procrastinating as a way to cope with a bad mood.In some cases, individuals may become aggressive or violent as a way to make themselves feel better.However, these coping mechanisms often fall short of really fixing your mood and can lead to unwanted consequences.


Sometimes people will eat in order to regulate their emotions because eating leads to increased endorphins in the brain.However, this is troublesome and can lead to overeating, gaining weight, and having an unhealthy diet. Avoid eating too much comfort food. Limit yourself to one treat and stop there. Remind yourself that eating healthy will ultimately make you feel better, not eating junk food.

