 Make sure you know how to care for quail. You can start by feeding them a high quality feed, providing them with fresh and clean water, changing their bedding daily and checking on them to see if they are healthy.;
, If your quail is lonely or is housed by itself, consider getting it a partner. Since quail are social birds, they shouldn’t be alone, otherwise they will become depressed.
 Quail don’t like interacting unless tame, and they hate being picked up (tame or not). You’ll also be doing your quail a favour if you get rid of all predators, pets, disturbances, etc.
 Along with a high quality feed your quail will love some treats to eat. Quail are picky so they might not like everything you give them but they will eat what they like and leave what they dislike so you will soon know what to feed them. Lists of food that make great treats are seen below:


Fresh fruits including apple, banana, strawberry, melon, etc. Make sure you chop these up into small pieces so that the quail can eat them.
Fresh vegetables including broccoli, corn, cucumber, salad leafs, sprouts, etc. Chop these up as well as the fruits.
Bugs including mealworms, millipedes, spiders, woodlice, etc. Make sure you keep the bugs small so that the quail will have no trouble eating them.
Table scraps including pasta, rice, noodles, cereal, etc. Quail will eat most types of food but make sure to only give them a small amount.
Never feed quail avocado, chocolate, alcohol, stems and leaves of tomato plants, uncooked potato or egg, citrus fruits, lettuce and salty treats. These are all toxic to quail.
 Instead of putting the quail’s feed in a bowl, scatter it around so they can go foraging for it instead. This creates lots of fun for them during feed time.
 Quail love plenty of space to roam around in and it lessens the chances of fighting between the flock. You can purchase or build a run which is a great amount of space to keep your quail in during the day time.
 If your quail live outside on the ground consider planting a few shrubs in their enclosure depending on how big it is. They’ll love pecking around at the plants but make sure they aren’t poisonous to the quail.


Although you must be aware of the many poisonous plants there are to quail, you probably won’t come across these anyway. And quail will avoid plants that are poisonous to them.
 If you have a lot of spare space in the quail’s cage, add some extra items that they’ll love such as logs, rocks, rodent huts, hiding spots, plants etc.


The hiding spots will give any bullied quail a place to retreat to when chased, and it also increases the chance you can have males housed together.
 Quail love to dust bathe daily and it’s their way of cleaning themselves. Provide them a shallow tub of dry sand for your quail to dust bath in.
 There are many things that can cause unhappiness to quail, some can be seen below:


Too much sunlight or little sunlight. Quail need 13-15 hours of light per day, if they lack this consider providing them with a few light bulbs hung above their cage. However, the quail should always have access to shade if they become too hot.
Predators including pets. Racoons, birds, dogs, cats, rats and snakes are all predators of quail. Make sure the cage is predator proof and that no pets can get inside the quails room.
Lack of space. Provide your quail with at least 1 square foot of floor space, more will be even better.
Hot or cold temperatures. Bring the quail inside a warm room during winter and keep them in the shade during summer depending on how cold/hot it gets in your area. Cold quail will huddle up and hot quail will pant.
 If your quail is tame, consider playing with it. If your quail is not tame, either find a way to tame it or visit it in its cage. Just remember to not disturb the quail too much since they aren’t very interactive birds.

