 There are some really cool ways to stay connected to people and hobbies you love just by adding an application to your page.


Look for applications that can help you to keep track of family members. A good one will let you share family pages that you can post messages and family photos on.
Another good way to use Facebook applications is to find one that creates a virtual bookshelf to let your friends and family know what books you're currently reading, want to read, or have read. Try to get one that lets you see your friends' reads too.
 Many people use Facebook as a way to display their talents. Some people post regular notes about a particular topic because they are aspiring writers, some people use photo albums as a way to display their interest in photography, and some people just use their Facebooks to keep their friends and family up to date with pictures and posts. Whatever your friends use their Facebook messages for, it always feels good to get a compliment.
 Some people do not have Blogger or Wordpress accounts and can't "follow" your blog regularly and receive updates. Facebook is a great medium to do this. If you post updates on your blog, you can copy and paste those updates into a Facebook note and tag your friends in it. You can also post the link to your blog into the "share" bar so that Facebook world can go directly to your blog whenever you post something new.
 People often ask the question, "how did the world keep in touch before Facebook?". The only way to keep in touch used to be email, and before email, phone calls, and before phone calls -gasp- written letters. Often people will make friends at work or school that move away or go back to their hometown that isn't anywhere near close to you. Facebook is a great way to share pictures, chat, and "socialize" with long-distance and old friends. Of course this isn't as good as personal interaction, but it can be a good substitute until you can see your friend again.
 A myriad of worthy organizations, people, and events to support are available on this networking site. You can use Facebook to find volunteer opportunities in your community, for instance. Or support organizations such as environmental causes, the arts, political and religious---pretty much any cause one could imagine, and more. Instead of wasting all your time on Facebook, you can use social networking to make the world a better place.

