 You can edit your Bitmoji’s look on a computer if you’re using the Google Chrome web browser. If you don’t have Chrome, get it now.


It’s not possible to change your Bitmoji's gender without deleting your current avatar.
 If you already have the extension installed, you can skip this step. You’ll know it’s installed if you see a green button with a white winking chat bubble at the top-right corner of Chrome. Here’s how to install the extension if you don’t have it:


Go to https://www.bitmoji.com.
Scroll down and click Get it on Google Chrome. It’s the large black button near the bottom of the screen.
Click Add Extension.
 You can do this by clicking the green button with a white winking chat bubble at the top-right corner of Chrome.
 If you see a selection of personalized Bitmoji, you’re already logged in and can skip this step. Otherwise, enter your Bitmoji username and password and click Log in.


If your Bitmoji account is linked to Facebook, click Log in with Facebook to sign in. You’ll have to enter your Facebook login information if you’re not signed into Facebook.
 It’s the icon that looks like a person’s head with a pencil at the top-left corner of Bitmoji for Chrome.


If you just signed into Bitmoji, click the Bitmoji icon again to get to the Edit icon.
 Choose either Bitmoji Style or Bitstrips Style for your avatar. If you don’t want to change the style, select the style you were already using.



Bitmoji Style looks very cartoonlike, with large eyes and exaggerated features (sort of like Manga). The drawings are simple and customization is somewhat limited.

Bitstrips Style is still pretty cartoonlike, but definitely more customizable (and slightly more realistic). You can edit the hair length and add facial lines with this style.
 The options differ depending on the style of Bitmoji you selected, but you’ll be able to select from different facial features, hairstyles, body types, and outfits. As you make selections, click the arrow at the top-right corner of the screen to move to the next option. When you get to the end, you’ll see “Looking Good!”

, Your edited Bitmoji is now ready to use. Next time you use Bitmoji in a chat or app, you’ll see your edits in action.

