 The vast majority of Styrofoam is produced because of packing purposes, padding and securing things for shipping. While it can be difficult to avoid receiving Styrofoam when you make a purchase, you can always cut down on your own use of Styrofoam when sending packages by avoiding the use of loose-fill packing "peanuts" and using other kinds of biodegradable packing materials.


Use newspaper, or other recyclable plastic materials to pad your packages. If it's not super-breakable, there's probably no need for Styrofoam.
Using corn and soy-based packing materials is becoming more and more common. If you work for a business that regularly sells things that require packing protection, consider making the alternative to biodegradable alternatives to Styrofoam.
A company called Ecovative has recently developed a mushroom-based product that can be grown to fit any space, much like Styrofoam, but with completely biodegradable materials. It's just as lightweight and customizable as Styrofoam, but with none of the environmental impact., When you're making consumer purchases, try your best to only purchase things packaged in and made from post-consumer recycled materials. It can be difficult to know if something you buy will contain styrofoam included in the packing materials, but if you're buying with an eye for companies that make recycling and reusing a priority, you can be fairly certain that the packaging won't include any.
 Take-out boxes are tough to get rid of and almost impossible to recycle. If you're a foodie, get in the habit of avoiding those Styrofoam take-out boxes and instead asking for the kitchen to wrap up your leftovers in aluminum foil so you can take it home. You can also simply eat there if you have the time. The restaurant will likely use formal(kind of) plates, bowls, and other eating tools and containers, but if you don't have the time, use aluminum foil., If you make regular coffee-stops throughout your week, try to invest in a reusable coffee mug that you can travel with, instead of collecting "to-go" cups at home and not being able to easily recycle them.
 Egg cartons are the other big offender when it comes to non-recyclable Styrofoam materials. How best to approach these Styrofoam traps? Avoid them entirely. Only buy eggs from recycled paper cartons, or other recyclable materials.


If you end up with lots of Styrofoam containers, you can reuse the cartons if you buy eggs in bulk, or donate egg cartons at the farmers’ market, or to farmers with lots of chickens who'll need to hold their eggs.

