 One of the benefits of being evaluated for adult ADHD by a professional is that they can recommend and provide treatment for it.Once they determine that you do have adult ADHD they can help you determine which treatment options are going to be best for you.


Treatment may include medication management, therapy, behavioral coaching, or other options.
Your doctor can also refer you to support groups and other resources in your community.
You could ask, “What do you think will be some of the most effective treatments for me?”
Or you might ask, “What are some community resources that are available to help me cope with adult ADHD?”

, Once you have determined that you have adult ADHD you can manage it if you get support from your family and friends.Let them know that you need their help in order to take charge of your life.


You might ask your friend, for example, “Could you help me get organized? I’ve determined I have adult ADHD and this will really help me.”
Or you could tell your dad, “Would you help remind me of appointments? That’ll help me out a lot!”

, One of the best things you can do to take charge of your life if you determine that you have adult ADHD is to get organized.Getting organized will help you be more focused and improve your time management.


Use a planner, calendar, or agenda to help you keep track of when things are due or where you need to be.
Set reminders and alarms on your electronic devices to remind you of what you should be doing.
Try color-coding, labeling, or other organizational systems to help you easily identify the materials you need for work or school.
 Once you determine that you have adult ADHD, try to keep only the things around you that you need for the task at hand. It will be harder for you to become distracted if you don’t have a lot of things around you that are distracting.


Put extra materials neatly away for later use. For example, put away the glue gun and glitter if you are writing an expense report.
Put your electronic devices away or on vibrate if you don’t need them to complete your work at that time.
 Doing things that support your physical well-being can also help you be successful if you determine that you do have adult ADHD.Have a regular sleep routine. Do things like meditating or reading to calm yourself before bedtime. Try to get 6-8 hours of sleep each night.
Eat balanced and nutritious meals and snacks. Also, make sure you are drinking plenty of water.
Get active in some way. You can try yoga, walking, swimming, or even team sports. Physical activity can help you cope with your ADHD.

