 Zazen can be done at any time, although it is particularly helpful first thing in the morning or before going to bed. Find as quiet as a room as possible, and set aside at least 20 minutes of time for practice. Turn off all your cell phones, pagers, televisions, iPods and computers so as not to be disturbed. Let others in the house know that you need some time to be by yourself.;
, If you are using a cushion, rest your buttocks on the cushion and cross your legs out in front of you. You can sit cross-legged or in either full-lotus or half-lotus position. The cushion should help tilt your pelvis slightly forward and down so that your lumbar vertebrae can come to their natural curvature. You may find it helpful to sway gently back-and-forth and from side-to-side to find a centered position. You should feel balanced on your "sit bones."

, It is best to spread your legs out as much as is comfortable to achieve a sense of stability.
 Your posture should be balanced to allow your breath to flow freely deep down to the diaphragm.
 Your eyes should be open, but with a relaxed gaze so that you are looking forward and down. Rest your hands on your lap. You can rest either your left hand in your right, or right hand in your left. Both are acceptable. Touch your thumbs together above your fingers. This is called the “universal mudra.” Your hands should be relaxed, but stable and not too limpid.
 Just allow the breathing to occur, without trying to change it. Stay with the sensation of breathing as a particular point: perhaps your abdomen as it moves in and out, or your nostrils as the air passes back and forth. While in the West we tend to think of initiating the breath by inhaling, the Japanese word for breathing is KoKyu, a composite of two words: ko (exhalation) and kyu (inhalation). It may help to think of breathing in this way to help let go each moment.
 Ask yourself gently: “What is this? What am I experiencing right now?”

, Notice the difference sensory experiences of anxiety or anger or sadness as different muscles tense or relax. Again ask: “What is this? What is happening to me right now?” Follow the flow of emotions as your breath. Notice that your emotions are only a small part of your experience.
 Notice how each thought comes with its own set of reactions as well. You may find yourself reacting to one thought with another, or even criticizing yourself for thinking certain thoughts. Follow the flow of thoughts as you breath. Notice that your thoughts are only a small part of your experience.
 Do not judge it or try to change or escape from it. Much of time, we are out of touch with reality. We tense up when a disturbing thought arises or we dissociate and distract ourselves when an unpleasant emotion emerges. Instead, just sit with your experience as it comes and as it changes from moment to moment.
 The clarity and presence you gain from meditation will follow you as you go about your day.

