 If you truly feel you in some way caused your dog’s death, whether through an accident or by not noticing an illness in a timely manner, write down those thoughts and feelings. Address the letter to your dog and explain why you feel guilty and apologize to your dog. This active acknowledgement of your feelings can be helpful in working through your feelings of guilt.This exercise can elevate your mood and help you realize the depth of love you had for your dog. It can reinforce to you that you made the right decisions.
You can bury the letter where your pet is buried.
Try to remind yourself that you and your dog did not speak the same language, so there is no way that you could have known about some of the symptoms they were having due to illness. Don’t blame yourself for missing things when there is no possible way you could have known.
 Accepting the death of a pet can feel like a lonely time, but you will help yourself progress through the grieving process by opening up to friends or relatives. They can also help you understand that you are not responsible for your dog's death, which may help alleviate your feelings of guilt.Close friends or relatives may have stories of your dog they’d like to share with you. Reliving those good memories will help you focus on more positive times with your dog.
 Left untreated, continuing feelings of guilt and grief can eventually lead to depression. If you feel you can no longer deal with your feelings of guilt on your own, find a professional to assist you. A therapist can offer coping mechanisms and support as you move through the grieving process.
 Your veterinarian may be able to recommend a group for other local owners dealing with the loss of a dog. By connecting with people in similar situations, you will learn how to empathize with their feelings of guilt and grief. In turn, you will be better able to empathize with your own feelings of guilt.


A therapist may also be able to connect you with support groups for others dealing with the loss of a pet.
There are online support groups for those who are suffering with the loss of a pet as well.
 While your dog was alive, you spent a lot of time feeding, grooming, or walking it. Instead of using your new free time to think about the void in your life, take it as an opportunity to try new activities or reach out to friends.


Positive experiences can help lead to positive feelings. Try to do things that bring you pleasure so that you are not so trapped with your feelings of guilt and regret.
Also, don’t rule out the possibility of getting another dog when you feel ready. Getting a new dog does not mean you have forgotten your old dog, only that you are honoring his memory by providing a safe, loving home for another dog in need.

