 Buffing is used to even out ridged fingernails. What most women don’t know is that ridges in nails are a healthy part of the finger.The thickest part of the nails are the healthiest parts, and the dips are actually deficits in thickness. Therefore, when you buff your nails off, you’re buffing down the stronger, healthier portion of the nail.If ridges really bother you, try picking up a high quality top-coat. A top-coat that is used specifically for targeting ridging will fill in the dips on your nail.This will give you the smoothness you’re looking for without damaging your fingers.;
, First, always file flat against the edge of the nail.After you’ve filed off your desired amount, take the emery board and file at a 45 degree angle away from the nail.This smooths the edge of your nail to prevent snagging, and it will help avoid hangnails.









Always use a fine-grit nail file. The coarser grit of nail files are made for artificial nails and can be damaging and harsh on your natural ones.The same theory applies for metal files. Instead of a metal file, use an emery board that has been cushioned., Hangnails are often caused by splitting or improper cutting of nails. After your nail rips away, your skin and nail bed can be left damaged or torn.Even the smallest of tears in the skin can allow infection to enter your body. Be proactive and use nail clippers to gently clip off your hangnail. 








Don’t chew off hangnails. Along with the ripping of your nail or skin, chewing them off transfers bacteria from your mouth directly into the wound.
 It is popular myth that cuticles are easily removed. This couldn’t be further from the truth, as the cuticle is what seals and protects the nail bed. Unless you’re a seasoned professional, you shouldn’t be attempting to cut your cuticles yourself.It can cause unnecessary trauma and damage to your fingers.









If you feel that your cuticles are truly awful, try moisturizing them instead of clipping them. By softening the cuticle with an essential oil or hand cream, you can promote happy nail growth.A second option is to use a cuticle removal cream. Cuticle removal cream is massaged into the cuticles followed by use of a soft-tipped cuticle wand to gently push the cuticle back towards the nail bed.This can help keep unruly cuticles looked more trim and clean.

