 Fill your coffee maker with cool filtered water and place coffee grounds in the filter basket. Don't forget to put a filter in the basket if your machine doesn't use a metal mesh filter. Turn the machine on to brew your coffee.


While you can brew as much coffee as you like, try to use the following coffee to water ratio:2 tablespoons (10.6 g) of ground coffee for every 6 ounces (177 ml) of water.
 If you're using chocolate syrup, pour about 1 1/2 ounces (45 ml) of chocolate syrup into the mug you'll be serving the mocha in. If you're using a sweetened cocoa powder, place about 3 tablespoons (22 g) of the powder into the mug you'll be using for the mocha.If you're unsure how sweet you like your mocha, prepare the mocha using less chocolate. If you find that you'd like it sweeter, you can drizzle chocolate syrup or sprinkle chocolate powder over the top.
 Pour a cup of milk into a small saucepan and heat it over medium heat on the stove. You should see small bubbles start to line the sides of the pan when the milk is hot enough.Avoid boiling or scalding the milk. This would make your mocha taste bitter.


You can also heat the milk in the microwave. Pour your milk into the mug that contains the chocolate and microwave for at least a minute. Fill the mug only 2/3 full so that you have room to add your drip coffee.
 Pour hot drip coffee over the chocolate syrup or powder in your mug. You can add as much coffee as you like, keeping in mind that if you add mostly coffee, you won't have much room for the hot milk. Stir this mixture to dissolve the chocolate and slowly pour in the milk.If you like a creamier mocha, only fill your mug about 1/3 of the way with coffee before filling it the rest of the way with hot milk.
 If you'd like foam on top of your mocha, use a battery powdered milk frother. Pour additional hot milk into a separate mug that has high sides. The milk should only come about 1/3 of the way up the side. Insert the foamer and steam the milk until it becomes a thick foam. Scoop this foam on top of your mocha.You can also foam milk using a jar and the microwave. Pour milk in a mason jar so that it fills it halfway. Tightly screw on the lid and shake the jar hard for up to 1 minute so that the milk doubles in volume. Remove the lid and microwave the milk for 30 seconds. Take the jar out of the microwave and scoop off the foam for use on your mocha., If you'd like to add an extra creamy flavor to your mocha, top it with whipped cream. For a more stylish presentation, sprinkle sweetened cocoa powder over the top. Some coffee shops will place a stencil over the top and sprinkle the powder over it to create a design. You could also drizzle chocolate syrup over your mocha.Or, you could top it with mini marshmallows.


If you garnish with whipped cream, don't forget to leave about an inch of space at the top of your mug. This will prevent your mocha from overflowing as the whipped cream melts.

