 Acute bronchitis can result from a bacterial or viral infection, or parasitic infestation. Your cat’s vet will suggest the appropriate medications, such as antibiotics, to treat the infection or infestation.The vet will likely prescribe an oral antibiotic or antifungal medication, depending on the results of the culture and imaging scans. Be sure to administer any medication as instructed., If your vet rules out parasites or infection, they will likely prescribe a corticosteroid, which acts as an anti-inflammatory. In addition, they might suggest a bronchodilator, which opens up the airways.Both of these medications come in oral, inhaled, or injectable forms. Talk to your vet about which option is best for your cat, and be sure to administer any medication as directed.
While often used in combination with corticosteroids, bronchodilators are rarely prescribed on their own.
 Corticosteroids and bronchodilators are the most common treatment methods, but your cat’s vet might also recommend other options. If they can identify a particular allergen, there are experimental desensitization therapies available. The vet might also suggest you invest in an air purifier to eliminate allergens from your home., If your cat is diagnosed with chronic bronchitis, you should take efforts to reduce its exposure to any allergens that might trigger its respiratory problems. Keep your cat indoors and stop smoking around it.You should also observe and eliminate any particular conditions that worsen symptoms. For example, if you observe your cat coughing or wheezing in a certain room of the house, restrict its access to that room. If you notice a perfume or air freshener triggers its bronchitis, stop using that product.Cat litter can be another trigger. If you think the cat's litter is causing the problem, try buying another brand.
 Obesity puts extra stress on a cat’s circulatory and respiratory systems, so you should help your overweight cat lose weight. If you free-feed your cat, switch to scheduled feedings. If you give your cat treats, make sure they account for no more than ten percent of its daily calories.Ask the vet if they have any further weight loss recommendations.
Since obesity can be a lifelong condition, the cat may need ongoing treatment of their bronchitis.

