 If you know you have an ovarian cyst and experience either sudden abdominal pain or pain along with nausea, vomiting, and fever, call your physician or go to the ER right away. If you experience cold, clammy skin or any rapid breathing or lightheadedness, call your physician or go to the ER right away.


If you are postmenopausal and have an ovarian cyst, you should know that this puts you at higher risk for ovarian cancer. You should be evaluated using an ultrasound and have a blood test for CA125 and/or OVA1. These are markers for a number of different conditions, including ovarian cancer. OVA-1 is more specific for ovarian cancer. If there is any suspicion that the cyst may be cancerous, the cysts should be removed., The symptoms of ovarian cysts are not diagnostic. To really know if you have an ovarian cysts, your doctor will perform a pelvic exam. Your doctor may be able to feel for swelling that is consistent with ovarian cysts.Depending on your other symptoms, your doctor may want to order more tests to measure hormone levels and to rule out other conditions may be ordered as well.
 A pregnancy test is also likely to be ordered by your doctor. If you are pregnant, you may have a corpus luteum cyst. This type of cyst occurs when your egg gets released, and the follicle fills with fluid.Your doctor may also want to rule out an ectopic pregnancy. An ectopic pregnancy occurs with the embryo implants itself somewhere other than the uterus.
 If your doctor determines that you have a cyst, you will likely have to have some imaging tests, such as an ultrasound. These imaging tests are used to locate and characterize an ovarian cyst.The imaging tests will help your doctor determine the size, shape, and exact location of the cyst. It also helps your doctor learn if the cyst is filled with fluid, solid, or mixed.
 For most women, watchful waiting is recommended as long as the symptoms are manageable. Remember, most ovarian cysts disappear on their own. For some women, using hormones in the form of birth control pills may be recommended. About five to 10% of women may need surgery to remove cysts.Small complex cysts can be removed from a laparoscopy. In a laparoscopy, the doctor will make a small cut on your belly and remove the cyst through cuts in your skin.For more severe, large, or potentially cancerous cysts, you may undergo a laparotomy. A larger cut is made in the belly, and the entire cyst or the ovary may be removed.

