 Some people prefer to relate to a character or situation, in which fiction or a nonfiction personal account is beneficial. Ask yourself what appeals to you and what would be most helpful.Would you like to read a fictional account of someone feeling suicidal? If you’re about to take a long trip by yourself, would you like to read about someone else’s travel experiences?


Remember that a book is one person's account of a situation. It may not accurately reflect what most people go through in a particular situation, even if it is a non-fiction account.
Literature can create an imaginative response and allow the reader to engage with the book, character, and situations in a thoughtful and meaningful way.
 Bibliotherapy related to self-help may include self-help books or workbooks. Many bookstores offer a section devoted to self-help books. You may choose a self-help book on your own to explore emotional coping or dealing with a certain mental health problem. This process may or not be not guided by a mental health professional.Remember that anyone can write a self-help book — the author does not have to be credentialed or have any training in a specific area. Take a moment to read about the author and not if the book is opinion-based or based on research and science. Both of these things can be helpful, but you should understand when someone is sharing their opinion and experience versus when a trained professional is sharing well-researched information.
Often, self-help books are used as a precursor to therapy or as a way to seek personal improvement.
 Find a book that is relevant to the issue at hand.Once you’ve decided on fiction, nonfiction, or self-help, find a book that appeals most to you. The book should catch your interest and have a relevant theme to your life. For example, if you are struggling with the loss of a loved one, choose a book in which a character experiences a similar event that you can relate to, such as Joan Didion's "The Year of Magical Thinking."


Try asking your friends and family for any recommendations of books they have enjoyed and found helpful.
Some resources are available through a web search to help select appropriate books.

