 Like many theme parks, Rainbow's End is busy during the school holidays. Christmas Day is the one day the park is closed but you can expect it to be busy throughout the summer months. Located at 2 Clist Crescent, Manukau, Auckland, some of the park's attractions are weather dependent so if you want to visit in July or August, remember some rides may not be running due to snow, rain or high winds. The park is open from 10:00am to 5:00pm daily.;
, The rides and are within the park as a whole or in Kidz Kingdom.
 Events occur frequently, if not regularly. Matariki is recognised, sometimes with celebratory family tickets.
 You'll enjoy your day more if you don't feel like you've missed out. If you're keen to go on rides that don't have lots of seats, like the karts and the log flume, get to those early in the day and work your way toward the rides with more capacity such as Invader or Stratosfear.
 Publicised as the park's scariest ride it is 30 metres high at the highest point, has a 360 degree swing angle and will get the blood rushing to your head as you spin upside down with your fellow 29 riders.
 This ride is a combination of a roundabout, and roller coaster! You'll spin around whilst travelling along a 80 metre track at up to 70 km/h (43.5 mph).
 At 18 stories to the top, you will have plenty of time to think about how there’s only one way down! You may of seen this ride on the popular comedy show Jono and Ben. They often attempt to interview celebrities, with varying success, on this ride.
 18 metres high with three types of rotation, this will put you in a spin. Pick your partner carefully as you'll be sitting side by side, isolated from the other 22 riders.
 Try the Corkscrew Roller coaster. At a maximum of 45 kilometres per hour you'll drop, loop and go thorough not one but two corkscrews]]

, At Rainbow's End these are:
Log Flume
Gold Rush Roller Coaster Ride
Pirate Ship
Dodgems
Scorpion Cars (Go karts)

,, There's Comfy Land and Tiny Tots for those who like to just play not ride and check out the Dixie Chickens Show if you just want to relax and watch something for a while.
 Factor in transport costs, eating at the park, purchasing souvenirs and accommodation if you don't live nearby or need to travel home more than a few hours.
 Check the website for family and group deals. Often, you can save money not paying for tickets at the gate and you will save buying online.
 Remember branded food, packets of chips for example, are not permitted, unless they are for park guests with special dietary requirements. Make your own sandwiches, pies, sausage rolls etc or take your favourite brands out of the original packaging.
