 Short can mean different things to different people, and the length of your hair can help you decide what cut to go for. For example, pixie cuts are great for women who want extremely short hairstyle while a bob works for those who want a chin-length cut. You might decide that you want to go:


Chin-length
Mouth-length
Cheek-length
Eye or ear length
Pixie cut;
, Try to determine why you want a short haircut. By understanding what type of look you are going for, you can more easily select a style that fits your needs and preferences.


Do you want to look more youthful or to minimize lines? In this case, you might try a curly bob, side-bangs, or a shag cut.
Do you want to look powerful, professional, or polished? If so, a sleek bob or a pixie with long sidebangs may be your best bet.Do you want a practical hair cut to cut down on styling time? A pixie cut, chin-length bob, or short layers may work well for you.
Do you want to create volume for thinning or fine hair? A fringed or layered look may help.
 Once you have an idea of what type of style you might go for, you can look through magazines, fashion blogs, and style websites for inspiration about the specific style that you want. Try to save these images somewhere; when you go to get your hair cut, you can show the stylist the picture so that they know exactly what you want.
 If you’re uncertain how a particular style will look on you, there are many apps, programs, and websites that can help. These will layer haircuts on a photograph of yourself so that you can see how you look with the style. You may even be able to choose different colors and lengths.If you do not have a way of doing this digitally, you can cut hairstyles out of a magazine and place them over a photograph of yourself to have the same effect.
 A hairdresser or stylist can give you great advice about what will look best for your face shape, complexion, age, and lifestyle. When you go to get your hair cut, bring several pictures, and the stylist can tell you what will look best on you. You can even ask:


“Is this style easy to maintain?”
“I want to draw attention away from my nose. Will this help?”
“Which style will make me look more youthful?”
“I wear quite a bit of black for work. What color would you suggest?”
“I don’t want to look washed out in pictures. What can you do to help?”
“What products would you recommend to help take care of my hair?”

