 Except in some hot climates, pepper seeds won’t grow properly if you plant them directly into the garden soil. They need to germinate for a while indoors in a controlled environment.The timeline of this varies, because the end of winter can be tricky to predict. Expect to start the seeds around the end of January or the beginning of February.
If your area has especially mild winters, or you live in a warm climate, you have more freedom when it comes to when you must start the plants.;
, Fold two paper towels separately into small squares. Wet the paper towels with room temperature water. Place the seed on one paper towel and lay the other towel on top of that.This provides an incubator-like environment for the seed to start growing.
 Grab a zipper bag and slide the wet towels with the seed into it. Store the bag inside in consistent warmth. If you keep the temperature around 70℉-80℉ (about 21℃-26.6℃), the seeds should sprout in about one week’s time.If your house is not quite warm enough, consider keeping a heat lamp on the seed bag.
 After a week or so, when the seed has sprouted, transfer it into a pot. Put the seedling about ⅛ inch (about 3mm) to ¼ inch (about 6mm) under the soil. Use organic soil, or soil that’s meant for seed-starting. Also make sure the bottom of the pot has drainage holes.Keep the plant in the pot until it grows about 8-12 inches (20-30cm) tall.
 Peppers soak up a lot of water, but they don’t like soaking wet soil. Check the soil daily to make sure that it’s moist. If the top of the soil has crusted over, the plant needs water. Water it lightly and check it again later to see how moist the soil is.

A soil moisture meter is a great help in keeping the soil moisture regulated.
 Continue to nurture the baby pepper plant until it reaches late spring or summer in your area. Peppers only grow in warm weather, so if there is a chance of cold or frost, keep it inside a little longer.When it seems like spring and it’s been two weeks since the last frost, it’s probably safe to move the plants outside.
 Your pepper plants may not survive if you move them from the protected inside to harsh, all-day sunlight. Spend a couple more weeks setting them outside in direct sunlight for brief periods during the day.It may be best to choose hours in the morning or late afternoon, rather than during the hottest hours.
Over the course of the two weeks, leave them out for a little bit longer each day. On the last day you do this, leave the plant out for about 8 hours.
 This is not really an exact amount, but not every plant or garden is the same. If you make the hole about the size of three good shovelfuls, you’ll have room to add some sand and compost, as well as put the plant in.

Dig one hole at a time and follow the next steps. Then you can judge if the hole was big enough for your plant or if you need to make the following ones bigger.
 Since peppers started out in tropical climates, they thrive in sandy soil. Put one shovelful of sand into the hole, followed by one shovelful of compost or manure.Level the sand and compost out and pack them down just a bit.
 After the sand and compost are in the hole, gently pull the pepper plant from the pot. Place it into the hole carefully so that it stands up straight. Ideally, the top of the soil that’s attached to the plant should be about one inch (2.5cm) below the top of the hole., Use the extra dirt from when you dug the holes to fill in around the plants. Pack the soil down nice and tight so it is pressed against the roots and soil that was on the roots., As the pepper plants continue to grow, they will spread their leaves out. Because of this, it’s important to plant them far enough apart for them to expand., Each row needs to be far enough from the one next to it so the plants can expand on both sides and give you room to walk through. You’ll want about one foot (30.5cm) of walking room between the rows, so be sure to leave enough room.It’s better to put them farther apart rather than too close.
Check recommendations for the specific variety of pepper that you are planting. Some benefit from closer spacing.
 Soak the soil all around the plants so the soil from the plants combines with what you added around the roots. There’s a danger of overwatering, so pay attention that the ground doesn’t become soggy. Transfer the soil moisture meter to your garden., Pepper plants want evenly moisturized soil, which can be hard to maintain. To keep the water in the soil from evaporating, pack mulch around the base of the plants. Mulch protects the soil from the sun and helps the soil store moisture better., Hot pepper plants are thirsty and require a good amount of water. At the same time, you don’t want to overwater them so the soil is soaking. Water them deeply every five days to one week.Check the soil moisture meter every day to see if you need to water the plants more often.
 Some plants help peppers grow better and keep insects away from them. Grow onions, basil, and chives to deter insects like aphids, slugs, and mosquitoes that harm your peppers. Plant tomatoes and corn to give your pepper plants shade and create a windbreak., Most seed packets list a date when the plants are considered mature and are ready to be picked. If you harvest the peppers at the earliest date listed, the plant yields more peppers.A general guide is 75-90 days after you put them into the ground.
 Most pepper varieties have a color range that tells you when they are ready to pick. Look at the seed packet to see what color the peppers shown are. The packet might also list what color the peppers should be at peak ripeness., The oils in the pepper are what make it so hot. Some peppers will actually burn your skin if you are not careful. When it comes time to pick your peppers, wear thick gloves to keep the oil from getting on your skin., Even wearing gloves, you are at a risk for transferring the pepper oil to your skin. Make sure that you don’t rub the gloves on your skin, especially anywhere on your face or around your eyes., Pulling peppers off of the plant can break the stalk. It’s best to use garden shears or a sharp knife to cut the peppers off. Leave about an inch (2.5cm) of stem on the pepper when you cut it off.