 You want the dowel to be between 12 and 18 inches long.
 You can use acrylic paint or spray paint. It might be a good idea to stick the end of the dowel into a lump of clay and paint the top half first. Once the paint dries, flip the dowel over, and paint the bottom half.


You can use any color you want, but great fairy colors include: silver, gold, pearly white, and pastel colors.
 Place a drop of hot glue onto the top of the dowel. Press the end of your ribbon into the glue. Wrap the ribbon around the dowel. Leave spaces between the ribbon so that you can see the painted dowel underneath. It should look like a candy cane. Secure the other end of the ribbon to the bottom of the dowel with more hot glue.
 Place a drop of hot glue onto the bottom of the dowel. Press a small rhinestone or bead into the glue. The rhinestone or bead should not be wider than the base of the dowel.
 You can use anything you want as a topper for your wand, just make sure that it is not too large and not too heavy. You also don't want to use anything made from glass, just in case you drop it.


Find a flat, wooden shape, such as a star.
Find a small, round Christmas ornament and pull the metal cap off. The dowel needs to fit into the neck of the ornament.
Make a topper out of air-dry clay. Be sure to poke a hole into the bottom of it using your dowel.
For a creepy fairy, use a giant fake spider.
For a snow fairy, use a snowflake ornament.
 You can paint the topper or draw designs on it using glitter glue. You can also glue rhinestones onto it.
 This can make it even more twirly. You can use regular satin ribbon or curling ribbon (like the type you'd use on a balloon). Cut five to seven pieces of ribbon that are a little bit shorter than your dowel and glue them to the top of your dowel.
 3-D items, such as figurines and ornaments, will be able to sit right on the tip. Flat items may have to be glued to the side of your dowel.
 You can glue some rhinestones along the sides of the dowel. You can also draw a thin ring of glitter glue around the bottom and top of your dowel to hide any seams and glue.
 Hot glue dries quickly, but glitter glue takes a lot longer to dry. Wait a few hours to a whole day.

