 Different news organizations use various apps that allow citizens to send them information in a secure and anonymous way. If you already have a news organization in mind that you want to use, find out what service they use.You typically can find this out by checking the news organization's website. Don't use a work computer or search from your own home. Go somewhere with free public Wi-Fi and do your research there so there's no trace of you having visited that news organization's website.
On the website, search for "leak" or "tip" or "source." One of these words should get you to the page that you need.
For example, you can find information about how to leak to the Washington Post by going to https://www.washingtonpost.com/securedrop/. The landing page for leaks to the New York Times is located at https://www.nytimes.com/newsgraphics/2016/news-tips/.;
, Some news organizations use a free mobile app, such as Signal, to send and receive encrypted messages and phone calls. If you need to talk to a journalist, you may be able to use one of these apps.You typically cannot send documents through these services, but you can talk to journalists or send and receive messages regarding document delivery, or other information.
If the service requires you to add the journalist to your phone's contacts before you can communicate with them over the app, add them under a fake name.
 SecureDrop is an online document transfer service used by more than 20 news organizations. This service allows encrypted, anonymous documents to be transmitted from sources to journalists.You also can communicate with the journalist, and they with you, by typing a document and sending it. Once the document has been sent, you can reply from within the service.
SecureDrop only operates on the Tor browser, so you'll have to download that. The process is the same as downloading any other app, and the browser operates just like any other web browser.
Make sure your security settings are set to the highest level before you start using SecureDrop for communications.
 Even though these encrypted services ensure that the information you send can't be opened or read, there may still be a record of the contact itself. For that reason, avoid using the Wi-Fi at home or work, since that can be traced back to you.Find a café, library, or another public place that has open Wi-Fi available. Go somewhere on the other side of town, or that isn't located in a place near your work, school, or any other place you frequent on a regular basis.
If you have to communicate more than once, don't go back to the same place – find a new location for each communication.
If you have to spend any money to get to the location, use cash. Credit or debit cards can all be traced back to you and put you in that location. Leave all electronic devices at home, since they also can be traced.As far as transportation is concerned, walk if possible. Do not drive your own car. If you need to use public transportation, get off several stops before your destination and walk in the opposite direction, then circle back. You may want to take several forms of transportation. Avoid taxis, and avoid areas with modern surveillance cameras.

