 There are hundreds of models out there, but you don't need to most expensive one to begin with. While shopping, there are only a few features to consider, depending on your needs and engagement with the hobby. Some things to think about include:


Your level of interest. There are many great, all-purpose finders good for most explorers. There are also deep-seeking detectors that allow the intrepid explorer to dig for serious treasures.


All-purpose: Bounty Hunter Pioneer 505, Garrett Ace 250, White's Coinmasters, Minelab’s X-Terra Series

Deep-seeking: Nokta FORS CoRe Pro, Minelab’s GPX 5000, OKM Black Hawk, Nokta Golden King


Do you plan on beach-combing? Make sure that your metal detector is waterproof.
Do you plan on looking up gold flakes and bits? You'll need a high-frequency, extra-sensitive detector like the Nokta FORS GOLD, Garrett's AT Gold or Fisher's Gold,Bugs.;
, Your metal detector is only part of the equation. You'll need a bit more gear, including:










Headphones: A big set of over-ear headphones are best, but anything will do. The metal-detector will beep when it comes across metal, sending sound through the headphones.

Gloves: You'll be digging into the ground, sorting through dirt and metal, and be down on the ground a lot. Gloves will keep your hands safe and comfortable.

Trowel: You'll need something to dig with, so get a nice trowel, at least 8-10" or longer.

Pinpointer (Optional): This is a small, more precise metal detector, usually sold for $20-30. It can help find the object after the metal detector has found a patch of dirt with something in it., Places with high foot-traffic (beaches, parks, playgrounds), fields, and backyards are all great places to start looking. Once you're used to wielding your detector old ruins, houses, and abandoned areas will turn into treasure troves. Some other great spots include:


Under ski lifts
Churchyards
Sand, dirt or grassy parking areas
Recreational vehicle parks and campsites.
Around resort areas., All detectors are different, and reading the manual is key to getting the most out of yours. That said, there are some basic features you should know whether you read the manual or not:










Discrimination: Allows you to choose what kind of targets you want. For example, if you only want coins, you can set it to ignore iron objects. Useful in heavy trash areas or if you're searching for specific things.

Sensitivity: Allows you to choose how precise the detector will be. This, again, helps you hone in: if there are pipes nearby and the detector won't stop beeping, lowering the sensitivity will help you find the good stuff.

Detection Mode: This allows you to filter out certain objects, like coins, to make detection more precise.

Ground Balance: Allows you to account for common minerals. If, for example, you keep getting pings on "iron" but find nothing, you can "balance out" the iron in the ground so that the machine doesn't beep for low levels of iron.