 Your hamster’s cage is the most important purchase that you will make because they will spend most of their time here. This will likely be your biggest expense when you first get your hamster, but keep in mind that you only have to make this purchase one time. Wire and plastic cages are the cheapest type of enclosure for your hamster at around $35. Make sure that you choose a cage that will provide plenty of room for your hamster to roam and hide out.Also, if the cage is made from wire, make sure that there is a solid plastic cover on the bottom. Your hamsters feet may get caught in wires, which may cause an injury and require a trip to the veterinarian.Compare prices at your local pet store to find the best cage at a reasonable price.
Check local ads for sales and coupons as well. You may be able to pick up a cage for your hamster at a deeply discounted price if you time it right.;
, While it may be tempting to shred some newspapers or borrow some cat litter to avoid purchasing bedding for your hamster, these are not appropriate alternatives. The chemicals in these materials can be harmful to your hamster’s health. Be sure to purchase bedding that is meant for hamsters.Avoid any kind of bedding that is made from wood shavings, corn cobs, cat litter, or newspaper.
Choose bedding that made from cellulose or plant-based paper fibers.
 There are all sorts of fancy modular hiding places that you can get for hamsters, but they will enjoy climbing in and out of toilet paper tubes and small cardboard boxes just as much.


Try asking your family members to save toilet paper and paper towels for you to give to your hamster.
 Your hamster will need to be fed a tablespoon of hamster pellets or a seed mix every day.This may be one of your major expenses for your hamster, but you can watch for sales and coupons to cut down on the costs.


Buying your hamster’s food in bulk may help you to save some money. Compare the price per pound of the small bags of food versus the large bags to see if this might be a good option. You might end up spending more up front by buying in bulk, but you could save a few bucks in the long run.
 Hamsters need to have a small piece of fresh fruits or vegetables every day, so it is important to keep these on hand. Most of the foods hamsters like to eat are ones that you can eat as well, so you can share a piece with your hamster whenever you have a healthy snack. Some of the low-cost snacks that hamsters like to nibble on include:Apple slices
Cauliflower flowerets
Lettuce leaves

, Plastic bowls may be cheaper than ceramic ones, but your hamster will quickly chew and scratch the bowl until you end up having to replace it. That is why a ceramic bowl is best for hamsters.You can purchase a ceramic bowl for your hamster, or you might also consider designating a small ceramic bowl from your kitchen as a bowl for your hamster. This way you will not have to buy one.


You can also provide a ceramic bowl of water for your hamster instead of purchasing a water bottle. The advantage of a water bottle is that your hamster can’t tip it over or get food or feces in it.If you do opt for a ceramic bowl to keep your hamster’s water in, then make sure to use a heavy bowl to reduce the chances of spills. Check the water dish a couple of times per day and replace it any time it gets dirty.
A very small terra cotta water saucer also works well for a food bowl, especially since many people have one lying around the house.
 Hamsters need to chew because their teeth never stop growing. Check your yard for a stick from a fruit tree that your hamster can use as a chew toy. For example, if you have an apple or pear tree in your yard, then you could harvest a stick and give it to your hamster to chew on.Your hamster can also chew on dog biscuits to wear down its teeth, so you could also pick up a box of dog biscuits for small dogs. Whimzees or Greenies are a good choice, as they don't contain harmful ingredients like onions.
 While you may not be willing to spend money on a giant toy collection for your hamster, you may want to invest in a few useful toys to help keep your hamster happy. Some useful toys to consider include:A hamster ball. Your hamster can get lots of exercise by running around your house in his ball. Always make sure to keep an eye on your hamster when he is using it though.
Wheel. Hamsters love to run, and you might not always be there to let them out for playtime. By providing your hamster with a wheel, he can get his exercise whenever he needs. Wheels are usually considered as mandatory. Buy a solid wheel that is large enough for your hamster's species, as upgrading to a large wheel after spending money on a smaller wheel only wastes money in the long term.
Chewing blocks. Your hamster needs to chew to keep his teeth trimmed down, so it is a good idea to keep a chewing block in his cage at all times., Hamsters need lots of exercise, and playing with your hamster is free! Try letting your hamster out of their cage for a couple of hours every evening. Just make sure to protect your hamster by putting up hazards and keeping track of where your hamster is at all times.


Close your bedroom door and cover hazards like wires before you let your hamster out to play.

