 It is at 3000 trophies. From there, occasionally legendaries can be bought in the shop for 40,000 gold. This is often worth it and if you save your gold, 40,000 isn't a very hard figure to achieve.

If you are skilled enough, try Grand Challenges. If you get 12 wins before you get 3 losses, there will be a chest for you containing 22,000 gold. That is quite a lot but Grand Challenges are really tough.
 Each chest you get is on a chest cycle and there are 240 chests in one cycle. A legendary chest will appear once every two cycles. Assuming you never lose you can get a legendary every 480 battles., If you have the skills to compete with other people and get 12 wins, this gives you a very good chance of getting a legendary as well as 22,000 gold. Be warned-this will match you up with expert players, many of which are the top players in the game with over 6000 trophies. They are incredibly difficult to succeed in.

The Grand Challenges cost 100 gems and Classic Challenges cost 10 gems to join.
 Free, silver, crown, gold, giant, magical, and clan chests all still have possibilities, however small they may be, of getting a legendary, Never give up hope and one day, you might pull that Electro Wizard out., Still having no luck with these methods? Bummer. However, there are many close replacements for legendaries that do the same or an even better job in your deck.

(*) Means will change the deck significantly.
Replace Princess and Ice Wizard with archers, musketeers, tornado, ice spirit, or arrows.
Replace Lava Hound with Golem* or Baby Dragon*.
Replace Graveyard with Skeleton Army* or Goblin Barrel*.
Swap Electro wizard with musketeer or archers.
Put in Zap, Arrows, Or Tornado instead of The Log.
Sparky can be swapped with Balloon, Bowler, or Executioner.
Add Baby Dragon* or Minion Horde for Inferno Dragon.
Replace Night Witch with the Witch or mini P.E.K.K.A.
Put in mini P.E.K.K.A. or Rage* for lumberjack.
Swap Bandit for Dark Prince or Knight.
Replace Miner with Knight or Goblin Barrel*.

