 Smoking and / or chewing tobacco can cause your arteries to become harder and narrower, making your blood pressure rise. If you live with a smoker, ask them to smoke outside so you won’t be exposed to the secondhand smoke. This is particularly important during the time that you are recovering from surgery. If you, yourself, need help quitting, you can try:Talking to your doctor to develop a treatment plan that will work for you.
Getting social support from hotlines, support groups, or an addictions counselor.Trying medications or nicotine replacement therapies.
 If you recently had surgery, you may be on medications to manage any health conditions and help you heal. Alcohol can interact with many medications.In addition, if your doctor has advised you to lose weight, alcoholic drinks are high in calories and will make it difficult to get your weight down
If you need help quitting drinking, talk to your doctor about getting medical treatment and support. Your doctor may be able to suggest treatments, support groups, and counseling services to help you.
 Recovering from surgery is stressful, both physically and emotionally. Some widely used relaxation techniques that can be used even when you may have limited physical mobility include:Meditation

Music or art therapy

Deep breathing
Visualizing calming images

Progressively tensing and relaxing each muscle group in your body

, Exercise is an excellent way to reduce stress and lose weight. However, if you are recovering from surgery, it is important that you do not do more than your body can handle.Walking daily is safe exercise after many types of surgery, so check with your doctor if it is appropriate after your surgery, and when you can start this.
Consult your doctor and a physical therapist to create an exercise program that will be safe for you. Be sure to attend all follow-up appointments with both your doctor and physical therapist so they can verify that the exercise is continuing to be beneficial for you.

