 Recovering from compulsive gambling can be a long, hard road. The person may get discouraged or feel hopeless. Help them by encouraging them that they are on the path to recovery and doing better. Help them think about taking everything one day at a time.If the person has a relapse, help them stay positive and focused on treatment and recovery.
For example, say, "I am proud of what you have accomplished. You went three months without gambling. This was a minor slip up, but it doesn't erase your hard work" or "You have done really well getting your finances back in order. I believe you can continue to stay gambling-free. You're strong, and I have faith in you."

, People who have certain addictions, like compulsive gambling, benefit if they have a sponsor or designated person that can help them if they face any problems during recovery. Gambling may be readily available, presenting temptation to the person. Offer to be someone the person can call or talk to when they find themselves in a stressful situation or on the verge of a relapse.For example, you may say, "If you don't have anyone to call or talk to if you feel the urge to gamble, you can talk to me. I am here for you if you need me."

, Most compulsive gamblers have specific triggers that will make them want to gamble. These triggers are situations, items, moods, or feelings that may lead to compulsive behavior or relapses. Help the person identify their triggers. This can help them know what to avoid or allow them to learn how to cope when faced with these triggers.Money is a common trigger for compulsive gamblers. Having cash or extra money in the bank account can trigger gambling. Needing money for bills or other debt may also trigger gambling.
Free time or boredom may lead to gambling.
Being near gambling, such as in a casino, a place with Keno, at a dog or horse track, or near lottery cards, may trigger someone.
Extreme highs or lows in moods may trigger the gambling impulse.
 The person may benefit from a list of reasons they want to stop gambling that they keep with them. This list can help them if they feel the urge to gamble or get in a compromising situation. They can read the list before making the decision to gamble, and hopefully avoid a relapse.Image:Help a Compulsive Gambler Step 11 Version 2.jpg

Encourage the person to make the list themselves and come up with their own reasons. They should come up with their own personal reasons for not gambling, like not wanting to disappoint their family, not wanting to lose their trust, and increasing their debt.
They may also want to update this list as time passes without gambling. One reason not to gamble could be, "I have gone without gambling for one/three/six months and don't want to break my streak."

