 Try to dress in clothes that flatter your body, but are also unique, something that makes you look different from the other girls, but nothing too crazy of course. Don't show too much skin, but don't hide yourself either.;
, You have two options here; You can simply walk up to him and start a conversation, starting with a question such as "What school do you go to?" or pretend to need something, like "Can I borrow a pen?". It is important to be friendly and bubbly when you approach him. The other option is to find an opportunity to be introduced to him. You could ask your friend to become friends with him, and then be introduced by them later.
 Be social and smile a lot. Keep the first few conversations short, but talk a lot during them, and throw in a compliment! This will make him notice you more.
 Introduce him to your own friends, or become friends with all of his friends, so you can hang out and do things together. Start to have more focused conversations with him.
 Guys like a challenge. A girl who is obviously crushing on them is not a challenge at all. Talk to him and be friendly, don't seem shy at ALL, but don't focus all your attention on him. Go talk to your other friends every once in a while, seem like you also have other things to do, and do not follow him around. You can't seem clingy. Remember the phrase, "You only want what you can't have"? A guy cannot want you if he feels he already has you. He needs to feel like he has to work for you.
 If you see him looking at you often, or if he talks to you a lot, then he might like you. If you see these signs, start flirting a little, always not seeming too needy! If he flirts back, then keep going. Always remember that you have to keep him guessing a little, do not let him be convinced that you like him. He should be in the mindset that you probably like him, but there is a chance you don't.
 Just ALWAYS remember not be too clingy, and remember that guys like CHALLENGES, not girls that are easy to get with.

