 You don't need to have the wigs or the rugs, though. If it is a hair salon, you only need the items for your hair. Since they are all gone, you may need to trade for them. Just yell out in Jamaa Township: "Does anyone have any salon den items? If so, I'd love to trade for them!" If all else fails, you don't need spa items. Use an inflatable pool (make it white, I use a white pig pool and it's awesome.) for a hot tub. If you are using the beach den skip this step because it already has a pool. You could use a mirror that you can find at Outback Imports as a substitute for a vanity. Get creative!;
, You need it to look good so people don't leave. Try adding some plants music, wallpaper, flooring, and some sort of rug. Everything should match. It should be wide and spacious. If you don't have a big enough den to fit all of your decorations in, you could use multiple small dens, but that would require a LOT of switching dens, so that isn't recommended. Nice music attracts customers and keeps them occupied in the waiting room, more about that on step 4. Wallpapers with different colors, like the pink striped wallpaper, look good. Avoid the rainbow wallpaper. Stick with wooden floors (beta wooden floor, wooden tiles, and wooden planks that come with the small den.) and don't have anything crazy, so avoid the grass floor.
 You can add them in and tell customers to take one after they leave your salon! Like in step 1, it's a spa item, so you may need to trade for it. You could buy a fancy coffee table from Epic Wonders and put some books on it (or put a bookshelf next to it.), but you may need to trade for the books too. You may need to advertise your salon too, so that's why the customers need the magazines.
 Add couches and things to play with so your customers don't get bored and leave your salon. If you are using a separate den for the waiting room, be sure that there is a bunch of stations in the actual salon, because people will get annoyed going back and forth from one den to another. You should have nice music in the waiting room den to keep customers happy.
 You could also hire someone to greet the customers when they come in. If you'd like, add a welcome mat to the front. If you have a door in the front, make sure to open it so people can come in. If you have a greeter, be sure to check on them once in a while. If the greeter has to get off, put some couches next to the entrance so people cat sit while they wait to come in., Just say "Ok" and politely tell them to leave. If they don't leave, tell them you are going to lock them out and lock them out. Before you let everyone in, buddy them so you don't have to do it when you lock them out, or else it might just be an awkward moment of silence. It is also important to because they might report you while everyone is buddying you., If they don't, then lock them out or report them. If other people get jealous and go to the front of the line, lock them out too. Tell the remaining customers that everyone should not cut to the front of the line and wait politely. DO NOT TYPE LIKE THIS!! IT WILL GET CUSTOMERS MAD AND THEY WILL REPORT YOU!!!, Try and have a nice conversation with the "nice" customers. Who knows, you may host the salon lonely and come out being popular with your buddy list full!, You get tips by being nice to customers, providing a wide variety of services, and having your salon in tip-top shape, like in the step above. Don't be greedy and ask for tips, because it gives you a bad reputation. People in Animal Jam usually have a bad temper, so you could easily start a huge fight and all your customers will be yelling at you!, If they say no, kindly warn them they will be locked out and reported. If they stop, don't do it. If they do, then lock them out or report hem., If they ask for something that you don't provide, kindly tell them you don't provide it. If they yell at you or lose their temper, block 'em and lock 'em. If they ask for something you do provide (for example: the full treatment) then do the full treatment., Make sure to rinse it out and let it dry. Then brush their fur to rid it of any ratty areas. If they want, do their hair. Keep some hairspray by., They will most likely change their fur color. Ask them what color they want. If they reply saying "This is the wrong color!" or "It's ruined!" ask them specifically what color they want (for example: the purple on the top left) and you should be able to know what color they want. If they like it, then smile and compliment them by saying "That color looks good on you!" or "You look stunning!"., If they are a member, gift it to them. If they are a nonmember, ask if they can put something on trade and trade it to them. What accessories do they want? Ask them. It's always nice to get things, but it's even nicer to give things. If they want a head flower, give them a head flower that looks good with their outfit. Before you give it to them, put it on your animal and ask them "Do you want this?" just to make sure. If not, recycle it and get something they'd like. If they do, give it to them and compliment them by saying "That really matches!" or "That looks good with your dress!", Ask them which color they want and start painting. If they want a pattern, pretend to go get nail stencils ans ask them what color they want their pattern to be. Get that color and do your magic! Do a special marble effect, add cute little nail decals, and cut their nails! They'll adore their new fancy nails., Ask them which color and then apply the makeup on them. Do they want lipstick, mascara, or eye shadow? Do they want green contacts to match their green nails? Do it for them! For the girly girl, pink shades are their best friend. If your customer isn't the "girly girl" type, some blues, greens, or browns would look great on them. Be sure to avoid turning your customer into a clown- remember, not too much makeup! Ask them what makeup they can wear to make sure they aren't allergic to what you are using., Welcome them in your salon. Then let the look around top see the things they can do. Offer them some jobs that they might like doing. They will say something from the list down below:

Greeting the customers sounds fun!
I'd love to advertise your salon and give away magazines!
Entertaining people in the waiting room suits me.
 Tell them the things from "Operating the Salon" above. Check on them every once in a while to make sure they are doing their job. If they are doing it correctly, everyone should be happy and satisfied! Be sure to share your earnings with the employees so they don't quit., Give them breaks and let them chat for a while when they are not needed (for example: nobody is coming to the salon so the greeter doesn't need to greet people.). Provide food for the employees when they are on their break., Add some pizazz in and say "Salon my den! It's epic!". Just adding "It's epic!" makes jammers think it really is. Add things like "It's huge", "It's about to get full", "Hurry before I leave", "Very spacious", and "It has good reviews". Just remember whatever you say, people believe you. Ever wonder why people get scammed? It's because they believe what people say!, That's one of the worst and most annoying problems in Animal Jam. Why? Because most of the time, people who lock their den are trolling other people to click on their name tag for nothing. Make sure to keep your den unlocked so nobody thinks you are trolling them., That's also very annoying. Why? Same as above! You see an awesome salon being advertised, but the person advertising it is moving around like crazy or their name tag is covered by the crowds of Jamaa, so either way, you can't click! So annoying..., Your den will most likely be full. But, it may be super laggy and hard to type and hard for people to click your name tag. Instead of going into a full world, go into a world that has 3 green dots or 2 green dots. A better way to solve this is to go from world to world gathering jammers. Since spas are so rare in AJ, your den should be full in a few minutes (if people don't keep leaving, darn jammers!).