 If a piece of existing tile is practically falling off the wall or loose enough for you to pluck off the floor, all in one piece, without damaging its neighbors, go for it. Otherwise, pick an existing tile to remove from the floor or wall. Make things easier on yourself and pick a damaged tile that already needs to be replaced.


If you are looking to re-tile another room to match existing tile that doesn’t need replacing, see if any local flooring companies offer on-site visits to give estimates. Arrange an inspection to see if they are able to identify the existing tile so you don't have to damage a perfectly good, rare tile.
Don’t rely on photographs. Lighting may affect the tile’s color. Also, texture is hard to capture in a photo.
 Scour the grout around the tile with a grout saw. Be patient and work slowly. Only use enough pressure to scrape the grout out of place. Avoid using too much pressure or working too fast, which may cause you to slip off target and scratch a neighboring tile.If you are removing a wall tile, raking too hard may also damage the drywall behind it.Chips and dust from tiling can be very sharp and abrasive. Wear workman’s gloves and safety glasses.
If you are removing wall tiles, place a towel, tarp, or sheet at the base of the wall to catch debris and protect surfaces.
Once you’re finished, line the surrounding tiles with painter’s tape so their surface is protected. Be sure to cover their exposed sides now that the grout has been removed.
 First, set the business end of your chisel in the center of the tile’s surface, at a 90-degree angle. Tap the butt gently with a hammer. Repeat until enough chips fall away for you to slip the chisel underneath the remaining pieces at a 45-degree angle. Tap its butt with the hammer to pry them loose.Always work from the center outward to prevent the chisel or hammer from damaging the surrounding tiles.
 First, measure one of its intact neighbors. Then bring the measurements, the largest chunk of tile, and any product info you might have found to one or more brick-and-mortar stores. Ask the staff to identify it if possible.If the staff is able to identify the exact product, ask for all product info so you can contact the manufacturer as well as any retailers, wholesalers, and specialists who may carry it.
If necessary, bring two chunks of tile: one that shows the most surface area, and one whose thickness is intact. Both features are necessary for exact identification.