 Consult your doctor before starting a kidney cleansing fast. Depending on your current health conditions, it may not be safe. Don’t be surprised if your doctor expresses some skepticism about the benefits of your fast. She will most likely recommend you just drink more fluids and improve your diet to achieve lasting kidney-health.


If you have diagnosed kidney problems, your doctor may prescribe a diet for you in cooperation with a dietitian.A kidney cleansing fast can affect medication absorption, so do not fast if you are taking any medication.;
, If you want to go on a kidney cleansing fast, the safest way to do it is just to increase the amount of water you drink. Try to drink at least eight glasses of water a day to help keep your kidneys healthy. If you do opt for a kidney cleansing fast, make sure you continue to drink plenty of water., Help out your kidneys by cutting out refined and high-sodium foods. Refined carbohydrates that you should try to limit include: sweets, chocolate, cake, biscuits, and sugary drinks.Other refined foods are white breads and pasta.A detox diet that cuts out all highly processed foods can make you feel better in the short-term.
For a long-term solution, opt for a balanced diet., If you want a short-term method that may help cleanse your kidneys, you can attempt a fluid-only fast. One method claims that consuming three gallons of apple juice and three gallons of distilled water a day can help cleanse your kidneys and pass kidney stones.Apples are a good choice to help keep your kidneys healthy.
Apples can help lower cholesterol and glucose levels, and are good source of vitamin C. The peel is also a good source of antioxidants.Be aware that bought apple juice often contains a lot of sugar.

You are also recommended to drink a laxative tea every morning.There is, however, no scientific evidence that such cleanses are a good approach to better sustainable health., Another fasting technique cited by some as a way to cleanse your kidney involves consuming a lot of watermelon. You can buy between 20 and 100 lbs of watermelon and then try to eat it throughout the day, while regularly emptying your bladder.If you have chronic kidney problems you should avoid this method due to the high levels of potassium in watermelon.
You should not have more than a cup of watermelon a day if you have chronic kidney disease.Watermelons are around 92% water, so this fast is similar to just drinking a lot of water.
Too much watermelon can cause health problems, so talk to your doctor first., An alternative to the “lemonade diet” is a drinking a specially made herbal tea. This tea involves soaking a quarter cup of hydrangea root, gavel root and marshmallow root in ten cups of cold water. Leave it overnight and then add some boiled parsley, before bringing the whole mixture to boil and allowing it to simmer for 20 minutes.


Once it has cooled, drink a quarter cup and then put the rest in containers.
Each morning pour ¾ cup of the mixture and half a cup of water into a large mug.
Add 20 drops to goldenrod tincture and a tablespoon of glycerine.
Drink this throughout the day, but stop if you have stomach pains.