 One way to get Legendaries is to play in the Arena mode. Arena mode is unlocked using 150 in-game gold or by paying $1.99 USD. You will have the chance to gain arcane dust which you can use to craft Legendaries or you may even get a legendary as a reward for winning, if you get 8 or more wins. When playing in the Arena, level up your key as high as possible. This will increase the amount of loot you get and will increase your chances of getting a pack that has a legendary in it.
One thing to keep in mind is that Arena can reward legendaries from any set, so it isn't as helpful for trying to get a specific legendary, and if you can't average more than about 3 wins per arena run, it probably isn't worth it.;
, Go into the crafting screen via the “My Collections” tab on the main page. Click “Crafting” at the top of the screen to be shown all possible cards you can craft. Sort through these until you find the legendary you are interested in creating and click it. If you have enough dust saved up (1600 Arcane Dust per legendary card) you will be able to create your own legendary.If you do not have enough dust, you can earn dust by playing ranked matches, playing in the Arena, or disenchanting cards. Be careful you don’t disenchant cards that are being used in your decks currently.
It is a good idea to save up your arcane dust to create Legendaries or epics. Don’t waste your dust on cards you will likely get simply from opening new packs.
The best way to ensure you get the legendary you want is to craft it. Every other method is luck based and you are not guaranteed to get the exact card you want. However, some Legendaries, like “The Elite Tauren Chieftain” and “Gelbin Mekkatorque” are not craftable and only able to be obtained during certain events or by opening packs.
It is probably a good idea to verify that the legendary you are wanting to craft is actually useful so that you don't waste your hard-earned arcane dust.
 You will have the chance to get a legendary card in any pack you open. While using this method is the luck of the draw, you can buy packs directly from within the game or even on external sites. Good Luck!