 You want something from someone, we got that much down. Now, what can you give them? What do you know is something they could want? The first answer: money.


Let's say you are running a blog or paper and you want an author to do an interview. Instead of saying, "Hey! I like your work!" what would be more effective? Here's an example: "Dear John, I noticed you have a book coming out in a few weeks, and I believe my readers, over at my blog, would eat it up. Would you be interested in doing a 20 minute interview, and I would feature it to all of my readers? We’ll also be able to end with a pitch for your book."Now John knows that if he does this article, he'll reach a wider audience, selling more of his work, and making more money.
 Alright, alright, not everyone is concerned with money. If that's not an option, go the social route. Most people are concerned with their overall image. If you know a friend of theirs, even better


Here's the same topic, only using a social incentive: "Dear John, I recently read that piece of research you published, and I couldn’t help but wonder “Why doesn’t EVERYONE know about this?” I was wondering, would you be interested in doing a quick 20 minute interview where we talk about this piece of research? In the past I’ve featured research from Max, someone I know you’ve worked with in the past, and I believe your research will be a big hit on my blog."Now, John knows Max is in the mix (alluding to ethos) and that this person feels passionately about his work. Socially, John has no reason not to do this and plenty of reason to.
 Arguably this method is the weakest, but it may be more effective with some people. If you reckon someone wouldn't be moved by money or social image, give this one a go.


"Dear John, I recently read that piece of research you published, and I couldn’t help but wonder “Why doesn’t EVERYONE know about this?” As a matter of fact, this is one of the reasons why I launched my podcast Social Triggers. My big goal is to bring the insights from academic papers to the general public. I was wondering, would you be interested in doing a quick 20 minute interview? We can highlight your research to all of my listeners, and hopefully we can both make the world a little bit smarter."That last line ignores the money and the ego and goes straight for the moral high road.

