 How often do you expect to use your phone? Several times a day, or just once a week? If you don't see yourself being a heavy phone user, you might want to consider a prepaid phone, which offers cheaper service you pay for as you need it, without being locked in for several years.;
, Are you a talker, texter, or both? Or do you prefer being able to connect to the internet on the go on a smartphone using a mobile data (3G, 4G) plan? It's important to understand what you need and what you don't so you don't end up paying for something you'll never use. This may have an influence on the kind of phone you get, see below.
 Look at all the major mobile phone providers in your country to see what rate plans they have available. Check back often to each to watch for price changes and never pick the first plan you see. Allow plenty of time to compare your options.
 Not all carriers support all phones, and not all plans do either. Features vary immensely, and it is important to consider each of them. For example, what kind of big texter wants to use a phone without a QWERTY keyboard? You may also be tempted to get a fancy new smartphone such as the iPhone; however, these are often not free (as most handsets tied to plans are)and require more expensive plans to run. Plus, make sure you read plenty of customer reviews.
 This may seem daunting, but it's a vital step to make sure you know exactly what you're signing up for -- plus to avoid being swindled later on. When you're confident, print out a copy of the plan outline to bring to the store.
 You may go to either your carrier or an electronics store, it's up to you. Note that the handsets at electronics stores are often cheaper. It also helps to call ahead of time to make sure they have your phone in stock.
 Tell them you're interested in signing a contract for a mobile phone, and show them the plan you want. Let them look it over to verify it.
 They should tell you whether or not you can get this phone (if you did your research properly, this shouldn't be a problem). Let them pick it out and bring it over to the table where the contract signing will occur.
 Salespeople will often rush you through this, however, you have the right to your time. Make sure everything lines up with what you wanted, and you are signing up for just that.
 This often requires an additional fee, so be prepared.
 Try to avoid signing up for these last-minute. However, if you are interested, make sure you understand them fully before buying them.
 make sure you get them answered before you leave, or you may not have the support you need later.
 You might want to try out all the features in the contract to make sure it works; otherwise, you will have to go back to the store and discuss your issue with the salespeople.
 Make sure you pay all your bills as they arrive, as you would with any charge. Feel free to contact your provider if you have any further questions.

