 Number. Locate the app icon on your Android home screen or app drawer, and tap on it. The app icon has the text “mn” on it.;
, Tap the header tab for the trigger for the rule you want to add. If the rule you’re adding will result to hanging up, select “Hang Up.” This causes Mr. Number to hang up any calls from a number set under this rule.


If the rule will redirect the caller to voicemail, select “Voicemail.” All numbers set under this rule will be directed to your voicemail.
If you’re adding an exception, select “Exception.” Exceptions are those numbers that are exempted from being blocked, even if they are under either Hang Up or Voicemail.
 Tap the plus button at the bottom of the selected trigger. A list of predefined rules will be displayed. Depending on the trigger selected, there may be more or less rules displayed.


All private/blocked numbers—Select this if you want to block private or blocked numbers or those calls that do not have displayed numbers.
Recent calls or texts—Select this if you want to block numbers who recently called or texted you. Your recent calls or texts list will be displayed. Tap the ones you want to block.
Enter a number—Select this if you want to enter a specific number to block. A text box will appear. Type in the exact number you want to block.
Choose from contacts—Select this if you want to select numbers from your contacts list. Your address book or contacts list will be brought up. Tap the names or numbers you want to block.
All numbers not in my contacts—Select this if you want to block all numbers not in your contacts list.
All numbers beginning with—Select this if you want to block numbers that begin with a certain number. A text box will appear. Type the starting numbers or prefixes you want to block. This can be useful for blocking people from a certain network or area code.
All numbers in my contacts—Select this if you want to block or exempt all numbers in your contacts list.
All numbers—Select this if you want to block all numbers. This can be useful when you don’t want to be bugged at all.
 The rules you’ve added will be displayed. If you see something that you want to remove, or if you may have mistakenly added a number or rule you didn’t want to block, just tap the X button beside it to remove the rule.
 The Blocklist is the list that contains the numbers blocked by Mr. Number on your phone. Tap the profile icon with an anti-sign on the header menu. You will be brought to the Blocklist.
 Tap the Hang Up tab on the header to view all the rules or filters you have for hanging up. All the different rules you have that will trigger hanging up are listed.
 Tap the Voicemail tab on the header to view all the rules or filters you have for voicemail. All the different rules you have that will trigger voicemail are listed.
 Tap the Exception tab on the header to view all the rules or filters you have that will exempt callers. All the numbers falling under these rules are exempted from being blocked even if they fall under the rules for Hang Up or Voicemail.

