 If your physical space is more organized, your mental space will likely feel less cluttered. By making your work space more organized, it will also help to improve productivity and efficiency.Set aside time weekly to organize your information in your work spaces.
Make your desktop more visible by reducing the piles of paper. Organize at the end of the day rather than beginning to reduce stress.
Take action on the things in front of you--Toss? File? Complete?

, You may feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of emails or information you're faced with each day. Learn to unload your brain of these things by getting organized. Commit to sorting through your new email right away. Set aside a block of time each day to handle your emails or messages.Delete messages that you don't need to read or keep. Many emails you likely receive are advertisements or social media. Consider blocking or unsubscribing to certain emails.
Respond to your messages. Consider responding your messages once or twice a day, rather than sporadically throughout the day, unless that is necessary during your work hours. Avoid responding to work message outside of work hours.
Filter your emails. If your inbox doesn't have a filter system already, then create folders that help you organize your emails. Use folders so that you can more easily find old information.
 With a daily calendar, you'll be better able to remember what you need to do each day or week. When you have a lot to do, you need some structure. Get in the habit of writing in your calendar when a meeting or appointment comes up.


Check your calendar daily to see what needs to be added.
Avoid using too many alerts for an upcoming meeting or appointment.
 Multitasking is actually causing you to waste extra energy. It also may reduce your clarity and focus on the important tasks at hand. Learn to focus on one important task at a time, and take breaks in between.Set your priorities. Tackle tasks by understanding which ones need to be done first.
You may feel the desire to distract yourself with something new like a phone call or a text message when doing something difficult. But these new distractions are a form of "empty-calorie brain candy" that ultimately make you feel rewarded for doing little.Keep your eyes on the prize. Working on the things that take sustained and focused effort should give you greater reward. Eliminate the little rewards that often prove to be more distracting.

