 Get into a solid plank position by spreading your hands shoulder width apart on an exercise mat. Place your knees on the mat, directly under your hips. Roll your shoulders down your back and put equal weight in both palms.Starting on your hands and knees can allow you to set up the plank position correctly. It will also allow you to activate your arm muscles so your plank position is strong.;
, If you are not comfortable balancing on your hands or do not want to put too much weight on your shoulders, start on your forearms. Place your forearms on the exercise mat shoulder distance apart. Let your palms sit flat on the mat, putting equal weight into your palms and your forearms.You can also interlace your fingers when you are on your forearms if this feels more stable and comfortable for you.
Beginning on your forearms can give you more stability and control in plank position and when doing spiderman planks. This may be a good option if you are new to plank position or have a shoulder injury you do not want to irritate.
 Inhale as you lift your knees up and extend your legs back behind you. Place your toes on the mat and make sure you have equal weight in your hands or forearms and in your legs. Activate your core by tightening your abdominal and gluteal muscles, as well as your lower back.Keep your body in a straight line from head to toe, making sure your hips are level with your shoulders and your head facing forward. Try not to let your hips drop towards the mat, as this can injury your lower back.
It may help to do plank position next to a mirror so you can make sure your alignment is correct. Check that there is a straight line from head to toe when you are in the plank position.
 Inhale as you lift one leg and squeeze your abdominal muscles. Lift your leg three inches off of the ground. Keep equal weight in your arms or forearms and in your other leg so you are stable and balanced., Exhale as you swing your thigh out to the side of your body. Then, inhale as you bend your knee and bring your knee to the elbow on the same side as the leg that is lifted. Try to touch your knee to your elbow. Keep your core engaged as you do this.As you do this movement, avoid twisting or turning your back. Your spine should remain straight throughout the movement.
It is ok if your knee is unable to reach your elbow at first. As you practice this exercise over time, you will be able to increase your range of motion.
 Hold the spiderman position for 3-5 seconds or two to four deep breaths. Keep your core engaged and your hips lifted. Put equal weight into your arms or forearms and the leg on the mat so you are stable and strong.Once you are done holding the position, exhale as you return your leg back to the starting position.
Look down, keeping your spine and neck in a line straight line throughout the exercise. Do not lift your head.
 Repeat the same movements with the other leg, holding the position for 3-5 seconds. Do two to three sets of 8-16 spiderman planks, making sure you do an equal number of spiderman planks on each side, or with each leg.Do not drag your leg on the mat as you lift it and place it back down. Move slowly and deliberately so you get the most out of the exercise.
 One way you can include spiderman planks in your workout is to do two to three sets of 10 as a warm up. It is a full body exercise so it is a good way to warm up your muscle groups and get your body moving, especially if you plan on doing cardio exercises like aerobics, spin, or running., You can also include spiderman planks as part of your core exercise routine. Try doing a few reps of regular plank where you hold plank for several breaths. Then, transition into spiderman planks to add to your abdominal workout.Take a five second break between each core exercise so you do not tire out your muscles. Doing spiderman planks on a regular basis as part of your workout can help you strengthen and tone your muscles, particularly your abdominal muscles.
 Spiderman planks can be a good option if you do not have a lot of time to workout during the day and are looking for a quick, easy exercise. Integrate spiderman planks into short, five minute workouts every few hours or when you have a break at work.


Do two to three sets of 10 spiderman planks in the morning or at night to add an easy, muscle building exercise to your daily routine.

