 Particularly if you have back pain following an acute injury, you need your doctor's permission before starting any exercise regimen. Your doctor can advise you on which types of exercise would benefit you personally based on your specific injury.If you haven't exercised for an extended period of time, you may also want to have a complete physical to ensure that you're well enough to begin an exercise program.
Your doctor also can advise you on various conditioning exercises, in addition to regular walking, that might benefit you.
If your doctor gives you any limitations, follow them carefully and don't push yourself beyond those limits without letting your doctor know you're ready to go further. There may be other risks involved with more intense exercise.;
, Walking increases circulation to your muscles and releases endorphins that reduce the feelings of pain. It exercises the entire body, including the muscles surrounding the back, so it is an excellent way to train your muscles when you are just starting regular physical activity.To get in the habit of exercising and being physically active, begin your regimen by walking for five minutes a day. Try to walk at the same time every day so the activity becomes a part of your routine. Ideally, you should walk on relatively flat, paved surfaces. You can move to hills or unpaved trails later.
If you're new to exercise or recovering from a serious injury or after surgery, it's important to start slow so that you don't overload your body and put yourself at risk of another injury.
Invest in a pair of supportive walking shoes, even if you're only walking five minutes a day to start. Keep in mind that you may experience muscle soreness, especially if you are beginning physical activity after being relatively sedentary.
Maintain good posture when you walk. Tuck your pelvis, engage your abdominal muscles, and align your neck, shoulders and hips.
 Once you're able to walk for five minutes every day, add a minute or two to your walk each week. Adding time slowly gives your muscles time to adapt so you're building strength gradually without risking injury or fatigue.For example, you might walk five minutes a day for one week. On your second week, you may increase your walks to seven minutes, and to ten minutes on your third week. Continue adding time until you're walking at least 20 or 30 minutes a day.
Once you get to the point that you're walking 20 or 30 minutes a day, walking every day isn't strictly necessary unless you're in the routine and enjoy keeping it as a part of your day. Walking is a low-impact activity that it's perfectly safe to do every day if you enjoy it.
If you were athletic or regularly involved in physical activities prior to an injury, you don't necessarily need to start as slowly as someone who previously led a sedentary lifestyle. You also may be able to increase the length of time you walk more rapidly.
 Once you've established a regular routine of walking at least 30 minutes a day, three or four days a week, you may want to incorporate other aerobic activities so that you don't get bored.Jogging or running are high-impact activities, so you may want to talk to your doctor again before you proceed from walking to running.
However, there are a number of low-impact aerobic activities that you can intersperse with your walking for a little variety. For example, you might consider doing one or two sessions a week on an elliptical trainer or step machine.
If you have access to a pool, you also might consider swimming or water therapy. The buoyancy of the water makes swimming a low-impact aerobic activity that is very good for your back.
 Ultimately, your goal should be to do aerobic or cardiovascular exercise continuously for at least 30 minutes. Once you're at this level, maintaining the same routine will gradually decrease your back pain.Just this regular physical activity can increase your cardiovascular strength and help your back heal more quickly, which will ease your back pain.
Focus on doing some sort of physical activity every day, even if your 30-minute walking regimen only takes place three or four days a week.
 If you are unsure how to work out with proper body mechanics, a physical therapist can help design a plan for you and check your form to make sure you're doing the exercises correctly.Your doctor may prescribe several weeks of physical therapy. Check with your health insurance company to find out how many physical therapy sessions are covered by your insurance.
Your physical therapist also can educate you on maintaining proper posture and using various ergonomic techniques to strengthen your back and decrease the impact of desk jobs that require you to sit for long periods of time.
At your first physical therapy appointment, your physical therapist will give you specific exercises designed to strengthen your back, with focus on the real that you have specifically injured or that are the source of your back pain.
Follow your physical therapist's recommendations carefully. If there are any other exercises or stretches that you want to try, talk to your physical therapist about them so they can incorporate them into your treatment plan if they see a benefit.
 Many physical therapists employ the McKenzie Method to treat acute low back pain, although patients with chronic back pain also may find some relief from this approach.To begin this treatment, you must first move through a series of motions with your physical therapist, who will gauge your response and use that information to classify your injury.
Based on the final assessment and classification, your physical therapist will develop a personalized exercise regimen for you that is specifically designed to decrease your pain over time.
The goal of the treatment is to gradually move the pain away from your back and out to your limbs. Thus, if extension movements cause back pain, you'll be prescribed a sequence of exercises that begin with you lying on the floor.
On the other hand, if you have more back pain when bending, the exercises prescribed by your physical therapist will involve more flex exercises from a seated or standing position.
 An exercise or stability ball can be useful to strengthen your back and core muscles, as well as improving your balance and stability. These exercises also provide a whole-body strength-training session.For example, you might do a front walkout, which begins with you laying face-down over the top of the ball. You walk forward on your hands as far as you can, rolling the exercise ball underneath you toward your feet. Roll the ball down to your thighs, keeping your core engaged. Then walk your hands back to starting position and repeat 3-5 times.
You can do the same exercise backwards, in which you sit on the ball and walk your feet away from the ball. Eventually you will be on your back with the ball under your shoulders.
Other ball exercises include reverse crunches and reverse extensions, or a combination of those two movements into one exercise.
Exercising with a ball can be difficult – especially if you've never used one before. Rather than attempting to start a new regime with an exercise ball on your own, you'll have better results if you work with your physical therapist or with a certified athletic trainer who has had experience working with people who have back pain.
 Pilates increase your stability as well as further building your core strength, which can ease back pain. Consult your doctor before you start a pilates class, and make sure to tell your instructor about your back pain so they can make appropriate modifications for you.Since good posture is one of the most important aspects of pilates practice, many of the poses and movements focus on strengthening your core and back muscles.
The slow and gentle movements of pilates practice make it a good strength-training regimen to add into your general exercise routine.
Pilates also focuses on neutral alignment and movements that don't cause stress to your spine and back, which can help you develop habits to maintain a strong and healthy back.
Your doctor or physical therapist may be able to recommend a particular pilates class in your area that is good for people with back pain.
 Basic weight-training exercises with lighter hand weights help you build the strength in your back muscles. Over time you will make you back stronger, decreasing your back pain.For example, you might add the reverse fly, which builds the strength in your upper-back and shoulder muscles. Stand with your knees slightly bent and your feet shoulder width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand with your palms facing each other. Bend forward at the waist, keeping your back straight. Raise the weights to your sides with your elbows bent, squeezing your shoulder blades together, then release them back down.
Another strength-training exercise for back and shoulder muscles is the bent-over row. Stand with your feet about hip-width apart and bend from your hips (not from your waist) until the dumbbell in each hand is at your knees. As you keep your upper arms and elbows next to your ribs, pull the dumbbells up toward the lower part of your chest. Squeeze your shoulder blades together as you pull, then slowly release back to the starting position.
Build a strength-training program with three or four exercises that target your back and shoulders, doing two or three sets of 5 to 10 repetitions with each exercise. Gradually increase the number of repetitions or sets you do until you can complete your routine without fatigue. Then you'll be ready to increase the weight you use.
If you have a spinal injury that isn't muscle-related, talk to your doctor before you add any weight training to your exercise regimen.
 Particularly if your back pain is related to an acute injury, you shouldn't attempt any stretches without first consulting your doctor and working in concert with your physical therapist to make sure you're not doing further harm.When starting a stretching routine, be sure to wear comfortable clothes that won't bind you or restrict your range of motion.
Keep in mind that stretches should not be painful. Only move as far as you can comfortably – don't force your body to go further or you could cause additional strain or injury.
Make sure you are properly warmed up before you start a stretching routine.
 The knee-to-chest stretch is ideal to help align your pelvis as well as stretch the muscles in your lower back. You should hold each position for approximately 20 seconds, and repeat these stretches at least three times for each leg.For the knee-to-chest stretch, you should lie on your back with your toes pointed upward. Bend your right knee slowly, pulling your leg toward your chest.
Wrap your arms around your leg and hold it close to you, then release and do the same movement with your left leg.
 This stretch not only stretches the muscles that run next to and parallel with your spine, it also strengthens your core muscles, particularly your abs. Your physical therapist is likely to prescribe this stretch or something similar if you've had a spinal injury.You'll also start this stretch lying on your back with your legs extended. Bend your right knee and cross your right leg over the left side of your body.
Pull it over until you feel a gentle stretch through your back, keeping your core engaged.
After holding the stretch for approximately 20 seconds, slowly release your leg back to your starting position, then do the same thing with your left leg. Repeat the stretch at least three times with each leg.
 Even if you've not had any acute back injury, you may still suffer from lower back pain – particularly if you have an office job that requires sitting behind a desk for hours. Yoga poses can help ease this type of back pain.You don't need to join a yoga class to learn some basic poses to ease back pain. However, if you've never practiced yoga you may want to attend at least one class so the instructor can help you and make sure you're doing the poses correctly.
As you're doing your yoga poses, practice breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. In yoga, the breath is just as important as the poses – if not more important.
One yoga pose that's good for back pain is the two-knee twist. As you lie on your back, bend your knees into your chest. Your arms should be extended out beside you in a "T" formation. Exhale and lower your knees to the ground on your right side. Make sure both shoulders are pressed firmly into the mat. Bring your knees back to center, then move to the other side.
Another yoga pose you can do to strengthen your back and ease back pain is the sphinx. Lie on your stomach with your upper body propped up on your forearms. Your palms should be flat against the floor, your elbows at right angles. Press the tops of your feet and your palms down and push your pelvic bone forward. You'll feel this in your lower back, but focus on your breath and breathe deeply. Hold the position for between one and three minutes, then relax to the floor.
 Seated stretches, such as the piriformis seated stretch, can provide you relief and help ease back pain particularly when you have sciatica pain that radiates down your legs. The piriformis muscle is located in your buttocks and may compress the sciatic nerve, causing lower back pain that radiates down into your legs.
Ease this type of pain by sitting on the floor with your back straight, then cross your left leg over your right so that your left foot is next to your right thigh. You can tuck your right leg under your buttocks. Hold your left knee with your right arm, extending your left arm beside you to support you on the floor. Relax and breathe into the stretch, holding it for about 20 seconds before alternating sides.
 Even after you get back to work, you can still stretch your back periodically while you're sitting at your desk. These exercises and others can ease back pain if you sit for long hours.Create for yourself a mini-routine to stretch at work throughout the day. Arch your back five to ten times, then do 10 shoulder rolls and 10 shoulder-blade squeezes. You can also incorporate head and neck stretches or rolls.
If you're sitting for extended periods, you should do your mini-routine two or three times a day. You also should make an effort to stand and move around for a couple minutes after sitting for about an hour. For example, you could stand whenever you answer the phone.

