 Confirm rates before you call and remember that some rates may fluctuate. Also, calls made to international cell phones are generally billed at a higher rate.


Do the rates vary depending on the hour of the day? Be sure that the rate you receive remains constant throughout the entire day. Unless otherwise stated, the advertised rate should be constant no matter what time of day.;
, Rounding (minute billing) refers to the increments in which phone calls are billed. For example, with 3 minute rounding, a 4 minute phone call would be billed as a 6 minute phone call. With 1 minute rounding, the same 4 minute call would be billed as a 4 minute call.
 Confirm this with the carrier by contacting their customer service department.
 Adding these fees allows carriers and retailers to to keep their advertised rates extra low. You can avoid many types of additional fees and taxes by using all of your minutes in one call. Remember... fees and taxes effectively reduce the number of minutes you'll receive. Further, not all phone card retailers are created equal. Many will not disclose all fees and taxes, so be sure to ask before you buy. A retailer using best business practices will reveal all known taxes and fees to you up front.
 Being able to get a hold of your phone card's customer service department is important because they will be able to help you with any unforeseen issues that may arise at any time during the day.
 If yes, any remaining minutes on the card past this date will be lost.
 Most prepaid phone card companies do not offer any guarantee on their products. There are, however, a handful of companies that do. A guarantee will further ensure that you get the minutes you pay for. Also, look for signs of generating trust: Visible phone numbers, privacy policy, BBB membership, secure transactions, warranties and guarantees.
 Typically, if purchasing over the Internet, your phone card will be presented to you via email or right on screen pending a successful transaction and acceptance by your bank. Some companies may send you a physical card, but in most cases the delivery occurs by email or right on your screen.

