 Depending on the scope of your project, your art needs can vary significantly. Some games are built using only simple shapes and colors, while other games feature complex worlds created by vast teams of artists and sound designers. Be realistic with your goals for the assets in your game, and hire accordingly.


Most independent games are created by small teams, oftentimes one person. If you are doing the entire project yourself, expect it to take a significant amount of time, especially if you are intending to create all of the assets yourself.
There are a variety of free-to-use assets available online through development communities. Always make sure that anything you use does not violate someone’s copyright.
 In order to start getting a feel for then visual aesthetic of the game, you will need to begin implementing art into the prototype, and then start expanding that prototype into the game proper.


There are a variety of styles that you can use. Pixel art (intentionally retro) is one of the most common styles employed by independent developers. This is because pixel art is typically the fastest and least-expensive art to produce that still results in a “good looking” game.If you have more time and manpower, you can consider using 3D art. Basic 3D modeling is possible with a one-man team, but more complex details will take significantly more time. 3D models need textures on top of the model.
 Once you have some art to use, you can start constructing the game itself. Depending on the style of game you are making, you may need to create levels or playing areas. If you are making a puzzle game, then you can start designing your puzzles.
 Depending on your art style, there are different programs you can use to create your art assets. Some of the more popular programs include:


Blender – This open source program is one of the most popular 3D modeling solutions around. There are endless tutorials available online that can show you how to get up and running quickly.

Photoshop – This program is essential in the texturing process, as well as creating most 2D art. It is expensive, so if money is a concern, consider trying GIMP, the open source, free alternative to Photoshop. GIMP has most of the same functionality.
Paint.net – This is an open source alternative to Paint Shop Pro, and will allow you to create 2D art with ease for free. This program is especially useful for creating 2D pixel art graphics.
 Sound design plays an essential part of the immersion when playing a game. Whether or not you have music, when and how you use sound effects, and spoken dialogue all affect the way the player connects with the game.


You can find several powerful and free audio recordings and music creation software online. Consider using these if you are on a tight budget or are working independently.
Make your own sound effects with objects around your home.

