 Don't be a hooligan and draw on the blackboard, and definitely don't encourage bad behavior.;
, When you hear someone next to you talking, go "SHUSH!". Also, feel free to call out answers once in a while, or simply call out, just not too often.
 Feel free to be who you are, just with a twist to it.
 Associate with the popular group. This will make you even more noticeable to the teacher.
 Instead, wear cute clothes from Aeropostale, and be sure to wear preppy clothes too. Wear Uggs, coach heels, etc-- only wear sneakers when you have to. Don't wear uniform clothing.
 Wear your hair lose two times of the week (usually with a headband), or with a headband and a ponytail (or just a ponytail). Braids and buns are also good too.
,,, If someone is annoying you feel free to say a loud "STOP!" or give them a taste of their own medicine. This can be better than smiling.
 But, if you don't--that is okay. It makes you different.
 This may seem silly, but mechanical pencils/ball point pens and gel pens are a very good choice.
 If you like ballet- do it! If you like soccer- do it!

, Good sports include ballet, tap, ballroom dance, swimming, soccer, tennis.
 Girl Scouts is an excellent choice- Model UN as well, and a debate team will always go well. Get involved in the school and community.
 Always volunteer to do things.
 if you don't, how will you stand out?

, This will always help you get connected in a way with your teachers.
 It can make you look ugly and doesn't go well with teachers and such.
 Sometimes complain about the teacher--you have to be human.
 More than one is ideal. In elementary school, monitor for the smaller kids, and do it every day. In middle school, monitor for your subject teachers. They will greatly appreciate it, and it will give you a chance to connect with them.
 It's not pretty.
 Don't be too smart-or you'll be considered a nerd.
, Knit, dance, collect stamps, sell cookies, anything. Get your teachers and friends involved in it.
 Always be understanding and fun, and play with siblings.
, However, don't expect the results to come quickly. Take it slowly.

