 You can find images online to turn into stencils for your puffy paint t-shirt. If you simply type "stencil images" into a search engine, it should yield plenty of results. You can put any design you want on a puffy paint t-shirt.You can put images on your shirts, like hearts and stars.
You can also print out letters so you can write something like your name on your puffy paint t-shirt.;
, Once you print your images out, spread the paper with the images on them on a flat surface. Make sure you have something like a mat or some other type of padding between the surface and your paper. Place some freezer paper on top of your images. Use an x-acto knife to slowly cut around your images to create stencils with the freezer paper.If you're younger, have a parent cut out the images for you.
 You do not have to stick strictly to coloring inside your stencils when puffy painting a t-shirt. Get some larger brushes together. You can use these to splatter paint in a fun, spontaneous pattern around your images., Puffy paint can get messy, especially if you plan on splattering the paint. Find an open area that's easy to clean and put down things like newspaper over your surface in case paint spills or splatters.If possible, work on your puffy paint t-shirts outside to keep mess out of the house.
 Place your t-shirt on a flat surface. Place the freezer paper onto the shirt with the shiny side down, positioning it so the design shows up where you want on the shirt. Run an iron over the freezer paper once so it just sticks to the fabric.If you don't know how to use an iron, have a parent help you.
 For puffy paint, you usually do not need a brush.You can squeeze the paint out directly from the bottle.Squeeze out the puffy paint to fill in your stencils so you can create the design you want on your shirt.You don't have to strictly fill in the stencil using one solid color. You can do something like add small dots inside the stencil of alternating to form a fun, unique design on your t-shirt.
 If you want to add some spontaneity, squeeze some puffy paint onto a paper plate and dip a soft bristled brush in it. Shake the soft bristle brush over the t-shirt to create a unique, splattered effect on your shirt.If you are splattering paint, make sure the surface you're working on is covered in newspaper or a similar protective barrier.
 Once you've decorated the shirt to your liking, gently peel off the freezer paper. Do so while the paint is still wet to prevent the freezer paper from drying on your shirt., Puffy paint usually takes around four hours to dry. Put your t-shirt in a safe place during this time where it will not be disturbed. Keep it flat to prevent the puffy paint from smearing., After 72 hours, it's safe to wash your puffy paint t-shirt. Do not wash your t-shirts before the paint has had at least 72 hours, roughly three days, to set., Turn your puffy paint t-shirt inside out before washing it to preserve the design. Do not use fabric softener when washing a puffy paint t-shirt.