 Perhaps the most important decision is what material of doll hair you want. One factor to consider is the type of doll you are attaching it to. Is the doll made of fabric or plastic? Are you placing new hair onto the doll, or replacing hair? If you are replacing hair, you may want to replace the same type of hair that was removed.Yarn hair is often used on fabric and knitted dolls. It will match with the doll's appearance and will be easier to stick on the doll's head.
Synthetic hair is what you see on most collectible dolls, and plastic dolls like Barbie dolls. It looks like real human hair but is synthetic material.
You should be able to find synthetic hair and yarn at most craft stores. Synthetic hair may be slightly harder to find, however, so you may have to order it online.;
, Once you have a material chosen for your doll hair you need to decide what you want the hair to look like. Length is an important factor. Will your doll have short hair, medium length hair, or long hair?


Yarn hair is more often used for medium to long lengths but is sometimes used for short hair.Synthetic hair is versatile and comes in any type or length.
Think about the type of doll you're making, or the doll whose hair you're replacing. A baby doll may have shorter hair than a doll that's supposed to be an older age. If you're making a doll that's meant to look like a particular character, you should make sure your doll's hair matches the character. If you're making a Rapunzel doll, for example, you'll want your doll to have very long hair.
 The next question for your doll’s hair is style. Do you want to curl your doll hair, leave it wavy, or straight? Some doll hair material is easier to curl than others, and some doll hair looks better straight or wavy.


Yarn hair usually comes as a straight fabric but you can curl it by wrapping it around a small wooden dowel and setting it aside for a bit. When you unwrap the yarn, it should be curly.You can create almost any look with synthetic hair. You can buy synthetic hair that is already waved, curled, or braided from a craft store or online.
 To make the process easier it is a good idea to have all your materials purchased and ready to go when you make your doll hair. This way you will be well prepared. You can make your doll hair without interruption and admire your finished product. You will need:


A pair of scissors
A sewing needle or a sewing machine
Your desired doll hair material
Scotch tape
Flexible measuring tape
A hot glue gun (for yarn hair)
Tacky glue (for synthetic hair)
Tissue paper
A DVD case (for measuring yarn)

