 Open a new web browser tab or window on your computer, and go to icloud.com.;
, There are two text fields in the middle of the iCloud page. Enter your iCloud ID and password in the fields. Once done, click the arrow in the password field. You will be taken to the home page of your iCloud account.
 Locate and click “Find My iPhone.” You will be asked to enter your password for security purposes; enter it in the “Password” field, and click the “Sign In” button to proceed.
 After signing in, click “Devices” at the top left your screen. It will show the list of your devices that are connected with your iCloud account.
 Once you have chosen the device, it’s icon will be displayed on your computer screen. You will see three options under it: “Play Sound,” “Lost Mode,” and “Erase iPhone.”

, “Play Sound” can be used when you have placed your iPhone somewhere nearby, but you don’t remember where. Clicking on “Play Sound” will make your device ring at its highest volume so that you can find it by following the sound.
 “Lost Mode” is helpful when you think you have lost your iPhone. When this is enabled, it will lock your device. You will be asked to input a new passcode for your iPhone, so enter a 4-digit PIN in the provided field. Re-enter the PIN to confirm it.


After setting the passcode, you will be asked to enter the contact number that the person who has or finds your phone can call you with. Enter this into the “Number” field. When you’re done, click “Next.”
You will then be shown the message that will be displayed on your lost iPhone. You can edit the message if you want, and click “Done” to save. Your iPhone will then be locked and will display your message, along with you contact number, on the screen.
Your device will be inaccessible without the new passcode, but it can be used to call the contact number you provide.
 “Erase iPhone” can be used as the last option. When you think you have lost your iPhone and won’t get it back, you can use this function as a safety measure. “Erase iPhone” will erase all the data, including your applications, messages, multimedia, contacts, settings, etc., stored in your iPhone so that no one can access or misuse your personal data.

