 Past can’t be brought back and the future will always be uncertain. Today is yours, so make the most of it. Ask yourself 'if not now, When?';
, Your life is affected by the four aspects that are mental (brain), emotional (heart), spiritual (faith) and physical (body). Learn to maintain balance of the four aspects, for as Spice girls have sung, “Too much of something is bad”.
 The only person that suffers when you do not forgive is YOU. The other person is probably caring less of what you feel. Be kind to yourself and forget about it.
 The more you can adapt to change, the easier your life is because change can open bigger and better possibilities for you, if only you’d accept it.
 Seeing a new place let you discover and learn more of other things in your life. It helps you expand your perspective and horizon.
 The best way to live is through continuously learning. Try to be better than “normal” yourself. Keep expanding and growing.
 Just like the swimming lessons you’ve always wanted to take back in high school. Remember that you’d never be too old to learn and discover where you really can win and be happy.
 We should not wait for memories to happen, we should make memories happen. Find time to create memories with others. Make a note of each moment you do not want to forget, both the good and bad. Read your journal once in a while to see how far you’ve gone along. Surely, it will make you SMILE.
 The ability to retrieve a memory decreases exponentially unless boosted by artificial aids like photographs and videos. Start taking those pictures you’d like to look back in your old days.
 Nothing beats a cheerful heart and mind. Be happy regardless. Make the world a better place to live in. Start sharing your sweet smile.
 To learn more about yourself is by being more exposed in to new people and learning from them. It will help you and everyone else grow; we evolve at the rate of the tribe we are plugged into.
 The old saying would always be true, “The more you give, the more you receive”. Our value as human being resides on what we can give and not on our capacity of receiving. Start spreading goodness by giving.
 There’s no better stress reliever than the joy and positive feeling given by the free spirit of a young one.
 Listening to the old ones makes you a year wiser. Remember, the best way to learn and avoid extreme failure is through the experiences of others.
 Do not be afraid to make mistake. Most successful people have gone through multiple failures. A great treasure of wisdom is hidden on every failure.
 Life is full of chances and you do not live if you do not take chances. As they say, the higher the risk the higher possibility of success.
 Who said that boys and big girls don’t cry? You need to cry, it eases the burden and it'll make you feel better and/or fall asleep.
 Who wins in an argument? Keep yourself from arguments. Nothing is solved with a heated talk. Learn to listen to what others may say without necessary believing and taking them as true for you.
 Reward yourself for a days’ work. Take that break, you deserve it and you need it in re-energizing yourself to another day of work.
 The most stressed people are those who do not know how to work smart. Do not take the entire task to yourself. Remember, you are not alone in this world. Learn to maximize and trust the abilities of others. It’s not a weakness to ask for help.
 Don’t try to act like someone else just to please everyone. You don’t have to, plus you can’t. Stand firm to who you are. Eventually, you’d discover who are worth keeping in your life from those who are not.
 People don’t care how much you know, they want to know how much you care. Start caring and let the people know that you care. Remember, that relationship is more lasting than accomplishments and prestige.
 Take a time to be with yourself and be silent. Such can relax the fast-pace life you are in and helps you discover more of whom you are and who you can become.
 Life is a journey. As you go along your journey, set your maps. Discover the right you at the right place and time. To help you discover, ask yourself, “If there was no praise or criticism in the world, then who would you be?” Once you know the answer, you are right there.
 Do not live for yourself alone; remember that there are other people and creatures that surrounding this world. Even if unaware, every move and action you take creates an effect to others. Learn to take responsibility of your actions. And start contributing your knowledge and experience for the benefit of the whole world.

