 Demonstrate to the horse that it is in a positive atmosphere and that you are trustworthy. Pulling on the reins, kicking the horse’s side, raising your voice, or using your spur will only teach the horse that it is not pleasant to be around you.The horse will be less likely to respond to your commands and training efforts in a favorable manner if you are hostile, reactive, and harsh.


Be calm and consistent. If you speak to the horse in a calm manner, don't ride your horse when you are stressed, and practice consistency in the commands you give, the horse will relax, and eventually the relaxation will grow into trust., Shaping is a technique that is helpful for horses that do not know what response you are looking for.If you overstress what is incorrect, the horse’s excitement level will rise, which will interfere with its ability to think through and complete the command or exercise. When you use this technique, you gradually influence the horse to complete the desired behavior, rewarding it with praise each time it gets closer to completing the task. Slightly emphasize one of your cues to remind the horse of what you are asking it to do. This technique will minimize the horse’s confusion and distress.The shaping technique is useful when teaching your horse a new task. If you are training it to walk into a trailer, for instance, reward the horse for taking a few steps toward it. On the next go, you would reward the horse for walking up the ramp. Finally, reward the horse when the horse enters the trailer.This incremental system of rewards will help the horse understand your expectations.
 Consistency is key in training a horse and establishing good behavior. Be sure not to send your horse mixed signals by frequently changing your technique, cues, or expectations. If you are reprimanding your horse for a particular behavior, be sure to consistently correct it on each occasion. If you let it slide once, your horse may lose sight of the big picture and the lessons will be lost., If your horse completes a task correctly and does what you ask, give it a reward. Eventually, the horse will learn that it is beneficial and worthwhile to listen to your commands.The horse must believe that you care about it and its needs before it will perform the tasks you ask it to do.Reward a horse by stroking or scratching its neck or sides, praising it, or giving it a small piece of fruit or vegetable as a treat.