 Rugby requires full body strength, and the best way to develop your strength is simply by playing rugby. This activates you muscles the way they need to activate in a game, but you won't get the benefits if you're only giving 50% at practice. Rugby practice should be your fitness every day you go, and you should be prepared to give it all each drill to grow stronger., Each player on the field needs a slightly different toolkit in order to succeed. While every player should be able to run for at least 80 minutes and have good overall muscle mass, training to play prop is very different from training to play wing. Though each position has it's own needs, in general you can group training schedules by backs and forwards:



All Players: Core exercises, endurance training, strong quads, butt, and back.

Backs: Should focus on sprint training, being able to run near top speed even towards the ends of games. Strength training is imperative, but not so much that you lose speed and mobility.

Forwards: Need to focus on strength and mass. Bigger people make a bigger impact in the scrum and on rucks, and are harder to take down or get through. More of a forward's time is going to be in the weight room than the a back's.
 A rugby game is a constant ebb and flow -- sprint, jog, ruck, rest, jog, walk, recover (penalty call!), scrum, etc. While long, 3-5 mile runs are fine for general endurance, rugby players will get more out of interval training. Intervals are when you alternate short, high-energy sprints with jogging and walking. Some good routines to start with might be:


Sprint the try-line, then jog up the sideline to the other end. Sprint that try-line too, and repeat 5x. Rest and do it once more. Add an extra lap each day you train, or add the half-field or 22-meter lines into the mix.
Run at 80% top speed for 30 seconds, then jog for a minute. Repeat 10 times. As you get better, decrease your jogging time until you are at only 30 seconds.
Run up a set of stairs, then lightly jog done. Rest for 10 seconds at the bottom, then repeat.
Mix in push-ups, sit-ups, jumping jacks, and burpees (A push-up followed immediately by a jumping jack) during your jogs. Stop, perform the exercise for 30 seconds, then immediately keep jogging., Running, tackling, driving, jumping, throwing, diving -- a rugby player needs to be strong enough for almost any physical activity imaginable. This makes strength training a major part of any serious rugby player's schedule. While you should work with a coach or trainer to develop a routine for you and your position (a scrum-half, after all, should not be as bulky as a prop), there are a few exercises every rugby player should do. All of these exercises activate multiple muscles, meaning that you can even do them 1-2 per week in season to stay strong.


Squats
Deadlifts
Bench Press
Military Press

Power Clean, Plyometrics are bounding, jumping, and other explosive workouts. You usually do them with high-reps, getting your body used to the types of movements it would make in a game. What's more, you can often do these workouts without the aid of a gym. Focus on doing enough reps so that the last 5 of every set are difficult -- this is when you make the most gains.Try bounding, which is when you "run" 30 meters while keeping yourself in the air (both feet off the ground) for as much time as possible.
Box jumps
Pull-ups
Chin-up
Push-ups.

Core exercises., Your core is where you transfer energy from your top half to your bottom, and this sort of power is essential to turn the drive of your legs into a successful tackle with your arms. Try out:


Planks.
Abdominal holds.
 The English National Rugby Team has wrestling and judo coaches on staff, as the sport helps safely develop the grappling strength needed in mauls, rucks and tackles.Try out:


Swimming sports, like water polo. Swimming uses your whole body with minimal pressure on your joints.
Biking and running. They are essential for total endurance, and hill-sprints build valuable butt and quad muscles needed to drive back opponents.
Rock climbing. Scrambling effectively up a wall requires coordination, fine motor control, and serious leg and forearm strength that will make you more effective on runs and tackles.

