 Before you even think about the first book you want to offer for discussion, take some time to peruse existing online book clubs and check out what kind of software they are using. You don’t have to be a software engineer in order to create a website.;
, You might want to use a message board system, an email system or a blog. There are advantages and disadvantage to each option, and your choice should reflect the amount of time you have to devote to interaction. Again, look at a variety of online book club websites and think about which type of discussion forum appeals to you.
 Like it or not, first impressions still count. People see the graphics before they start to read the content. Experiment with colors and different fonts. Ask your family and close friends to look at your website, and ask them to navigate through it before it goes live. Listen to the feedback and work on making your online book group site an enticing stop for book lovers.
 Make your first book choice one that you are passionate about. Be prepared to keep the discussion going. If you can’t think of a list of questions, check out some reading group guides on the Internet. Here are some standard discussion questions you might want to use:


What do you think of the book’s title? How deep into the book did you get before you understood the relevance of the title? Did the title reflect the main themes of the book?
What are the key characteristics of the protagonist? How did the personality and life experience of the protagonist shape the direction of the novel?
Did the action in the novel parallel important events in history?
Did reading the book evoke any strong emotion in you? Did you cry? Did you laugh? Why? Was there one event in the novel that resonated with you deeply?

, Do some research on the author or the setting in the book. Add links to book reviews, positive and negative, and ask your members to comment on those reviews.
 It takes time to build up a membership, and your members will grow if you keep the content fresh and interesting. Keep all discussions active. Ideally, you will want to check in with your website multiple times during each day. Always provide new information so that your site doesn’t appear to be stagnant.
 Ask your family and friends to drop in and join in the discussion. Invite all your Facebook friends and all of your email contacts. Print your own business cards with the name of your website; ask the local book stores, coffee shops and libraries if you may leave your cards there.
 You can do this by following up on every comment so that your visitors don’t feel like they are being ignored. It’s up to you to keep the conversation flowing.

