 Words people use can give clues to their behavior. For example, if a person tells you they won "another" award, this provides a clue that they are insecure because they wanted to ensure you knew they'd won before. This tells you it would be effective to offer praise for accomplishments. It pinpoints an area of vulnerability.
Study whether a person's word choice matches their body language. Inconsistency can be telling. , It's possible to spot whether a person might be lying based on what they say. Consider their comments in context though, and always be aware that reading verbal cues is not foolproof.


Using a question to answer a question gives them more time to make up a story.
When people add qualifiers like "to the best of my knowledge" they might be lying. When people are lying, they will sometimes remove references to themselves, avoiding use of the word "I." When lying, people sometimes use the present tense to refer to past events.
Some studies have found that people who use more formal speech might be lying. For example, they might not use contractions or will use titles.
People who are guilty of something will sometimes use words that soften the act. For example, instead of a word like steal, they might use a word like borrow.
 The sounds people give off when they talk can be very revealing about their personalities.


People who talk too fast and too much are usually insecure or anxious. Sighing indicates sadness and frustration.
If a person speaks too slowly, they may be depressed or lack spontaneity.
If a person's voice changes pitch suddenly, they might be lying.
A repetitive tone of voice indicates insincerity. Men may vary their tone of voice more when they are attracted to a woman. , The average sentence contains between 10 to 15 words. This is known as the "mean length of utterance." Longer or shorter sentences than average is an indication of stress.
Some experts believe you can tell a person is lying if they deviate from the mean length of utterance significantly. They will single out those sentences to study more closely.

