 Unlike regular health insurance, long-term health insurance is designed to pay for long-term care, which may include nursing home care, in-home care or medical equipment. When evaluating long-term health insurance polices, you should carefully select a policy that covers nursing home care if you reasonably believe that you will not have someone to care for you at home should you fall ill and become unable to care for yourself.It is best to acquire long-term health insurance when you are younger and in good health. As you get older, long-term health insurance becomes much more expensive and many seniors are either unable to afford or qualify for a policy., Another way to pay for nursing home care is to cash in your whole life insurance policy. Certain policies allow policyholders to cash in their insurance policy for 50 to 75 percent of the face value of the policy.


Keep in mind that this is only an option for whole life policies, not term life policies where there is no cash value.
Depending on your individual life insurance policy, there are two ways that you can cash in your policy: accelerated benefit or life settlement.
If you qualify for an accelerated benefit, the insurance company will pay between 60 and 80 percent of the face value of the policy. Under certain policies, you may have to be suffering from a terminal illness in order to qualify for an accelerated benefit.
A life settlement is a policy payout that you negotiate with an outside company not the insurance company that issued the policy. These settlement companies look at the value of your policy, your age, and your health and pay you between 40 and 75 percent of the face value of the policy. Depending on the health and age of an individual, it may be possible to sell some term policies.
Before negotiating a life settlement, you should speak with an elder law attorney as there may be tax and Medicaid implications from receiving the proceeds of the policy through a settlement company. , While Medicare does not pay the cost of long-term nursing home care, you may qualify for a certain portion of the stay if you were transferred to a nursing home within several days of a hospital stay and you require skilled nursing or rehabilitative care. If you go to a Medicare-approved facility, your stay may be covered for up to 100 days.


Medicare will also pay for in-home care for a certain period as well. This coverage may help if you are trying to reduce assets or do not physically require full nursing-home care. 