 Attach the daffodil template first, then secure a 2-inch (5-centimeter) square of parchment paper on top with icing.

A daffodil template is an item used in cake decorating. It is a round sticker divided into six quarters. You can buy it in the cake decorating section of a craft store.
If you can't find a daffodil template, you can make your own by getting a round sticker label, and dividing it into six sections with a pen.
 Insert a cake decorating coupler into your icing bag, then a large, round tip, such as a Wilton 12. Place a cap over the tip, then fill the bag with medium consistency buttercream icing.You are using the coupler because you will be switching the tips out.
 Place the tip against the parchment paper, and use gentle pressure to squeeze out a mound about the size of a small coin. Make sure that it has some height., Pull off the large round tip, and replace it with a small round tip, such as a Wilton 3. Place the tip against the center of the mound, and apply gentle pressure to the bag while pulling upwards., It's okay if these dots aren't touching each other, but they all need to touch the one in the center. Use less pressure when creating these, and don't pull the bag up as much., Replace your small round tip with a curved petal tip, such as the Wilton 123 tip. Hold the bag at the 12 o'clock position on you flower nail. Tilt it at a 45-degree angle, with the wider end of the tip facing down and against the bottom edge of the mound. Gently squeeze on the bag and pipe out some frosting, rotating the nail by 1/3 of a turn. The petal should cover two sections of the template.A curved petal tip looks similar to the standard petal tip in that it is wider at one end, and narrower at the other. It is different in that it has a slight curve to it, like a ")".
 Wipe the tip down, and make a second petal, overlapping the first one. Finish off with a third petal, then wipe the tip down again.Wiping down the tip will clear it up, prevent it from clogging, and give you crisp, clean edges.
 Like before, make each petal cover two sections and overlap the previous petal. You will want to stagger the petals in this row, so start piping in the middle of one of the previous petals., Transfer the parchment paper to a baking sheet. Place the sheet into the fridge or freezer. Leave it there for about 15 minutes, or until the icing sets and hardens.