 Unfortunately, weeping cherry trees are susceptible to a variety of pest infestations. Aphids, borers, caterpillars and scale insects may attack the tree., Aphids, tiny soft-bodied insects that are usually green or red, can usually be controlled by spraying the tree with a strong spray of water from the garden hose. This crushes them and knocks them to the ground.


Aphids rarely manage to get back on the tree but, if they return, spray them off again. It may need to be done once or twice each week while the aphids are active.
 Borers leave holes in the bark on the stems and trunk. Usually the holes are not noticed until the borers have left. The top of the tree may wilt and the leaves may become discolored.There isn’t anything that can be sprayed on the tree to kill them.


However, you can use sharp pruners or loppers to remove the entire branch when borers are detected. Burn or dispose of the branch so that any borers left in the wood will not emerge to attack again. If the borers have weakened the trunk, the entire tree should be removed for safety.
 Scale insects are small, flat, immobile insects that are often off-white or brown. Remove severely infested branches with loppers or pruners and put them in the garbage.


Lighter infestations can be controlled with insecticidal soap.Mix 5 tablespoons of insecticidal soap in 1 gallon (3.8 L) of water. Put it into a sprayer and spray the tree until it is dripping, taking care to coat the undersides of the leaves and stems. Wash the soap off after an hour or two as it could damage the leaves if it is left on the tree.
 Caterpillars will make nests or tents in the weeping cherry branches and eat the leaves. Remove the nests by hand or with a long stick and put them in the garbage or step on them to kill the caterpillars.
 Weeping cherry trees can develop canker, crown rot, root rots, leaf spots, rust and verticillium wilt.
 Cankers are bacterial or fungal infections that cause darkened patches of bark that often ooze sap.Remove the entire branch with sharp pruners or loppers when cankers appear. If cankers develop on the trunk, it will be weakened and the tree should be removed for safety.
 These rots are caused by a fungal or bacterial infection. These infections take hold when the crown or roots are kept too wet. The most common symptoms of these diseases are wilting and yellow or brown leaves that may drop from the tree.


When weeping cherries contract these disease they often cannot be saved. Try digging the soil away from the crown and top roots carefully and let them dry for a while before watering again.
 Rust is a fungal infection that causes orange, powdery-looking areas on the leaves. Remove the infected leaves and clean up debris from around the tree.
 Leaf spots are brown or black spots on the leaves which are caused by bacteria or fungi.Remove the infected leaves and clean up debris.


Do not wet the leaves when watering as this is conducive to rust and leaf spot infections.

