 Even though the grilled cheese is cooked in a pan, you may need to put it in the oven briefly to melt the cheese completely. Make sure that the oven is hot enough in case you need it by preheating it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), which should take approximately 10 to 15 minutes.Pay attention to the oven so you know when it’s ready. Most models will either beep or flash an indicator light to let you know that the right temperature has been reached.;
, Take 1 loaf of round, crusty bread, and use a sharp knife to slice it in half horizontally. Trim the top and bottom crusts from the bread to create two large, round slices that are approximately 1 ½ inches (3.8 cm) thick.These types of round, crusty bread are sometimes called bread boules, and are often used to serve soups and dips in.
It can be difficult to cut a round loaf of bread, so be careful to tuck your fingers under when you're slicing.
 Once the bread is cut, use a butter knife to spread the mustard of your choice over one slice. Cover the mustard with ¼ pound (114 g) of thinly sliced Swiss cheese and ¼ pound (114 g) thinly sliced Monterey Jack cheese. Spread mustard on the other piece of bread, and close the sandwich.The mustard is optional, but adds delicious flavor to the grilled cheese. You can use your favorite type, such as honey, dijon, or coarse-ground.
You can use substitute any melting cheese that you like for the Swiss and Monterey Jack. Cheddar, American, pepper jack, or mozzarella are other options to consider.
You can add other fillings to the grilled cheese if you like. Bacon and tomatoes are classic additions, but you can be as creative as you’d like. Try adding ham, pepperoni, roasted red peppers, sliced apples, or even crumbled potato chips to your sandwich.
 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable or olive oil to a large, heavy-bottomed 10- or 12-inch (25 to 30-cm) skillet that’s oven-safe. Allow it to heat on medium-low for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the oil starts to shimmer.You can substitute butter for the oil, but butter burns off much more quickly so you may find yourself needing to replace it as you fry the sandwich.
 When the oil is heated, use a butter knife to spread 2 tablespoons (28.5 g) of unsalted, softened butter over the top of the sandwich. Place the sandwich in the pan buttered side down, and apply another 2 tablespoons (28.5 g) of butter to the other side of the sandwich that’s now facing up., Allow the sandwich to cook for approximately 3 to 4 minutes or until the bottom has become golden brown. Use a spatula to carefully flip the sandwich over so the cooked side is now face up. Cook the other side for another 2 to 3 minutes so it becomes golden brown too.Check the sandwich’s color regularly while it’s cooking on both sides to ensure that it doesn’t burn.
 When both sides of the sandwich are golden brown, remove it from the skillet and place it on a cookie sheet. Because it is such a large sandwich, all of the cheese may not be melted so put the grilled cheese in the preheated oven and let it cook until the cheese is fully melted, which may take 3 to 8 minutes.If the cheese is mostly melted when you take the sandwich out of the skillet, you don’t necessarily have to put it in the oven. The cheese will continue to melt a little if you leave it the pan off the heat.
 When the cheese is completely melted, use a sharp knife to cut it into four wedges. Place the wedges on plates, and serve.