 By far the quickest and easiest way to prevent the spread of measles is for every person who can safely get the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine to do so. The MMR vaccine is 95-99% effective at preventing infection and almost always gives immunity for life.Healthy people are generally able to receive the vaccine after they are about 15 months old, making vaccination a must for most families.


Like any vaccine, the MMR vaccine can have some side effects, though serious side effects from the measles vaccine are very rare. The measles virus itself is much more dangerous than any of these side effects. The side effects include:Mild fever
Rash
Swelling of lymph nodes
Sore or stiff joints
Very rarely, seizure or allergic reaction.
The MMR vaccine is not known to cause autism — a study from the 1980s that pointed to this possibility has since been discredited., Because the disease is highly contagious, a person with measles should be kept away from other people with very few exceptions. Infected people should not leave the house except for medical emergencies. School and work are out of the question — a single case can disable an entire office for more than a week if allowed to spread. Infected people should stay at home as long as needed to stop being contagious. Since this usually happens about four days after the rash forms, it's wise to plan for a week or more of absence.Be aware that it is unsafe for un-vaccinated people to even be somewhere that a person with measles has been recently. Measles virus can remain in tiny droplets in the air for up to two hours after someone with measles leaves the area., An effective quarantine is extremely important for the safety of certain types of people who are especially vulnerable to the virus. While measles is usually a prolonged inconvenience for healthy people, it can be a serious health risk for these at-risk populations, which include:Children who are too young to get the vaccine
Young children and infants in general
Pregnant women
The elderly
People who have an impaired immune system (due to HIV, etc.)
People suffering from a chronic disease
People suffering from malnutrition (especially vitamin A deficiency)

, As noted above, people with measles should come into contact with other people as little as possible — ideally, not at all. However, in situations where contact can't be avoided (such as when an infected person requires a caretaker or needs to receive emergency medical treatment), wearing a surgical mask can reduce the chance of infection.The infected person, the people s/he is coming into contact with, or both may wear masks.


Masks are somewhat effective because the measles virus transmits itself via tiny droplets of water that are thrown into the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes.Thus, putting a physical barrier between the lungs of an infected person and the lungs of a healthy person can help prevent infection. However, a mask is not a substitute for proper quarantine.
 As noted above, measles is usually not a serious health threat to healthy people. However, in rare cases (and in cases when measles infects someone with a compromised immune system), the disease can be much more serious — even sometimes lethal: in 2013, over 140,000 people died of measles globally (mostly un-vaccinated children).In the rare event that someone infected with measles begins to exhibit symptoms beyond the ordinary ones described above, rapid medical care is necessary. These include:Severe diarrhea
Serious ear infections
Pneumonia
Impaired vision/blindness
Encephalitis (seizures, confusion, headache, paralysis, hallucination)In general, a rapidly-declining overall physical state that shows no sign of improvement

