;
, If you don't have a large printer use many pieces of paper taped together (poster mode on some printers). To get it perfectly to scale will take some work. First print until you get a complete dimension that you can measure (may take several pages). Measure the length of the segment. Now multiply the height of the picture in pixels, by the labeled length of the segment and divide that by the actual measured length of the segment. This will give you your new height. Use paint to re-size to this new height and make sure you select Maintain aspect ratio. Repeat this step at least twice for maximum accuracy.
 Usually a butt joint is strong enough but if you want high quality use a biscuit or dowel joint. Remember if you are using two pieces thick to not put two joints together. Stagger the joints. From an end view incorrect looks like ├────┼────┤ four pieces meet at one point. Correct would look like ├────┬─┴────┤

, Tape the paper down and use a pushpin to make a small indentation following the line every inch or so for large radius' and straights and 1 every 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) or so for detailed areas. Play connect the dots with a pencil after removing the paper to get the shape of your body and the body cavity

, Finish it up with a drum sander. (remember the faster you move your wood on a drum sander the better the result. Always use quick repetitive motions.)

,, (If you are using a hardwood you MUST use a band saw to cut close to the outside of your pattern or the bit will grip the wood and destroy your guitar as well as possibly injuring you. Make sure the bearing is touching the pattern and go the correct direction for your router/bit. GO SLOWLY. Don't worry about burning the wood your going to have to sand it anyway.
 Don't do the neck yet, we'll get to that later. Before routing the cavities use a drill press to remove a good amount of wood to make routing easier. (Remember the less routing on a guitar the less chance to screw up)

, Test it on the neck to make sure it fits perfectly. Once it does carefully align the neck template with the rest of the body (THIS IS IMPORTANT it must be lined up accurately!). Use double sided tape to stick the template to the body then route the same as the pickup and body cavities.
,, Next look up how to wire and install the electronics and output jack and the bridge. You may want to colour it.

