 Eating foods with more anti-oxidants, and avoiding junk food can contribute to better sleep. Try adding fresh fruits, lean meats, and beans to your diet. Add foods incrementally so that you can tell which foods are most and least helpful for your body. You should consult a doctor before significantly changing your diet.


This can be a tricky change to fit into a budget, as often the best foods cost more or take more time to prepare. However, try adding one or two good foods for sleep or decreasing any food you know impacts your sleep, and you can attempt this step without spending too much extra.Tart cherry juice can help with sleep, if you drink one glass a day, as it may increase melatonin., Spending around 10-15 minutes in the sun will help trigger the hormones that help keep you awake. Again, unless you do shift work, you should be able to do this without affecting your budget.Getting enough sunlight is especially important in the morning, as early morning sunlight will help to regulate your circadian rhythms.Conversely, exposure to evening sunlight can delay sleep, so be careful when taking late evening walks if you want to go to bed early., Drinking enough water is essential for the basic functioning of your body, and yes, even sleep. Getting enough water during the day will help you rest more soundly. It will also keep you from waking up thirsty. Unless you insist on bottled or sparkling water, this step shouldn't add much to your budget.While drinking water is important for sleep, be careful not to drink a lot just before bed, as it can cause you to interrupt your sleep with repeated trips to the restroom., Exercise can your body with normal functioning, and can give you more energy. It has been linked to better sleep, but if you exercise just before you go to bed you may have more trouble sleeping. Try exercising no later than 3 hours before bed.This is another cost-effective way to help your sleep. Even walking for 15 minutes a day can improve your overall health., While not a lot of scientific testing has definitively proven the medical benefits of many supplements, many people find that they add to their relief. Costs for supplements can vary widely from melatonin and valerian at the lower end at 4 to 8 cents a dose to L-tryptophan at the other end at a whopping 45 cents a dose.The following supplements might be helpful:Valerian root may help with sleep problems, but it can also interact with sedatives and some antidepressants.
Melatonin has also been thought to help with sleep, but should also be taken with care, as it can interact with some prescriptions.
Omega-3 fatty acids are thought to help with sleep as well, but can affect blood-thinning medications. Although it is commonly found in foods, the high amounts in supplements require extra care.
With 5-hydroxytryptophan it is especially important to check with a doctor before beginning it, as it can have serious contraindications with MAOI inhibitors and SSRIs.
Chamomile is a supplement that acts a sedative, and so can help with sleep. It is important to take care when taking in higher doses, as it can cause vomiting, and allergic reactions for those who are allergic to ragweed, daisies, or similar allergens., They may be able to best help with choosing the supplements that are right for you. They can take into consideration your age, health conditions, diet and other medications and provide a safe and healthy plan for you to follow as you address your sleeping problems. Make sure you consider the following when making a decision about alternative care:Your primary doctor may be able to provide a reference for an alternative provider.
Many states have certification programs for alternative health professionals, the requirements for which can vary.
Your insurance may not cover all alternative health providers.

