 Understand that men are wired to focus on one thing at a time. Appreciate the likelihood that he will likely some difficulty in leaping from one topic to the next if there is no obvious segue between them.Rather than fault him for it, adapt your approach when you ask him to juggle more than one thing at a time. Communicate effectively while preserving his self-esteem.


If you approach him while he is working on something, ask him when he plans on taking a break so you can talk to him then. This way his focus will be on your conversation, rather than the task at hand.
If you request that he accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, allow him to come up with his own schedule (or work together to arrive at one that works for both of you). This way he should be better able to apply his singular focus to each task in turn.
Rather than ask him to engage in a whole bunch of new activities at once (like, say, ballroom dancing on Friday night, bowling on Saturday night, and kayaking on Sunday), suggest trying them as a series, one after the other (learning to dance this winter, bowling in the spring, and kayaking next summer).
 Resist the urge to feel offended if he wants to spend some time away from you on a regular basis. Understand that, at some level, men tend to evaluate all of their relationships as a contest for power. Expect them to look forward to disengaging from this mindset at the end of their school- or work-day.Establish a routine that allows him some time by himself, if only a half-hour. If the demands at home do not allow this on a daily basis, grant him some free time on the weekends to recharge.
If you live together, cede some physical space to him as well. Allow him to control the decor and functionality of at least one room to make it his. Failing that, designate a portion of one or more rooms to call his own.
 Expect him to take his life’s direction to heart, either positively or negatively. Understand that, even if he thoroughly enjoys your relationship, he may still feel depressed if his personal ambitions suffer from it. Be aware that this failure to succeed in other areas of life may lead him to believe that he is unworthy toward you, even if you consider him to be a godsend.Thank him through words and actions for his contributions to your life. Show him that you recognize any sacrifices that he has made on your behalf. Validate his time spent at a job or in a city that he doesn’t particularly like so that he thinks of it as a challenge met rather than a sign of failure.Be open to making sacrifices of your own in turn. If he proposes making a change in his life in order to achieve some relevance, hear him out, even if it means facing other changes that you would rather do without. Weigh the long-term benefits of his improved sense of self versus any short-term setbacks, such as reduced pay or less time spent together.

