 Taking care of your appearance will help you feel good about yourself, and staying clean is important while your body is changing. Create a routine for yourself that you stick to every day – it might not be the same as your friend’s routine, because everyone is different.


Bathe or shower every day.
Keep your hair clean. If you have oily hair, you might need to wash it every day or every other day. Otherwise, wash your hair 2-3 times a week so you don’t dry it out.Brush your teeth two to three times a day – after you wake up, when your breath is bad, and before bed. Floss daily and brush your tongue, as well.
Wear deodorant daily, shower after you get sweaty, and wear clean cotton clothes to help minimize body odor. Wear a fresh bra and undies every day., Keep your skin clean and healthy by taking care of any acne on your face, chest, or back. Talk to your doctor about medications if your acne is severe. Otherwise, try using non-greasy, hypoallergenic skin care products and a mild face cleanser on a daily basis. Wash your face in the morning and before bed.


Don’t overdo it on your makeup when you have acne so you don’t clog your pores.
 Whether or not you want to shave your legs, underarms, and private area is completely up to you. Long hair in your armpits and groin might trap moisture and odors, but showering regularly and keeping the area clean and dry should solve that. If you do shave, do it safely and hygienically:Use clean, new, sharp razor blades and plenty of shaving cream or gel (not just regular soap). Take your time and go slowly.
Do not shave your face. Pluck stray hairs with tweezers or try a bleach, cream, or wax. If you have lots of facial hair, see your doctor and ask about electrolysis to get rid of it for good., Maybe you just got your period for the first time, or you’re trying to figure out how to deal with cramps. Coping with your period can be easier if you’re well-prepared and have a hygienic plan.


Change your feminine hygiene product at least every 4-8 hours, and more frequently for heavy flow. On average, you probably need to use 3-6 pads or tampons per day. For heavier flow and at night, use longer, heavier pads with wings (side protectors) to prevent spilling. Change your pad or tampon every 4-8 hours, depending on your flow.Shower regularly.
Keep track of when your period is coming and be prepared with pads and tampons. You can sue an app to help you do this.An average cycle is 28 days, but this varies a lot. Keep a calendar to track the length of yours.
If you have bleeding that lasts longer than 10 days, severe pain that interferes with your daily life, or an irregular cycle, see your doctor.
 It’s important to see your doctor at least every year while you’re growing and developing. They will do physical exams and ask you questions about your health. It’s a great opportunity to ask any personal questions you have about your body.


Ask your doctor about getting the vaccines for chickenpox, hepatitis B, MMR (measles, mumps, rubella), meningococcal, polio, Tdap (tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis), and HPV (human papilloma virus).These are routine shots, but now that you’re getting older, you should take responsibility for your health and make sure you’re being protected.
Choose a primary care provider, or PCP – the doctor you will get to know and see regularly. Consider whether you want a man or a woman, any language needs you have, and whether they specialize in working with teens. Find your PCP by asking around for recommendations from friends or family, checking the Doctor Finder website of the American Medical Association, or calling your health insurance company for a list of providers they cover., Visit the gynecologist for the first time between ages 13 and 15, or whenever you start being sexually active. They will do a physical exam of your breasts and body, and ask you questions about your body and behaviors. It’s a great opportunity to ask them questions that you don’t want to ask your parents, and get accurate information that your friends might not know.Get tested for STIs at each visit if you’re sexually active, or if you have symptoms like itching, discharge from your vagina, or warts on your privates.
If you need a low-cost option, consider visiting Planned Parenthood. Many areas have other low-cost clinics, so research all the options in your area.
You will start to get pelvic exams at age 21 or when you become sexually active. Your gynecologist might also do a pelvic exam before then if you have discharge, pain, or itching around your vagina, if you bleed for longer than 10 days, if you haven’t gotten your period by the time you’re 15, if you’ve missed your period, or if you have cramps that interfere with daily life.