 The “sandwich” method of criticism is very popular because it offers positive feedback and constructive feedback at the same time. This makes it easier for people to receive without getting defensive or feeling badly about themselves.


Begin by mentioning positive things about the person or their work. Then mention the parts that need work, and then end on a positive note. This helps keep the receiver's self-esteem strong and keeps them interested in improving.
An example of a critique sandwich in a public speaking class could be, "I thought your speech was really convincing and motivating. It started off a little slow, and you could probably shave off a minute from the beginning to retain audience interest. Nonetheless, you made really strong arguments and your delivery was clear and convincing. I saw the audience nodding along by the end."

, The context in which feedback is given can have a big role in how it’s received. If you’re the person giving the criticism, as to speak to the person privately, at a time when they don’t feel too stressed or upset. If you’re the one receiving the criticism, you can ask to speak somewhere that you feel comfortable at a time that is good for you.Never give criticism in front of peers or coworkers.
You can always say, “Is this a good time?” or, “Could this wait until a better time?”

, If you feel you’re not being given constructive criticism, let the person know. You can explain the way the criticism makes you feel by using “I” statements. You don’t need to reject the criticism, simply let the person know what is difficult for you about it.At work, you can say, “When you said that I’m always late, I felt that was unfair. My timecard actually shows that I only showed up late once last week.”
You can also say something like, “I understand that my past behavior was really upsetting. However, I’d like to focus on the incident you’re talking about that happened this morning. Can we figure out a way that something like that could be avoided in the future?”

, If you’re the one giving feedback, make sure you think about what the other person’s intentions are. They’re more likely to take the feedback into account if it has to do with their personal goals. For example, if they want to get promoted to another department, let them know that the changes you’re requesting would be required for a promotion.If the person wants to be well-liked in the office, you can say, “I really want everyone here to get along and respect each other. When one person doesn’t pull their weight, that becomes difficult.”

, Tone can vary widely in constructive critique, but there is a difference between blunt and cruel. Because a constructive critic cares about improvement, they will not tear down the recipient. Ideally, constructive criticism is gentle enough to be taken in by the recipient. Blunt feedback can be okay, too. However, some people may bristle at it. Cruel feedback should always be avoided. For example, when working with a designer:


Gentle: "This is a really good start. While it would be great in most situations, for a company presentation it's a little brightly-colored. I would recommend using a plain white, off-white, or black font with a simple background, and maybe substituting some of the clip art with photos. Still, I found the text itself highly readable, and the organization is perfect."
Blunt: "Your power point had too much silly clip art and contrasting colors. Give me plainer text colors and more photos. Then you'll be good to go."
Cruel: "That looked like it was made by a thirteen-year-old who just discovered MS Paint. Too many bright colors and wacky pictures."

