 Earth Day is a good time to make a commitment to learning more about the environment and how you can help to protect it. Read articles to get up to date on the current issues affecting the environment, like pollution, water shortages, and climate change. Or, learn about a region you've never considered before, like the Arctic, the deserts, or the rain forests. Not sure where to start? Check out your local news sources for information about environmental issues in your own backyard.


Understand how climate change works, and what you can do about it.If you live in a city, look into urban environmental issues like contaminated drinking water and energy conservation.If you live near a body of water, do research to find out whether it's healthy or in need of help.Learn more about fracking, which is affecting many communities in the United States.Find out which species native to your area are under threat of extinction.;
, Think about the issues that concern you the most and if you haven't done so already, join a local group that undertakes activities to help protect the environment in your area. Earth Day is a great day to start getting involved. In almost any community, you'll find local groups that do the following:Host clean-ups of local bodies of water and their shores
Fight air and water pollution
Plant trees and install community gardens
Protect habitats under threat of getting developed
Can't find a group? Consider starting your own.
 Everyone has environmental knowledge they can share with others. Just talking about the environment with people who may not think about it that much is a good way to celebrate Earth Day. Talk to your parents, friends, teachers, siblings, and anyone else you'd like about the issues you care about most. Here are a few ways to educate others about the earth:


Give a speech at your local library on how to compost with worms

Take a group of children down to the recycling center to show them how things are recycled
Recite nature poems in the park
Offer to teach your office colleagues how to make environmentally-friendly choices at work during lunch hour
Encourage people to respond and if they have no opinions or they seem to not know much, help them learn some more by imparting your environmental knowledge in a friendly and helpful manner.
Get a group of friends to wear green and brown. When people ask you why you're dressed like a tree, take the opportunity to talk about Earth Day.
 Maybe your school, your street, or your local neighborhood is holding an environmental fair. If your community doesn't have one planned, consider starting one yourself. It's the perfect day to get together for a fun and educational celebration of the earth. Money raised can go towards a local environmental restoration project or to an environmental group agreed upon by all the participants running the fair. These offerings are common at Earth Day fairs:


Demonstrations of environmentally-friendly products
Children's earth-themed artwork
Healthy/locally grown foods to eat
Animal care demonstrations (including wildlife rescue)
Games for the children made of recycled products
Musicians and actors performing environmental music and skits
Stalls for recycling unwanted treasures and books
Local environmental organizations presenting their issues and wares.
 There are many Earth Day song lyrics available on the Internet. Most follow well-known tunes so people can easily sing along. These make a fantastic classroom activity and help younger children to become interested in environmental topics. iTunes has many songs about the Earth for downloading: try searching for words such as "planet", "Earth", "endangered", "pollution" etc.
 Invite friends and family over for a meal, and plan a menu that uses locally produced foods, is healthy and has minimal impact on the environment. Favor vegetables, fruit and other produce, as these use less resources to grow than mass-farmed meat. If you still would like meat, look for locally produced, organic meat. Try to have organic food completely.


To decorate for the meal, use recycled decorations made by you and your friends instead of buying brand-new decorations.
When you wash up after the meal, use the low-water dishwashing method. Teach those who are helping how to use it, too.
 Anything to help our environment is a perfect thing to do on Earth Day and every day. Don't restrict yourself to just one day a year; learn about how you can make a difference to environmental protection all the time. It's going to take a lot of work to heal our planet. Leading by example will help others remember that the earth is important every day of the year.

