 Tell your mental health professional how you are feeling in response to the medication. If you have been using a mental health application, use the data you have gathered from monitoring your response to the antidepressant.


If you use a diary, review your diary prior to visiting your mental health practitioner. By reviewing your diary, you will have a better sense of your moods, emotions, and responses to the medication.If you have been using the same antidepressant for a long time and it isn’t working like it once did, you should tell your doctor.Over time, your body may develop a tolerance to your antidepressant. This may cause your symptoms of depression to return. If you believe this is happening, talk to your doctor. They may adjust your dosage or change your medication.
 Using the information you gather from monitoring your mood while on the antidepressant, your doctor should be able to determine whether or not your antidepressant is working. Be sure to tell your doctor about any benefits you experience as well as any side effects that you are experiencing.


Tell your doctor if you skipped any doses. Skipping doses is one cause of a faulty antidepressant, so you need to communicate that information to your doctor.If you are taking other drugs or alcohol while on medication, you need to tell your doctor. This can be another reason for an antidepressant to stop working.
If you are experiencing severe side effects, you may need to switch medications.
Do not change your dosage or stop taking your antidepressant without consulting your doctor. Suddenly quitting the medication could worsen your depression or cause withdrawal symptoms. Your doctor can help you by slowly and safely decreasing the dose, if needed., According to a large study, only 37% of people got better after trying just one antidepressant.Your doctor should be able to determine whether or not your current antidepressant is working or whether you need to try a different type of medication.


The most popular antidepressants are SSRIs and SNRIs. Another common medication is bupropion, which belongs to a class of antidepressants known as NDRIs. Bupropion is used for depression, seasonal affective disorder and quitting smoking.In addition, there are older types of depression medications such as tricyclics, monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tetracyclics. People respond differently to depression medication so you need to work out a treatment plan with your doctor for your specific condition. You might need to try a different type of antidepressant if your current one is not working., Combining antidepressant drug therapy with mental health counseling like psychotherapy is usually more effective than taking the drug alone.There are multiple forms of psychotherapy that might help. These include:


Cognitive Behavior Therapy: this form of therapy helps you change your way of thinking by identifying how you currently perceive the world and yourself. The therapist will help you create healthier patterns of thinking.

Interpersonal Therapy: this form of therapy helps depression caused by family conflict, loss, relationship problems, social isolation, and major life events such as giving birth.

Psychodynamic Therapy: the therapist helps you resolve unconscious conflicts, like childhood trauma.