 In addition to guinea pig allergies, many people develop allergies to the hay that guinea pigs use in their cages. Before adopting a guinea pig, you and your housemates way want to talk to your doctor or an allergist to ensure that no one in your home will have an allergic reaction.One of the most common reasons people give up guinea pigs is an allergy, either to the animal itself or its hay/bedding.
Rule out allergies before adopting a guinea pig. That way you won't have to worry about giving up your family's pet.;
, Some people have the false impression that guinea pigs don't require much care or attention, but this is far from true. Guinea pigs live an average of six years. However, some guinea pigs live up to 10 years.In addition to regular cage cleaning, you'll need to spend time each day socializing with your pet. Because of this, guinea pigs can be a large time investment over several years.
Guinea pigs will also require proper nutrition and veterinary checkups. This can get quite expensive over the course of a guinea pig's lifetime.
 Adopting a new pet requires some practical considerations, like whether you can actually house animals in your home. Guinea pigs need adequate room to play and grow. A cage that houses two guinea pigs must be at least 7.5 square feet (2.3 square meters).Make sure you have room in your home to set up a cage this large.
 If you've decided to adopt a guinea pig, you may also want to consider adopting additional guinea pigs for your home. Guinea pigs are very social animals. Adopting a single guinea pig could leave your new pet feeling lonely, especially if it was previously housed with another guinea pig.Only adopt multiple guinea pigs if you have the space and the resources to raise these animals.
 Buying guinea pigs from a pet store creates more of a demand from breeders. This often leads to unethical breeding practices and inhumane conditions.Instead of buying a guinea pig from your local pet store, consider adopting one from your local animal shelter or rescue agency.Some rescue agencies deal exclusively with small animals like guinea pigs.
You can search online for animal shelters or rescue agencies. You can also ask your vet for recommendations on where to responsibly/ethically adopt a guinea pig.
 You should always conduct a visual inspection of an animal before bringing it home. Even if the shelter or rescue organization took good care of the animal, there's always a chance that it came from a home or breeder that neglected the guinea pig's health.Make sure the guinea pig's eyes are clean and completely open. Watery eyes are usually a sign of dental or respiratory ailments.
If the guinea pig's nose has any discharge, it could be a sign of an infection.
Examine the guinea pig's mouth to make sure it does not have any sores or crusts.
Crusting and/or white streaks in and around the ears is usually a sign of a fungal infection.
Check the guinea pig's feet. Any sores or dry patches could be related to an infection.
Look at the guinea pig's teeth and compare its incisor length to that of a healthy guinea pig. Overgrown incisors are painful and can lead to other health problems.
 It's very common for guinea pigs to experience problems during delivery.For this reason, it's generally recommended that inexperienced owners avoid situations in which their pet guinea pigs might breed.


Choosing guinea pigs of the same gender is one way to ensure your pets won't breed.You can also have your guinea pigs spayed or neutered to guard against breeding.
 Though the actual process of adopting a guinea pig will vary somewhat from one organization to the next, it's generally fairly simple. You will typically need to find a guinea pig you like, fill out an adoption application, meet the guinea pig in person, and pay the adoption fees.Be aware that many rescue organizations do not provide transportation carriers.
You'll most likely need to bring a carrier with you to the adoption so you can safely transport your new pet to your home.
 The standard cages sold in pet stores are generally not recommended by guinea pig experts for use with these animals.Your pet will need adequate space to live and play, which means you'll need a larger cage.


If adopting one guinea pig, you'll need at least 7.5 square feet (0.71 square meters) of cage space, though more space is better. A 30 inch by 36 inch (76 centimeter by 91 centimeter) cage is ideal.If adopting two guinea pigs, you'll need around 10.5 square feet (0.98 square meters) of cage space. Look for a cage that's 30 inches by 50 inches (76 centimeters by 127 centimeters).
With three guinea pigs you'll need about 10.5 square feet (0.98 square meters) of cage space, but some experts recommend a cage size closer to 13 square feet (1.2 square meters). Try to get a cage that measures 30 inches by 62 inches (76 centimeters by 157 centimeters).
When adopting four guinea pigs, you'll need even more room. Your cage should be at least 13 square feet (1.2 square meters) and measure about 30 inches by 76 inches (76 centimeters by 193 centimeters).
 Your guinea pig will need a balanced diet in order to grow strong and healthy. That diet should include packaged guinea pig pellets, hay, and fresh fruits and vegetables. Before you bring your pet home, you'll want to ensure that you have the right food picked out and ready.Your guinea pig's daily diet should be composed of roughly 80 percent hay, 10 percent store bought pellets, and 10 percent leafy greens.
Guinea pigs cannot produce their own vitamin C. Bell peppers are a good source of vitamin C for guinea pigs that won't introduce too much sugar into their diets.
For treats you can feed your guinea pig a small piece of cucumber, carrot, or fruit. Do not give your pet more than a half-inch (1.25 centimeter) piece of fruit or vegetable, and only give treats a few times each week.
 Once you've adopted a guinea pig, you'll need to get it checked out by a veterinarian. A vet can help you with spaying/neutering your guinea pig, as well as checking it for ringworm and other diseases.You can find a vet in your area by searching online or checking your local phone book.

