 People want know that they matter and that they're worth a little extra effort from time to time.


Give a compliment. Express admiration for something about the person. Make your comments genuine and specific. Go one step further and focus on things that are central to their personality "I really admire your courage in that situation" rather that things that are situational "You did a great job of stopping that argument."
Lend a hand. There are some dread tasks that we all must face--moving, meeting an impossible deadline, reviving a dead car battery. Making yourself available to help out--even when it's not convenient--can earn you someone's gratitude and affection.
Offer support. Freely give you emotional and moral support to someone when they need it. Make them feel valued by always be on their team

, It's not about "buying" someone's affections; instead, giving a token present can express your interest in someone's well-being or let them know that you're in tune with what's happening in their lives.


It really is the thought that counts. When you give someone a little gift, it lets them know that you're thinking of them and that they're important to you.
Let your gift reflect life events. A key-chain says, "Congratulations on your new car," a bouquet of flowers can brighten someone's difficult day. Staying focused on what's going on the lives of people you care about can give you ideas for gifts that are meaningful.
Make something yourself. You don't have to be a master artist to make a card, decorate a picture frame or bake some cookies. Taking the time to make a gift really expresses your friendship or affection for someone.
 While you may have connected with a common interest, chances are you won't share every like, hobby or activity. That's fine....it's good actually because you can get to know a whole other side of a person if you're willing to make a little effort.


Attend an event or learn about your friend's hobby. You don't have to become an aficionado yourself, but being able to talk about it intelligently and with some degree of interest shows your friend that they're important to you.
Be willing to learn. If you're open to learning something new, go ahead and be the student. Allowing someone to teach you something makes them feel good about themselves and helps to create a bond between the two of you.
Even if someone's passions leave you absolutely bored, refrain from putting them down or making fun of the activity. It clearly means something to your friend; therefore, it deserves your respect.
 Unexpected notes, text messages and photo shares can help you stay in touch and create mini-opportunities to connect.


Send a text wishing someone luck before a big exam, important meeting or job interview. They'll appreciate the thought and the support.
Snap a photo of something funny and send it on. That little lift can make a difference in someone's day and remind them that you share a similar sense of humor.
Don't forget birthdays. Put a note in your calendar to remind you to send a card or give a call on the special day.

