 Just say, "You're beautiful." You don't need anything more complicated. Look directly into the person's eyes, and earnestly tell them what you think. Say it with a smile.


Try qualifying your words with a superlative. Say, "You are absolutely beautiful," or "You are so beautiful."

, There's nothing wrong with a simple, "You're beautiful," but you can also make your statement more poetic or romantic by choosing your words more carefully. Be aware that some people might prefer a simple and straightforward compliment, whereas others with a more lyrical bent might swoon over grand words.


Use a synonym for beautiful: gorgeous, stunning, breathtaking, lovely, radiant, or exquisite. Make sure that you understand the subtle connotations of the word that you use.Instead of simply stating that this person is beautiful, try telling them how their beauty makes you feel. Say, "You are so beautiful that I can't take my eyes off of you," or "My heart beats faster when you look my way.", Some people are attuned to vocal patterns and body language to the point that they can tell when someone is saying something "just to say it." The compliment need not turn into an over-dramatic production – but try to keep it authentic., One way to tailor your statement to this particular person is to point out something unique that makes them beautiful. This could be anything: eyes, hair, smile, skin. Go deeper than the skin, and try to compliment his/her personality. Beauty means much more than looks.Say, "You have the most beautiful smile. It always brightens my day." Try saying, "Your eyes are absolutely stunning. I get lost in them." Tell him/her, "You have such beautiful hair!" or "Your skin is flawless."
If this person gets a lot of compliments for his or her beauty, try pointing out the features that don't get complimented as often. The person may spend a lot of time on their hair or makeup. However, they might be be especially flattered if you find something to say about their ears, their hands, their nose – or their personality.
 If you aren't sure how someone feels about you, then you might say that he or she is "cute" or "pretty." These words may not have the same heft as "beautiful," but that might be a good thing if you aren't sure. On the other hand: if you truly think that someone is beautiful, then it might be worth your while to suck up your courage and tell them exactly how you feel.

