 If your house is older, your windows probably allow air to seep in. Single-paned windows don’t insulate as well as newer models. You can save up to $465 a year by replacing old single-pane windows with energy-efficient ones.In the U.S., several tax credits are available for replacing old windows with energy-efficient models. The US Department of Energy has a full list of these credits here., When chosen wisely, a skylight can provide beautiful natural light to your home while reducing your energy consumption. It’s important to consider your home’s position in order to maximize your skylight’s benefits. Consult a designer or architect.An eco-friendly skylight is more than a hole cut in the roof with some glass in it. Many energy-efficient skylights exist on the market, but they should always be professionally installed to make sure that they are safe and efficient.
 Hardwood floors add value and beauty to a home, but many of the trees used in hardwood flooring take years to grow. If your house is up for a new floor, consider using sustainable materials such as bamboo instead. Bamboo grows very quickly and takes less land to produce, but it’s still attractive and durable.


Cork is another sustainable wood flooring option. Cork is softer than bamboo, so it absorbs noise and feels cushiony underfoot. It is sometimes less durable than bamboo., Shade trees can reduce the amount of energy you spend to cool your house on hot summer days. If your property doesn’t already have shade trees, this is a step that will take some time before you see the full benefit.In addition to providing shade, trees absorb huge amounts of carbon dioxide and release oxygen. A single tree can produce enough oxygen for four people in a single day.If you’re building a new construction home, try to work around existing trees. You could even incorporate them into your house design, such as building a deck under a huge shady oak.
Place deciduous trees (trees that shed their leaves annually) near the south and west sides of your home. This will help them block harsh afternoon sunlight in the summer, but let sunlight reach your home during the winter., This helps reduce your home’s energy consumption. It can also extend the life of your roof. These roofs are especially good for people who live in hot climates, since they reduce the need for air conditioning.Cool roof coatings are available at many home supply stores and warehouses. These coatings are like extremely thick paint and can be applied fairly easily. They are usually white or very light-colored with reflective pigments that reflect, rather than absorb, sunlight. (It is not recommended to apply cool roof coatings to shingle roofs.)
If you have a steep-sloped shingled roof, consider replacing your current shingles with cool asphalt shingles. These shingles have specially fabricated granules that reflect sunlight.
If you have a metal roof, it already reflects a lot of sunlight. However, these roofs absorb a lot of heat, which can increase your energy consumption in the summer. Painting your metal roof with a light color or using a cool roof coating can increase its energy efficiency.
 Composting toilets usually do not use water to “flush” like traditional toilets. They can also recycle many types of human waste into fertilizer that can be used in agriculture. While they are initially more expensive to install than traditional toilets, they are far more eco-friendly and will eventually pay for themselves.Composting toilets are usually easiest to install and maintain in a rural or suburban setting. If you live in an apartment or urban high-rise, it may more difficult to install and maintain a composting toilet.
 Materials such as cedar naturally repel pests and water. They are also durable and low-maintenance. Replace old aluminum siding with a more sustainable option.There are other eco-friendly siding options, such as fiber cement board and particle board. These are durable and sustainable. Look for products that have been manufactured without formaldehyde.
 Because it takes all these factors into account, a whole-house systems approach can drastically reduce your energy consumption.Many designers and architects have experience in whole-house systems approach construction. Visit the National Association of Home Builders for more advice on finding a design team.