 You weren’t put on this planet to gain approval. You are unique and valuable just the way you are. If you want to become more social, do it because you want to, and not because anyone else thinks you should.


For example, when you want advice, look to the best person who can tell you what you should do, and that person is you. You know yourself better than anyone else and understand what you are comfortable with. When you learn to start trusting your own advice, you’ll likely find that you won’t feel the need to ask others anymore.;
, When you begrudgingly try to behave in a manner that is out of your comfort zone, you’re likely going to regret what happens. You may end up engaging in something that is against your values. Instead of enjoying yourself and growing from the experience, you may be disappointed in yourself.


If your friends try to pressure you into doing something you’re not comfortable with, simply tell them “no.” For instance, you could say “I appreciate that you want me to have fun, but this isn’t something I enjoy. I’m going to pass on this and I need you to accept and understand that.”
If they won’t stop pressing the issue, remove yourself from the situation.If you're experimenting with new activities, or if you're unsure if something is in line with your values, take the time to reflect on how you feel afterwards. Check in with yourself — you might find you enjoyed something unexpectedly, or you may decide that particular activity is not for you.
If you're trying to figure out who you are, try journaling, which can help you get to know yourself and your values, which will help you make decisions in the future.
 Introverts may not be good at spending long amounts of time at busy parties, but they are excellent at many other things. Instead of focusing on what you don’t think you’re good at, or what makes you feel uncomfortable, take time to embrace what you excel at.


For instance, introverts are usually excellent listeners and are pros at sympathizing with others. They are also typically self-sufficient, highly focused, and have the ability to create meaningful and deep relationships., Being around lots of people can make an introvert feel depleted. You may need to use alone time to recharge. When you’re feeling tapped out, take some time for yourself so that you can be the best person you can.


If you have to cancel an outing with your friends because you just aren’t up to it, be honest. Tell them, “I’m sorry I can’t join you today, but I’m feeling drained and need to spend time recharging. I would love to hang out with you another day.”
If they don’t understand, there’s nothing you can do. Doing something you don’t feel comfortable with will only cause problems for you, and it’s just not worth it.It may be helpful to look at your schedule and and set aside designated "alone time" each day or week. Try to plan these so that they follow activities you expect to be draining, such as after a party.

