 If you have identified areas of inflammation on your cat's body, you should have it looked at by a veterinarian. This is especially true if the areas of inflammation are obviously causing your cat pain or are open wounds.Call your veterinary office and tell them about your cat's symptoms. Ask for an appointment as soon as possible, so that your cat's discomfort can be soothed. However, skin inflammation is not usually a life-threatening medical emergency, so waiting a day or so for your cat to be seen is reasonable.;
, When you bring your cat to be seen by a veterinarian, they are likely to ask you all about your cat's symptoms. Give them all the information that you have, including when you first noticed the inflammation. Once the vet looks at the cat, gives it a thorough exam, and comes up with a diagnosis, you can discuss the case further and ask any questions you have. Some conditions that might be causing your cat's skin inflammation include:Flea infestation
Seasonal Allergies
Food allergies
Eosinophilic granuloma complex (which is a skin issue caused by an abnormal immune response)
Ringworm
Environmental factors (for example, the chemicals used in your home)

, Depending on what is causing the skin inflammation on your cat, treatments will vary. However, veterinarians will likely prescribe some sort of topical antibiotic to clear up any infections on the skin's surface.Follow your veterinarian's directions for how to and how long you should apply this medication.
Common antibiotics that might be prescribed include Thiostrepton, bacitracin, gentamicin sulfate, neomycin sulfate, and polymyxin B., Your veterinarian may prescribe an anti-fungal medication to treat your cat's skin inflammation if they think that it is caused by a fungus. For example, if your cat has a ringworm infection, your veterinarian will likely prescribe a topical anti-fungal medication, such as miconazole or thiabendazole.Anti-fungal drugs can be administered on the outside of the body, such as in the form of a shampoo, or systemically, in pill form., Parasites are also common causes of skin inflammation, so your veterinarian may prescribe a anti-parasitic medication to eliminate this kind of infection. For instance, if your cat has a flea infestation, your veterinarian will prescribe an anti-parasitic flea medication for the cat. Your cat's skin irritation could also be caused by other parasites, such as mites, which would also be treated with an anti-parasitic medication.

