 When you speak to someone, you make eye contact with them. This shows that you are listening attentively, and that you are focused on the conversation. This rule applies for girls as much as it does for boys. By making eye contact with her, you show her that you respect her., Listen to what girls have to say and avoid dominating the conversation. Conversation between two people is give and take. After you say something, give her a chance to respond. When she is saying something, wait until she finishes speaking to respond. If you are truly listening, your response will be relevant to what she has said and add substance to the conversation. Try to practice active listening, such as by:Using neutral statements to show you are paying attention, such as “yes,” “I see,” and uh-huh.”
Asking probing questions to keep her talking, such as “What happened next? “How did that make you feel?” and “What are you going to do now?”
Restating to ensure you understood what she said, such as by saying, “It sounds like you are saying ____. Is that right?”

, Basically every culture has some version of “The Golden Rule” that basically says “Treat others as you would like to be treated.” Well, this is applies to girls as well. Using degrading and disrespectful slurs (anything from calling her a “gold digger” to implying that boys are smarter than girls) is not an appropriate way to talk to, or about, girls. Take some time to reflect on your attitude towards girls to help you determine what your biases might be.


For example, do you tend to associate women with certain careers? Behaviors? Or social roles? Are you skeptical of women in positions of power? Try making a list of things that you might consider your biases against women.You should also make a point not to condone this behavior out of other people. If a friend is being disrespectful towards girls, point it out and correct them., Avoid obsessive swearing, passing gas, burping, etc. While it’s best practice to avoid this things around any person, girls tend to be less amused by these behaviors than boys. Accidents happen, for example, a burp slips out after dinner, and that’s okay. Say excuse me and move on.Try to practice good manners, such as by saying please and thank you, paying attention during conversations, offering help, and opening doors.
The point is to avoid being deliberately rude, not to be a robot.

