


Guide visitors through your property by using walking paths. They will more likely go where you want them to go and avoid areas you'd rather they not be.
Have walking paths that allow you easy access to garden sheds and other utility areas.
Walking paths can lead to an outstanding feature or view. You can position a gazebo,an arbor or fountain at the end of a pathway. Try not to have paths that lead to nowhere.
Walking paths add beauty and visual interest to your garden. They tie your garden design elements together.;
,


Use a measuring tape to calculate how much material you will have to purchase to pave your pathway.
Gently curving paths are visually appealing and interesting for the walker to navigate. Straight walking paths are good for very formal gardens. You might also keep the main access path wide and straight while allowing for smaller, curving adjoining pathways.
Use garden hose or some other material to lay out the shape of your pathway before you begin to dig or pave.



Allow 2 to 3 feet (0.91 m) (60 to 90 cm) in width for the average walker. For two people to walk side by side, the pathway width should be 4 to 5 feet (1.2 to 1.5 m) (1.2 to 1.5 m) wide.
Be sure the path is wide enough for a wheelchair or stroller if necessary.
Make certain your garden path can accommodate wheelbarrows, lawnmowers and other garden equipment.



Your walkways can be simple grassy lanes, made of elaborate stone or a combination of many materials.
Landscape pavers come in all shapes, sizes, colors and prices. Visit your local garden or building supply store to explore your choices.
There are many choices for natural stone as well although this material can be expensive. Flagstone is a good choice.
Think about using mulch or pea gravel for your garden walk. These materials are less expensive but also less durable and will need to be reapplied from time to time. Perhaps use these for less used paths and a more substantial product for your main walkway.
Concrete is a very permanent material to consider although it often looks less attractive than other choices. Stamped concrete might be an alternative. Be sure when using this material that you won't want to change the location or direction of the path in the future.
Bricks and cobblestones can be used for your path. Or consider a combination of materials such as brick and concrete together.
Make sure the material you use for your walk will be safe. Ensure that the pathway doesn't become slippery after a rain, for example.
 The walking path can be a divider between various gardens.
, You can hard-wire your lights or use inexpensive solar lighting. Spotlights can be positioned in trees to add interest and beauty or placed where there are steps for safety. For occasional lighting to use for an evening party, for instance, use luminaries or string small lights along the pathway.
 You might think about using a weed barrier fabric before laying paving material.

