 If you aren't sure, or if you haven't had much dating experience, you might not be able to give this guy a solid yes or no answer right away. Tell him that you need to think about it, but that you'll give him a definite answer in the next few days. Try not to keep him guessing for too long – if he really likes you, he'll be anxiously awaiting your reply.


Make sure that you give him some sort of answer, even if you just explain why you can't give him a more definite answer yet. It takes courage to ask out someone that you really like, and the least you can do is acknowledge that you're thinking about it. This is especially important if he asks you out via text, email, or instant messaging: if you don't reply, he will have nothing to do but speculate!

, Make sure to only ask people that you trust. Describe the situation, explain why you aren't sure, and weigh out the pros and cons of saying yes or no. Remember: you don't need to take anyone's advice, but it might help you better understand your own feelings. If you don't feel comfortable asking anyone, make a list of the pros and cons and try to decide on your own.
 Try to make your response as close as possible to "yes" or "no", especially if it's conditional. Once you've thought through your choice, get the guy one-on-one and tell him what you've decided. If you can't get him alone face-to-face, send him a text or an instant message.


You don't need to explain your thought process, especially if had major qualms about going out with this guy. If you're comfortable doing so, however, it might help the guy understand why you took so long to answer him.
 There's no rush. You don't need to date him right this instant; if he respects you, he'll be patient and wait until you feel comfortable.


Tell him, "I like you, but I want to get to know you better before I commit to a relationship. Let's hang out as friends and see what happens."
If you want to say yes, but are not ready to have a relationship yet, you could say "I want to date you. I want to hold your hand. I want to kiss you, but I don't think I'm ready for a relationship yet." Give him a small peck on the cheek to show you mean it.

