

If you are close to two stations, boarding at the station earlier in the line can allow you to get a less crowded car. Note that this is particularly important if the station you usually board at is a tipping point station.
The flip side is that the cost and time for travel may increase a bit. The details depend on whether your transit system uses a fixed fare or variable fare model, and, in the case of variable fares, on the specifics of how the different origin stations differ in terms of the fares to your destination.
 For instance, you might consider a brief ride to a station that is earlier on your line, by boarding a train in the opposite direction. Essentially, ride in the opposite direction as far as needed so as to get before the tipping point.


With most mass transit systems, within-system transfers are free and you therefore do not incur any additional direct financial costs. However, the Paris Metro is an exception: for many stations, you need to exit the system in order to be able to board the train going in the opposite direction (however, for those with unlimited passes, which are not too expensive in Paris, exiting and re-entering the station imposes no additional cost). Therefore, make sure that you have confirmed that it is possible to switch to the line in the other direction at no additional cost before you consider this strategy.
This strategy increases your total travel time for two reasons: you now have added a two-way journey to a point farther up the line, and you have added an additional transfer between trains.
The strategy does not decrease the overall crowdedness of your train car. It may, however, allow you to get seating space in your train car.
Any benefits you accrue in terms of getting a seat are nullified at your next transfer point. Thus, this strategy does not make sense for a short first leg of a journey.


This strategy may be relevant if your subway system has many different crossover points for transferring between lines. Examples of subway systems with sufficient complexity to make optimization useful are those of Paris, Beijing, and Seoul. In fact, there is empirical evidence of significant numbers of people taking longer routes in Seoul to avoid crowds.