 Mix 1/3 cup instant grits, two tablespoons coconut milk, two tablespoons dried cherries, two tablespoons chopped pistachios, and 1.5 teaspoons brown sugar in a resealable container. Toss in a pinch of cardamom and a pinch of ginger, if you have them.When you’re ready to eat, unseal the container and add ½ cup boiling water. Mix the water in.
Wait about two minutes, then eat.
 Amaranth is a small seed with high levels of calcium, iron, and protein. In a porridge, it is not unlike overnight coconut grits, but requires a bit more preparation. To get started, heat one pound of assorted, chopped berries, one tablespoon of vanilla, and ½ inch piece of peeled and minced ginger over medium-low heat.After about five minutes, turn off the heat.
In a separate pan, heat two cups of amaranth (soaked overnight and then drained of water), three cups coconut milk, two cups coconut water, ¼ teaspoon salt, and ¼ cup coconut nectar.
When the mixture is boiling, whisk in 2.5 teaspoons cinnamon. Reduce heat and simmer for 35 minutes.
Spoon the porridge into a bowl. Top with nuts and more berries if you desire.
 Coconut pancakes are basically the same as regular pancakes, but instead of water, use coconut water. Just mix one tablespoon sugar, two tablespoons unsweetened shredded coconut, one cup whole wheat pastry flour, two teaspoons baking powder, and ¼ teaspoon salt in a large mixing bowl.Pour one cup coconut water, one egg, and 1.5 tablespoons butter into the dry ingredients. Mix the ingredients together to form a batter.
Place a nonstick pan over medium heat and scoop the batter into the pan in quarter-cup spoonfuls.
When you see bubbles forming in the surface of the pancake (usually after about three minutes), flip it over onto the other side. Cook the other side for about three minutes. You won’t be able to see bubbles on the cooked side.
When the pancakes are done, put them on a plate and repeat with the rest of your batter.
If you have leftovers, place them in the fridge in a resealable container and consume within 48 hours.

