 If you are allergic to milk, you should not drink it under any circumstance. But this means that you need to be diligent in avoiding products made with milk as well.This includes butter, buttermilk, casein, cheese, cottage cheese, cream, custard, half-and-half, sour cream, whey, and yogurt.;
, Some foods, even those marked dairy free, are made with milk or milk products. It is important that you read all labels on food products extremely carefully if you have a milk allergy.Avoid products with a “D” on them or "dairy" following the circled K or U for kosher. This means they contain dairy.
Make sure you read all the ingredients on food labels because sometimes products that contain milk products can still be marked dairy free. However, in the United States, all products that contain milk in them are required by law to list milk on the label.
Don’t rely on looking for advisory statements like “may contain milk” because these are voluntary and not required by federal labeling laws.Additionally, some products are exempt from these labeling laws – like foods that aren’t regulated by the FDA, cosmetics, prescription and over-the-counter medications, and pet food. Carefully inspect these products before you allow a child with a milk allergy to touch or ingest it.
Many processed meats contain milk as well.
 Milk allergies often emerge in childhood/infancy, which means that discussing this with your child is a crucial part of preventing reactions. Even if your child is very young, you need to stress the importance of avoiding milk and milk products to them.Start by explaining to your child that there are some foods that can make them very sick. You can use terms like “safe food” and “unsafe food.”
Teach them what foods are “unsafe foods.” Show them what gallons of milk and tubs of butter look like.
Tell your child that they should only eat things given to them by a trusted adult and that they should not share food or take food from other children at school. They should also be taught to find an adult for help if they start feeling sick.
This includes letting your child’s teachers and friends’ parents know about their milk allergy so that they don’t inadvertently serve your child something with milk proteins in it.
 If you can't stand to be away from milk because you love cereal in the morning, then try soy milk instead of milk from cows. Using alternatives will allow you to keep your cereal without the symptoms.Soy milk is comparable to cow’s milk as far as protein content goes. It is also lower in fat content than some of the other milk alternatives.
Some people warn against drinking too much soy milk, though, because of the various ingredients like phytoestrogen, phytic acid, and synthetic vitamin A included in the soy milk., This kind of milk alternative is fortified with calcium and B12 vitamins, so it’s a great supplement for those who have to avoid milk products. You can buy sweetened or unsweetened variations, but just be wary of too much added sugar in your diet if you choose the sweetened type of almond milk.It’s also a good source of vitamin D.
 Coconut milk is a great substitute for animal milk. It has a slightly sweet taste and can contains added calcium that your body needs. Coconut milk is typically lower in protein than other kinds of milk alternatives and has higher levels of saturated fats.This kind of milk is a little bit thinner than other kinds, so you’ll use less of it when cooking than a recipe usually calls for.
 Milk and other dairy products are an important source of many nutrients that people, especially children, need – like calcium, protein, vitamin D, etc.Try vitamin supplements to help regulate your diet.
Also try to consume more broccoli, spinach, and soy products as this will also help you maintain a well-balanced diet.
 Infants who are formula-fed will need to be given a milk-free formula, such as a casein-hydrolysate formula.Check the label carefully to ensure that it is milk-free and check with your child’s pediatrician if you are not sure., A milk allergy is a condition that affects your immune system. When you are allergic to milk (usually to specific proteins found in milk), your body views these substances as foreign invaders that need to be fought off.Lactose intolerance is a condition that affects your digestive system. It occurs when someone is unable to properly digest the proteins found in milk and other dairy products.
 If you are allergic to milk, your body will let you know through a variety of symptoms. These symptoms will probably get increasingly more severe as time goes on if you keep consuming milk. Some symptoms of milk allergies include:Wheezing
Coughing
Hoarseness
Tight Throat
Stomachache
Hives
Swelling
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Itchy or swollen eyes

, Consuming milk when you have a milk allergy can also lead to anaphylaxis, which is a medical emergency. Someone who has this type of reaction needs an emergency injection of epinephrine immediately and you will also need to call 911 (or emergency services in your country) right away. Symptoms of anaphylaxis include:Difficulty breathing due to constriction of airways and throat swelling
Facial flushing
Itching
Shock from drop in blood pressure

, If you know what items have milk in them, you’ll be better able to avoid it. Obviously, many products contain milk and milk proteins. If you fail to be cautious with the food you eat, then you could suffer from increasingly bad symptoms as a result of your milk allergy.You should also stay away from yogurt, shakes, cheese, cream, whey, and any other milk product.
 If you suspect that you or your child are allergic to milk, talk to your doctor immediately no matter how mild the symptoms. These symptoms may worsen over time, so it is important to catch the allergy in the beginning before your symptoms become too severe.Your doctor can counsel you about whether or not you are allergic, what to do if you are allergic, and how to get the proper testing to confirm that you are allergic to milk.
 Once your doctor recommends you to an allergist, you will probably get either a skin-prick test or a blood test to determine if you have a milk allergy. Both tests look for traces of immunoglobulin E antibodies, which are a sign that you do, in fact, have a milk allergy.A skin-prick test is just what the name sounds like. Your skin is pricked by a little probe containing some milk extract and the doctor waits to see if your skin reacts to it – usually within 15-20 minutes.

