 You will want to stake out a few study spots you can come to as you prepare. Figure out what to look for when you're seeking out a space to study.Look for a quiet area that's free of outside distractions. Your dorm room, for example, may be a poor spot to study as you'll be tempted by your television, computer, and other entertainment devices.
Look for quiet spots away from loud noises. Is there a quiet coffee shop on campus? Is there a place in the library that's somewhat removed? You don't want to try to study in a place that may be interrupted by loud noises and gatherings.
 You should not study in the same spot every day. It can be draining to stay in the same spot for hours on end. You may retain more information if you break up study sessions between multiple study spots.Pick several suitable places to study, whether at home, around town, or on your campus.
Switch up where you go to study. Try a different spot every day or every few days. You can even change study spots in the middle of a session if you begin to feel restless.
Changing your study spot may actually help you better retain information. Your brain may learn to associate material with a particular environment if you only study in one place. You may have trouble remembering that information after leaving that location.
 Many people feel they study more effectively with music in the background, or while periodically texting friends. This is actually not the case. You’re far more likely to retain information if you study without outside distractions.Do not bring any materials you don't need to a study session. If you don't need your laptop, for example, leave it at home. It may be a good idea to leave your cell phone behind or at least power it down while you study.
Study groups can be effective, but if you choose to study with friends, pick friends who are focused. Do not study with friends who are likely to distract you.
 You will retain information better if you study it in a logical fashion. People tend to learn best if they study from concept to detail. Break your notes up into the different concepts they cover.For example, if you're studying for an English exam, organize your notes by different genres of literature or fields of literary study.
Do not jump in and try to remember every detail of a poem. Instead, learn the overarching ideas of a particular school of thought and then learn the specific ideas of different literary scholars.
 This can help you have an overview on hand to guide your studies. Once your notes are arranged in a logical fashion, read through them. Highlight and underline important details and make a brief outline reviewing the notes you took throughout the semester.You can outline your notes based on major topics. In a big lecture class, it's not uncommon for the professor to discuss a major idea over the course of many class periods.
You can also work on circling, highlighting, or underlining any information you'll need to have memorized. This includes things like names, dates, and vocabulary terms. You can write down this information on a separate piece of paper and use it to make note cards or flashcards later on.

