 No matter what your reasons are for pursuing surgery, you should discuss all of your options with a gynecologist. Your gynecologist can judge whether less invasive treatments might work (either as short-term fixes or long-term solutions) and make a final recommendation about vaginoplasty. He or she can also make sure you understand the risks and have realistic expectations about the results.Get a second opinion. If your gynecologist recommends vaginoplasty, consider seeing a second specialist. Don’t worry about offending your gynecologist; a good physician should understand – and even encourage – the desire to get a second opinion.
Ask for recommendations. Friends, family, and even coworkers can point you in the direction of a trustworthy physician.
Don't be afraid to ask questions about alternative treatments. It is unlikely that a doctor will pressure you to have surgery unless it is medically necessary, but be prepared to be your own advocate.
 If you plan to have children, it’s usually advisable to hold off on vaginoplasty. Unless you have a major medical complication, like a severe prolapse, ask your doctor for other treatment options. Additional vaginal births will stretch your muscles again, and undo some of the surgical results.Talk to your partner about your family plans. Have you discussed whether or not you will have children? Now is a good time to have that talk.
If your doctor deems surgery a medical necessity, consider alternatives. You could later pursue surrogacy or adoption.
Make sure that you discuss your reproductive plans with your doctor. That information could influence his recommendation.
 If you are having trouble deciding, speak with a therapist. This is a good idea especially if you are considering vaginoplasty for sexual reasons or because you think it will increase your confidence or self esteem. A therapist can help you sort out your reasons and decide whether vaginoplasty is worth the risk.Some experts recommend that you consult a therapist even before you talk to a doctor. A good counselor can help you find your true motivations.
Many women pursue vaginoplasty for cosmetic reasons. Your therapist can help you figure out the root cause of your desire for surgery.
A therapist can also help you manage your expectations. You can also use this resource post-surgery, if you decide to have a vaginoplasty.
 Many insurance companies consider vaginoplasty a cosmetic procedure. For this reason, many plans will not cover the cost of a vaginoplasty. Talk to your insurance provider about your specific coverage.If your surgery is a medical necessity, ask your doctor for advice. The hospital might have experience in these sorts of matters.
Decide if you can pay out of pocket for the surgery. The cost is generally between $4500-8500.
Talk to your doctor's office about payment plans and estimated costs. Then look at your budget to determine if the cost will work for you.
 Take your doctor’s advice into account, but know that unless there is a serious medical condition related to your vaginal muscles, you are really the only individual who can decide whether the benefits outweigh the risks. Make the decision that feels best to you. Once you have made your choice, move forward with confidence.Think about what is best for your body. If you think the surgery is worth it, go for it.
Don't rush the decision. This is not a choice to be made on impulse.

