 This will prevent any additional water from entering the hose from the water pipe.;
, This procedure will remove any blockage of water in the garden hose and allow the water to flow freely. Kinks can also cause holes in the lining of your garden hose if they are not straightened out.


Walk along the length of your garden hose starting from the water spigot and straighten out every kink along the way until you reach the opposite end.
 This will prevent any leftover water inside the garden hose from freezing and damaging the lining.


If you have a spray nozzle with a handle attached to your hose, depress the handle to spray out any remaining water from the inside of the hose.






Remove any attachments from the head of your garden hose, such as a sprinkler head of spray nozzle, and allow any remaining water to drain from the open mouth of the hose.
 This will prevent the end of the hose from freezing to the spigot and allow you to store the garden hose during cold weather.
 This procedure will help remove any water that has collected in the middle sections of your garden hose.


Grab the end of the garden hose you recently disconnected from the spigot, keeping the mouth of the hose elevated to allow any remaining water to drain down the length of the hose.
Keep each section of the garden hose elevated as you continue to walk down the length of the garden hose. This will allow the water to drain fully out of the other end of the hose when you reach the other side.
When you reach the end of the hose, keep the hose elevated until the water starts to drip slowly from the mouth of the hose or until it stops dripping completely.
 This will prevent the hose from becoming bent or kinked for the duration of storage.


Bend the end section of the hose into a loop that spans roughly 3 feet (0.91 meters) in diameter.
Continue to wind the remaining length of the hose in the same direction of the loop while maintaining the size of the loop.
 This will prevent it from cracking or freezing even without water remaining inside the hose.


If your garage or outside shed reaches freezing temperatures, place your garden hose in your basement or another warm room inside your home.
Place your garden hose in a large bucket or hang it on a garden hose hanger. You can use any storage method you prefer, as long as it prevents your hose from becoming kinked.

