 You might need a license to keep game birds in your home or the landlord might not appreciate you keeping some quail in your house. Think about your neighbours as well, male coturnix quails can be noisy at times and your neighbours might get annoyed.


While your on the topic, think about whether you can actually afford to keep quail in your home. Quail take up space, time, money and come with a lot of responsibility. On the bright side they are fairly easy to look after.;
, Whether you are raising the quail for eggs, meat, and breeding or as a simple pet, there are various breeds depending on which purpose you choose.


Coturnix quail are the best starter breed, as they are easy to care for. Also, jumbo coturnix lay big eggs.
Button quail make great pets but they lay little eggs that most people wouldn't consider worth eating due to the small size. Though they are great breeders and some have bright and colourful feathers that are great for show.
Bobwhite quail are a common kept quail breed and normally kept for breeding or meat. They are also fun birds to look after and can be tamed.
 You can normally buy quail from a breeder, online or possibly from a local pet shop.


Keep in mind that you should always purchase from a reliable breeder or pet shop. It’s also good to know how to tell the difference between healthy and unwell quail.
 Quails are social birds that will easily get lonely, which is why they are much happier when housed with a friend. Even if you are going to play with your quail often, they don't consider you as a friend or partner.
 Whilst quail have a large choice of housing such as rabbit hutches, rodent cages and bantam runs, they do have a few requirements, but after setting up the housing you can bring your quail home!


Each quail should have at least one square foot of floor space or more, depending how much you can or want to give them. Remember, the bigger the cage the happier the quails!
Place bedding in the quail's home. Most bedding materials are suitable to quail, but they do need hay or straw to make nests with.
Provide a water container and a feeder for your quail. Fill the feeder with a high-quality feed, and supply fresh and clean water ready for your quail to come home.
Place a few extra items in the housing for your quail such as hamster huts, plants and a sand tubs. After this, your quail is sure to be happy!

, If you are going to care for quail the last thing you want to do is go through the trouble of caring for an ill quail and trying to raise it back to health. Some tips on telling which quail is healthy and which quail is not can be seen below:


The quail shouldn't be huddled up. If it is so, this means that the quail is too cold or sick.
The quail should have clear and alert eyes. If the quails eyes are cloudy or dull, then the quail has something wrong with it.
The quail should be active. Quail are cautious and curious creatures that should also be quite afraid of you, unless tamed. The only time quail should be asleep is when it is night time, or when the room is very dark.
The quail shouldn't be panting. If this happens, this means that the quail is hot or is dehydrated.
The quail shouldn't be sluggish or slow. Unless the quail is sleeping in the night (or the room is dark) they should be moving at a normal pace and very awake.
The quail should have feathers on its back, neck and body. If the quail doesn't have feathers on its back, neck or body it means they are stressed or have been fighting. Keep in mind that if the quails are bald on their heads this doesn't mean they have been fighting or are stressed, it also means they have been mating which is mostly common during the mating season.
The quail should be free of mites. Mites are little black bugs that live on quails. They are usually seen on the head or under the wings. If the quails have mites it means they aren't cared for properly or the cage isn't cleaned out often.
The quail shouldn't be bleeding, injured or moving funnily. This means the breeder is obviously very bad at taking care of quail and doesn't pay attention to them very much. Also, you don’t want to buy an injured quail that moves funnily.
 The bedding, housing and feed and water bowl should be clean. The quail should also be fed a high-quality feed and the water should be clean and clear.
 Keep in mind that each quail needs at least one square foot of floor space, and males shouldn't be kept together due to fighting. They also need time to settle in, so if you don’t get any eggs from your hens and the quails chase each over now and then, this is all natural and should soon be over in about a week or two.