 Divide your content into major points and use them to set up an outline and develop subpoints underneath the major points. Starting with an outline will help you organize your thoughts and help you get starting in writing the actual wording of the lecture.Try to organize for consistency and include a relatively equal amount of information, subpoints, reflective questions, and sources for each larger unit of your outline.
 Introductions and conclusions are even more important for verbal lecture than written content because, unlike a written paper, the audience likely won’t be able to go back if they missed something. The introduction should prepare the audience for the most important parts of the lecture and the conclusion should restate those essential parts. The statement of purpose should clearly outline the functional value of the lecture. For example, say “By the end of this lecture, you should be able to apply the Pythagorean theorem to calculate the length of sides of a triangle.”
Directly state the purpose of the lecture in both the introduction and conclusion.
 Try to work in elements of your speech that are directly engaging the audience. The best way to do this is to include open questions in your lecture and offer an opportunity to for listeners to answer or give their thoughts. Interactive elements will keep your audience involved and give them an opportunity to apply the information or skills they’re learning.You can also organize activities for break out sections. You can break your audience into groups and have them and have them debate a subject against other groups or have them review separate case studies. This works specifically for a classroom lecture.
Ask an open-ended question that requires your audience to reason their answer like “Why do you think that Britain declined to recognize the Confederacy during the American Civil War?”

, Try to anticipate parts of your lecture that might be confusing and specific questions that the audience may ask. Where you do anticipate confusion, do your best to clarify each part of the information and make time to respond to questions or concerns. You should also try to demonstrate the concept in a practical way. For example, if you’re explaining a difficult math formula, do work out several problems while clearly explaining how the formula applies.If you’re having trouble determining this on your own, ask a friend or colleague to review it and determine areas of confusion.

