 Go through the different nozzles included with your manual vacuum to find one that fits the blackhead you’re trying to get rid of. On manually-operated models, nozzles tend to be easy to attach and detach, simply sliding into place. You may need to twist the nozzle attachment after sliding it in in order to secure it.


There may be a removable rubber ring that fits onto the end of the vacuum’s nozzle to enhance suction. Make sure this ring is fitted snugly over the nozzle.
Sterilize the tip of the nozzle with rubbing alcohol prior to use to avoid spreading bacteria to your pores.
 On the rear end of the vacuum you’ll find a long plunger that slides into the shaft of the vacuum. When you push this plunger in, it engages the spring mechanism that’s responsible for creating suction. You’ll then be able to suck out blackheads one at a time by making separate passes.Push the plunger in until the stopper rests against the rear edge of the shaft. Listen for a click as it locks into place.
When the spring mechanism is released, it will create about a pound of pressure—enough to yank most stubborn blackheads out of their hiding places., Rest the tip of the vacuum over the blackhead you’ve got your sights set on. Make sure the tip is pressed firmly up against your skin, with no spaces for air to enter or escape the nozzle. This will be easiest to do when the vacuum is held at a ninety degree angle.If the tip of the nozzle doesn’t form a seal, it won’t be able to generate suction needed to extract the blackhead.
 In one smooth motion, slide the shaft of the vacuum toward your face so that the nozzle is pressed into the area around the blackhead. This will extend the plunger, creating pressure on the surface of the skin that will force blackhead gunk up through the pore. From there, the vacuum’s suction will lift out the blackhead whole.There may be slight tinge of discomfort as you activate the vacuum. This happens because the suction is concentrated on such a small area of skin. To alleviate this discomfort, make the action as quick and smooth as possible.If the vacuum works the way it’s supposed to, you should be able to see whatever dirt, oil or pus it’s collected inside the transparent inner chamber of the nozzle.
Rinse out the nozzle with soap and hot water after each use to clean it.

