 You may feel like you should have “gotten over” your parents divorce long ago, or that their divorce shouldn’t bother you if it happens when you’re already an adult. It’s actually quite normal, however, for people to have strong residual feelings about a parent’s divorce, not matter your age or how long ago it occurred.Anger about your parents’ divorce may even increase as you become more aware of how it affected you and your family.
You may have more questions as you become more aware as well. Ask your parents these questions to prevent them from leading to resentment.
 More to the point, you must insist that they do not put you in any negative situations. A risk of being adult with divorced parents is the tendency to end up playing mediator. This might happen either because you feel like you should or because one of your parents puts you in situations where you have to act as a mediator. Either way, this is unhealthy, and you need to avoid doing so. Tell a parent that pushing too much information or responsibility onto you that they need to talk to a friend, counselor, or lawyer instead.Remind yourself that you are not responsible for helping your parents through a divorce.
You may even need to articulate this by saying something like, “I am sympathetic about what you’re going through and I want you be happy. However, it’s unhealthy for me to be in the position you’re putting me in. There are other people it would be more appropriate to have this conversation with.”

, Even in scenarios where one of your parents made some really poor decisions, it is unhealthy to side with one of your parents over the other. In fact, it is likely that you do agree more with one of your parents than the other, particularly if infidelity, financial mismanagement, or alcohol abuse contributed to the separation. In these scenarios, it’s better for everyone to try to stay on positive terms with each of your parents.If one of your parents starts speaking poorly about the other – even if what they’re saying is accurate – ask them to stop.
Try “I love you both, and it hurts to hear this” or “I love you and I’m also hurt that this happened to all of us, but I need to have a positive relationship with both of my parents.”

, If one of your parents had been abusive to you or your other parent, do not worry about "taking sides." In this context, you and any other family members that had been victims of abuse should do everything you can to support one another.Further, do not seek to maintain a relationship with a parent that had been abusive.


If you want, tell an abusive parent that it may possible to rebuild your relationship in the future, once they've significantly changed their behavior.
Reach out to a mental health professional or law enforcement officer whenever you believe someone is being abused, including yourself. While it may be hard to accuse someone you love of abuse, remind yourself that allowing abuse to continue will hurt people you love even more.
 You may not like some of the things you realize about your parents, and may even have to confront some realizations that upset you. Do not let these feelings, nor the actions of your parents, dictate what you believe about romantic partnerships in general. Every relationship is different, and it’s important to remind yourself of this when you find yourself comparing aspects of your parent’s relationship to your own.Watch out for thoughts that regard tumultuousness in your own relationship as evidence that all relationships are “doomed” from the start. Many children of divorced parents are inclined to have these thoughts, and they can have negative repercussions on otherwise healthy relationships.
If negative sentiments such as these arise, then there are things you can do to change your negative thoughts, such as by identifying the thoughts and actively rewriting them as positive thoughts.
 Do not hesitate to meet with a mental health professional if you’re struggling with any intense emotions. Persistent sadness, melancholy, loneliness, an inability to concentrate, or simply a recurring uneasiness can all be addressed by speaking with someone. Best of all, therapist can recommend a counseling program where you can speak with others that have had similar experiences.See a therapist soon if you’re experiencing waves of rage. These may be directed at nothing in particular, or accompany thoughts about one of your parents.
Keep in mind that a therapist is not biased, and may be able to see a situation more clearly from the outside. They also will always consider your personal health and safety to be their main priority.
 The distance between you and your parents has likely grown as you’ve grown up. It may be even greater if your parents have split up. However, it is still important to try to maintain contact with both of your parents if you are able to do so. Occasionally, make a call or send an email to let each of your parents know you care about them.If your relationship with one of your parents is more strained, they will still be happy to hear updates about your life. Shoot them an email letting them know of any big news in your life, and let them know about the next thing you’re looking forward to.
It may be rough between you and your parents for a while. Remind yourself, however, that putting in the effort to rekindle relationships that have been damaged by divorce may empower you to develop stronger and more meaningful relationships that you have had before.

