 You have the right to advocate for yourself and to be clear about what you consider to be an acceptable way to speak to you.If you can, try this while the person is alone. If they are around their friends or in a group, they are going to be more likely to continue to lash out at you because they think they have to in front of their friends. They may be more likely to be straight with you if they are alone. Try to use a mild tone when asking these questions.


”Why do you keep attacking me?”
”Are you okay? You've been lashing out at people lately, and usually people only do that when there is something they are upset about.”
”Why are you trying to hurt people? Does it make you feel better about yourself?”
”What are you getting out of this?”

, Almost all the time people get bullied for reasons that are completely not their fault. If it is a friend or former friend though, you may want to check and make sure you didn't do anything to draw out their attitude towards you. Ask genuinely and gently.


”Did I do something to you? Is that why you are acting like this towards me?”
”What have I done to you to deserve you saying that?”
If they respond with something you did to hurt them, apologize.
 Respond with something humorous, whether it is sarcastic over-exaggeration or straight humor, it will show them that you do not take them seriously and that you are strong enough to laugh at yourself.They'll also likely be really surprised and not getting the reaction they want, they might move on.


”Apparently you are very concerned with my style and appearance. I had no idea you cared so much!”
Laugh and say “You know, I gotta give it to you, that was a good one.”
Smile and say “I think you can do better than that, what else have you got?”
Don't join in on the jokes and don't make fun of yourself just to please the bully. But do take the power away from them by showing that they are not getting to you.
 You don't want become a bully. The urge to snap back or insult them too is probably going to be high.

Remind yourself that you don't want to be like that person, and responding with an insult towards them would make you just like them., Talk to someone you trust anytime you are bullied. If the person you trust is not an authority figure just make sure you report it to an authority figure, too.This is important for your safety and the safety of others that person may be bullying. Additionally, you should talk to someone about what is happening to you. It is brave and courageous to try and find a solution to this problem especially when you are in the middle of it. Talk to:


Your parents.
The school principle.
A school counselor or independent therapist.
A teacher you trust.
 Bullies tend to target people they think are weak. By making a strong, bold, move the bully will definitely think twice about targeting you.Research has shown that bullying thrives in social situations where it is “allowed,” so change that about your situation.You'll additionally be helping others who have been bullied or who are too afraid to speak up.


Start an anti-bullying program or group in your school.
Support an anti-bullying project or fundraiser.
Be outspoken about bullying, talk to teachers about anti-bullying policies in your school.

