 Before you can figure out how to downsize, remove everything. Having everything set in front of you will give you a sense of how much you have, and allow you to find very old items you have not used in years., Before you begin throwing things away, you should figure out what you need to keep. Go through every pile of items and pick out the items that you absolutely cannot throw away.Be strict with yourself here. You need to identify items you need over items of sentimental value. While you can certainly decide to keep non-essential items later, it's important to start off by identifying everything you need.
Only keep items you need. This means items you wear regularly. If you haven't worn an item in months, it may be worth keeping for a variety of reasons. However, for the time being, strip your wardrobe to the bare essentials to get a starting point.
 First, look through all your clothing. Find anything you have not worn in six months and set it aside.Sort through these items. Some of them are probably items you're not going to wear again. For example, you may have an outfit that was for a particular occasion that you don't care for. You can donate this, give it away, or throw it out.
Other items you have not worn in awhile may be worth keeping. For example, items for warmer or colder months can be stored elsewhere instead of thrown out. An item that has sentimental value can be kept, even if you probably won't wear it again. You also may want to keep expensive items. Even if they no longer fit, or if you no longer care to wear them, you could sell them later on.
Try to be strict, however. Get rid of as much as you can in your current wardrobe.
 If it doesn't fit now, you probably don't need it. Don't count on something fitting later if you're trying to save space in your closet. If an item no longer fits you, you should donate it or throw it away. You can always purchase new clothes later if your size changes in the future.However, you may be working on losing weight and have some goal outfits in your closet. These are okay to keep, but it may make sense to store them elsewhere until you reach certain weight loss milestones.
 Many people find they have accessories that they simply no longer use. If this is the case for you, start getting rid of accessories you don't need. Review your collection of things like belts, scarves, and jewelry and determine what you should and should not keep.You may be surprised how many accessories you no longer use. Most people, for example, only have a few good belts they use. You probably have a lot of belts you can simply toss.
There may also be accessories that were given to you as gifts that you never cared for. As it's unlikely you will ever use these items, it's okay to throw them away or give them away.
 Only keep as many hangers as you need. Hangers can take up space in the closet that could otherwise be used for hanging clothes. You should also remove any hangers that are very thick, as these take up space unnecessarily.If you foresee yourself buying more clothes soon, you can store extra hangers elsewhere. Put them in the basement or attic or store them under your bed, for example.

