 Drinking water will help your body to combat the congestion by thinning the mucus in your lungs and make it easier to cough up the mucus. It will also keep your body hydrated.Tobacco smoke slows the movement of the tiny hairs (known as cilia) that line our lungs and help to remove mucus. When you stop smoking, these hairs become more active and start to clear away the mucus built up in your lungs. This can result in increased coughing for a few weeks after you first quit.Drinking orange juice and other natural fruit juices will provide your body with the vitamins and minerals it needs to combat congestion.
Avoid alcohol, coffee, and sodas which can contribute to dehydration as much as possible.;
, Dry air can irritate your lungs and increase your coughing fits. The steam produced from a hot shower or bath can moisten the air passages in your lungs and thin out the mucus., Keep your head angled at 15 degrees by placing one or two pillows directly underneath your head. This will minimize mucus draining into your throat which causes coughing at night., Facial steamers produce similar results outside the shower, directing the steam from hot water directly into your airways and lungs. Pour six cups of hot (almost boiling) water into a bowl. Make a tent over your head with a bath or hand towel. Place your nose and mouth over the bowl and inhale deeply.


Add three to four drop of eucalyptus oil to the water. Eucalyptus oil has both antibacterial and analgesic properties and acts as an expectorant, loosening phlegm that causes coughing.Add a few drops of peppermint oil to the steam to benefit from its soothing menthol agent.
Professional facial steamers are also available at your local drugstore.
 Chest rubs, such as Vicks Vaporub, can help alleviate feelings of chest congestion via its menthol properties (the active agent in peppermint). Menthol can also reduce feelings of shortness of breath. Although the benefits from these products can be largely psychological, they can help alleviate the symptoms (but not the cause) of chest congestion.Never apply the rub directly under your nose or used on infants or children under the age of 2. The active ingredient in many chest rubs, camphor, can be toxic when ingested., If you don't have any aversion to a pill-based solution, Mucinex will significantly reduce any chest congestion you may suffer from. The medication thins and loosens mucus in the airways, clearing congestion, and making breathing easier.Mucinex is designed for temporary relief of congestion and cold-like symptoms. It's important to consult your doctor before you use it to treat smoking-induced congestion or coughing.
 Coughing will help to loosen the phlegm from your lungs and will help you recover from chest congestion. Allow your body to cough, and stay away from over-the-counter cough medicines.