 Herbs are always happier in the ground than in pots—as long as they get enough sunshine and have enough space to grow. So you’ll need to find a spot that is sunny and roomy.


Most herbs are happiest with full, day-long sunlight. But if you live in a place where the summer heat is regularly above 90 degrees, you might to better to find a spot that’s sunny for at least four hours in the morning or evening and shady when the day is at its hottest. Make sure you check how much sun each type of herb you plant needs in order to be happy. Different types of herbs need different amounts of sun.Make sure that you know how big your plants will get and how much space they need to reach their full potential. You can usually find this information on your seed packets or on the tags that came in your potted herbs. Count how many plants you have and multiply it by the amount of space each one needs in order to figure out how big your garden needs to be., Dig 10 to 12 inches into the dirt you’ve plotted out for your garden, then use a gardening fork to turn over the dirt. This step is very important, because the dirt in your yard is hard and doesn’t allow water to drain or plants to stretch out their roots. When you’re done, mix a layer of compost into your soil. Then, level off the ground in your garden plot with a rake.The best herbs grow in a neutral to slightly acidic soil. If you’re not sure that your soil is good for an herb garden, you can use a soil test kit to test it. If it turns out that your soil is bad for an herb garden, don’t fret! You can always set up raised beds and fill them with better soil., Dig holes that are deep enough for your plant’s entire root system to be completely underground. Make sure that you leave plenty of space in between holes for your plants to grow. Great herbs never have to fight each other for resources., Remove a plant from its container by turning the container over carefully and tapping on the bottom. Then you can pull the plant out gently by the base of the stem. Gently place your plant into its hole so that the base of the plant is even with the ground. Then fill in the rest of the hole with dirt and press down the top layer of soil.


Water your plants a couple of hours before you transplant them to reduce shock and make the soil in the container more manageable.
For the best herbs, transplant when the day is overcast or in the evening. This reduces shock for your plants.Never yank a plant out of its container by the stem. This can kill its root system and damage the plant.
 This will help mix the soil from your container with the soil from your garden to prevent transplant shock. It will also lessen the stress of the move for the plant—just like a cold drink at the end of a hard day does for humans.


To grow the best herbs, only water your garden when the top layer of soil loses moistness. Don’t wait until your herbs begin to wilt to water them. Keep track of the weather forecast—don’t water your plants right before it rains!