 The letter should but courteous, but clearly and firmly outline your desires and willingness to cooperate. You must give 30 days notice. A letter may read as such: Dear Mr./Ms. LANDLORD NAME: As you know, due to REASON, it is necessary for me to terminate my lease at ADDRESS. This letter is my final notice as I will vacate the property on DATE NOT LESS THAN 30 DAYS AWAY. I am sorry for any inconvenience this may cause you. It is my desire to be released from my lease without fault, since the circumstances of my departure are beyond my control. I would be glad to cooperate in the interim in order to mitigate your losses and see that a new tenant is found as promptly as possible. To that end, I would be happy to show the home to prospective tenants and hand out rental applications and leave the home in a clean and move-in ready condition to allow new tenants to move in promptly. In addition, as I made a security deposit of $AMOUNT on DATE, I expect to receive the deposit refunded in full pursuant to 58-2550 (b) of the Kansas Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. If you feel that you are entitled to retain any portion of the deposit, you must provide me with an itemized statement of all charges and any refund within 30 days. Please let me know if I can do anything to make the process move more smoothly and to your satisfaction. Sincerely,;
, Retain a signed copy for your records and mail the letter via certified mail.
 If you have caused any damage to the apartment offer to fix it promptly and to the landlords satisfaction. Also, offer to post ads for the rental on craigslist, facebook and anywhere else it is likely to be seen. Ask the landlord to send copies of the rental application and verify the application fee and address where interested applicants can send them. Make arrangements with the landlord to do a walk through and return the keys.
 It is important to show the space as soon as possible because once a landlord has a new tenant in the unit your previous lease is cancelled. Meaning that if a new tenant moves in immediately after you move out you are no longer liable for any future rent.
 Leave the apartment in as good or better condition than you found it.
 This is important as landlords are only allowed to retain the deposit for unpaid rent or damages to the unit. The letter may read as such: Dear Mr./Ms. LANDLORD NAME: As you recall, I paid a security deposit of $AMOUNT on DATE for my tenancy at ADDRESS. Please refund the deposit in full pursuant to 58-2550 (b) of the Kansas Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. If you feel that you are entitled to retain any portion of the deposit, you must provide me with an itemized statement of all charges and any refund within 14 days. Sincerely,

, Send the letter via certified mail.
 If the landlord attempts to collect attorney's fees from you, you may counter sue for 1 1/2 times the amount he or she attempted to collect from you. Skip this step if you are summoned to small claims court.
 If the landlord fails to prove that he or she made a reasonable effort to rent the space and you can prove that you made every effort to assist in the process, the judge will likely rule in your favor.

