 As you explore different approaches to forming a spiritual philosophy, you should consider reading some of the world’s most influential sacred texts. Doing so will help you gain a better understanding of how different peoples and cultures have philosophically approached spirituality across time. Some of the most influential sacred texts in world history include:The Bible
The Torah
The Quran
The Vedas
The Egyptian Book of the Dead
Tao Te Ching
The Upanishads
The Bhagavad Gita
The Buddhist Sutras

, Reading classic and contemporary works of literature can help you learn about how others have formed their spiritual philosophies. You can learn from the spiritual experiences of characters and their authors, and this can help you form your own spiritual philosophy. Some great works of literature that explore spiritual philosophy include:'Journey to Ixtlan by Carlos Castaneda


Siddhartha by Herman Hesse

The Miracle of Mindfulness by Thich Nhat Hanh

Walden by Henry David Thoreau

The Brothers Karamazov by Fyodor Dostoevsky

Franny and Zooey by J.D. Salinger

The Death of Ivan Ilyich by Leo Tolstoy

A Passage to India by E.M. Forster

, Music can be a powerful component of spirituality, and can help you clarify your philosophical approach to spirituality. Try listening to a variety of genres and artists while paying particular attention to lyrics and composition. Seek out music that speaks to the human experience and that you feel a spiritual connection to as you listen. Doing so may help you get a few steps closer to forming your own spiritual philosophy.Try listening to John Coltrane, Sun Ra, Bob Dylan, or Johnny Cash.
Experiment with music from religions you are exploring. For example, if you are learning about Judaism, you might try listening to klezmer music by Tempero.
 An important part of forming a spiritual philosophy is experiencing different environments where humans interact spiritually with the world around them. This can be as simple as going for a walk in the forest, or as complex as traveling to an ashram in South Asia. Explore as many different environments as you can, and pay attention to how you feel on your journeys.Try visiting religious centers to learn more about spirituality. For example, you can visit a church, mosque, or Buddhist temple.

