 If you have a cold sore, prop a few pillows behind your head at bedtime to let gravity help the blisters drain. Otherwise, fluid may settle in sore during the night.The pillow for your head should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable. A pillow that's too high can put your neck into a position that causes muscle strain on your back, neck, and shoulders. Choose a pillow that will keep the neck aligned with the chest and lower back.
 Exercising several times a week or - even better - every day can help boost your immune system, thereby reducing the risk of recurring outbreaks of cold sores. Even mild to moderate exercises such as walking, yoga, and stretching have incredible general benefits, in addition to reducing the recovery period and alleviating your cold sore symptoms.Regular exercise also reduces the risk of infection over the long term besides elevating your mood to decrease stress levels. A daily 30 to 45 minute workout with moderate intensity exercises such as brisk walking, jogging and swimming is recommended.
Consider consulting with a physician to help you come up with a personalized exercise plan.
 Moderate sun exposure is beneficial for your immune system due to the increased production of vitamin D. However, one of the most common triggers of cold sores is sunlight, so regularly using sunblock and a lip balm with an SPF (sun protection factor) when you head outside can help reduce the risk of cold sore breakouts. To protect your skin from sun damage, use a non-comedogenic sunscreen with a minimum SPF of 30.Some chemicals in sunscreens may cause allergies, so it's best to consult with a dermatologist to find the sunscreen that’s right for you.
 Cold sore breakouts can increase stress and cause low self-esteem, anxiety and depression. By the same token, stress weakens our immune system and thus makes us more susceptible to developing viral infections, including herpes simplex. Some ways to manage stress include:Try journalling. Set aside time to write down your thoughts every day, even just for 10 to 20 minutes. Keeping a journal can be a great stress reliever in that it helps you to organize your thoughts, offer clarity, and facilitate problem solving.Listening to music is an effective stress reducer in both healthy individuals and people with health problems. Research finds that listening to soothing music can decrease blood pressure, heart rate, and anxiety.
Make time for recreation. Set aside time each week to do things you enjoy and find relaxing, whether it be yoga, reading, cooking, sewing, or what have you.
Try relaxation and meditation techniques, like yoga, deep breathing, and tai chi. Meditation can help reduce blood pressure, chronic pain, anxiety, and lower cholesterol levels, thereby promoting physical and emotional well-being. For a simple meditation exercise, sit with your legs crossed in a quiet environment and take slow, deep breaths for at least five to ten minutes. Try to get at least 5 minutes of meditation time every day to help keep your stress in-check.
 Since the herpes simplex virus is highly contagious, you should avoid kissing or engaging in oral sex during an outbreak (i.e., when you have a cold sore) until it is fully healed. Engaging in oral sex can spread the herpes virus to the genitals and it's possible to contract type-2 herpes simplex from an infected person. Herpes outbreaks are not always obvious and your partner may be contagious without you knowing it.Anyone involved in an ongoing sexual relationship with a partner infected with herpes simplex should get counselling from their healthcare practitioner on how to stay safe.

