 Getting sufficient calcium is the single most important thing you can do to grow healthy bones and maintain bone strength.Many Americans, especially women, do not get enough calcium in their daily diets.The recommended daily intake of calcium varies depending on your age and sex.Adult males under 70 should consume at least 1,000mg of calcium per day. Men over 70 should consume at least 1,200mg per day.
Adult females under 50 should consume at least 1,000mg of calcium per day. Women over 50 should consume at least 1,200mg per day. Pregnant or lactating women should consume at least 1,300mg of calcium daily.
Calcium is available in dietary supplements. The two main forms are calcium carbonate and calcium citrate. Calcium carbonate should be taken with food. Calcium citrate can be helpful for those with inflammatory bowel disease or absorption disorders, as it does not require food.If you get enough calcium from your diet, don’t take calcium supplements unless recommended by your doctor. Too much calcium may have unpleasant side effects, including the possibility of kidney stones.Magnesium is an important mineral for bone and overall body health. Foods rich in magnesium include whole grains, nuts, and green leafy vegetables. However, magnesium competes with calcium for absorption, and if your calcium levels are already low it may cause a calcium deficiency. If you get enough calcium in your diet, you probably don’t have to worry about magnesium having a negative effect.;
, You're less likely to consume too much calcium if you get your daily intake from dietary sources. These sources may also be more easily absorbed by your body.Dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt are very rich sources of calcium.Milk is often also enriched with vitamins A and D. Fortified soy milk also provides calcium, as do other calcium-fortified beverages like juice.
Vegetable sources rich in calcium include turnip greens, Chinese cabbage (bok choy), kale, and broccoli. Surprisingly, spinach is not as good a source of calcium, because its “bioavailability” (how the body extracts the nutrient) is low due to its oxalic acid content.Canned sardines are a good source of calcium because you eat the bones. Sardines are also an excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids, which promote things like brain health.They contain vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium.
Many cereals are fortified with calcium. Choose whole-grain breakfast cereals that have been fortified with calcium and other nutrients and are low in sugar.
 Fatty fish, such as swordfish, salmon, tuna, and mackerel are the best sources of natural vitamin D (and also provide omega-3 fatty acids). Beef liver, cheese, and egg yolks contain small amounts of vitamin D.Milk is commonly fortified with vitamins A and D. Many beverages and cereals are also enriched with vitamin D.
You can check the nutritional content of many foods by consulting the USDA National Nutrient Database here.
Vitamin D is also available as a dietary supplement. It is available in two forms, D2 and D3. Both seem equally potent in regular doses, although D2 may be less potent in high doses. For people who live in areas with less sunshine or who have dark skin, taking higher doses of vitamin D supplements may be necessary.It is rare to develop vitamin D toxicity through supplements.
 Very high sodium consumption increases the amount of calcium excreted in your urine.Aim to consume no more than 2,400mg of sodium per day.Canned and processed foods tend to be high in salt; look for “reduced sodium” or “no salt added” labels.
 Phytates, or phytic acid, interfere with your body’s ability to absorb calcium from the foods you eat. They’re commonly found in grains and legumes, such as wheat bran and beans, as well as nuts like hazelnuts, walnuts, almonds, and cashews. These foods are very good for you, so this doesn’t mean you shouldn’t eat them. There are some things you can do to reduce the phytate level in the foods you eat.


Soak dried beans in water for several hours, then cook them in fresh water.If you eat 100% wheat bran, it should be consumed 2 or more hours before or after taking calcium supplements.
Fermentation and malting reduce phytate levels, so breads such as sourdough or other types that use fermented or malted grains pose no problems to calcium absorption.
 Many older adults don’t get enough protein in their diets.About 50% of your bone volume is made of protein.Adult women should get at least 46 grams of protein daily, while adult men should get at least 56 grams daily.However, extremely high-protein diets such as the “Atkins diet” may be associated with increased risk of osteoporosis or bone fracture.Some other studies indicate that high-protein diets don’t have any effect on bone health,but it’s best to consume protein (and all things) in moderation. Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, especially those high in potassium, to counteract any negative effects on calcium absorption from protein consumption.Protein sources that are also rich in calcium and vitamin D, such as fatty fish, are a smart choice.
Animal protein that is high in saturated fat, such as red meat and dairy, can cause health issues if over consumed .Get your protein from a variety of sources, including lean meats, eggs, and vegetables and whole grains.
 A common piece of osteoporosis lore is that soft drinks cause bone loss. Studies are not clear about the link between soft drinks and bone health, but caffeine in sodas and coffee may be associated with bone loss. Phosphorous, a common ingredient in some colas, may also have an effect. While these effects are not yet fully understood, it’s still a good idea to limit your soft drink consumption.Choose healthy beverages such as milk and calcium-fortified drinks more often. Limit your soft drink consumption to less than 2 cans (roughly 24 ounces) a day. Your overall caffeine intake should be less than 400mg per day.If you need a caffeine boost, black tea has not been shown to impact bone density.