  Just close your eyes and write what comes to mind as you think the word, "autumn.";
,  Ads closely track trends and are illustrated with nice photographs.  Newspapers list fall events.  Clothing ads show cooler weather apparel.  Keep these pictures as references as you work.,  Either format will work well and give you an opportunity to fill the space with many of your favorite fall things.
 Use a pencil and break up the space on the entire paper.  Make various shapes.
 The possibilities are endless, but go back to your list of words and clipping for inspiration.
  In another space, draw a fallen leaf.  Add apples on branches in another space and keep going until all frames are filled.,  If desired, use a set of watercolors with dry pads you need to moisten and activate with water.  You could also use water-soluable or regular colored pencils.  Colored markers would be fun, too.  Or, do a mixture of all those media.
  This is an opportunity to showcase the warm colors;  orange, red, red-violet, gold, rust, brown and yellow.  Contrast them with the cooler ones from the opposite side of the color wheel.  Blue, green, blue-violet, an an array of neutrals from pale gray to black.  These will highlight the warmer, brighter colors.
  Use the brightest and boldest colors to bring out the subject of each rectangle.  Then color the backgrounds for each, working right up to the border.
  How detailed to make your painting is up to you.  Any approach you pick is acceptable and will show your own personality and style.
  Either black Sharpie or permanent colored markers.  A small, pointed brush can be used for detail work, too.
  Take a look at your work from a distance and decide what to do with the white paper around the mini-paintings.  Anything you do is fine, including leaving it unpainted.  An all-over treatment of color will unify your page.
  Paint another color, up to three, layers over thoroughly dry paint.  Or, to remove color, use a scrub brush or a piece of white kitchen cleaning sponge called a Magic Eraser., As the paper dries, the piece will brighten but the watercolors will appear slightly fainter.  Go back in at this point and heighten any colors that need it, add more detail, and remember to intermingle colors throughout the scene.  Do this by touching small areas with the color of another area.,  Don't be sad if you can't really have haystacks, scarecrows or smoking leaf piles at hand because through art, all things are possible.  Even a row of noisy crows.