 Taking a walk or doing light exercise can wake you up enough to keep you going for a time. It gets your circulation going, which means you increase the oxygen throughout your body. In fact, this technique can increase your alertness for up to 2 hours., That is, try talking with someone. If you don't have anyone with you, try calling someone on the phone. Having a conversation with another person can help keep you awake., Slouching can increase your drowsiness. Trying sitting up straight to make yourself more alert., That is, take a moment to focus on something else, especially if you're working on a screen. Look at something 20 feet away instead of your screen, or do the opposite if you are focusing far away for long periods of time., Sunlight tells your body to wake up, which is why most sleep experts recommend blocking light out when you are sleeping. By going out in the sunshine, you'll help your body wake up.If you can't get out in the sunshine, another option is turning the inside lights brighter or turning on more lights to brighten the room., Take a moment to take a few deep breaths. Breathe through your gut rather than your chest, letting your diaphragm do the work. Try breathing in for four counts and breathing out for four counts. This type of breathing helps your circulation, which in turn, increases your alertness., If you're falling asleep reading a book, try something else, such as watching television. At work, try switching from less active to something more active, such as moving from reading emails to making calls.If you can't switch tasks, try changing the environment. That is, try different music or a different sitting position. Use some music that has a solid beat to get you going., That is, if possible, take a cool shower. If you can't do that, splash cold water on your face, which you can do in the bathroom at work. This technique will also get your blood flowing and make you more alert., If the situation allows it, try standing up. Having to be on your feet instead of sitting in a chair will help you stay awake.If you're consistently tired at work, you can ask your boss if you can switch your regular desk for a standing desk to help keep you alert.

