 If you're trying to root out a few "bad apples" in your workforce, make it easy for your "good apples" to help you. Having an anonymous tip or feedback system in place makes it relatively simple for your employees to report thefts and other inappropriate behavior without feeling unsafe or threatened. In addition, this gives employees a chance to voice their concerns, complaints, and constructive criticism in hopes of improving the workplace.


Good ideas for anonymous tip systems include:

A feedback box left somewhere (like a break room) where employees won't be noticed dropping their notes in
An email account that automatically censors the addresses of employees that send messages to it
A third-party anonymous feedback program (i.e., 3sixty, Suggestionox, etc.), Employees are much less likely to steal from cash registers with the special function tricks discussed above if they know that these sort of functions are automatically brought to the attention of their employers. Consider using software that reports these functions or asks for a manager's credentials to confirm them to keep your business's points of sale under control.These exception-reporting functions usually come standard on modern point of sale systems. If your business uses an old, out-of-date cash register, consider upgrading to for greater security options.
Good modern point of service products include:AmberPOS
Vend POS
Lightspeed Retail
iVend Retail
NCR Counterpoint POS and Retail Management



, To a dishonest employee, the idea that you, the supervisor, are constantly watching can be a major incentive to stop stealing. Placing just a few cameras in high-risk locations (like pointed at cash registers, in locations where high-value goods are stored, and so on) can dramatically discourage stealing and can provide invaluable evidence in the event that it does occur.


There is even some evidence that fake (or "dummy" security cameras) can deter thefts as well (this, of course, relies on the dishonest employee not knowing that the video camera is a fake.)However, this low-cost option is generally recommended to increase the perceived coverage of an existing security system — not to replace it entirely., A business's ability to monitor its employees while they work isn't necessarily limited to video surveillance. A variety of other surveillance tools are also available — depending on how serious you believe your theft problem is, you may or may not want to pursue these optional solutions. Make sure that any monitoring you do does not violate your local laws or the terms of employment you agreed to with your employees. In addition, make sure that you duly notify your employees before any extra surveillance begins.


Extra methods of surveillance can include:Instituting internet history checks
Automatically scanning communications for suspicious keywords
Monitoring text messages, emails, wi-fi connections on personal devices, etc.
Hiring security guards
Using keycard logging software record access to important areas


Note, however, that it's important to be aware of the dangers of too much surveillance. Making your employees feel that they are in a "big brother"-type relationship can have an adverse effect on morale, especially if the surveillance you perform isn't common in your field of business., Most business resources identify three main "reasons" for employee theft: the employee may have some sort of drastic expense outside of work that requires extra money; the employee may feel abused or under-appreciated; and the employee may simply act because the opportunity presents itself. While it's impossible to account for the first problem and the third problem is a matter of tightening your business's record keeping practices and increasing employee surveillance, the second is largely a matter of how your employees feel. Simply put, employees are less likely to steal at work if they like they employer and feel that their work is valuable.


Here are some ideas for fostering rewarding relationships with your employees:

Frequently talk to your employees informally about their lives, aspirations, and so on.
Offer extra rewards and bonuses for outstanding work.
Make an effort to talk with each employee individually at least a little.
Consider organizing outside-of-work social activities (holiday parties, happy hour outings, etc.)
Empathize with your employees' potential complaints and frustrations.


Consider this: in a 1976 survey, over half of all respondents who admitted to stealing from their employer claimed to have done so with "no guilt."Don't be the sort of boss that people are glad to steal from — instead, get ahead of the problem by being your employees' friend.
 Though rare, it is possible for employees to steal from a business after they stop working for it, especially if they're allowed to keep their keys, company credentials, and so on. To prevent this, perform a "reset" of all your security systems after firing employees. Depending on your business, this may include:


Changing the building's locks
Changing codes to any electronic locks
Changing the login information for company email accounts, wi-fi, etc.
Reclaiming any keys, key cards, or entry credentials from the fired employee

, The problem of workplace theft has inspired many businesses to get creative in their efforts. While the solutions below may not be appropriate for every workplace, there is evidence that they can curb theft in certain situations.



Use clear trash bags. Employees may hide merchandise in the trash, then stash it in a safe spot when they take the garbage out. Clear trash bags make this harder to accomplish.Require all boxes to be flattened before recycling. This makes it harder to steal merchandise in boxes via the trash method above.Rearrange furniture or remodel to eliminate blind spots. Employees are less likely to steal when there are fewer spots from which they can't be seen.Use random register audits/inspections. Though employees may not like it, they're certainly less likely to steal if there's a chance that their register may be taken and audited at any time."

Give occasional "freebies." Giving your employees unwanted merchandise for free is one way to create an anti-stealing incentive. For instance, if you run a restaurant and you find that employees frequently steal food, consider setting up a system where employees can take home any food they want as long as it would otherwise go into the trash.

