 Tap “Install”, then “Open” once installation completes.;
, Tap the vertical 3 dots in the upper right corner and select “Sign In”. Enter your email and password and tap “Sign in” again.
 This icon is in the top menu bar and takes you to your profile page.
 This button is located on the bottom right of the channel banner. This will launch the device camera to record a video.


You may need to allow access to photos/camera by tapping “Allow Access”.
 When you are finished, tap again to stop recording. You will be taken to the video editor.


If you already have videos saved to the device, they will appear listed below the recording. You can tap them to proceed to the editor with that video.
 This button in the bottom toolbar (on the left) of the editor and will bring up a video reel. Tap and drag either end to adjust the length of the clip.
 This button appears in the bottom toolbar (in the middle) and will bring up a list of artistic filters to stylize your video.


You can use the “8mm’ or “Sepia” filters to give the video a retro feel, or “Sketch” to give it a pseudo-animated look.
 This button is in the bottom toolbar (on the right) and will bring up the music editor.
 A window will appear with a list of songs provided by YouTube to use. After selected a song, it will appear in the editor.


You can also tap the “Genre & Mood” or “On Device” tabs located at the top of the window to browse by genre or see a list of music stored on your iPad you can use.
Edit your audio selection. Tap the song in the editor to bring up options for that song. Tap and drag the song to scroll through and pick which part of the audio you want to use. You can also tap and drag the slider to set the balance between the video’s original audio and that added music.
 This button is in the center of the video and will show you all of your changes before you upload.


You can replay a video any number of times to check changes as you go.
 This button is in the upper right corner and will take you to the video info page before uploading.
 Enter a Title, description, and choose a privacy setting for your video.


Public videos can be searched for and viewed by anyone, unlisted will not appear in search results but anyone with the link can view it, and private videos can be viewed only by you.
 You video will upload to YouTube and appear in listed in your channel with the selected privacy settings.

