 Wind vane designs have two requirements: one side of the vane must have a larger surface area than the other, and you must be able to balance the vane.Both of these are easiest to accomplish if the vane is composed of a narrow stick with a decoration at each end, usually a pointing arrow at one end and a larger design at the other.


Alternatively, purchase a wind vane design online or from a metalworker or woodcarver.
Three-dimensional designs are not recommended unless you are an experienced craftsman, since the vane must be balanced from side-to-side as well as front-to-back.
 Trace your design onto a flat piece of wood at least 5 cm (2 in.) thick, using a lightweight but strong material such as balsa wood. Use a jigsaw or coping saw to cut out your design.


Optionally, use sandpaper to smooth the edges of your design after cutting.
 Painting your wood will help preserve it from decay. Choose a color that will stand out against the sky and the roof, if you are mounting the wind vane in a high location.


Optionally, decorate it with multiple colors of paint, letting each color dry before applying the next.
 Take a wooden block, heavier than the wind vane. This will be the base of the wind vane. Select a thick, sturdy dowel or rod, then drill a hole of the same size into the block. Fit the dowel into the hole, using wood glue to fix it in place.
 Hold your hands with your palms facing each other. Place the wind vane arrow on top of your index fingers, then move your hands together until they touch. When your arrow is balanced in this position, mark that point.
 This hole will fit the other end of the dowel, so use the same size drill bit. Drill the hole partway through the arrow at the balance point, from the underside of the arrow.
 Lower the hole in the arrow over the top end of the dowel or rod, but don't force it in. This fit should be loose, so the arrow can spin freely. Use sandpaper to narrow the dowel at this end if necessary. If you are using a metal rod instead, use your drill to widen the hole in the arrow.If the arrow feels unsteady or falls off the dowel or rod, make the hole deeper.
 Adding the cardinal directions can be useful if winds from a particular direction are associated with storms, cold, or other weather phenomena. If you decide to do this, make sure you've decided where to mount the vane, and create North, East, South, and West markers. Depending on how visible the wind vane will be from the ground, you may carve or paint these onto the base, or cut out four flat pieces of wood with "N", "E", "S", and "W" designs at the end, and nail them into the base.
 Place the finished wind vane on a hilltop or high stand, and watch it move with the wind. Once you're satisfied that the fit is sturdy, but loose enough for the vane to spin, you can mount the vane permanently. Nail the wooden block to wooden surfaces, tie the vane with wire onto fence posts, or come up with your own method of attachment.


The higher the wind vane is located, the more it will spin.

