 Especially if your oven takes a while to heat up, you'll want to begin preheating just before you start preparing this recipe. Set your oven to 375째F (190째C). Generally, you can expect preheating to take between 10 and 15 minutes., Add your diced potatoes and onions to your mixing boil and drizzle these with olive oil. Then add your thyme and rosemary. Lightly season the ingredients with salt and pepper. Mix the contents of the bowl well.

Mix these ingredients until the contents are well distributed and coated in the oil., Layer your baking sheet with parchment paper. Use a spatula, spoon, or other suitable kitchen implement to push the ingredients from the mixing bowl onto the baking sheet in an even layer., Insert your ingredients into the oven. Bake these for about 20 minutes, or until the ingredients start to brown. When golden brown, remove the baking sheet from the oven and set it off to the side to cool.

Items fresh from the oven will be very hot. Be sure to use safety implements, like potholders and oven mitts, to prevent burns or heat damage.
To speed the cooling process, if you have enough room in your refrigerator, you may want to put the baking sheet there. Remember to put potholders under the sheet to prevent it from damaging your fridge shelving., Add your flour to a large mixing bowl. Use your clean hands or a kitchen implement to create a well in the flour. To the well, add the warm water, yeast, and sugar. Stir this together thoroughly until it begins to stick together to form dough., If your baked ingredients have not yet cooled, wait until they do. Then add these to the dough along with the Parmesan and Gruyere cheese., A kitchen tool may work well for mixing, but the easiest way to ensure everything is well mixed is by working the dough with your hands. Form the dough into a ball.

Always wash your hands before handling food directly when preparing it. This helps prevent the spread of bacteria and contamination., Line your bread pan with parchment paper to prevent the bread from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Use clean hands to press the dough down into the pan so that it completely covers the bottom of the pan. Then:

Allow the dough to rest, uncovered, in a warm place for 10 to 15 minutes.
To prepare for baking, lower your oven temperature to 355째F (180째C)., Brush the top of the dough lightly with olive oil until it is completely covered. Insert your pan and the dough into the oven and allow this to bake for 40 minutes. Then remove the bread pan from the oven using potholders or an oven mitt., The bread should remain in the hot pan for 5 to 10 minutes after being removed from the oven. Then transfer the bread from the bread pan to a wire rack. Allow the bread to cool. When the bread has cooled, it's ready to eat.