 As a precaution, you should speak to your healthcare provider before you start prenatal yoga. Your obstetrician or midwife may not approve of prenatal yoga if you are at risk of preterm labor or have medical conditions like heart disease or back problems.Though your doctor may advise against yoga postures, you may still be able to do deep breathing exercises and gentle sitting poses. Have a discussion with your doctor about the limits of your prenatal yoga practice and which postures may be most beneficial for your body.
Most doctors recommend that pregnant women only do gentle yoga during their first trimester, and wait until their second or third trimester to do any advanced yoga postures. If you are a first time practitioner or new to yoga and pregnant, you should only do gentle, prenatal yoga to prevent any harm or risk to your pregnancy.
Pregnant women release a hormone called relaxin, which helps to soften your connective tissue and makes your pelvic joints more flexible so there is space for your baby. However, this hormone can also lead to instability in your sacroiliac joints and lead to back pain. You should be careful not to overstretch your body when doing yoga, as your body is more susceptible to injury.;
, You will need to prepare for prenatal yoga by buying a yoga mat, and yoga props like a yoga block. You can use these props to help you ease into postures and avoid injuring your body, especially if you are carrying more weight due to your pregnancy.


A yoga bolster, which is a long pillow made for yoga, can also be useful for restorative yoga or gentle yoga classes. Restorative yoga is a type of yoga that does not use any muscle engagement and focuses on restoring and relaxing your body with the help of yoga props like bolsters, blankets, and blocks. It is also a good option for pregnant women, especially if you are looking to reduce your stress level and ease any aches or pains in your body.
 It is important that you drink plenty of water before and after you do yoga to make sure you are not dehydrated.


You should also make sure you eat a light snack one to two hours before you do yoga, such as nuts and yogurt, fruit, or a smoothie. Avoid big, heavy meals before your yoga practice, as this can lead to indigestion. Eating a small snack one to two hours before class will keep your blood sugar up and help to prevent fainting or dizziness.
 One of the most important parts of doing prenatal yoga safely is knowing which postures you should avoid and how you should move your body in yoga postures. When you do yoga poses, bend from your hips, rather than your back, to ensure you are maintaining a normal spine curvature. Never lie flat on your belly or your back, and only bend forward or backward in poses to your waist. Do not do deep bends forward or backward, as this can put unsafe pressure on your stomach.As well, you should adjust your body in twisting postures so you only move your upper back, your shoulders, and your rib cage, and avoid putting pressure on your abdominal area. Unless you are an experienced yoga practitioner, you should avoid inverted postures, such as shoulder stand or headstand, which require you to extend your legs above your head or your heart.
Avoid bikram yoga or hot yoga, as the room temperature will likely be too humid for you to be comfortable when pregnant. Bikram yoga can also raise your body temperature, leading to hypothermia. Listen to your body and do not push or stress out your body during your practice. A good gauge is if you cannot speak while you are doing prenatal yoga, you are likely pushing your body too hard and need to ease off of a posture or pose.
 To help guide you through yoga postures, you may want to consider subscribing to an online prenatal yoga series. There are many free prenatal yoga videos online from certified yoga instructors that can help to guide you through your practice. Subscribing to these video channels are usually free and many videos are short, so you can try a few postures at a time.


Always check that the yoga instructor is certified and specializes in prenatal yoga. This will ensure she has the necessary experience to teach prenatal yoga safely.
Often, online yoga videos will use a pregnant women to demonstrate the postures to show you the safe way to do them. If you feel at all uncomfortable with doing any of the postures, slowly ease out of them and take a deep breath. Never do any postures if you feel any sharp pains or overwhelming discomfort in them.
 Joining a prenatal yoga class can be a good way to get hands on instruction and to connect to other expecting mothers in a fun, relaxing environment. Look for an instructor who is certified and has experience teaching prenatal yoga. You may want to ask other women you know who have taken prenatal yoga before to recommend a certain instructor or yoga studio.A typical prenatal class may include deep breathing exercises, gentle stretching, yoga postures using props like blocks, and a period of relaxation.
 Begin by sitting crossed legged or with your legs apart on the floor against a wall. Keep your whole back against the wall, with your spine straight and your shoulders and tailbone against the wall. You can also sit on a cushion or a blanket to get more comfortable and settled. Doing supported sitting pose can help to strengthen your back and help your spine feel more aligned.You can also try firm sitting pose, which is a variation on supported sitting pose. To do firm sitting pose, kneel on a yoga mat and place a cushion or a folded blanket between your legs. Lean forward slightly and make sure your feet are flat against the floor, with the cushion firmly between your legs.
Using your hands to support yourself, slowly lower your butt between your heels so it sits on the cushion. If you feel any discomfort in your knees or back, shift your feet or add another cushion to give your body more height. Rest your hands on your thighs or behind you for support. Lift your chest to the ceiling and take five to ten deep breaths.
 Bound angle pose or Baddha Konasana can help to increase blood circulation to your pelvic floor and get your pelvis used to the feeling of opening, similar to the opening you will likely experience during labor.To do bound angle pose, sit on a mat with your back straight and your feet bent at the knee. Slowly open your legs to either side so you form a triangle, with the soles of your feet touching each other. You can shift your legs so they are closer or further away from you, depending on your level of comfort.
Place your hands on your thighs or wrap them around your feet. Lift your chest up so it faces in front of you, and take five to ten deep breaths in this posture.
 Squat pose can be very beneficial for your circulation and help to strengthen your pelvic floor. It can also help to stretch your back and hips.Start with your legs a little wider than shoulder distance apart. Breathe in as you place your hands together in prayer in the center of your chest.
Breathe out as you slowly bend your knees and lower your butt towards the ground. You should be moving your hips and back downward. Only go as far as is comfortable for you. Your weight should be on your heels, not the balls of your feet. Squeeze your pelvic floor muscles up and in.
Hold the squat for one breath and then inhale as you put weight into your heels and slowly straighten back up to the starting position.
Repeat this posture five to ten times, breathing in and out as you raise and lower your body.
 Stretch your spine and lower back by doing cat and cow posture. Start in the “table position” with your knees under your hips and your arms aligned under your shoulders. Make sure your back is straight and your gaze falls down on the ground in front of you.Inhale as you raise your head and your tailbone, allowing your belly to drop down toward the ground. Your back should be curved but not overarching . Move your gaze upward.
Exhale as you lower your head and hollow out your back, dropping your tailbone down to the ground. Tighten your buttock and abdominal muscles.
Alternate between cat and cow pose, breathing in and out with each movement, for five to ten breaths.
 Warrior poses can build strength and stretch out your hips and back. You may also feel very powerful when you are in warrior pose, especially as an expectant mother.Begin by placing your feet about four feet apart on your mat. Turn your front foot forward so it is parallel to your mat. Breathe in and slowly bend into your front knee so it is bent and your back leg is straight. Press your feet firmly into the mat.
Raise your arms so they are over your head, on either side of your ears, and then bring them together into prayer if this is comfortable. Your hips should be square and facing the front of the room. Breathe in and out in this posture four to five times.
You can then transition into warrior II pose by separating your arms and spreading them so they are parallel to the mat. As you do this, turn your body so your torso is facing the side of the room. Your legs should remain the same, front leg bent and back leg straight.
Press into your feet as you tuck your tailbone in and gaze at the tips of your front hand. Breathe in and out in this pose four to five times.
 Deep breathing can help you sleep better, decrease any stress or anxiety and better prepare you for labor breathing. Do Ujjayi breathing, which is long, deep breathing where you make a whooshing noise as you breathe in and out. It is good for building heat in your body and for maintaining a calm mind.


You should avoid any breathing exercises that could limit your baby’s oxygen supply, as this could put your baby at risk. Talk to your yoga instructor or your doctor before you try deep breathing to ensure you are doing it properly.
 Doing balancing postures when pregnant can be difficult, as you will be carrying extra weight and a protruding belly. However, doing balancing postures like Half Moon against a wall will allow you to experience the pose without the risk of falling over.To do Half Moon against a wall, stand with your legs hip width apart, with your right foot next to a wall. Turn your toes so they both face the front of the room. Place a yoga block a few inches in front of your right foot and and place your right hand on the block.
Using the wall as a support, press your hand into the yoga block and lift your left leg off the ground. Open your left hip as your raise your leg. Put weight into your right leg and slowly lift your left arm to the ceiling.
Repeat this on your left side, with your left foot against the wall.
 Pregnant women should avoid lying flat on their back as this can compress the vena cava and lead to possible heart issues for the mother or the child. For postures where you should be lying on your back, you can modify them using bolsters or blankets. Place the bolsters or blankets under your head and heart so that they are both raised. This will allow you to still get the benefits of the pose without putting your health at risk.You can do this in legs-up-against-the-wall pose, with your legs up against a wall and your heart and head raised. Your body should form a “V” shape to ensure you are well supported and not at any risk of issues or problems.
 Corpse pose or Savasana is one of the most relaxing postures in yoga, and is often used to end a yoga class or a yoga session. This pose is usually done by lying flat on your back with your legs wide and your arms as your sides. Pregnant women can modify this relaxing closing pose by using pillows or a bolster.To do a modified corpse pose, lie on your left side with your legs bent and hug a bolster or a pillow to your chest. This will allow you to enjoy a relaxing pose without putting your body at risk.

