 If you are very confident your hand will win, or you believe no other player will be willing to match you, you can push all your chips on the line—a bold move.

In a tournament, if "you're down to only 5 more big blinds/antes" then you'll be out after 5 rounds around the table if you don't make a stand, so you will want to go all-in pre-flop with a reasonably good hand, hoping to double up or get everyone to fold. If you have only 5 times the blinds and antes, just picking up the blinds and antes means a 20 percent increase for you, which is huge. So, for example, if you have any pair, any ace, any king, or any two face cards, strongly consider going all-in pre-flop -- if no one has yet entered the pot.
You are "short-stacked" compared to other players and to the blinds/antes. If making any reasonably sized bet will put half or more of your stack into the pot, you are pot-committed and may as well go all-in to look stronger and apply maximum pressure. Even if you have the nuts (the best possible flop with your hold cards), don't try to slow-bet and raise just the minimum if you are already pot-committed. Any opponent with the slightest bit of observation will become suspicious why you did not simply go all-in, if you are strong. In any case, your opponents are likely to interpret an all-in from a short stack as a desperate move and call if any of them have a reasonably good hand.
If you have enough more chips than an opponent who has a wager on the table, you may "put him or her all in" by betting equal to their total chips (you can say "all-in"). If no other player calls and the shorter stack doesn't fold, both reveal their cards in the showdown -- then any remaining community cards are dealt out one by one without any more wagering on each (because the all-in player has no more chips to bet with). If the other person wins you double that player up, but you have a chance to send that player home.
 If one player is all in, players who call that and still have more chips can still make additional bets with each other. This is called a "side pot." Set aside one pot equal to the bets made up to each remaining player each calling the "all-in." This first match up is what the original all-in player can win. The remaining players can bet against each other into a separate pot, saying "okay I'll raise you ". At the showdown the main pot goes to the player with the best hand, and the side pot (or pots) go to best hand amongst the players who contributed to that, and one "or more" go home, if the wagers put you and/or others all-in as well.


If you have a reasonably good hand, say AQ, and a short-stack in front of you has pushed all-in, probably as a semi-/pure-bluff, you could also raise all-in yourself as an isolation play, as few players will call a raise and a re-raise in front of them without a very good hand like QQ or better. Your move will help you isolate the short-stack who likely would make the all-in with a weaker hand than you have.
If one player is already all-in and there is no money in the side pot yet, be inclined to just check unless your hand improves, because without any side pot money to play for, it doesn't make sense to try to bluff out others and increase the odds of winning for the all-in player. Checking the hand down maximizes the probability of eliminating the short-stack who is already all-in. This is known as cooperation play.
 The order of betting is slightly different when playing with only one other player, "one-on-one". The player with the dealer button posts the small blind and his or her opponent is the big blind. Then they alternate, getting the button, so the new small blind (button) is the first to wager in the betting rounds for each new hand. Preflop hand requirement is a lot less stringent. Almost any two cards is worth playing, and an ace is a monster.

