 Compared to women, men have almost all of the same options for gym tops available (with the obvious exceptions of halter tops, etc.) Men at the gym look best in tops that are functional, comfortable, and breathable. Many men choose to wear ordinary cotton tee shirts, though, as always, modern moisture-wicking fabrics are an even more comfortable choice and usually look great as well.


If you want to show off your arms, you also have the option of wearing an A-frame tee (tank top) or a sleeveless tee. These types of shirts sometimes even come with long slits along the sides to give a view of your abs and lats — though this style is sometimes considered "bro-y", it provides great ventilation and is not usually prohibited in gym dress codes.
 Generally, it's a little less acceptable for men to wear very short shorts to the gym than it is for women. Showing upper thigh can be considered a fashion faux pas unless a man is on a cross country team, so, if you typically wear shorts, it's usually best to opt for longer styles. Even shorts that hang past most men's knees aren't usually considered too baggy, so don't feel any need to shy away from longer styles.
 While some men like to take off their shirts to cool down during a long jog or while playing sports, it's sometimes considered rude to do so at the gym. At gyms where this isn't common, taking off your shirt can make you look like a vain "meathead" in comparison to the other people exercising. In addition, if you get very sweaty when you exercise, removing your shirt can cause you to leave behind more sweat where you work out, which can gross out others.


However, it's definitely worth noting that some men swear by the act of exercising shirtless, claiming it as a powerful motivating factor.If you're unsure whether it's considered rude to exercise shirtless at your gym, talk to the staff or simply observe the other members for a few days.
 Like taking off your shirt, letting out excessive noise while you exercise (especially while you lift weights) can make you appear vain or attention-seeking. It's also somewhat disrespectful of the people around you, for whom the extra noise may be somewhat awkward or intimidating. While some grunting may be unavoidable during heavy exercise, try to avoid loud grunts or screams to avoid giving the wrong impression of yourself.
 The gym is for playing sports and exercising — not playing games of equipment one-upsmanship with other gym members. While it's perfectly acceptable to bring gloves, headbands, accessories, reading material, music playing devices, and anything else that makes your workout more comfortable or productive, these accessories shouldn't be a point of pride in and of themselves. Having a great workout is the focus of your visit to the gym — everything else should just be a tool to help you achieve this.


One recent gym trend is the use of elevation training masks during exercise. These masks partially restrict the flow of oxygen into the lungs as the wearer trains, supposedly simulating the effects of training at a high altitude where oxygen in the air is limited. Though some claim great results, there is little (if any) evidence to support the claim that these devices make your lungs use oxygen more efficiently, making them not only a bizarre fashion choice, but also a likely waste of money.

