;
, When training your chihuahua, don't dress it in clothes or carry it around with you until you train it. Show your chihuahua that you are the leader of the pack. You carrying her does not give her that message. She will think she is the boss!

, You want to let it get used to your home a little bit before you start training.
 Most of the time they walk into a house and think they are the leaders-not you, so you do want to show that you are the pack leader as soon as they walk through the door.


To do that, make them wait for permission to eat and do things like jumping on a bed. if they don't, take away their food or take them off the bed. You don't want to be aggressive though. You want to show kindness and that you can be trusted and be a good pack leader. Also to hold your chihuahua after it gets used to you and your home support its belly and butt like you would a baby. You want your chihuahua to feel safe and secure, not scared and afraid! Also this shows you are pack leader.
 Biting, growling, unnecessary aggression with food, you have to correct immediately! If you don't, your chihuahua might think it's okay to act that way and you won't be able to stop that behavior as easily! To stop your chihuahua from acting that way say, no in a stern, clear voice until your chihuahua stops. If your chihuahua continues then you should hold it in your arms again supporting its belly and bottom. Don't say your chihuahua's name when you tell him/her to stop.
 Maybe you could buy or make your chihuahua a nice soft dog bed. Not a crate or cage because they will have too much energy from being cooped up! Even a blanket on the couch or easy chair could work. Just make sure your chihuahua can be safe there and that it's easy access. Also maybe a doggy door to a fenced area outside could work.(except for in the winter)

, You should walk your chihuahua about four times a day (morning, noon, evening, and before you go to bed). The reason you should aim for the same time each day is so your chihuahua will know about when it can go the bathroom and how long it has to hold it. if you know you're going to be gone when you and your chihuahua usually walk, then maybe ask your neighbor to walk him/her for you and maybe (if they have a dog) walk their dog in return sometime. Go through the same door to the same place every time so that your chihuahua can get your routine down pat!

, Chihuahuas have the largest brain relative to their size compared to any other breed in the world. they are also the smartest breed and understand to and respond well to positive praise and treats. He/she will do it again to get the reward and praise from whatever you praise it for. So don't give them praise or reward if they did something bad for they will continue doing it to get the reward that follows.

