 Tweezing, or pulling the hair out with tweezers, is a cheap and effective way to remove hair from any area on the face. The major downsides are only that it is time-consuming and somewhat painful, especially in sensitive areas.;
, An Epilator is a device, usually priced between $30-100, which works by pulling out multiple hairs at once. While effective, fast, and relatively inexpensive, it can be painful the first few times it’s used. Like with waxing, however, the pain lessens over time as you become used to the sensation.
 Often referred to as “bleaching”, this is the practice of dyeing the hair to be the same or a similar color to the skin tone. This makes it less noticeable. What color you choose will be based on your skin tone and special kits can often be purchased for the face.
 This is any one of a number of creams, lotions, and similar products which use a chemical process to "melt" the hair. These are cheap, easy to use, and generally pain-free. However, they can cause chemical burns if used incorrectly and the effects generally last only a week.
 Waxing is one of the more common ways to remove facial hair. The cost of the procedure will depend upon what part of your face you have waxed, but it is generally not too expensive. The effects will usually last a few weeks but the procedure is painful. It can also result in ingrown hairs., The pain of waxing and the expense of an epilator not for you? Threading is an easy way to remove hair from your brows, lip, or face in general. This method is simple to learn, easy to do, relatively painless, and doesn't require any tools. All you need is some string! You can also go in to a salon for professional threading, but only if you really want to.
 If you are worried about your eyebrows more than other facial hair, consider trimming the hair rather than removing it. Trimming the eyebrows can make them appear less thick and dark and is easy and cheap to do yourself at home.
 You can, of course, also shave any facial hair which bothers you. While it is not true that shaving will make hair grow back thicker or darker, shaving will often cause shaving bumps and is most likely to cause ingrown hairs so use shaving sparingly or with appropriate precautions.