 If he needs more sex, then open your mind to the possibilities. If he needs time with friends or time to pursue a hobby, then don't be possessive. He'll be happier, and he'll be grateful to you for your respect. You should meet his needs, or at least some of them, without doing anything that feels uncomfortable to you.


If he wants more sex, then consider having more sex with him, or think about why it doesn't appeal to you. But do not force yourself to do something you're not comfortable with just for his benefit. Instead, talk to him about it so he understands how you're feeling, and together you can decide on something you're both comfortable with.
If he's missing his time out with the boys, let him have a boy's night and have a girl's night of your own.
If he wants time to pursue his hobbies, let him take the time. He'll grow as a person from doing his own thing, and this will benefit your relationship.
 Develop true intimacy and unconditional acceptance. Demonstrate a willingness to be vulnerable, and be confident that your relationship can withstand conflict. Enjoy your shared history and your inside jokes. Forward him articles you know that he'll find interesting or just sit with him in companionable silence. Even your silence will say volumes when your marriage is strengthened by true friendship.


Though you should maintain other meaningful friendships so your life is full of love and laughter, at the end of the day, your husband should be the person that you turn to.
Aim to be the person that your husband has the most fun with instead of his best friend or his favorite uncle. You should be his #1 go-to person, whether he needs a good laugh or a good cry.
 Never lose sight of the dreams that you share. Whether your dreams include retiring to a warm climate or taking a trip abroad for your twentieth anniversary, embrace your dreams, talk about them and take steps to make them happen. If you and your husband's dreams don't intersect, then you'll be creating a rift as you both move further towards your goals, or if one of you doesn't get what he or she wants. It's healthy to have your own dreams along with your husband's, but you should make sure that none of your dreams are completely in conflict.
Even if your shared dreams are lofty, you still need to talk about them to keep your passion alive.
 Make sure you still have a fun and interesting life. If your husband left tomorrow, would you still have your own friends that you see at least once a month, hobby clubs you go to or sports that you play? If not, your husband will always be working to fill a void he cannot fill, and will feel inadequate. When you're fulfilled as an individual, then you have a lot more to bring to the relationship. You will be a much better companion if you can draw from your own interests, experiences, and insights.


If your husband thinks that he's the only good thing happening in your life, then he's bound to feel trapped.
Continue to pursue the hobbies or interests that were meaningful to you before the relationship. Though you may not be able to keep up with all or most of them, you should make time for the ones that were really meaningful to you.
 Men and women deal with stress all day and every day. Do what you can to help each other deal with the stress of every day life. Making sure that you are able to cope with your own stresses will take pressure off of your marriage. If one of you is chronically stressed out while the other doesn't understand why, then you'll have a problem.


Help your husband manage his stress by talking about it and treating him with extra care when he's had a rough day instead of making him feel worse by being angry that he's tired or withdrawn.
When you're stressed, let your husband know how you're feeling so he can pick up the slack around the house and help you out.

