 Many of the products that form these natural ant barriers are probably already in your kitchen; they just need to be deployed properly. A barrier doesn't need to be wider than a ¼ of an inch (6.35mm) but it must form an unbroken line.Use barriers on places like sills, floors, counters, and around ant access points. Some of the items with which you can form barriers include:Powdered charcoal
A line of chalk
Turmeric
Cinnamon
Citrus oil
Black pepper, cayenne pepper, or red chili pepper.
Vaseline (great for doors and windows)
Baby powder
Powdered cleanser
White vinegar and water
Desiccating dusts (such as diatomaceous earth or silica aerogel), Ants dislike various scents. Some of these include peppermint, camphor, and garlic.These can be used fresh or in oil form as a deterrent for ants in an area of your home. Use camphor with caution, as it is poisonous to humans and animals.


The great thing about these fragrant deterrents is that your own preferences for scent can be used to improve the overall smell of your household odors.
Sprinkle crushed mint leaves in ant infested rooms and grow mint near the entrance areas. Dried peppermint is also effective.Rub a raw clove of garlic over ant trails and entrances.
Sprinkle lavender oil in ant afflicted areas and grow lavender near their entrances.
Spread some oil of clove in ant zones or crush cloves and sprinkle it as a barrier., Ants are especially attracted to sugar, paprika, and flour. Put bay or bay laurel leaves in your sugar can, flour container, and paprika jar.Over time, the ant repelling strength of these leaves and lose potency. Replace these every month for best results.
 This is not a danger to kids, so it's a great technique to use where children congregate, such as at school. It's also pet safe, making this a great option if you have animals. Sprinkle Splenda over the trails of any ants you see.


Once the ants consume the Splenda, they should die shortly after the fact. Be sure to replenish your Splenda as necessary., Spread coffee grounds on ant hills and along your house foundation. This safe material confuses the worker ants because they lose their scent trails. This causes the hatched young in the ant colonies to have no food and starve.


Be persistent and patient with your use of grounds. It may take a season before you start noticing an effect.
It is important to reapply grounds every year, at minimum. Refreshing grounds more frequently will have a stronger, more immediate effect.
 Combine a small amount of dish soap and baking soda in a bucket half filled with water. Agitate this mixture with your hand or a stirring implement. Spread a thin line of this liquid along area where ants are coming in.This technique is a great solution for dealing with ants that are invading windowsills.

