 If you have been through a bankruptcy, you should be patient and try to rebuild your credit and financial security before making a major purchase, such as a house. Think carefully about whether or not this is best move for you make right now, and be prepared to spend some time getting your finances in order before making a big financial commitment.If you filed for a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy, you will generally have to wait four years before you can apply for a conventional loan, or two years for FHA or VA financing.
If you filed for a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy, you will only have to wait two years for a conventional loan. For FHA or VA financing you may be able to get a loan after a year.;
, FHAs and VAs are government backed loans that you may be able to apply for if you can demonstrate that you have made all payments on time for a year after bankruptcy, and have your finances in order. A VA loan,,
The circumstances leading to your bankruptcy are unlikely to recur.
Your income was reduced by at least 20% for six months.You may also require permission from the court before you are eligible to take on more debt., After filing for bankruptcy you should begin trying to rebuild your credit to give you the best chance of accessing major financing, such as a mortgage, in the future. You need to prove that you are a responsible debtor.After discharging all the debts in your bankruptcy you should be able to get a credit card, but you will often be charged a high rate so you should be careful.


If you can’t get an unsecured card, try and get a secured one which you can later convert to an unsecured one.If you get a new card be sure to manage it carefully and stay on top of all your payments. Making payments on time and in full will help you rebuild your credit.Don’t max out your cards, and take it slowly to avoid getting into difficulties.You can also build up your credit rating by buying something on credit from a store, but be sure you can afford it and won’t miss any payments.
 Once you back on track you need to thoroughly plan out your finances for the future. This means making a budget and sticking to it. If you going to secure a mortgage you will need to demonstrate to a lender that you are on top of your finances and you will be able to make all the payments. As well as building your credit score, try to save up in preparation to make a large down payment.If you have been bankrupt, lenders might consider you a greater risk and require a large deposit in order to approve a mortgage.
Showing that you have successfully saved up money in the previous years also demonstrates effective budgeting and management of your personal finances.
 Once the required two or four years have passed and you have been steadily repairing your credit rating, you may want to approach a lender about a mortgage. Be sure you fully prepare and be ready to answer difficult and personal questions about your bankruptcy, as well as what you have done in the intervening years. Lenders will be looking for you to meet certain criteria to consider you a good borrower. These might include:


A good debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. This is calculated by dividing your monthly debt payments (including mortgage, car loan, and other payments) by your monthly income. While borrowers can have a DTI as high as 0.43 and still quality for a loan, lenders prefer this measure to be under 0.36.Stability in employment and your life.
Money in the bank, or other assets.
A retirement plan or 401(k)., If you are rebuilding your finances after bankruptcy, you may find it helpful to talk to a specialist in personal finance to get some advice on money management. Sometime people with bad credit end up taking up loans from subprime lenders and payday loans companies which can end up costing you an awful lot.Somebody with particular knowledge may be able to help you avoid these potential dangers.
Look online for accredited debt counselling services in your area.