 To do this, go to the Apple website and create an account.Once you’ve created an Apple ID, it can be used from any of your Apple devices.To sign up for Apple ID, you must provide your full name, birth date and mailing address.You will be asked to select an ID (like creating an email address) and enter three secret questions for account security. It would be a wise decision to also enter the rescue email in case of security breach or forgotten password.;
, Look for your iTunes icon, a white background with a purple and pink music note. After clicking into iTunes, the top right of the screen will say “iTunes Store”. Click here to enter the store.


On mobile, the iTunes app logo is pink and purple, with a music note.
 If you’ve just created your Apple ID on the same account, you might not need to re-enter your login information.
 When purchasing on iTunes, you can connect a credit card or use a gift card for payment. To do this, click your name at the top right of the app and choose “Account Info”.From here, you will see an option to add a credit card.


If you’re adding a gift card, you can instead click “Redeem” and enter your gift card number.
 Move out of the account setting screen by clicking the top right button that says “iTunes Store”.This button will be purple or blue, depending on your settings.
 The iTunes homepage will display upcoming and popular artists.If you’re looking for something more specific, try typing in the song or artist’s name in the search bar, and hitting ↵ Enter.You can search iTunes by genres by looking at the right side of the screen. Click “All Genres” and choose a genre.You can also filter your search results by TV Shows, Albums, Songs, iPhone Apps, iPad Apps, Movies, Books, Audiobooks, Music Videos, Podcasts, and iTunes U content.The right side of the app also displays advanced search settings such as albums under a certain price, pre-orders, music videos and new artists.
 An album can be purchased by clicking the listed price under the album cover. If you wish to buy a single song, they are often anywhere from $0.69 to $1.29 each.


You can hear a sample of a song by hovering over the name.A small play button will come up over the song’s track number. Click play to hear the sample.
 Click the price of the album or track you wish to buy.Once you select buy, you can choose how you would like to pay using your previously loaded payment options. From here, your music should download instantly and be available for playing in your library.


After clicking “Buy,” you may be prompted to enter your Apple ID and password. This is a security feature and part of the normal buying process.
If you choose to buy only some songs from an album, Apple will often offer a discounted rate for you to purchase the rest.These offers are valid up to six months. , Mac App Store content codes must be redeemed via the Mac App Store. Promotional codes must be redeemed before the expiration date printed on the back of the card. Apple Store Gift Cards can be redeemed online or in an actual store. iTunes Store Gift cards given to via email can be redeemed by simply clicking on "Redeem Now" within your email., Whether you have an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you can easily redeem your card by entering your code when prompted.


Tap iTunes or App Store on your mobile device.
Scroll down to the Featured section where you'll see a Redeem button. You will need to sign in with you Apple ID in order to continue.
You can also enter your code manually when prompted. Some countries will also allow you to use the built-in camera to redeem your card.
An iTunes Gift Card will have a 16 digit code on the back that begins with an X. Enter the code and tap Redeem.
Your iTunes account balance will update once you've redeemed your gift card; however, you may have to sign out and sign back in to your other devices to see the updated balance. Your balance can be seen underneath your Apple ID.
If you use a content code, your content will download once you've tapped redeem.
 Easily redeem a gift card by opening iTunes and entering the promo code when prompted. Make sure you have the latest version of iTunes before opening it.Locate your menu bar and sign in to the Mac App Store with your Apple ID.
iTunes will be located in the Mac App Store. Once in iTunes, click iTunes Store.
On the right-hand side there will be a Quick Links section. Click on Redeem in this section.
Enter your gift or content code and click Return. The iTunes Gift Card's code is on the back and is 16-digits beginning with an X. Some countries also give you the option to redeem your card using your built-in camera.
Redeeming a content code automatically will download content and update your iTunes account balance.
 You can type the name of a song or artist in the Search Store field on the upper-right corner of iTunes. Press Enter or Return to see what's available.


Use filters to refine your search. You can also preview 90 seconds of songs to be sure it is the right one you're looking for.
Purchase from the search results by clicking Buy, which appears next to the item.
Enter your Apple ID and password to confirm the purchase.

