 If you cancel at the right time, you may be able to avoid a cancellation fee. This will ultimately depend on your billing cycle, how long you've had your service, and when you're slated to renew your contract.

If DIRECTV informs you of a rate hike, they may also allow you to cancel your service without a fee. This often occurs in December.
Cancel at the end of your contract. If you cancel right before your contract is up, there either won't be a fee or it will be really small. Most contracts are one or two years long, so pay attention when renewal time comes around.
 When calling to cancel, you should always be extremely polite to the customer service representative. This is important, as representatives (and their supervisors) may have discretion when it comes to waiving your cancelation fee.

Ask them how they are doing when they inquire the same of you.
Tell them "thank you" when appropriate.
Don't groan, complain, use profanity, or insult the representative.
 If the representative denies your initial request to waive the fee, read them the contract. There is specific language in the contract which indicates that the company has discretion over whether it will assess a fee.

Read the most important clause to the representative. It reads: "you may be subject to an early cancellation fee if you agreed to a programming agreement with DIRECTV." This clause suggests that they do not have to charge you., If the representative says they're not allowed to waive the fee, escalate the call by asking to speak to their supervisor. The supervisor might have abilities that the initial representative did not.

Inform the supervisor that you enjoy DIRECTV's service and may sign up with them again in the future.
If they tell you they can't waive the fee, ask them to reduce it.
Inform the supervisor that the contract was confusingly worded.
Threaten to contact the Better Business Bureau or the Federal Communications Commission about DIRECTV's misrepresentation of its service contract.