 Workers’ compensation premiums are calculated twice. When you buy the policy, the insurance carrier creates a rough estimate of your costs. However, at the end of the year, the carrier will perform an audit, which will determine the real rate.Depending on your audit, you may need to pay more money or you may get a rebate.


Your insurance carrier may schedule an on-site audit, or they may send you paperwork to complete and then return on your own.
If an auditor is visiting, make sure to appoint one person to interface with the auditor. This person should have a full understanding of your company and be personable. The audit doesn’t need to be stressful. However, it can be if the auditor thinks you aren’t complying with their requests for information.
 Workers’ compensation premiums depend in part on how much you pay each employee. Accordingly, you will need to gather payroll information to prepare for the audit. Make sure this information is accurate.


For example, you’ll have to provide payroll journal and federal tax reports.
You’ll also need to provide a detailed list of each employee’s job duties.Ensure that all information is updated and accurate before the audit.
 An insurer calculates your premiums based on the risk of your business. Your business will be assigned a classification, and each classification has its own base rate. In some industries, each employee is provided a classification.The insurer multiplies the base rate by each $100 of payroll. You should make sure your employees are properly classified.


Wrong classifications can make a big difference in your premiums. For example, a plastics assembler has a lower rate than a plastics producer.If assemblers are misclassified, you’ll end up paying too much for premiums.
Most states use classification codes set by the National Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI). You can find your state’s codes by contacting your state’s workers’ compensation board., You should create a spreadsheet of all employees and then double check whether your insurance carrier has properly classified each employee. Enter what you think is the proper classification.


You can send the spreadsheet to your insurance carrier along with a letter asking that they correct the misclassification.
You can raise this issue after an audit. However, you can raise misclassification at any time, even as soon as you receive your policy.
There should be an appeals process you can use if you disagree with your insurance carrier’s resolution. Ultimately, the NCCI may need to inspect your jobsite., You might find this area too complex to navigate on your own. If so, you should hire a workers’ compensation consultant who can review your policy for errors. They can also advocate on your behalf with your insurance company.Search online for “workers’ compensation audit consultant.”

