 You can buy a variety of perfumes designed especially for this purpose, so these are your best option. You can use regular perfume occasionally as well, but since it’s not designed for hair, it can leave your hair oily or dry, so use it infrequently. Don’t spray perfume directly on your hair. It might ruin your hairstyle, weigh down your hair, or leave a shiny looking spot. Perfume can dry out your hair if you spray it directly onto your hair.
 Many are antimicrobial and can help you avoid scalp infections (which tend to lead to smelly hair). Tea tree oil, lavender oil, vanilla oil, and peppermint oil are all good options. Add 2-3 drops to a cup of water, and massage the mixture into your scalp. Leave it in for about twenty minutes before you shampoo your hair. Alternatively, you can add essential oils to your shampoo. Use about two drops per ounce of shampoo.
 Particularly if you already use hair products, add a delicious smelling one into your routine. Smells from these products won’t necessarily last all day, so consider keeping small refresher bottles with you in a purse or bag. Some brands even make hair refreshing sprays. Salt water sprays also work well for this purpose and won't weigh down strands.
 Deep conditioners are designed to keep your hair soft and prevent breakage, but they can also add delightful smells to your hair. Most brands recommend that you use them every couple of weeks, but check the directions to be sure. For an extra deep clean, warm up your conditioner before using it. Place the closed container in a sink full of hot water for about a minute before applying it to your hair.
Alternate between a deep conditioner that is intended to moisturize (look for ingredients such as emollient butters and oils, glycerin, and aloe vera) and another that is intended to strengthen (look for hydrolyzed proteins, amino acids, keratin, and henna)., Many beauty experts believe that store bought shampoos strip the natural oil out of your hair. One advantage to making your own shampoo is that you can make it smell however you want! There are dozens of recipes out there, but here’s one that doesn’t call for too many hard-to-find ingredients. Mix together the following and use like regular shampoo:1/2 cup distilled water
1/4 cup liquid castile soap (soap made of plant oils)
2 teaspoons avocado oil
1/8 teaspoon peppermint essential oil
1/8 teaspoon tea tree essential oil
10-15 drops of the essential oil of your choice

