 Although Linux distributions are usually very flexible, it is still a good idea to make sure your computer meets the minimum requirements. Your computer must have:


A processor of 1GHz or more
A minimum of 512MB of RAM. 1GB or more is recommended.
20GB of disk space or more depending on the options you choose.
If you want to use the netbook interface, you will need a graphics card that supports 3D acceleration on Ubuntu. Most netbooks are supported so you shouldn't have many problems.;
, If you are planning on replacing your current OS with Edubuntu, all of your files will be deleted and your hard drive will be wiped clean. If you are planning on dual-booting your computer with Edubuntu, then you still should back up your files as things can go wrong in the installation process.
 The USB stick should have at least 2GB of space. If you don't have a USB stick, then you can use a CD to install the OS. This USB stick should be formatted as FAT32

, Startup Disk Creator is the best option for people using Ubuntu as it comes pre-installed. The other option would be to install UNetBootin (Linux, Mac and Windows) from its website.
 Depending on your internet speed, this could take some time. Here you will be able to choose over downloading the 64-bit ISO file (newer computers) or the 32-bit ISO file (almost all computers).
 Again, you need to format this USB stick as FAT32. If you have any important files on your USB stick, back them up now.



On Ubuntu, you can open the Dash and enter "startup disk creator" or "unetbootin" depending on what you want to use.
On Windows or Mac, search for "unetbootin" and select it when the rocket with the title UNetBootin shows up.
 The process in UNetBootin and Startup Disk Creator are pretty much the same.


In Startup Disk Creator, click the "others" button under Source disc image (.iso), navigate to the Downloads folder and select "edubuntu-14.04.4-dvd-.iso". Then, select the USB stick you want to use to install Edubuntu.
In UNetBootin, click on the Diskimage radio button. Then, ensure that ISO is selected from the first drop-down menu and click the "..." button. Next, navigate to the downloads folder and open "edubuntu-14.04.4-dvd-.iso" as you would in Startup Disk Creator. Finally, make sure that Type is set to USB Drive and then select your USB stick from the Drive drop-down menu.
 Your live USB is now being made. This may take a while to load depending on how fast your computer is.
 Make sure your computer is completely off. If you are reading this article on the computer you are trying to install Edubuntu on, get out another computer or device and open up this page.
 Your USB stick will need to be plugged in for the entirety of the installation.
 This key is usually F2, F12, Esc or Del. When the motherboard manufacturer splash-screen shows up, this key should be listed at the bottom of the screen. The Boot menu might be hidden in the BIOS menu as well.


You only get about a second or less to do this, so be quick! If you don't get to do it in time, that's OK. You can simply turn your computer off and try again.
Once you get to the Boot Menu, select your USB stick. This could be displayed as the name you have chosen for your USB or something along the lines of "USB Removable Disk" or "USB-".
 Optionally, you can try Edubuntu without installing to see whether it's your thing or not, check the disk for defects or test the memory.
 The next part is as simple as selecting the options that are best fit for you and clicking the next button.


When you get to the "Preparing to install Edubuntu" section, select "Download updates while installing" and "Install third-party software" (requires an internet connection).
When you get to the "Disk Setup" section, click "Erase disk and install Edubuntu". If you want to dual-boot Edubuntu with another OS, then you will need to create and / or resize partitions.
 The rest of the installation will be automated and it should take around 15 to 20 minutes to complete. The slide show will list some features of Edubuntu.
 Now the installation is complete, and Edubuntu is installed on your system. You can reboot your computer and start using the new OS, your you can continue testing it from the USB.

