 If you're tired of the "typical" ways of having fun on your computer, why not take your passion to the next level? Learning how to code allows you design and write your own computer programs from the ground up. It's a little like learning a new language and can be a bit of a challenge, but it can be seriously rewarding (plus, it looks great on your resume.)There are a lot of different programming languages out there. Though there's no "right" way to learn to program, here are five languages frequently recommended for beginners:Python
C/C++
Java
Javascript
Ruby


Check out CodeAcademy.com for free interactive coding tutorials in a number of programming languages.
 Do you find yourself spending tons of time online? If so, consider learning the basics of web design so that you can create your own sites and give back to the online community! Some basic web design skills overlap with the list of basic programming languages above (for instance, many sites use Javascript.) On the other hand, skills like HTML coding offer the chance to learn web-centric programming.


Here's just a short list of sites that offer web design training courses for free:

GeekChamp.comWebPlatform.org
Berkeley.eduLearn.ShayHowe.com, Did you know that you don't necessarily have to use the operating system your computer came with? It's true — Mac computers can run Windows OSs, PCs can run Mac OSs, and both can run free user-created OSs! Getting this set up can be a little tricky, so consult the support page of the program you use (or browse our help articles) if you run into problems.


To run Windows on a Mac, use:

Boot Camp (comes pre-installed or available for free download)
A Parallels program, like Parallels Desktop 10 for Mac


To run a Mac OS on a PC, use:

A bootable USB driveA virtualization program like VirtualboxAlso consider alternatives like Linux, Ubuntu, and Haiku - free OSs that work on both Mac and Windows!

, If you can't get the performance you want out of your computer the way it is, consider opening it up and changing your physical hardware. Depending on what you intend to do, this can actually be surprisingly easy. However, since it's easy to damage the fragile components inside a computer, it's important only to try this if you know what you're doing.


Here are some components that can be modified or replaced to increase a computer's performance:

Graphics card
Sound card (This will not increase performance although it can increase sound quality)
Fan/cooling system
RAM
Processor/CPU
Also cleaning out all the dust in a computer can speed it up, but be careful to be grounded as for static electricity can ruin a computer!


If you're feeling especially ambitious, try making computer maintenance a hobby. Some people like to take apart and rebuild their computers for fun — just like people who enjoy tooling around on cars. Best of all, this practical know-how will give you a natural knowledge of the inside of a computer that most people can only dream of.

