 An offset bend requires you to bend the conduit in two places at opposite angles, usually between 10 and 45 degrees. Use this to shift the conduit to avoid an obstacle or change elevation, the continue in its original direction.
 Measure the distance between the two parallel locations where the conduit will run before and after the bend. Measure at right angles, not along the bend. Always measure between two identical positions on the conduit (base-to-base, center-to-center, or top-to-top).Do not rely on the nominal diameter of your conduit, which is slightly smaller than its actual size., As a general rule, the shorter the offset distance, the smaller the angle. An offset of a few inches can use a 10º or 22.5º angle, but an offset of several feet may call for 30º or 45º.Smaller angles will "use up" less of your conduit, but may be more difficult to bend precisely. If your conduit layout requires precise measurements, calculate the amount of shrinkage, or additional length required for the bend:A 10º angle uses an additional 1/16" of length per inch of offset depth.
A 22.5º angle uses 3/16" per inch of offset depth.
A 30º angle uses ¼" per inch.
A 45º angle uses ⅜" per inch.
A 60º angle uses ½" per inch.
To find the total shrinkage, multiply the offset depth in inches by the shrinkage value above.
 Find the total shrinkage using the instructions in the previous step. Add this number to the distance from the end of your conduit to the obstacle. Mark the conduit at this length.Here's an example for a conduit you plan to bend at a 30º angle to overcome a 10" step:


The shrinkage for a 30º angle is ¼ inch per inch of rise. (See previous step.)
Multiply ¼ by 10 inches of rise: ¼ x 10" = 2.5 inches. This is the total shrinkage.
Let's say the conduit will run from an electrical box 40 inches from the step. Add this distance to the shrinkage: 40 inches + 2.5 inches = 42.5 inches.
Measure 42.5 inches from the end of the conduit and mark it with a marker or pencil.
 Each angle has its own offset multiplier, listed below this step. Multiply this value by the offset depth to get the length between your two bends.For a 10º angle, multiply the offset depth by 5.8.
For a 22.5º angle, multiply offset depth by 2.6.
For a 30º angle, multiply by 2.
For a 45º angle, multiply by 1.4.
For a 60º angle, multiply by 1.2.
Some benders list the offset multipliers on one side of the head, directly opposite the corresponding angles on the other side. These may not match the numbers above perfectly due to rounding.
 Place the tape measure against the first mark you made, for the far bend. Measure back toward the end of the conduit, until you get to the length you calculated. Mark the conduit at this spot, the position of the near bend.Follow this example if you're having trouble with this step:


Return to the earlier example of a 30º angle up a 10" rise.
A 30º has an offset multiplier of exactly 2. Multiply the offset depth (10") by 2 to get 20".
Place the tape measure against your first mark, 42.5" from the end (calculated in the steps above).
Measure 20" toward the end of the conduit and make another mark. This is the position of the other bend.
 Place the conduit on the floor. Line up the arrow on your bender with the mark farthest from the end you measured from. (This is the first mark you made.) Slot the bender onto the conduit, and apply steady foot pressure to bend the conduit. Watch the degree mark on the side of your bender that matches the angle you chose. Continue bending until this mark touches the horizontal portion of the conduit.Position the bender so the foot pedal is between the two marks.
For example, if you plan to bend at a 30º angle, bend until the 30º mark touches the edge of the conduit.
You can use any mark on your bender instead of the arrow, as long as you use the same mark to create the second bend. A different mark may be more convenient for bends near the end of the conduit., To prepare for the second bend, leave the bender attached to the conduit. Pick up the bender and place the handle end on the floor, leaning it against your leg to keep it stable. Slide the bender back toward you until the arrow lines up with the second mark on your conduit.
 Without taking it out of the bender, rotate the conduit exactly 180º. Sight along the conduit to make sure the bent end lies along exactly the same plane as your bender. If the bend is sticking out to one side, your conduit will not lie flat.You may lean the bent end down against the ground to support it.
 Brace the bender handle against your foot and leg. Confirm the arrow on the head still lines up with the mark you made. Grip close to the bender head and pull slowly down until the conduit touches the desired angle mark on the bender.


The farther away you hold the conduit, the less accurate the bend will be. Grip as close to the mark as you can without making the task unreasonably difficult.