 Take the time to calm yourself and prepare your mind and emotions for your ritual or ceremony. Even just centering yourself for a few minutes can help you get the most benefit out of what you are doing.


Take a few deep breaths. Slowly inhale deeply. Hold your breath for a moment or two and then exhale slowly. Repeat this a few times.
Remove any distractions that may prevent you from fully engaging in the ritual or ceremony.
Turn off your electronic devices and anything else that might disturb you.
Remind yourself why you are having the ritual or ceremony. Say to yourself, “I’m taking this time to help me overcome my grief.”

, One way to overcome your grief is to put all your attention into the ritual or ceremony. By focusing your thoughts and senses on your activity you are also allowing yourself to feel your grief and work through it.Don’t try to mindlessly perform the ritual or ceremony. Think about what you are doing and why you are doing it.


If you get distracted by a thought during the ritual, that is okay. Just try not to react to it. For example, if you get distracted by a thought that you need to switch out the laundry, don't stop what you are doing to go switch the laundry. Just let the thought pass like watching a cloud float by.
Pay attention to all of your emotion, thoughts, and senses during the ritual.
For example, you might notice the smell of the candle you lit, the flicker of it’s flame, and how peacefully you feel.
You might think something such as, “I’m polishing the silver like Grandma used to do. It feels so heavy. I miss how she would make it gleam.”
Allow yourself to feel whatever emotions arise when you are performing the ritual. Don’t fight them; it is a natural part of you overcoming your grief.
 One of the purposes of having the ritual or ceremony is so you can overcome grief. You won’t be able to do this if you hold your emotions in or feel that you have to act a certain way.Express whatever you are feeling in that moment. There is no right or wrong way to express yourself.


You can cry, yell, scream, or do whatever you need to do to overcome your grief.
For instance, if you feel like wailing then say to yourself, “It’s okay for me to do this and express my grief this way.”
If you aren’t fully feeling the impact of your loss yet, then don’t feel like you need to cry or do anything you aren’t feeling.
For example, you can remind yourself, “I don’t have to cry right now. I can express myself how I need to.”

