 Angels and demons will want to look different.


If you're a demon, choose an animal like the arctic wolf, arctic fox, fox, or wolf.

Choose colors like black, red, gray, brown, purple, and pick a lightning or flame pattern in a color that flatters your main color.
On your head, wear a bat mask, fox hat, any kind of helmet, or a rare black and red tiara.
On your back, wear a worn blanket, bow and arrows, any kind of armor, or a sword.
On your legs, wear elf bracelets; leaf bracelets; red, white, and blue freedom bracelets; or any kind of armor.
If you want, you can wear something on your tail - normal tail armor, phantom tail armor, ice tail armor, phoenix tail armor, a raccoon tail, or wind tail armor.


If you are an angel, choose an animal like the arctic wolf, arctic fox, or fox. It is not recommended, but if you are nonmember you can use a wolf.

Choose colors like white, pastels, light grays, and pinks. Pick a swirl, heart, leaf, or spot/smudge pattern in a color that flatters your main color.
On your head, wear a tiara, flower crown, head flower, or princess hat.
On your back, wear butterfly wings; faerie wings; angel wings; or bat wings in pink, purple or orange.
On your legs, wear elf bracelets, leaf bracelets, wind leg armor, or friendship leg armor.
If you want, you can wear something on your tail - normal tail armor, wind tail armor, friendship tail armor, or a raccoon tail.

;
, Choose a den that is a bit small, as it will be much easier to decorate and find people. The small house den is a great option, even if you're a member.


Definitely don't choose dens like the Sky Kingdom den, because those dens are so big that you won't be able to find anybody. Separate the angel and demon sides with fences.
The demon side should have phantoms, ghosts, Halloween and bone fences, lightning clouds, rain clouds, snow clouds, and all dark and evil items. You can add black, red, blue, and purple couches if you want.
The angel side should have plushies, pots of gold, toys, rainbow clouds, friendship clouds, possibly snow clouds, and all rainbow happy-fun items. You can add any couches that aren't black or phantom/evil/Halloween themed if you want.
 Members should post the rules on their Jammer Wall, and nonmembers can say the rules or warn people that they have broken rules as they go. Some example rules are:


No saying NN, ND, NM, etc.
You only get _ dodges/no dodging or missing hits.
No bullying or being rude if you lose.
If you are hit _ times/if you are hit then you are out.
You cannot switch from an angel to a demon/from a demon to an angel in the middle of the game.
You cannot be neutral and must pick a side.
You cannot use magic.
Breaking the rules gets you disqualified and/or locked out.
Do not pretend to be on the angel's side to get information from them when you are a demon, and vice versa.
 Say something like, "ANGELS VS. DEMONS AT MY DEN, READ THE RULES ON MY JAMMER WALL". Of course, if you're a nonmember, just say "ANGELS VS DEMONS AT MY DEN".


Make sure your den doorbell is on so that you can tell how many people are there. Once you have 7-14 people there, you can go back to your den. If you would like, you can just watch and tell people when they break the rules, but it's a lot more fun to join in on the action and your guests will almost definitely not mind.
 If someone breaks the rules, give them a reminder. If they do it, for example, 3 times, then you can disqualify them, and if they won't sit out then you can lock them out. The idea is that the last side left wins. If there is only one person left, then whatever side they were on wins.


Just don't be a powerplayer (kills everyone nn/THROWS MEGA MAGIC STONE AT THE ANGELS AND EXPLODES THEM NN ND NM, and the like), and don't say miss/dodges/ducks every single time, or your opponents as well as your teammates will get upset, or they will start doing the same thing and cause total chaos.

