 Use a utility knife and cut a 2 quart (2 liter) clear plastic bottle, just about an inch (2.5 cm) above the base. The plastic near the bottom is usually quite thick and as a result, you may not be able to cut it with scissors.You can discard the small base of the bottle because it will not be needed.
Place the top of the bottle with the cap to the side, for later use.
 Take a second 2 quart bottle and cut all the way around the bottle just below the neck. You can use scissors or a utility knife to cut the bottle.Keep both pieces from this bottle. The base of this bottle will form the base of your ecosystem and the top will be used to as a cap to seal the ecosystem shut.
 Remove the lid from the first 2 quart bottle that you cut. Place the lid on a cutting board and then use a pair of pliers or a small handheld vice to hold the cap in place. Carefully drill a small hole through the center of the bottle cap.You should ask an adult to help with drilling the hole into the cap.
Make sure to wear safety glasses when using the drill.
 Next, push a thick cotton string or long wick through the hole. Wicks can be purchased from your local craft supply store. The wick or string should be about 3-4 inches (7-10 cm) long.Screw the lid back onto the bottle.
Set this piece aside for later use.
 Now you will need the base portion of bottle. Fill the bottom of the bottle with water. You may need to experiment a little to find the exact measurement of water. If you have too much water the cap will be submerged and if you don't have enough water the wick will not be able to reach the water., Make sure the string is submerged in the water, but the cap should not be touching the water. This string will collect water and help keep the soil above moist. This is how your seeds will get water once they have been planted., Now, pour 3-4 inches (8-10 cm) of top soil into the bottle. Make sure that the string or wick is buried in the soil., You can plant a variety of different seeds in your ecosystem. For instance, you could try green beans, basil, mint, oregano, peppers etc. Read the instructions provided on the seed packet to know exactly how deep to plant the seeds. Most will only be about an inch (2.5 cm) deep. Space the seeds out and record where you put each type of plant. This way you can monitor their growth., Once you have finished planting your seeds, you should water them in order to help them grow. They will receive water from the base of the ecosystem, but it is a good idea to give them a bit of water at the start., Take the remaining bottle top and place it on top of your ecosystem. Tape around the edge to seal it in place. You should also make sure that the lid is sealed on tightly., Now that you have sealed your ecosystem, you should place it in a sunny spot. Record any changes that take place on a daily basis.

