 The first thing is to know when a storm system might be coming. Check up on the weather regularly. Read the local forecast online or watch your local television newscast. If you have a barometer (a device that measures barometric pressure in the atmosphere) note when it starts to drop – this means that a low pressure system is coming, and possibly a storm.;
, Think calming thoughts and keep them off of the storm. Try reading a book until bedtime. Try playing a game of cards. Think about what you might dream about, or what kind of day you'll have tomorrow. This will distract you from the storm.
 Identify a safe and comfortable place in the house that you can go to in case of a big storm. If your room has lots of windows or faces the weather side of the house, for example, try switching to the basement or an inner-room. It helps to have a place that is insulated from the sights and sounds of the storm. Bring blankets, pillows, and other things to make the space as cozy as you can. Also, you might have a “storm kit” that includes things to do to take your mind off of the weather. Games, puzzles, other activities, and flashlights in case the lights go out are all good ideas.
 Many children and some adults are frightened by thunderstorms. Try to learn more about these weather events. As you do, you’ll realize that they are usually not dangerous if you have a safe place inside.There are certain thing you can do.


Understand what’s happening. A thunderstorm happens when hot air and cold air meet in a certain way, making the hot air rise upward. This pushes moisture into the upper atmosphere where it cools, condenses, and forms clouds. The electricity comes from particles in these clouds rubbing together. Tension builds up until – Boom! – lightning is discharged.Know how to stay safe. If you are inside during a thunderstorm, you’re already pretty safe. Make sure that if the storm is severe, with high winds and a lot of lightning, to stay away from windows. It’s often good to go to a low place or room without windows like a basement. Do not take showers and avoid using appliances like the phone.