 Savings is an essential part of life; it prepares you to face any contingency. However, we don’t always save money to be ready for emergency; the reason is to fulfill a dream or a desire. The reason for savings differs from individual to individual and their priorities at that stage of life.;
, Most of us, however, forget that this hard earned money should grow not only with the rise in income but also in line with economy and inflation. The savings lying idle in the bank accounts shrinks, as the value of money depreciates. 10 years ago $100 would have bought many things for you, but now it can’t. So what will happen after 10 years? It’s already depreciating at the rate of 2-3% every year in US.
 You will see them grow at the same rate of your economy and/or inflation.
 There are various options available with banks or in capital market.
 The options available with the banks, viz., fixed/term deposits, recurring/ savings accounts and so on, are vulnerable to the changes in govt policies, interest rate, repo/reverse repo rates.
 On the other hand the options in capital markets, comparatively risky, give better returns. However, all options not necessarily give good returns.
 To avert this risk and earn the similar amount of returns is possible, Mutual Funds can do this. Mutual Funds reduce the risk of direct investment in capital market; however, their growth is most of the times at par with the capital market or the indices.
 A fund manager invests your earnings in capital market and units are allotted to you accordingly. The value of these units is called as Net Asset Value which changes on daily basis, similar to the price of a scrip on stock exchange. However, they also come with a warning – Mutual Fund investments are subject to market risk.


Read all documents carefully before investing. Thus, it is very necessary to do research before investing. The past performance of fund manager and the mutual fund should be checked. “Past performance” does not mean the last year but at least the past two to three years. In case of a New Fund Offer (NFO) the fund managers and Asset Management Company’s (AMC) performance should be ascertained.
 Mutual funds give you two options for investing either a lump sum or through the popular recommended option of a Systematic Investment Plan (SIP). With the SIP option you commit to invest a fixed amount on a monthly basis. Units are bought based on the share price that day.
 There are various types of funds available in market the classification starts with equity, debt, diversified, gold, particular index and so on. Investment in mutual fund should be based on your risk appetite. The old finance paraphrase “don’t put all eggs in one basket” should be followed; the amount should be accordingly divided and invested in more than one fund. However, investment in more than five funds should be avoided though this may reduce the risk but at the same time it reduces the benefits also.
 Apart from Mutual Funds, ETFs are also available in capital market are comparatively risky. However, Gold ETF is the most popular and less risky option. Gold ETF eliminates the problems of insurance, storage, moving, and reselling and many others. Gold ETF fund will purchase a large amount of gold, maintaining the physical metal in storage. Share will be issued and price of these shares will increase with the value of gold. If the price of gold goes up by 10%, then individual shares would increase in value by the same 10%.

