 Add 6 cups (1.4 l) of chicken broth to a large saucepan, and heat it over medium-high heat. Allow the mixture to heat until it comes to a boil, which should take approximately 10 minutes.You can use store-bought or homemade broth for the soup.;
, Once the broth comes to a boil, add 1 ¼ pound (567 g) whole chicken breast with skin and bones to the pan. Cover the pan, and lower the heat to medium-low. Allow the chicken to heat at a bare simmer for approximately 15 minutes, or until it is cooked through.The best way to tell if the chicken is cooked through is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. It should register 165°F (74°C).You can also tell the chicken is done when the middle is opaque and no longer pink.
 When the chicken is cooked through, remove the saucepan from the heat. Let the chicken cool for 10 to 15 in the broth before transferring it to a cutting board. Reserve the broth., Once the chicken is cool enough to handle, use a knife to cut away the skin and remove the meat from the bones. Use a fork or clean fingers to shred chicken, and set it aside for the moment.Cover the chicken with plastic wrap, and store in the refrigerator until it’s time to mix it into the soup.
 Add 3 roughly chopped Roma tomatoes, 2 chipotle peppers in adobo, 1 chopped serrano pepper, 3 sliced garlic cloves, 1 small chopped white onion, 1 cup (237 ml) of water, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of pepper, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried epazote, and 1 teaspoon (1 g) of oregano to a blender. Blend the mixture until it is smooth.If you don’t have a blender, you can puree the mixture in a food processor.
Adding the serrano pepper is optional. You can omit it if you prefer a milder soup.
Dried epazote is a Mexican herb. You can find it at Latin grocery stores, online retails, and in the international aisle of some general grocery stores.
After you blend up the tomato mixture, taste it. Add more salt and pepper if necessary.
 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large pot. Allow the oil to heat for 2 to 3 minutes on medium-high heat, or until it begins to shimmer.You can substitute vegetable or canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the oil is hot, pour the tomato mixture into the pot. Heat the mixture on medium-high until it comes to a boil, which should take about 5 to 7 minutes., When the mixture has come to a boil, lower the heat to medium. Allow it to cook for another 5 minutes.The mixture should thicken up slightly at it cooks.
 When the tomato mixture has thickened a bit, add the chicken broth that you reserved earlier to the pot. Stir well to ensure that it is fully mixed with the tomato mixture.After you mix in the chicken broth, give the mixture a taste. Add salt if necessary.
 Once the broth is fully blended with the tomato mixture, add the shredded chicken that you reserved earlier to the pot. Mix well to ensure that the chicken is incorporated throughout the mixture., When the chicken and tomato mixture are fully combined, mix in 2 carrots that have been cut into ⅛-inch (3-mm) thick slices, ½ pound (225 g) of fresh green beans that have been cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces, a 19-ounce (539 g) can of chickpeas that have been rinsed and drained, and 2 bay leaves. Let the mixture cook on medium until the carrots soften, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.If you prefer, you can substitute shredded carrots for the slices. Shredded carrots will soften more quickly.
 Once the carrots are tender, add a zucchini that’s been cut into ¼-inch (6-mm) thick slices. Allow the soup to cook for another 15 minutes, or until the zucchini has softened too.When the soup is finished cooking, taste it. Add salt if necessary.
 When the soup is finished cooking, use a ladle to transfer it to individual bowls. Top the soup with diced avocado, shredded Monterey jack, chopped cilantro, diced onion, and/or lime wedges, and serve while it’s still hot.The soup pairs well with warm corn tortillas or tostadas.

