 Most modern wet cell batteries are sealed and considered “maintenance free,” but ones that are not sealed will require occasional service. You can usually easily identify if your battery is sealed or not by looking for rectangular ports on the top of the battery. If there are ports, the battery can be opened and requires maintenance to continue working properly.If there are no ports, the battery is sealed and does not require service.
Never open the ports without first putting on the appropriate safety gear.
 If your battery does require occasional service, you may need to add water to it from time to time to keep it functioning properly. Batteries that are charged and depleted often or operating in high temperature areas will likely require service more often than those that are not. First, check the water levels in the battery, then add distilled water if it is required. Never service your battery without first putting on eye protection and gloves as the fluid inside is corrosive.Remember, many wet cell and all VRLA batteries do not require you to add water at any time.
Always use distilled water when adding fluid to your battery.
 Keeping your batteries charged will help prolong their lifespan and ensure your RV works just the way you want it to when you take it out. Some people choose to remove the batteries from their RVs while storing them, but that isn’t necessary. Plug your RV batteries into a battery maintainer or trickle charger with a storage setting. Never plug any of your RVs batteries into a trickle charger that does not have a maintenance or storage setting, as you run the risk of overcharging them.Your deep cycle and starter batteries can be stored and charged using the same methods.
Make sure the voltage output on the trickle charger or maintainer you choose matches the voltage of the battery or you risk damaging the battery.
 After your battery has been plugged into a maintainer or charger for a week, check on it to ensure it isn’t overcharging. If the battery is warm to the touch or requires fluid be added to it, the charger you chose is introducing too much electricity into the battery. Slight overcharging can reduce the battery’s lifespan, and significant overcharging can cook the battery’s internals and prevent it from holding a charge at all.If the battery seems to be overcharging, disconnect it immediately.
Clerks at most auto parts stores can help you match a trickle charger to the battery you intend to charge.
 Some wet cell deep cycle batteries require equalizing if left for several months without charging. Equalizing a deep cycle battery involves using a high voltage charger at a low current level to break the sulfate crystals off of the inner cells. Doing so requires a special charger and should be done by professionals.Most wet cell, deep cycle batteries do not require equalization. If you are unsure if yours does, check on the manufacturer’s website.
No VRLA batteries require equalization.

