 Birds and bats are natural predators of mosquitoes. By giving them a place to live near your home, you encourage them to stay and feast, which naturally reduces your mosquito infestation. Birds and bats will eat a number of other insect pests as well., Mosquitoes like to hide in tall, lush grasses. Remove the clippings after you have mowed. They can continue to host insects after they fall to the ground., Lavender, marigolds, lemon balm, pennyroyal, catnip, and basil are just a few of many plants you can grow near your home that will help deter mosquitoes., Fill in holes and uneven areas around your home. These places can collect water, giving mosquitoes a place to breed.You can buy concrete patch to fill foundations and driveways or simply pay a contractor to fill holes around your home with a professional grade product.
Remove canisters or containers that gather water in the rainy or snowy seasons. Cisterns, tarps, barbecues, garbage cans and plant pots that fill with water are excellent mosquito breeding grounds.
Regularly dump and clean birdbaths and pet dishes (where mosquito larvae can collect) every 24-48 hours.
 If you have a swimming pool, keep it filtered and chlorinated to prevent mosquitoes from breeding in the water.If you have a water feature near your home, like a pond, consider stocking it with mosquito-eating fish, koi, or comet goldfish., Tree stumps are a mosquito breeding area that people often ignore. Fill the tree stumps full of sand, soil, or gravel to avoid dampness and water accumulation., Coffee kills mosquito larva, so by spreading coffee grounds in puddles, ditches, or marshy garden areas near your home, you can help reduce their populations.Don’t put coffee grounds in ponds or wetlands where fish, birds, or other marine life thrive so that you don’t pollute their habitat.
 You can hire professionals to come and spray around your home for mosquitoes. If you have a pond or large body of water, they can spray larvicides that kill mosquito larva but remain non-toxic to other marine life.In some regions, you can buy and spray the pesticides yourself. Rules and regulations differ depending on where you live.
Some counties and districts in North America spray entire communities for mosquitoes. To find out more about your area’s pesticide use and spraying procedure, contact your local health department.

