 If your extended family is coming from out of town and wants to stay at your house, suggest a local hotel or bed and breakfast. Think about your limits and what you and your family can realistically handle. If you feel like a request is too much for you to handle, say no.Saying no doesn’t mean you’re being rude, it means you’re observing your boundaries and limits. Try saying, “I can’t come through for you on that, I’m sorry.”
Remember that “no” is a complete response and you don't have to explain further or defend yourself. Practice saying no kindly, but without too much explanation. Some examples might be, "No, I can't do that;" "Thank you for asking, but I can't;" "No, I have to pass on that;" "I appreciate the invitation but I'm already committed.";
, Between Christmas programs and holiday recitals and office parties mixed in with birthdays and other gatherings, you may feel stretched thin in your time. Set some limits on what events you can and cannot attend. You may decide to accept some invitations and not others. When invited to a party, take some time to decide on whether you can go or whether you should pass. Don't forget to thank the person who invited you.Prioritize your children’s recitals and programs and go from there.
Before the holiday season begins, think about how many social arrangements you can handle. You may decide to attend four parties, accept the first four invitations, then decline any others.
You may decide to take turns attending an event. You may attend one friend's annual New Year's party this year, and commit to a different friend's party the next year.
If you can't make an event, you may want to send a note saying thank you for the invitation, or even a small gift.
 Especially if you have a newborn or are tight on money, you may need to reconsider that 10-hour van ride across the country to see your family. Even if your extended family is disappointed, let them know that it’s not a possibility this year and you need to spend the holidays at home. You may wish to say that it’s not personal, only practical.For example, say, “Our family is feeling really frazzled this year and won’t make it to the family holiday gathering this year. We’re sad and the kids are disappointed but it looks like financially and time-wise it’s not an option this year. I’m sorry.”
Consider hosting a family holiday party at your house if it’s difficult for your family to travel. Then, when your children are older and better able to travel, you can let someone else host.
 To lower stress and increase cooperation, ask for help. Kids can feel included and useful when you ask for their help in the kitchen or in tidying the house. Reach out to family members to help set up meals or activities for the kids. Trade babysitting with another family so that you can enjoy some kid-free time. If you have a need, ask someone to help you.For example, say to other parents, “I know both of our families are really busy, why don’t we take turns watching each other’s kids?”
If you’re asking your own children for help, say, “We need help with the family meal tonight. Ana, would you set the table? Chris, could you help me finish up the meal?”
You might also consider outsourcing some of the work or hiring a housekeeper or cleaning company temporarily. You might do your grocery shopping online and pick them up at the store or have them delivered to your house to save you a trip.
 Many people love the holidays and decorate their homes to reflect the holiday spirit. If this feels overwhelming to you, skip the decorations this year. If you must decorate, use simple, easy-to-reuse decorations such as an artificial tree with pre-strung lights or a wreath that you can reuse year after year. Instead of going all-out on outdoor decorations, focus your attention inside or keep your outdoor decorations simple and stress-free.For example, instead of stringing lights around your house, put up a wreath or a tasteful lawn decoration.
Get the kids to help out and do what they can, then come to finish the job.
 If sending out a yearly newsletter or card adds to your stress, consider skipping it this year. Getting the family together for a photo, writing about each family member, then printing and mailing each card out may take too much time and effort that you don’t have this year. Remove yourself from feeling guilty and take a pass.Consider an e-card or a very simple, postcard-like card that requires little effort.
If you must send cards, get your kids involved in addressing and stamping the envelopes.
 When you find yourself with some time, you may be able to do a little extra work to save yourself time when you are feeling swamped later. For instance, you could make some meals in advance and freeze them for easy preparation. You may even be able to pay your bills a month ahead of time so you don't even have to think about them when things get crazy.


If you usually wait to wrap presents all at once, you might try committing to wrapping one present a day in the weeks leading up to the holiday.
 Get kids involved in the spirit of the holidays by asking them to participate. Whether they help to put up the ornaments on the tree or make cookies for the cookie exchange, they can have fun and be involved. Give each child a task to complete such as putting up the wreath, setting the table, or lighting the candles.Ask your children what ways they can think of to give back to others and ask them to take the initiative.
 Don’t get lost in details and obligations. Find time to spend with your family, enjoying one another and having fun. Make time for fun events and things that put the family in a good mood. Do silly things like playing games or seeing who can fall the most while ice skating. Find moments when your family connects through good times and happy experiences.See if your family members (adults included) are willing to put their phones and other electronics aside for awhile (unless it's to take pictures!).
Add a dash of silliness when your kids are starting to look bored. Create a game or a contest for your kids like who can wish the most people a “Merry Christmas” or “Happy Holidays.”

, Set aside some time each day for yourself or for activities that make you feel relaxed. Instead of vegging out with television, invite the family to take a walk together. Get up a few minutes early each day for silent meditation or yoga. Do activities that help you cope with stress and feel good.Finding time in the morning or after the kids go to bed can be an ideal time for self-care. Using this time can minimize distractions and help you focus on giving back to yourself.
Make self-care a priority. You may be tempted to let your self-care lapse so you can fit in more activities and events, but remember that it's okay to say "no" to a party so you can stay home and take a long bath and unwind.
You may have to sacrifice some of your usual self-care rituals during the busy holidays, but make sure you don't forget them completely. Put one or two things on your schedule and stick to it.
 Prior to buying gifts, decide on a budget. Figure out how much you will spend on each family member and stick to it. You may want to try to pick out gifts early and buy them well in advance so that expenses don't pile up all at once. Remember that kids don’t need expensive gifts to enjoy the holidays. Having lots and lots of toys won’t make your child any happier, so give yourself a break if you can’t afford to give them everything they want. Your child will likely be happy to receive gifts, even if their pile is small.Your child’s experience of the holiday season does not depend on how many gifts they receive. Make the holiday season special by the experiences you have as a family, not by the amount of gifts received.
 Don’t wait until the last minute to buy gifts. Utilize tools such as online shopping to avoid lines at the stores, parking and general hassles and hold-ups. If you’re buying for many people (especially adults or many children), don’t be afraid to buy multiples of things.A little planning ahead with gifts can save you some stress the nearer you come to the holidays.


Take advantage of gift wrapping options. Many stores offer free gift wrapping. If the line is short and it’s not a hassle, do it and get one more thing off your list.
 If you start to feel frazzled and overwhelmed around the holidays, keep it in perspective. The holiday season is relatively short. Even if you dread the long car ride with your kids to go to their grandparents or the financial strain that comes with the holidays, know that there will be time to recover from the trip afterward. Once the holidays are over there will be plenty of time for tasks you overlooked or things that need to get done or do some personal recuperation.If you start to feel overwhelmed, take a deep breath. Try stepping outside or going for a walk or a short drive. Know that you will get through the holidays in one piece.

