 Even when a class is just plain boring, you can literally convince your brain – at least to some degree – that you’re having fun. It sounds to good to be true, but try it. Simply think to yourself “Hey, I’m actually kind of into this stuff. I’m starting to really enjoy this class.”Believe it or not, the old adage that time flies when you’re having fun is actually supported by how your brain works.
Accordingly, tell yourself you’re having fun – even if you admittedly aren’t having a blast – to make if feel like time is passing more quickly.;
, As simple as it sounds, changing your visual perspective of the world will help make time pass more quickly because your mind will be occupied by all the new information. Even the same classroom will look entirely different from a new angle. Your brain will be monitoring new information without you even thinking about it, making time pass more quickly., An alternative method of taking notes is another way to provide your brain stimulation. This is also especially constructive, as you'll be thinking about how to organize the material that is being covered. Try keeping notes in bullet points, short paragraphs, or even with small, relevant drawings every so often, and stick with what you enjoy.When considering how to take notes differently, ask yourself "How can I convey this information in a more interesting, but equally accurate way?"

, Challenging ourselves with specific tasks increases the energy and excitement with which we approach that task. It works even better when the challenge has a bit of drama built in. To heighten your own level of focus, imagine a quick scenario in which you must complete the trying task of complete concentration, or else…!For instance, pretend the teacher is a werewolf, but only morphs into a frothing-mouthed beast when she sees students eyes fully glaze over. There have been mysterious disappearances in her class every year. Can your class be the one that escapes unscathed, with full knowledge of the teacher’s lessons?
Challenge yourself to accomplish specific tasks. If you’re usually quiet, make a point of speaking up next class. If you usually finish your in-class work quickly, see if you can work through something with another student who hasn’t finished.

