 One of the most common side effects of rape is not feeling safe. You might feel mild feelings of unease, or you might feel outright panic at times. Remember that it is normal to feel afraid.Take steps to make yourself feel better when you are not feeling safe. For example, consider installing a home security system. That can make you feel safer.
Avoid triggers. If you feel uneasy walking after dark, arrange your schedule to avoid having to do that.
Ask your loved ones to help you make a safety plan. For example, if you live alone, ask a sibling to stay with you as you begin the healing process.
 Rape survivors often use "numbing" to cope with the emotional trauma. You may feel like avoiding other people and even avoiding interacting in daily activities.Acknowledge what you are experiencing. Tell yourself, "What I am feeling is normal. I will find a way to cope."
Start small. If you're having a particularly tough day, take things step by step.
If everything feels daunting, choose a small task to focus on. For example, tell yourself, "I will get up and I will eat breakfast. I'll decide on my next step after that."
Let your friends and family know what's going on. Your loved ones will worry if you withdraw suddenly. Try sending a text that says, "I need to take some time for myself today. I'll try to talk to you tomorrow."

, A flashback is when memories of a traumatic experience make it seem as though you are reliving the trauma. Many rape survivors have flashbacks. There are some things you can do to make dealing with flashbacks a bit easier to handle.Use your five senses to help you return to the present. Look around, and visually connect to the present.
Listen to the sounds around you and try to locate a familiar scent. This should also help you to disconnect from the memory and return to reality.
Touch something that is either hot or cold. Grabbing an ice cube or a hot cup of coffee can help you to exit the flashback.
Use your breath. Breathe slowly and deeply. This will help regulate your nervous system and calm your body's panic impulse.
 There are many symptoms of PTSD that rape survivors share. However, it is important to remember that your experience is unique. Try to find coping mechanisms that are especially effective for you.For example, maybe you have a favorite song that has always been a mood lifter. Try listening to that song when you are coping with intense symptoms.
Talk about your process. Share what you are experiencing with your family, and ask if they have any suggestions about new things you can try.
Find a new physical activity to do. Exercise can help to stabilize your emotions. Try going to a yoga class with a friend.

