 Meditating is a great way to relax your mind, and you can meditate almost anywhere and at any time. Just pick a quiet place where you can sit on level ground and close your eyes. Cross your legs and keep your hands on your lap. Focus on inhaling and exhaling, and let your body be governed by your breath. Keep as still as possible and avoid fidgeting.


Be aware of what you can't control. Focus and absorb the smells and sounds around you.
Clear your mind. Don't think about how much work you have left to do, or about what you're going to make for dinner. Just focus on clearing your mind and managing your breath.
Relax every part of your body. You can focus on one part of your body at a time until you feel that every part of you is loose and relaxed.
 Going out to the movies or watching a movie on television can help you escape into another universe and to take your mind off of your own problems. When you watch a movie, try to clear your mind as much as possible and think about what the characters are doing and saying instead of what you're going to do or say after the movie.


Pick a comedy or a romantic film for maximum relaxation. Anything too violent or gory will only make you stressed or anxious and will make it harder for you to sleep.
If you're watching a movie on television, skip the commercials. Either use DVR to watch the movie without commercials or just walk away and take a quick break during the commercials. Otherwise, you may feel more frenzied and distracted from the influx of mixed messages.
 Spending time with friends is a great way to relax. There are a variety of ways that hanging out with friends can help you relax, whether you're laughing over a board game or having a catch-up session over coffee. Spending time with your friends can make you wind down and spend time talking about your feelings, which will make you feel less stressed. Here's what you can do:


No matter how busy you are, make sure to spend time with your friends at least twice a week if not more. Plug social events into your calendar and stick to them, or you will feel even more isolated.
Make sure to spend quality time with your friends. Quality time means actually talking to and listening to each other in small groups, not feeling crushed at a loud party or concert.
Open up. You don't have to go into every little detail of every little thing you're worried about with your friends, but you shouldn't be afraid to ask for feedback.
Try to pick events that will make you laugh. If you have a busy schedule, choose a board game night or go out to see a comedy with your friends, instead of going to a crowded bar where you won't have as much of a chance to laugh.
 If you love to drive, then going for a long drive late at night can help you relax and feel more in control of your life. You may feel overpowered by nasty traffic, or annoyed by how aggressively other people drive during the day, but if you take to the roads at night, you'll feel calmer and more empowered.


Find a favorite driving route. Drive the same route every time so it becomes a routine and you don't have to worry about deciding where and when to turn.
Listen to jazz or other soft relaxing music while you drive.
Long drives are great after you spend a few hours socializing. If you're leaving a party after hours of laughing, sharing your feelings, and listening to your friends, taking a 20-minute solo drive before going home can help you wind down.
 Reading is a fantastic way to relax, especially before bed. Try to shut off all the noise and visual stimuli in the hour before bed and take the time to read something with a cup of camomile tea before you go to bed. Reading is a great way to start your day and to feel sharp in the morning as well. Reading will not only improve your knowledge, but it will allow you to rest your body and quiet your mind as you focus on the material in front of you.


Reading is a great way to feel like you're slowing down in a fast-paced environment. Make a goal of reading for at least half an hour a day.
If you feel so stressed out that you can't focus on what you're reading, take a break to meditate, or whisper the words aloud until you absorb their meaning.
 To do this, find your own space and darken it. Light it with gentle lamplight or candles. Put on some soothing music and lie back on a comfortable bed or couch. Relax as long as you want to or until you feel that is enough.


Focus on thinking happy thoughts, or almost no thoughts at all. Visualize how it will feel to slip into bed and fall into an easy and restful sleep.
Slowly turn down the music and blow out the candles, and fall into sleep.

