 If you are a new commercial driving applicant, the manual will help you pass the written exam and road test for the class and endorsement you require.


You can download the guide from the New Hampshire Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) website.
You may also visit any DMV licensing office to obtain a manual. Call the DMV at 603-227-4020 to be provided with a list of office locations or check for hours and locations on the DMV website.
If applying to drive a school bus, you will also want to consult the Handbook for the New Hampshire School Bus Driver.
 You can take driver education courses at Lake Regions or White Mountains Community College, or through private companies like Commercial Driving School. In addition, many trucking companies will offer instruction to newly hired drivers without CDLs.These courses will help you pass the written test, and once you have passed and received your commercial driver’s permit, will provide you with driving training, accompanied by a licensed instructor.Some licenses or endorsements, such as that for school bus drivers, require educational programs., Before acquiring a CDL, you must visit a CDL exam location for a medical exam to ensure that you are fit to drive a commercial vehicle. If you pass, you will be given a certificate, which you must bring with you when applying for your license, and carry with you at all times while driving. If you cannot pass the exam, you can apply for a waiver by calling 603-227-4000 or visiting the DMV website. To pass, you must:Have 20/40 vision in both eyes, with glasses or contacts permitted.
Be able to distinguish colors found on traffic signals.
Be able to hear a forced whisper from 5 feet away.
Have a maximum blood pressure of 160/100. Medication to control blood pressure is permitted.
Not have diabetes that requires insulin injections.
Have blood sugar under 200.
Use no schedule 1 drugs, amphetamines, narcotics, or other habit forming drugs.
Perform a stress test if you have been diagnosed with cardiovascular disease.

