 Make sure you have your doors and windows locked. Close your curtains at night.If you hide a spare key outside your house, make sure it is in a well-hidden spot, not under the doormat. Even better, give a spare key to a neighbor you trust.
Keep your phone by your bed.
Consider putting a security company’s sticker on your window or sign in your yard to serve as a deterrent, even if you don’t have a security service.
If you feel you are being followed on your way home, don’t go home. Switch directions and head toward a public place instead.
 It is easy to be in your own little world out in public places, wrapped up in a phone or daydreaming, and zone out as to what’s in front of you. However, stay alert to any suspicious behavior or anyone who makes you feel uncomfortable.


If you can, make a mental description of a suspicious individual’s appearance, including your best guess of their age, height, weight, and ethnicity.
When walking or running, stay on populated, well-lit paths. Do not wear headphones., If you feel as though you are being followed, you want to attract the attention of as many people as possible. Don’t be scared to reach out for help, even though you may be afraid of appearing paranoid. Most people will be willing to help you.


Duck into a store or restaurant and get help from employees.
You could approach a person or group of people and say loudly, “Oh, there you are! I’ve been looking all over for you!” Once out of earshot, explain the situation and ask if they can help you.
If there is no one else around and you can’t enter a building safely, try making, or pretending to make, a call on your cell phone. You could say, “When are you coming to pick me up, Dad? I’ve been out here for fifteen minutes!”Always call 911 if you feel threatened. It’s better to be safe than sorry.
 Map out your destination ahead of time. If you know you will be in an unsafe area, go with someone else.


Walk as if you know where you’re going, even if you’re lost. If you’re lost, find a police officer to help you. Women with children are also a good option.
Avoid walking alone at night if you are in an unfamiliar area. Walk with a friend or get a ride., Consider that in only 11% of rape and sexual assault incidents, an attacker used a weapon.Learning how to defend yourself from kicks, punches, and being restrained can give you a chance to escape your attacker.


You can often find these classes in community centers, colleges, or in martial arts studios.
Consider carrying a keychain with a whistle or other small, self-defense device attached to it. You can find these available for sale online.
 Most people carry their phone all the time, so take advantage of some of the safety features on your phone. Most importantly, make sure yours is fully charged before going out.


There are several mobile apps you can install on your phone that let you call for help or alert friends to your location. Try searching for “personal safety phone apps” to get started.
 If someone is making you uncomfortable and you can’t get away, get loud. Make a scene. Thrash and flail around. Remember, being safe is more important than being nice and polite.


For example, if someone sits next to you on the bus and intentionally leans too far into your personal space, yell, “Get away from me!” Attract attention and have others help you deal with the situation.
Do not be afraid to defend yourself if you feel you are being threatened with physical harm.

