 Boils can happen for a number of reasons, but are usually caused by a Staphylococcus aureus bacteria infection on your skin.Figuring out if you have a boil can help you most effectively decide on the right treatment for you at home.


A boil may present itself as an inflamed area with pain that starts the size of a pea and increases as it fills with pus. There may be a tiny, pimple-like bump or tip on the boil.;
, You may want to squeeze or lance the boil, but avoid the temptation to remove it this way. Picking at and touching your skin can spread bacteria and may cause further infection.Picking or touching your boil may also cause further irritation and swelling., Place a warm to hot compress on the boil and surrounding skin. This can help rupture and drain a boil more quickly, and may also reduce the pain.Heat a glass of water to a comfortable, warm to hot temperature that won’t burn your skin. Dip a soft cloth or washcloth in the water and apply it to the affected area. Do this procedure several times a day.Gentle, circular rubbing may help release rupture the roil. It’s not unusual to see a small amount of pus or blood if you do this., Take a short bath in lukewarm water.If you feel that the boil is about to burst, take a warm shower instead.


Consider sprinkling the water with baking soda, uncooked oatmeal or colloidal oatmeal, all of which may help calm your skin and treat the boil.Stay in the bathtub for only 10 – 15 minutes and repeat as necessary or as you wish.
 Bacteria can inflame and infect the boil even more. Keeping anything that comes into contact with the boil clean will inhibit the growth of infection-causing bacteria.In particular, avoid letting anyone else touch the area, as they may have different or more resistant bacteria that can worsen the infection.


Wash the area with a mild antibacterial soap. After you have applied the washcloth and the boil starts to drain, clean the area with a mild, antibacterial soap. Dry it with a towel by dabbing the area.Wash your hands thoroughly after touching or treating the boil.Wash anything that comes into contact with your boil such as clothing, sheets, towels, and even the washcloth you use as a compress., Colloidal silver is a natural antibiotic. Ingest it internally or use it topically to treat your boil.Mix one tablespoon of colloidal silver with one 8oz. glass of water and drink three times a day to help heal the boil.You can apply colloidal silver to your boil using a bandage or by spraying it on in a mixture of water. It is painless and won’t hurt your sensitive skin like many other treatments may.You can purchase colloidal silver for topical or internal use at pharmacies and medical supply stores.
 Use a bit of tea tree oil on your boil and the surrounding skin. This antiseptic, antibiotic, and antifungal is a centuries-old treatment, though there is little scientific evidence of its efficacy.There is a high incidence of sensitivity to tea tree oil. It is always a good idea to first do a patch test on an area that is not affected.
Mix a 1-1 solution of tea tree oil and water. Use diluted tea tree oil twice daily on the affected area., Turmeric is a spice that has antiseptic and antibiotic properties. You can either ingest turmeric powder or make a paste, which may help dissolve and heal the boil in as little as three days.You can mix one teaspoon of turmeric powder with one glass of warm water three times a day.You can also purchase turmeric capsules and take at least 450mg each day.You can make a paste of turmeric powder and place it directly on the boil. Cover it with a piece of gauze to help it heal and prevent it from staining your clothes., Moisten a cotton ball with some castor oil and place it directly on the boil. Secure the cotton ball with gauze or a band-aid. This may help to drain the boil and help it heal.You can get castor oil and many pharmacies, grocery stores, and health food stores.
 Tight fitting clothing can irritate your skin and make a boil worse. Wear loose, smooth, and light clothing to allow your skin to breathe and avoid irritating the boil.Smooth-textured clothing such as cotton or merino wool can keep your skin from getting irritated and can prevent excess sweating that may irritate the boil.
 Saline solution, which is water mixed with salt, may help draw out pus and dry out a boil. Hold a washcloth soaked in saline on the boil as after as necessary after it pops.Only use the saline solution once your boil has popped.Use a saline solution purchased from a pharmacy. This is recommended over attempting to make your own — it is easy to oversaturate the saline and create a very drying solution.
If you do want to make your own, mix one teaspoon of salt for every cup of hot water.
Dip a washcloth in the mixture and place it on the boil. Repeat the procedure as necessary.