 Before you attempt a crossover, make sure you've got a good handle on power dribbling and can maintain good ball control. A good crossover requires that you dribble effectively with both hands and can drive the lane from either direction.






;
, To do an accurate-looking fake, push the ball to the side you're dribbling it in. Step the way you fake, and lean that way, too. Keep your eyes focused on the defender's hips and midsection, rather than the hands or legs, which the defense will use for distraction. When the hips turn in the direction you're faking, that's when you'll know you've faked effectively. 








Also consider faking to your non-dominant side and crossing back over to your dominant hand and driving from your strong side. Keep the D guessing.
 This is the most important and convincing part of the crossover dribble. When the ball is up, some players will give a little hop, as if you're about to quickly drive to your dominant side. The ball will be in your palm at this moment, so really what you're doing is less about dribble and more about feigning motion.









Watch videos of great crossover players to practice and imitate their hesitation move. Be careful not to palm the ball, or you'll be whistled for a dribbling violation.
 Since the move involves bouncing the ball in between you and the defender, you'll want to make sure that you're low to the ground and that you're leading with the foot on your dominant side. Allen Iverson was great at keep the ball very far away from his body, but still totally controlling its bounce. You want to look as much like you're heading to that direction as possible. Don't open yourself up to a steal.









Don't look at the ball as you're doing the move. Keep your eyes on the defender and up court, scanning for possible open spaces, open teammates, and opportunities.
 When you've got the defensive player turned in the direction you want, quickly power dribble across your body, switching to your other hand. At this instant, you should be open to set for a jump shot or pass the ball to your teammate. It'll happen in an instant, so be ready to act as soon as you've completed the move. Practise this move a couple times to really get it perfect!








