 There are many different types of eyeliner that come in a pencil form, each of which has a different consistency and texture, application, and effect.


Powder-based pencils, sometimes called kohl, offer less intense color.They’re also a good option if you want to smudge the eyeliner for a “smoky eye” effect.
Gel- or cream-based pencils offer simple and excellent application. These pencils apply a rich and intense color. They're a good choice if you want to apply a winged, or cat eye, look.You can also purchase gel or cream eyeliners that come in a pot and can be applied with a tapered brush applicator.
Liquid eyeliner pencils offer the most dramatic and intense application. Many liquid liners come in pen form (though it more closely resembles a felt marker), making application fairly simple. Tips range from very thin to thick depending on how intense you want the look or if you want to apply a cat-eye or winged look.;
, Most companies offer different eyeliner formulas for different needs including sensitive eyes and organic, animal-friendly products. Some even offer formulas that include serums to elongate your lashes.


If your eyes are sensitive because you wear contact lenses, or if you suffer from allergic reactions to certain formulas, certain companies (like Almay) make non-allergenic (also called hypoallergenic) makeup, including eyeliner.
If you prefer an eyeliner that is ethically produced, made of organic materials, and is not tested on animals, for example, companies including, Aveda, NARS, Arbonne, The Body Shop, and Josie Maran Cosmetics offer these products., Pencil eyeliners come in a broad range of colors from electric blue and emerald green to traditional colors like black and brown.


A good rule of thumb is to apply shades such as black, dark brown, deep plum, or grey if you want a more natural look.You can intensify or soften these colors as you like to achieve your desired look.
Unusual colors such as electric blue, orange, or emerald green will really stand out against your eyes and eyelids, so it’s a good idea to use them for special, non-professional occasions.
Different eyeliner colors highlight each eye color differently. For example, plum eyeliner makes green eyes “pop,” while grey eyeliner looks great on blue eyes. Purple-toned liners can enhance brown eyes, and black is a good choice for any eye color.
 Once you’ve decided on the color, format, and formula, you are ready to purchase the pencil or pencils either at a store or online.


Eyeliners vary greatly in price. They can cost as little as 99 cents and as much as 50 dollars or more.
You can buy eyeliners at retailers including drugstores such as CVS, stores like Target or Walmart, or department stores such as Macy’s or Saks Fifth Avenue. Sephora, a large French makeup retailer with stores across the world, is another excellent place to purchase eyeliner.
Most vendors, including CVS, Target, Macy's, and Sephora, also have websites where you can purchase your eyeliner.
 Eyelids are the greasiest part of your face. If your skin and eyelids are clean, your eyeliner and any other eye makeup you apply will last longer.A clean face also helps reduce the chances that you will accidentally get bacteria in your eye, which can cause infection.
 Pick a room with lots of bright, direct light either from the sun or a lamp.


Having a light that shines evenly across your face allows you to evenly apply the eyeliner on both eyes.
 There are a few products to have handy that will soften your look or fix mistakes.


Brushes. A small-tipped brush in natural or synthetic fibers is the best way to soften your eyeliner line. They are also an easy way to apply gel or liquid liner.
Q-tips or cotton swabs. These are another great way to soften the look of eyeliner. Cotton swabs also effectively fix mistakes when paired with eye makeup remover.
Eye makeup remover. Many companies, including Neutrogena and Clarins, offer eye makeup remover that effectively and gently removes eye makeup and fixes mistakes in your application.
Pencil sharpener. You need to sharpen powder/kohl shadows for best application. This is also a way to clean your pencil, as you're shaving off the surfaces that may have been exposed to bacteria.
 Rest your elbow on a flat surface to steady your hand to ensure even application., This creates a great canvas for your eyeliner by removing any discolorations and evening out your skin tone.








It's a good idea to use a matte, skin-toned cream eyeshadow as your base. This will allow for more even application of your eyeliner.
However, cream eyeshadows can also lead to smudging or creases throughout the day. It is important to set any cream-based eyeshadows with a powder-based shadow or translucent powder before you apply eyeliner.
 This will also help you apply eyeliner evenly.


Make sure not to tug the lash line as this can make the line appear smeared. It is also bad for the delicate skin around your eyes., Place the pencil as close to your lash line as possible and slowly draw a thin line from the outer corner to the inner corner.








Keep the line thin to start. A thinner line will create a more natural look.Start at the outside corner of your eye. You want to deposit the least amount of pigment on the inner corners of your eye.You can thicken this pencil line as you like, for instance, if you want to apply your eyeliner in the cat eye or winged style.If you're interested in doing winged or cat eye style liner, you'll also want to thicken the eyeliner line. Then, draw a line at a 45 degree angle from the corner of your eye. Start from the bottom of the outer edge of your eye and extend upward. You can make this line as long or as short as you wish.Some makeup artists suggest making dots along your lash line and then connecting them if you aren’t steady with drawing a continuous line., Place the pencil as close to your lash line as possible while avoiding the rims of your eyes. Slowly and gently draw a thin line from the outer corner to the inner corner.








The eyeliner on your lower lid should be much softer than on your upper lid or else you can look harsh. A good rule of thumb is that it should be one third the size of the line on your upper lid.,









Avoid a complete circle of eyeliner around your eyes, which looks harsh and smears easily from your tears., This will make the look softer and give the liner a “lived in” look.








Use a brush, Q-tip, or even your finger to soften the line.
Another option for a softer look is to apply brown eyeshadow over the liner on your lower lid using a small, tapered brush. This works particularly well to soften black liner.
 If you want to make your eyes “pop” more, applying a little white eyeliner or shadow at the corners of your lids is an excellent trick.








This trick will also help you look more awake.
, If you made any mistakes in your application, go back and correct them with a little eye makeup remover and a cotton swab.


A brush can also help blend out mistakes, depending on how serious they are.
You can also use a little foundation on a Q-tip to correct mistakes. This decreases your risk of removing too much of your work., Properly sealing your eyeliner will ensure that it lasts for a long time and doesn’t run.








Use a thin coat of powder eye shadow in a similar color to your eyeliner to seal your eyeliner look. This will also give your eyes a little more of “pop” effect., Applying a coat of mascara to your eyes will highlight your eyeliner and enhance your eyes even further.









Make sure to apply mascara only after you’ve applied eyeliner.,