 Act like you normally would when you're around that person. Don't act nervous or scared, and try to come off confident. Stand tall, with your shoulders back and head up.When you speak, use your normal tone of voice and breathe deeply to relax if you're nervous.


To project confidence, make sure you don't fidget (put your hands in your pockets or hold something to keep your hands occupied). Make eye contact, smile, and speak slowly and clearly.
If you are confident that the person likes you, it should lessen your fear of rejection.;
, Walk up to the person and start a conversation about something. You can start a conversation about anything, including how their day is going so far, or a recent episode of a show you both like. This will make it feel more natural when you ask them out and will make you feel more comfortable. Make sure to take them to a secluded place where there aren't other people around.


To start the conversation you can say something like, "Hey, did you see last night's episode of American Horror Story? It was so crazy."
You can also say something like, "Hey, how's your day going so far?"

, When there is a lull in the conversation, ask them if they'd like to go out on a date. Be clear and confident when you ask them so that there's no room for confusion.Asking someone to be your girlfriend or boyfriend is asking someone whether they want to be exclusively romantic with you. Before this step, you need to go on a couple of dates first to establish the fact that you're "dating."


To establish that you want to go on a "date" rather than hang out as friends, you can say, "Hey, do you want to go out on a date with me over the weekend?"
If you've already gone on dates with the person and you want them to be your boyfriend or girlfriend, you can say something like, "I like when we hang out and go on dates. I'm not interested in going out with anyone else — do you want to be exclusive?"

, Instead of asking someone if they want to go on a date "sometime," get specific with what you're asking them. For instance, you can say something like, "Would you like to go the movies on Friday at 6?" This will make them either give you a yes or a no and will clue them into how you feel about them. Don't get upset if they are already busy or have plans. Instead, offer up another time and date that works for them. If they already have plans for the day, you can say something like, "Oh, okay, well do you have free time next week?"
If they say they don't have time at all, then drop it and wait until they feel comfortable going out with you.
 There is a chance that the person that you think likes you only likes you as a friend and not in a romantic manner. If they tell you this, don't be upset and don't ruin your relationship with the person. As a true friend, you should stay friends with them and respect how they feel. Instead of obsessing over the rejection or feeling down, move on and work to build a stronger friendship with the person.



If they say no, you can say something like, "Oh okay, that's totally cool. I just thought that you liked me that way, but I feel totally alright with just being friends."

