 Occasionally very small and plus sizes are available in high end denim so ask you retailer to search for you if you have a special size request. Many tiny or plus size celebrities have custom-made jeans from labels you and I normally would buy from which may not be available to the everyday buyer.;
,, Rigid denim (100% cotton) will eventually conform to your body, last much longer and run smaller.
, The majority of the time a size 30 is equivalent to a size 9/10 dress. Despite a return to some higher-waisted styles, most jeans still hit at the low waist with the average rise (distance from the center crotch to the top of the waist band) being 7 to 9 inches (17.8 to 22.9 cm), thus the waist on a size 30 is measuring 33 to 35 inches (83.8 to 88.9 cm) NOT 30. Size your jeans by your dress size or low waist (where the belt loops are), not your natural waist size.
 A size 30 is equivalent usually to a dress size 9/8. If you are ordering through the mail you may want to size up or order two sizes and return one. Many of these jeans just won't work if you have sizable hips, thighs and booty as the model they were fitted on was probably the lovely Paige Adams Geller, the force behind Paige Premium denim and previously a fit model for half a dozen famous denim brands. Paige has a stunning form but is by no stretch of the imagination a Sophia Loren or Marilyn Monroe type.
 Think Paris Hilton, Kate Hudson or Teri Hatcher. If you are curvy you will definitely want to try on a pair in person and not buy online unless there is an unconditional return. Stretch blends will create some give but usually not enough if you want to sit down. These jeans create curves in all the right places and look amazing on skinny women.
 These look best if they are slightly bootcut. higher waisted styles will have a natural corset effect and give you a waistline you may never knew you had.
 The slimmer fitting denim lines will have also smaller leg openings and tighter tapering so proceed carefully and make sure you have a solid return policy.
