 There are a few pieces of equipment you'll need to make your own cream eggs, and along with your ingredients, you'll also need:

Stand mixer and paddle attachment, or a large mixing bowl and a hand mixer
Rubber spatula or wooden spoon
Small bowl
Baking sheet
Plastic wrap or parchment paper
Double boiler (small saucepan and a medium glass bowl)
Toothpicks
Potato or large piece of Styrofoam;
, To make the egg filling for the cream egg, add the four ingredients to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Cream the ingredients on medium low speed until combined.You can also add 3 drops orange blossom water to the mixture to give the eggs a hint of citrus.
If you don’t have a stand mixer, combine the ingredients in a large mixing bowl and beat them with a hand mixer or whisk.
 Reduce the speed to low and add the sugar 1 cup (125 g) at a time. Once all the sugar has been added, continue beating the mixture until the sugar has been fully incorporated.Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula to make sure all the ingredients get mixed.
 Remove about one-third of the egg filling mixture and transfer it to a small bowl. Add the yellow food coloring and stir with a spoon to fully incorporate the dye into the filling.

The yellow filling will be used to create the egg yolk, which will be suspended in the white egg filling.
 Cover the two bowls of filling with plastic wrap. Transfer the bowls to the freezer and let them rest for at least half an hour, and up to four hours.Chilling the filling will make it easier to work with, but you don’t want it to actually freeze.
 Remove the yellow filling from the freezer. Take a half-teaspoon of filling and use your hands to roll it into a ball. Repeat until you’ve used all the yellow filling to make small yolk balls.

When the yolks have all been made, transfer them to a baking sheet. Cover them with a sheet of plastic wrap or parchment paper, and return them to the freezer.
 Remove the bowl with the white filling from the freezer. Take a tablespoon of the filling and roll it into a ball with your hands. Gently press the ball in between your hands to flatten it slightly, then press your thumb into the center of the ball to create an indent for the yolk.Repeat until you have made egg white filling balls with all the white filling.
You should have the same number of yolks and whites. If you don’t, make some of the whites larger or smaller to accommodate the number of yolks you have.
If the filling becomes too soft and sticky at any point while you're working with it, put it back into the freezer to chill for a few minutes.
 Remove the yolks from the freezer. Take one ball of egg white filling and place a yolk ball into the indent. Now use your hands to shape the egg white around the yolk so that the yellow is completely covered by white filling.Roll the combined filling into a ball, then gently shape it into an oval to create an egg shape.
Continue combining the yolks and whites in this way until you have made all the egg fillings.
Return the eggs to the baking sheet, cover them with plastic or parchment, and return them to the freezer.
 Place the chocolate into a medium glass bowl. Fill a small saucepan with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place the glass bowl on top of the saucepan, and heat it over medium heat.

Whisk the chocolate regularly as it melts.
When all the chocolate has melted, give the whole thing a vigorous whisking until the chocolate becomes glossy.
Turn the heat to low so it’s warm enough to keep the chocolate liquid.
 Remove one ball of egg filling from the freezer. Pierce the bottom with a toothpick so you can dip the entire egg in chocolate. Dip the filling in the melted chocolate. Remove the egg from the chocolate, and hold it over the bowl to allow the excess to drip off.Stick the other end of the toothpick into your potato or Styrofoam to secure the egg. Place the egg and the potato into the fridge for 10 minutes. This will give the chocolate time to set.
Repeat until you’ve covered all the egg filling balls in chocolate.
 When the chocolate has set on the eggs, remove them from the fridge and pull them out of the potato. Carefully remove the toothpicks.

Use a small spoon to drizzle a bit of melted chocolate into the hole where the toothpick was.
Place the eggs on the baking sheet and return them to the fridge. Let them chill for about two hours before serving.