 Even though most outdoor speakers are designed to withstand the elements, you will get a lot more life out of them if you protect them a little. Try to place your speakers under eaves or underneath the patio roof to help protect the speakers from the weather.
 Speakers should be about 8-10 feet (2.5-3 m) apart. If the speakers are too close together, the sound will be muddled and the speakers will overlap. If the speakers are too far apart, it will be difficult to hear and you will lose any stereo effects.
 A pair of speakers covers two channels: left and right. The two of these together creates a stereo sound. When installing more than a single pair of speakers, it is important to alternate left and right channels to ensure a proper stereo mix. This becomes especially important if you are installing a large number of speakers.


If you are installing more than one speaker along a wall, alternate left and right channels along that wall.
If you are installing speakers in a box around your patio, install the two left channels in opposing corners, and the two right channels in the other opposing corners.
 Make sure that the sound quality and projection is acceptable before mounting the speaker. Listening before installing can save you a lot of time and headache when you turn the system on for the first time.


More speakers is better than higher volume. If you are having difficulty hearing the sound everywhere you want, consider adding another pair of speakers instead of trying to crank the volume to the max.
 Mounting your speakers high allows the sound to project much further, which can give you more coverage for less speakers. If you mount them near or above 10 feet (3 m), however, you will lose a lot of the bass. Try to keep your speakers between 8–10 feet (2.4–3.0 m) off the ground.
 This will also provide a better listening experience, and help minimize noise pollution for your neighbors. Most brackets allow you to mount at an angle, and many contain swivels that you can position exactly how you want.
 The mounting process will vary depending on the type of bracket, but you'll usually need to drill into the mounting location. This may mean you will need a drill bit that can penetrate masonry.


Only mount speakers on solid wood or masonry. Avoid mounting on cedar or aluminum siding, otherwise the speakers may start to sag. This can cause vibrations, which will lower the sound quality, or the speakers can fall entirely.
Use the included brackets. Outdoor speaker brackets are already treated for weather. If you try to replace the brackets with ones not designed for outdoor use, they may rust and become weak.
 These provide a much more reliable connection than bare wire, which is essential for outdoor speakers. Banana plugs connect directly into the speaker wire clips on the back of the speaker and receiver.


To install banana plugs, you will need to strip the end of the speaker wires. Each speaker wire has two wires: a red and a black. Pull them apart to separate them and give you some room to work. Each of these will need to be stripped about 3/4 of an inch from the end of the wire.
Once the wire is stripped, unscrew the end of the banana plug and slip the exposed wire into the end. Once the wire is inserted, tighten the banana plug screw. Repeat this for the other exposed wire.

