 You can take someone's pulse, or listen to their heart with a stethoscope, to determine their heart rate.


In distributive shock, when you feel the pulse at the person's extremities (wrists and/or ankles), you are likely to feel a "bounding pulse."
A bounding pulse is a stronger, more forceful pulse than normal.
It is due to the increased total blood volume in distributive shock, from the vasodilatory effects that occur in sepsis or anaphylaxis (among other things).
The bounding pulse may be felt early, but as the shock progresses, the pulse will become weak or absent in the extremities.;
, This is because the fundamental problem in shock is lack of oxygen delivery to the body's vital organs. Therefore, the body tries to compensate for the lack of oxygen by breathing more rapidly.


Greater than 20 breaths per minute is considered an elevated respiratory rate.
 This is because distributive shock, perhaps counter-intuitively, presents with more blood than normal in the circulatory system; however, the blood is "distributed" inappropriately throughout the body, leading to inadequate circulation to the vital organs and excess blood flow to the extremities and to areas of the body that do not need it.
 As a result, urine output will decrease, leading to infrequent urination.
 A temperature greater than 38 degrees Celsius (100.4 degrees Fahrenheit) may be indicative of an infection.


A temperature less than 36 degrees Celsius (96.8 degrees Fahrenheit) is also of concern, as sometimes the body can present with a reduced temperature rather than with a fever.
 This is due to the decreased effectiveness of blood flow and oxygenation throughout the body. In more severe cases, the person may even be unconscious.
 It is typically below 90 mm Hg systolic, and it may even be undetectable. In distributive shock, even though more blood than normal is shunted to the extremities (the arms and legs), the blood vessels have dilated and, as such, the blood pressure reading still tends to be low.
 Therefore, if you are trying to recognize distributive shock, ask about and assess for any recent or current infections.


The most common infections that can lead to shock include pneumonias, genitourinary infections, and abdominal infections.
 People often carry an "epipen" (epinephrine pen) if they have been diagnosed with allergies that may lead to anaphylaxis and/or distributive shock. Inquire if there was exposure to a triggering allergen before the onset of shock.
, Lactic acidosis is an indication that the body's vital organs are not getting enough blood flow and oxygen, which, if not resolved, could lead to multi-organ failure.


The degree of lactic acidosis, therefore, is a way to measure the severity of shock symptoms.
 White blood cells can also be elevated in other inflammatory conditions that may underlie distributive shock.


If an infection ("septic shock") is suspected as the cause of distributive shock, blood cultures can also be taken.
A blood culture can grow the bacteria or other microbe that is causing the infection, allowing doctors to choose an appropriate antibiotic (or other antimicrobial agent, depending upon the cause of the infection) for treatment.
 Because the consequence of shock that is trying to be avoided is vital organ failure, it is key to assess the function of vital organs. Organs to test include:


Kidney function
Liver function
Heart function
Pancreas function, as pancreatitis can actually be a cause of distributive shock

, If distributive shock (or any other form of shock) is suspected or diagnosed clinically, it is key to identify the underlying cause so that it can be resolved. Additional diagnostic tests that may be of use include a chest x-ray and/or a CT scan, among other things.


Further tests will be ordered depending on the suspected etiology, for example, if pneumonia is suspected, a sputum culture and Gram stain may be ordered as well., If shock is confirmed, the patient must be treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital. The underlying cause must be treated as the patient is stabilized with oxygen. Vital signs and fluid intake and outtake should be measure hourly.