 To truly do the shuffle, you'll have to combine the "T-Step" and "The Running Man." To do this, simply move to one side while doing the "T-Step" and then switch to the "Running Man" instead of moving to the other side. Take five steps to the left and when you lift your left foot or the last time, turn 90 degrees forward or backward, and use this foot as your lead foot for the "Running Man."


Do "The Running Man" in place, or even move in a circle as you show off your skills. Then, when you plant both of your feet, choose one foot to be the lifted foot for the "T-Step" and start doing that type of shuffle. You can use this trick to move back and forth between the two dance moves.
 Start off by doing "The Running Man" either more or less in place or in a circle, and then turn your body 90 degrees to the right or left and start moving from left to right as you do the "T-Step." Just wait until your feet are both in the planted position during "The Running Man" and then lift one of your feet and begin using it as your lifted leg for the "T-Step" as you move in the direction of that leg.
 You can really alternate between the "T-Step" and "The Running Man" in whatever way you want. You can take just one or two steps of the "T-Step," turn your body, and then move right into the "Running Man." You can take two or three steps of "The Running Man" and switch back into the "T-Step," take just a few steps of that dance, and then return to "The Running Man" again.


You can also emphasize one move over the other. You can focus more on the "T-Step" and occasionally burst into "The Running Man" or vice versa. You don't need to do both dance moves equally.
 If you want to kick your shuffle routine up a notch, just spin while you do either "The Running Man" or the "T-Step." To spin while doing the "The Running Man," just do the running move while subtly moving in a circle every time you plant your foot. You can practice doing this slowly as you become more comfortable doing the move while spinning.


To spin while doing the "T-Step," just plant the shuffling foot as you shuffle it in the center of a circle while you rotate your body around the circle by rotating your lifting foot.
 Though your leg movements are the most important part of the shuffle, once you've mastered the footwork, you should pay more attention to your arms. If you keep your arms at your sides while you try these dance moves, you'll look like a robot. Instead, keep your arms slightly out and just move them in a way that feels natural with your feet.


If you're doing the "T-Step," just move your arms out whenever you plant your lifted leg, and move them in when you lift your leg.
If you're doing "The Running Man," just move your arms back and forth in a fun way that mimics the arm work of running with a hip-hop flavor.

