 When you have a urinary tract infection, you will often feel like you need to go to the bathroom. Do not ignore these feelings. Go to the bathroom right away and empty your bladder as much as you can. Doing so should help you to feel a little more comfortable when you are dealing with a UTI., This common over-the-counter medicine can help to relieve the burning pain that comes with urination when you have a UTI. Pyridium alkalinizes the urine to increase the pH of the urine so that the urine does not burn as much as it travels down the infected urethra.Follow the instructions for how much to take and how often. A common dose is 200 mg three times daily. You will only need to take pyridium for two days until it begins to take effect.
Do not take pyridium for more than two days without discussing it with your doctor.
This medication should only be taken by adolescents 16 and older and adults.
Keep in mind that this medication will cause your urine to turn bright orange. Some may also notice an orange tint to the eyes, and it may stain contact lenses.
Pyridium may interfere with certain lab tests, so let the technician or doctor know you are taking it before giving a urine sample., Wearing loose-fitting cotton underwear and clothing will make it less likely that moisture will get trapped in your underwear and make your infection worse.It will also make it easier for you to remove your pants and underwear if you have to go to the bathroom in a hurry. Furthermore, loose-fitting clothing will help you to feel more comfortable than wearing something tight.


Often times pelvic discomfort can occur with UTIs. Wearing nonrestrictive clothing will avoid excess pelvic pressure from occurring thus increasing comfort.
 Ask your doctor for recommendations on what to take and how much to help ease the pain that comes with a urinary tract infection. Tylenol (acetaminophen) and Motrin (ibuprofen) are good options.


Certain conditions make the use of over-the-counter painkillers unsafe (for instance, if you take blood thinners, then drugs like ibuprofen should be avoided). Talk to your doctor about other medications you are taking and conditions you might have.
Read and follow the package instructions for any over-the-counter medicine that you decide to take.
General recommendations for healthy adults is between 3,000 and 4,000 mg in 24 hours.
 A heating pad may help to reduce some of the pain and discomfort that you feel in your back and lower abdomen as a result of the urinary tract infection. Purchase an electric heating pad to apply to your lower back or abdomen for 10–15 minutes at a time.Make sure that you take breaks from using the heating pad. After you use it for 10–15 minutes. Take it off for an hour.
If you are using an electric heating pad, keep the heat set on low to avoid overheating.

