 Do you really like your crush? Enough to want to take this risk? Is he/she really worth the hassle and the worry? If you really like this person, then you have to be brave. Asking out your crush can be scary, but if you really like them, they're worth the stress.
 Talking to a friend when you're worried about love is probably the best next step They can help you with advice and they may give their own thoughts and opinions. Always trust your best friend. They may even know your crush well and can help you with ideas to ask them out- but always make sure you're happy about the decision., While it's natural to want other people to share our outlook, it's not realistic because people are diverse and hold different perspectives about all things in life. Don't worry about other people, just about your own self and about your crush. And even with your crush, don't worry too much because either this person is going to be the right one for you or they're not, and if they're not, then who cares what they think?

Another way to look at this is to think how much you'd regret not asking out your crush. This can help you to realize how much this matters to you and how important it is to at least try.
 Before you even get the answer, accept that the answer could be anything from an enthusiastic yes to a shy "thanks but no thanks". No matter what it is, acknowledge how brave it is of you to try this at all. And remind yourself that if you don't ask, you'll never know and for all you know, you could end up with your crush!, That lesson is that you are allowing a fear to hold you back from doing something you really care about. In life, you get what you are courageous enough to ask for. Lean in and get ready to that thing that both excites and scares you!

Prepare ahead what you want to say, so that you don't feel confused or at a loss for words.
Visualize asking out your crush and responding to the different possible ways that your crush might respond, so that you may take their answer with grace.
For help on knowing how to ask out your crush, see How to Ask Out Your Crush.
 This allows a safe space for both of you to react in your own ways without feeling overwhelmed by the stares and ears of other people. It will reduce your feelings of embarrassment and gives you a safety outlet of knowing only your crush is hearing what you have to say. It is also nicer for them, as they have the same safety valve should they feel shy, awkward or uncomfortable too. Do remember that they might be finding this as embarrassing as you!, While this is a very exciting and scary moment for you, it is important to stay calm so that you don't blurt everything out and sound muddled or don't make sense. Breathe deeply and consciously, preparing yourself to say what you have to say., You've already practiced this part if you followed the suggestion above. Thus, it should be easy to know what to say even if it feels hard to say it., Once again, if you followed the suggestion above, you'll already have rehearsed your own reaction to possible responses, so rely on those to say whatever needs to be said., Whatever your crush has to say to you, you have been very brave and very strong. If something happened that upset you, do not be embarrassed; it isn't a failure, it's a learning experience for next time.