 When you're trying to be obedient to an authority figure, like your teacher or manager, then you need to pay attention when they are talking. You want to show that you're interested.


In class look at the teacher while they’re talking. Take down notes when they give important information and look like you're interested.
Make sure that you are listening to your boss when they are giving you instructions. Again, eye contact is important.
 If there is a problem with an authority figure you should never bring it up in front of people. Instead, ask them if you can talk to them either in their office or after class.
 You should always respect authority, but never worship authority. Respecting authority means you recognize that the superior's authority and obey his or her reasonable rules. However, people who respect authority rarely sit quietly and suffer it if an authority figure treats them poorly or unfairly. People who revere authority, on the other hand, literally worship the authority figures; they think that, just because the superior has authority, whatever he or she says must be right. Therefore, revering authority often includes suffering injustices, while respecting authority only gives you the reputation of being respectful, kind and considerate--something worth going for.


For example: if you feel that your teacher gave you the wrong grade for an assignment, you would go and discuss it with them after class. Present some clear and concise reasons why you feel you deserve a different grade (and no, "worked really hard on it" is not a reason).
 It's hard to be obedient to someone if you're not really sure what they want from you. This is part of paying attention to what your authority figure says, because then you know what they need from you. If you happen to disagree with an authority figure, do not be impolite. Merely talk about it courteously, and you may end up getting your way.


If you're being obedient to your teacher then you'll need to stay on top of things like homework, classwork, any major projects, what they require in terms of in-class participation.
If you're being obedient to a superior at work then you're going to need to know what's expected from you in terms of your job. You're going to need to pay attention to long-term projects, and make sure to not fritter away your time at work surfing on the internet.
 Once you know what is expected of you it's time to fulfill those expectations in a timely manner. If there is a legitimate reason why a certain task or assignment isn't going to be completed on time, make sure that you inform your authority figure.
 Fighting or bickering with your boss or your teacher is the exact opposite of being obedient. Particularly in a classroom or work situation, your opinion on the authority figure isn't going to be that important.


Backtalk can also be nonverbal, such as rolling your eyes or smirking when they say something you disagree with or find to be stupid.
If they tell you to do something don't say something like "This is totally unnecessary." If you have questions or want to know why, ask respectfully but assertively.
 Respect and obedience have a tendency to go hand in hand. To be obedient to someone you need to act like you respect them as an authority figure. When they tell you to do something, you do it, as long as it is reasonable, moral and harmless.


Be polite and considerate. Say "please" and "thank you". However, remember never to apologize for something or assume responsibility for it if you did not do it.
 If your authority figures told you to jump off a cliff, would you still do it obediently? Just like everything else, obedience has its limits. If you cross these limits, you are turning from being disciplined to being unwise and foolish. Watch out when you obey your authority figures--they may be authoritative, but few are completely virtuous.

