 To maximize the absorption and impact of a turmeric-based facial paste, you should first thoroughly (but gently) clean your skin and open your pores. And honestly, what better way is there to begin a relaxing facial than with a nice, warm bath?Take a warm bath or shower to open up your pores. While doing so, cleanse your face and body with a gentle soap that removes dirt and impurities without overly drying or irritating your skin. Rinse away the soap completely with clean, warm water, and dry your skin thoroughly but gently with a soft, clean towel.
 Turmeric facials aren’t meant to be a quick, on-the-go treatment. Wait until you have some time to sit back, relax, and enjoy the process without rushing it. Once you’ve applied your turmeric concoction of choice, recline in a comfy bed, chair, or other nice spot where you can wait 20 minutes or more for the paste to dry.








Place cucumber slices or steeped and cooled chamomile tea bags on you eyes to enhance the relaxation quotient.
Use towels to protect your chosen reclining spot, and any clothes you are wearing. Turmeric facial pastes will stain fabrics.
 Although most turmeric facials should be allowed to dry thoroughly on your skin, they can usually be removed fairly easily with a clean cloth, warm water, and gentle but thorough wiping, dabbing, and rubbing. Once again, don’t rush things. Meticulously and calmly wipe away the paste.








You can use moistened cotton balls or swabs to remove the dried paste from creases and crevices. Once the paste is completely removed, rinse your face with warm water, splash it with cool water, and pat it dry with a clean towel.
 The vibrant golden color of turmeric powder lends credence to warnings that pastes that include it can cause yellowish discolorations of your skin. These concerns tend to be overblown, however. If a turmeric facial does cause a yellowing of your skin, it should only be temporary and should wear or wash away without much trouble.If you are getting married or have a big interview the next day, have fair skin, or are simply concerned about possible discoloration, test your paste on a less conspicuous area of your flesh first (akin to testing cleaners on fabrics). If there is staining, see how much time and effort it takes to remove it. You might also want to consider reducing the amount of turmeric in your recipe, if necessary.
Turmeric pastes can, however, cause hard-to-remove stains on clothing, furniture fabrics, carpets, and so on. When mixing, applying, and removing a turmeric facial, use plenty of towels (that are okay to get stained) to protect clothing and fabrics.

