 If you're in school, you have your pick of the topics that interest you. If you aren't, or if your school offers a limited program, you'll need to find teachers elsewhere. Check out the course listings at your local community college. Look for churches, free schools, and community recreation centers, and cultural centers that offer lessons. Check listings in local magazines and online for independent teachers and tutors.


If you can't find a teacher or tutor in the subject you want, you may want to put up flyers around town and an ad online.
Ask people you know if they can recommend a teacher or tutor to you.
Sign up for a MOOC. Take free online classes offered by universities and research institutions.;
, You can pursue knowledge and new skills on your own. Get the materials you need and try to tackle them on your own. You can check out books from your local library on the topic, and look information up online. If you are learning a new skill, try tackling the materials from as many directions as possible.


Read up on the history of the subject that interests you.
You know how you learn. Are you a hands-on learner? Practice what you're learning. A visual learner? Draw yourself a chart.
Don't just read one how-to guide if you're mastering a skill. Try to learn multiple approaches, and make up a few of your own.
 Do you know someone who knows something you'd like to know? Ask them to teach you in exchange for you teaching them something else. You might be an excellent gardener, for example, while they're great at guitar. You can trade an hour of gardening consultation for an hour of guitar lessons.


Seek out people who are interested in trading skills. If you want to learn some conversational Spanish, for instance, try putting up flyers for a language exchange at language schools, international centers, and other places affiliated with the language you would like to learn. Offer to meet up and speak half an hour of English in exchange for half an hour of Spanish with a native speaker who would like to improve their English.
Think about the skills you have. Someone, somewhere, would benefit from those skills.

