 Video is a visual medium, and while voice overs and text are great to get information across they are not incredibly compelling. If you're shooting alone you will not be able to use dialog, actors, or a ton of sound to tell your story. What you have, however, is all the time in the world to set up great shots, capture good video, and work on creating compelling angles.


Have the mind of a photographer on every shot. Ask yourself if, on its own, the image is interesting.
 A storyboard is just the comic book version of your movie. They are invaluable ways to design your film, allowing you to "see" the movie before shooting. It then acts as your guidebook to the film. You can find and print templates online, or simply draw out your basic shots in advance with pen and paper.


Improvising for the camera has it's place, of course. But storyboards are a good way to plan where the camera should go.
 Camera microphones are notoriously bad, and they become useless when the camera is far away from the action. An external microphone will make a huge difference in your production quality, since most audiences notice bad sound before rough video., Make discrete, compelling "scenes" instead of turning the camera on and letting it run while you move around. This ensures that you think about each scene individually and it makes editing much easier., Focus works by sharpening the image at one particularly distance from the camera. If you move around the camera will struggle to keep up, shifting focus or becoming blurry.


Put down a small piece of tape that tells you where you need to sit or stand for each take., Films of any lengths are built in the editing booth.The more raw material, or film, that you have to work with the happier you will be, and the easier it will be to make a great movie. Grab different angles of the same shot, run through different lines, or videotape your environment for atmospheric shots. Every extra shot counts.Experiment with shots. Take crazy angles, get weird, abstract shots of everyday objects, and really explore your area with the camera. You may not use the footage, but even grabbing one compelling shot out of 100 will be worth it.

