 Don’t be scared. They usually have lots of support for new riders. They will escort you around the track several times so that you can get comfortable out there. The track is way safer than doing this on the street. No little ol ladies, no sand in the corners, no stoplights and everyone going the same way. Pay your track fees early to take advantage of possible discounts. (Expect track fees of roughly $100.00 a day on average);
,
Leather or cordura race pants and jacket that zip together or a one-piece race suit with built in protection at the knees, calves, elbows, forearms etc. (preferably vented to let cool air in.)

hard back/spine protector.
Motorcycle racing boots
Full face helmet.


Tires and brake pads must be near new.
Tire must be race or near-race quality. They’ll have stickier composition. Proper tire pressure is of utmost importance. Your normal street pressure is probably not right for the track. Check with the tire rep, your local shop or the people running the track day.
Remove the mirrors.
Disconnect the headlight and brake light.
Use blue painter's tape entirely over the headlight, turn signals, and taillight.
Check the oil, chain, forks, anything else with possible maintenance.
Setting your suspension up is important in track riding. If you don’t know how to set your forks and swing arm to racing settings according to your body weight, set them to firm.
Find out if you need to replace your engine coolant with water. Coolant is slippery if it leaks, so some tracks forbid it. Straight water works fine if the bike is moving on the track. (Even if your race track does not require you to replace your antifreeze you should change it to water+Redline Water wetter anyway, you don't want to be the cause of another rider crashing because your bike has a small leak. Water evaporates, ethylene glycol does not.)

, Many people go the night before and sleep at the track. The track may have a bunkhouse for the racers. Get your gear on, go to the riders meeting and ask about the new rider’s slots and training. ( Everybody does this first once) Don’t worry! This is just like the street except safer. It is very unlikely that you will wreck if you follow the rules.
 Eat protein for breakfast. This is a physically demanding task and being in good shape will help. For every 7 pounds you lose, you gain one horsepower.
