 Instead, a high sugar content leads to an accumulation of fat.


Limiting your sugar intake doesn’t mean you can never eat cake or drink soda. It just means that these things should not be regular elements in your daily diet. Think of them as special treats.
Other high-sugar foods you should avoid include popsicles, candy, chocolate bars, ice cream, sweetened fruit juices, cookies, and sweetened cereals. Even some foods that might seem healthy like canned fruit and dried fruit have high sugar content.
Instead of eating high-sugar foods, try naturally sweet flavors like grapes, strawberries, peaches, pineapples, oranges, blackberries, blueberries, and mangos.
Try artificial sweeteners like Stevia instead of sugar in drinks.
 Processed foods are high in salt and fat, which can lead to hypertension, heart disease, and obesity. Avoid fast food, potato chips, and cheese snacks. It’s okay to have these foods once in awhile, like when you’re busy all day; however, you should limit the amount of processed foods that you eat because of their serious negative health impacts over the long-term.


If you’re unsure what foods are processed and which are unprocessed, look at the label. If there are lots of ingredients with long names that you can’t define (for instance, monosodium glutamate and butylated hydroxyanisole), you’re looking at a processed food. Alternately, avoid foods whose nutrition labels list fat content and sodium levels that are through the roof, especially when the serving size is relatively small.Processed foods that you should learn to avoid include potato chips, cheesy snacks, pre-packaged pastries, and gummy snacks.
Ask your parents not to buy these snacks so that you don’t have to deal with the temptation of wanting to eat them. Encourage them to instead buy whole grains, fruits, and veggies. Carrots with hummus, radish slices and guacamole, and apples with a sprinkle of cinnamon make great snacks.
 A healthy diet consists primarily of whole grains, vegetables, and fruits, with a small amount of lean protein and dairy products. You can get whole grains in whole grain bread, bagels, and pasta. Fresh vegetables like spinach, broccoli, tomatoes, and kale will keep you feeling energized. Fruit like apples, strawberries, and bananas will give you the nutrients you need to get through the day.


Try to eat a variety of healthy foods each day. Swap them out from time to time so you don’t get bored with eating the same thing.
If you aren’t used to eating a healthy diet, start small. For instance, instead of snacking on chips, try snacking on grapes or some crunchy carrots.Consider taking a daily multi-vitamin to ensure you get the nutrients you need.
Eat a healthy breakfast. Studies show that people who eat breakfast tend to feel fuller throughout the day and eat a smaller lunch and dinner.Try granola, a bowl of tasty fruit, or some toast with jam. Avoid sugary foods like toaster treats and sweetened cereals.
 Water keeps you hydrated, which is good for regulating body temperature, bodily functions, and mind. It also keeps your complexion healthy and helps you stay cool during the hotter months. For a hint of citrus flavor, squeeze a lemon into your water.Try to drink at least eight glasses of water each day. If you’re exercising a lot, drink a bit more to stay hydrated.
 Don’t starve yourself. The pressure on teens to look good is immense.Teens often try crash diets (diets that dramatically reduce daily caloric intake) in an effort to meet the expectations of their peers and society; however, these diets are not recommended and can even be dangerous. They can lead to imbalances in nutrition and leave you feeling sluggish.


Crash diets can actually have an effect opposite to the one you want, since they push your body into “starvation mode” and make it temporarily impossible for you to lose weight.
In addition to starvation diets, don’t engage in binging/purging (bulimia). If you suffer from an eating disorder or have body-image issues, talk to a licensed therapist or your school’s mental health counselor.

