 The level of exercise you should aim for varies with your age, weight, gender, and physical ability. Talk to your doctor about how much you can and should work out.


Some people with heart valve problems should not exercise. Talk to your doctor before beginning an exercise regimen if you already have cardiomegaly or other heart problems.
If you are just getting back into exercising, start with a daily walk. You can start with as little as 10 minutes, then work your way up to 30 minutes.
 This can lead to an enlarged heart, by causing enlargement and thickening of the heart muscle.


Ask your doctor for medications to lower your blood pressure.
Avoid salt and foods high in sodium to reduce your blood pressure.
Don’t use diet pills to lose weight. They raise blood pressure., If you have diabetes, amyloidosis, or valvular heart disease, you have a higher risk of cardiomegaly than the general population. Let your doctor know if you have a family history of heart problems. You can also talk to your doctor about getting a blood test done to diagnose potential heart problems.


Pay attention to thyroid disorders. Both an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) and an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) can lead to heart problems, including an enlarged heart.
If you have valvular heart disease, you might need medications or surgery. Talk to your doctor about how to treat your valvular heart disease.Anemia can cause a heart to become enlarged. Anemia occurs when there is not enough hemoglobin (a protein found in red blood cells) to carry oxygen to your tissues. Your heart must then pump harder to deliver enough oxygen to the rest of your body. This can cause a rapid or irregular heartbeat.
 A buildup of iron can be toxic to your organs and weaken your heart muscle, leading to an enlarged left ventricle.


Manage medical conditions in concert with your doctor in order to prevent an enlarged heart.
 Take time out of your day to relax and enjoy yourself by walking around your neighborhood, watching TV, or reading a book. Engage in moderate physical activity for about 30 minutes each day. Limit the amount of salt, caffeine, and fat in your diet. Eat a diet of mostly whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, with moderate amounts of protein.


Talk to your doctor about exercising. Some individuals with cardiomegaly cannot exercise because it might exacerbate their condition.
Use your alarm clock or watch to determine when you should go to bed and wake up each day. Having a regular sleep schedule helps the body adjust to sleeping the right amount.
 Cardiac muscles cannot regenerate, which means that a part of your heart will be weaker than your normal heart tissue.


When your heart has both healthy and weak tissue, the healthy tissue may become enlarged as it is forced to do more work.
 Alcohol and drugs break down heart muscle cells. Heavy drinking, especially, can lead to poor nutrition, which limits the heart’s ability to repair itself. As a result, your heart muscles may become structurally weak, producing enlargement. Therefore, avoid drinking alcohol and using drugs.


If you are addicted to drugs or alcohol, speak to a substance abuse counselor. Talk to a therapist to confront the underlying reasons why you drink and abuse drugs.
Get support from groups like Alcoholics Anonymous.

Do not smoke. Risk of heart attack greatly increases in smokers. People who smoke a pack of cigarettes a day have more than twice the risk of heart attack than non-smokers. Use nicotine gum and patches to control cravings, and gradually reduce the amount you smoke each week until you’ve kicked the habit.

