 Using a pair of scissors or shears, cut three, two-inch (5 cm) pieces of 24-gauge floral wire. The lengths of the pieces do not need to be exact. However, they should be similar in length.You can purchase floral wire at your local florist or arts and crafts store.;
, Once you cut your wire pieces, slide four beads onto the ends of the wire, placing two at each end. Because you want the wire to look like mistletoe, the beads should be white. However, you can also use pink or red beads to give the appearance of berries.You will need six to eight beads for the entire project.
You can find the appropriate beads at your local arts and crafts store.
 Using your fingers or a pair of needle-nosed pliers, create a U-shaped bend about ¼ of an inch (2/3 cm) from the end of the wire. This bend will keep your beads in place. Make sure that the bend is curved enough to allow the beads to slide into the groove.You might also consider bending the wire around the bead to make sure that there is enough room.
 With your fingers or needle-nosed pliers, created a U-shaped bend in the middle of the wire. Once you have created the bend, the two ends of the wire with the beads should be parallel to each other. Make sure that the beaded ends do not touch each other., Take a pair of scissors and cut six to eight small leaf shapes out of some green felt. The leaves should be about ½-inch (1.25 cm) long. Then take a hot glue gun and attach three or four leaves directly above the beads.Be sure to leave enough leaves for your second sprig.
You can purchase felt at your local arts and crafts store.
 After you have made your first sprig, repeat the process to create a second sprig. Use your remaining floral wire, beads, and leaves. Remember that each sprig should have three to four beads and leaves., Once you have your second sprig made, glue it to the first sprig with hot glue. Place a small dollop of glue at the U-shaped bend in the middle of the first sprig. Then place the U-shaped bend of the second sprig on the glue, positioning the beads slightly away from each other.If you have some exposed wire, you can also cut out some more leaves and glue them on.
Do not put the beads directly on top of each other.
 Once you glue your sprigs together, take a 4 to 6 inch (10 to 15 cm) piece of ribbon and fold it into a bow. Then attach the ribbon to the same area where you glued the sprigs together. The ribbon will help hide place the place where you glued your sprigs together and make your decoration look more festive.Ideally, you should use a red ribbon. However, if you want to changes things up, you can also use a white ribbon.
 Take the remaining piece of floral wire and create a U-shaped bend at one end. Then take the hot glue and attach the unbent end of the wire to the back of the decoration. Try to glue it to the place behind the bow where you glued the springs together.Once the glue has dried, you can hang the mini-mistletoe on your tiny tree.

