 Whether you are a boss supervising a team or if you are a supervisor that is a part of a team, people can sense genuineness. It is rare that a person will listen to someone who is fake, but people are much more likely to respond positively to authenticity. Be very honest and genuine with your employees and coworkers, but also with yourself.Share information about yourself to your staff that you think is appropriate so they know you on a slightly more personal level.
Don’t pretend to be something you’re not. Even if you are the boss, you are not perfect.;
, Remember that people support what they help create. Get others on your team involved in working on developing a plan for creating a more optimal environment to work in. You could start by appointing different people to different tasks or you could lead a group discussion.Ask your staff for input on the process from the beginning. You don’t want to make decisions before understanding everyone’s concerns.
Find out also what people are currently happy or content with in the office. You might ask them verbally or have them complete an anonymous survey.
 Avoid using negative and insulting language around people; remember that you’re conversing with your team, not talking at them. Even when you’re disciplining individuals, learn to use constructive criticism instead of putting people down. Listen to what people have to say and compliment them when good work is done. It’s easy to criticize negative actions but things go right every day and shouldn’t be overlooked. Be sure to appreciate people for their good work daily and encourage other supervisors to do the same.


If you are part of the leadership team and you have to discipline someone, make sure to talk to the person one-on-one. Do not do this in front of other people.
If you need to address a group of people about a problem, then arrange a group discussion and do not target any particular person during the conversation.
 If you have coworkers who don’t get along, set up meetings with them to work through their issues so that they don’t poison the positive environment you are trying to create. Meet with each one individually and listen to their concerns. People may share more in a one-on-one setting than in a group setting.


You might say “I have noticed that there is a bit of tension between the two of you. I care about both of you and want you to have a positive work life. What issues exist between the two of you that we can address and fix?”

, No one likes to deal with ambiguity or uncertainty. Once a decision has been made to change your office, you must explain this new plan to your staff. Make sure that you have taken their suggestions into consideration and you incorporate them in some ways so that you are communicating that you care about your staff. But remember, that at the end of the day, you are the leader and it is your job to create a positive environment.For instance, if you are now requiring that everyone come in 30 minutes earlier every day, you will need to justify this with a reason as this will require more effort from your team.
 Your team will likely have quite a few questions if you are seeking to change the office and will want to give their input. You should give them the respect of answering them. You may feel a bit of pushback from them, particularly if you are making big changes. Even small changes might meet some resistance because some people do not enjoy change. The team may be accustomed to working under a certain set of circumstances, so give them some time to adjust to this newness.


Be willing to listen to feedback about yourself as well and look for ways that you can grow and improve.
 Consider the root of the issues in your office. You will need to work to develop changes that will improve these core issues, but sometimes, everything you try will not work. Work with your team to identify what’s not working and talk to your mentors or others who you trust.You may find, as well, that your methods aren’t working because of resistance from an employee or perhaps your entire team. Sit them down to have conversations individually and together.
If you are the boss, you may need to fire someone if they are continuing to be negative or insubordinate, but this should be a last resort.
 Be very honest with your team at all times. Never pretend to know or understand something that you don’t know or understand. Should any employee or teammate of yours have a deficiency in any area, you would not want them to pretend that it didn’t exist, and it should be the same with you.


You should embody the honesty that you want your team to embody to you.
For example, if you are unsure about how to make some of the changes that need to be made, tell them. Perhaps they know something about the office that you don’t know and can provide concrete and useable feedback.
 Being passionate about your work can provide an example for others to follow. People won’t be able to believe in you until you fully believe in yourself. Employees, coworkers and peers are much more likely to go along with what you tell them to do if you’re actually genuinely invested in it. The more passionate you are about your work, the more likely people are to be inspired by your actions.


Your team will not work hard for you if they feel that you don’t care about the job. Show them your genuine interest.
Take some time to learn even more about the work you do or the people that you serve. This increase in knowledge will signal that you care and will encourage your staff to learn more.
Keep in mind that you are the leader and primary role model for your team, so they look to you for guidance, support, and empowerment. To be an effective role model, commit to your own personal and leadership growth, such as by attending leadership conferences, reading leadership books, and identifying admirable traits in your role models. Strive to be an ethical, supportive, and conscious leader.
Remember to believe in yourself and others. Believe in your team’s abilities to help empower them.
Provide your team with helpful resources and advice. After you give advice, guidance, and support, be sure to step back and let them make their own decisions.
 Ensuring people know that you care about them is a great way to inspire them. They’ll be much happier to invest their trust and time in you if you show genuine interest in what they do and how they feel. Just taking a small part of your day out to talk and listen to other people can help maintain a positive atmosphere.
 Whilst identifying and acting upon your strongest points are great ways to get people stimulated, it’s also important to remind everyone that you also have your own set of weaknesses. Showing people how you overcome and deal with these weaknesses is a great way to connect with them professionally and emotionally and to help them develop as people or professionals.


People will find it easier to relate to your vulnerability as this will help them understand that everyone must overcome their own challenges.
 If someone on your staff should do something exceedingly well or should go above and beyond the call of duty, they should be recognized for that. People respond well to being praised when they do a good job and will tend to work hard for you if they feel recognized. This is also a great way to incentivize your other staff to take initiative.
 Identify what factors people are failing at and try to remedy the situations positively. If they are looking to coast through without any kind of direction, help them formulate a plan. Things will go wrong and people will fail at times, but constructing a plan of action will at least help you and everyone else to prepare for any challenges that may arise.
 To create the best and most positive environment possible, high standards will need to be in place. Making clear and easy to follow standards for your team will help in avoiding issues or confusion in the future. Communicate these expectations to your staff clearly and concisely.For instance, if you expect your team to arrive every day by 9AM, make that known to them and keep that rule for yourself, too.
However, allow for some flexibility. No one wants to follow a dictator. Sometimes, coming in at 9 may not always be possible. Clarify the times when flexibility is possible.
 Every person has a unique and important role to play in the team dynamic and you should work to actively foster the strengths in each of your team members. You should give team expectations but you should also give individual expectations, as well. Make sure that any and all assignments and deadlines are known and understood by the team.For instance, if you have a team member who is particularly skilled at communication, perhaps you would have them lead a communication exercise with the team at a staff meeting.
Work with them on their weaknesses, too. If you have a team member who struggles with speaking before crowds, consider sending them to a conference or a workshop to help them overcome that.
 One other aspect of a productive work environment that you should make a property is assuring that your staff is continually learning and becoming better professionals. Provide workshop or conference opportunities for your staff to further hone their craft.
 As a part of this process, you will want to check in with your staff regularly to ensure that all of you are on the same page. Set up weekly or biweekly meetings with your staff for a time that is convenient for all to discuss any updates or changes and to provide clarification on any questions.


Keep in mind that you may require a different amount or type of meeting depending on your work environment. More or less meetings may be required depending on the purpose and work setting, or you may even need to use a different format for meetings, such as Skype.
 As a part of this new process, it will be important to set some goals for yourself and for the team to indicate when you have been successful. As you are developing your plan for improving your team dynamic, think also on the goals you want to achieve in the process. Ask your team also to identify what they would like to see at the end of the process.For instance, perhaps your team has had issues in the past with team morale. After you have set your plan in place, clarified your expectations, and led by example for a set amount of time, take an assessment of your team to see if their feelings and attitudes have changed.
 Take some time as a a group and a team to assess the working dynamic. You may want to do this individually as some might be embarrassed if they are corrected in front of a group. You can still, however, offer praise and compliments to individuals in front of the group. Provide a time and mechanism for them to also give you feedback on your methods.For example, perhaps you feel that your team members have been doing a really great job on implementing the new plan, but there are some small areas for improvement. Discuss with the group the general things that could be done better, but spend time individually talking about specifics.
You might say something to your staff like “Really great job everyone on working so well together and on making it in on time every day. That makes my job easier. The only bit of improvement that I see currently is just making sure that the front desk is always covered, but we can discuss plans for that now.”
Set up one on one meetings with your staff to give this feedback and to also receive feedback.
 People will work hard for you when they feel that their work is valued and rewarded properly. People also tend to work a bit harder if they feel that their are special incentives that could come with going above and beyond the call of duty. These incentives do not necessarily need to be monetary, but find ways to reward your team for their hard work. They deserve it!


For example, perhaps you could begin giving out an employee of the month award or giving one day paid time off to the person who creates the best team builder exercise.
Even small incentives like offering to buy lunch for your employees after they complete a big project or offering gift cards to the highest performing employee(s). The amount on the gift card does not have to be large. Even a $15 to $25 gift card can be motivating.

