 Many advanced graphing calculators will have a “conversion” function key. If your calculator is equipped with this, you can use it to convert measurements from one unit to another. The Texas Instruments TI-83, TI-84Plus and TI-86 have this feature.On the TI-86, you can find the “Conv” label above the 5 key. To activate it, you need to press the “2nd” key and then the 5 key.
 You first need to tell the calculator what units you want to convert, and then you can perform your conversion. This will be slightly different on different model calculators, but the basic steps are the same.On the TI-86, begin by pressing “2nd” and “5.” This will open a menu of physical properties that you can convert.
 Upon opening the conversion feature, your screen will show a list of options: Length, Area, Vol (Volume), Time, Temp. Gallons and liters are units of volume, so you will select the F3 function key for “Vol.”, As soon as you select that you wish to convert “Volume,” your screen will show a new list of options, of various units of volume. You will need to choose the unit that you are starting with for your conversion.First type in the number of gallons that you want to convert. Then choose the F2 function key labeled “gal” to convert U.S. (liq.) gallons. There is no function key for U.S. dry gallons. 

If you wish to convert U.K. gallons to liters, you will need to use the “More” button twice and then select the F4 function key for “galUK.”

In the example, you are converting 5 gallons to liters. Therefore, first enter “5” and then choose the function key you want, for either US gallons or UK gallons. Your display screen will show “5 gal” or “5 galUK” followed by an arrow and a blinking cursor.
 After entering your beginning value and its unit, you need to choose the unit to convert into. The list of units should still be displayed on the screen.In this case, you want to convert gallons into liters. You will want to choose the button labeled “liter” which is the F1 function key on the first menu screen. When you make that selection, your screen display should show “5 gal→liter.”


, When the screen display shows the conversion that you want, just press the “Enter” key. The calculator will perform the conversion and show the value on the display screen.With this example, the TI calculators generally display up to 12 digits.

For the U.S. gallons, the result should display 18.92705892.

For the U.K. gallons, the result should display 22.73045.


