 You should only list references if the company or program you are applying to specifically asks for them. References are people that a company you are applying to will contact to find out about your work ethic, personality, etc. You should choose people that you know will give you a positive review, such as professors who taught classes you did well in, or bosses who thought you were an excellent worker.
 Only do this if the company you are applying to specifically asks that you provide references. If you are applying for housing (such as when you wish to rent an apartment), you will most likely have to provide references with your housing application.


You should not mention references unless you are asked to do so by the company or program you are applying to.
 Write your name in a bold, clear font. Beneath your name, write your address, phone number, and primary email (these things should be written in a smaller font than your name.) If you choose, you can format your header so that your contact information is aligned in the opposite corner.


To separate the content of your list from your header, you can add a line below your name.
 The title should be the same size and font as your name. The title should be clear and to the point. For example, your page could be titled, “Professional References” or “References of (Your Name.”

, There is not a specific order in which you list your references--you could choose to alphabetize their names, or list them in order of how well each person knows you.


Format your list so that the reference’s name is in bold print. Below their names, write their relationship to you (ie. Boss) and the company or program that you both worked for.
Below the company name, write the company’s address. If your reference no longer works for that company, do not list the company address.
List your reference’s chosen form of contact information below the address. This is where you write their phone numbers, emails, etc.
 If you are listing many references that fall under specific categories (such as professors vs. people you know from work) you could choose to separate these groups by a line. This is optional.

