 This recipe uses the sugar in beets and other natural ingredients to make a sweet red velvet cake. Trim the ends of your beets and place them on a foil-lined baking sheet.
 Place the beets on a mid-level rack for 2 hours. Remove them from the oven when you can stick a fork through them., Peel them and cut them into sections., of water (30ml). Puree the beets until they are smooth., Place 1/2 cup (118ml) of canola oil in a mixer. Add 2 large eggs and 2 egg whites., Place the paddle attachment on the mixture. Cream until it is light and smooth., (85g) of unsweetened chocolate in a small metal pan on the stove top. When completely melted, remove from heat and add 1 tsp. (5g) of instant espresso powder. Stir to mix., Pour the chocolate espresso mixture gradually into the butter, oil and egg. Turn the mixer off and scrape the sides of your mixer bowl with a rubber spatula., Then, add the beet puree and 1/2 cup (43g) of unsweetened cocoa powder. Combine well., Mix on medium speed., Sift 1 cup (125g) of all purpose flour and 3/4 cup (90g) of whole wheat flour.

For an even healthier cake, replace 1/4 cup of the all purpose flour with quinoa flour. This is commonly available at health or natural food stores.
 (5.3g) of baking powder and 1/2 tsp. (3g) of salt. Mix this in to the sifted flours., Stop when just incorporated. Over mixing the cake will result in a denser texture., Dust it with flour. Pour the mixture into the cake pan., Remove the cake when a knife inserted into the center comes out clean.,, (44ml) of raspberry puree in the microwave. Make your own puree by placing fresh or frozen antioxidant-rich berries in a food processor., (59ml) of heavy cream on a stove top. Stir constantly. When cream boils, add the warmed raspberry puree., (113g) of bittersweet chocolate. Stir until combined. This ganache can be used as a filling or a glaze.

For a traditional red velvet cake frosting, combine 24 ounce (680 g) (680g) of reduced fat cream cheese, 2 tsp. (9.8ml) of vanilla extract and 1.25 cups (125g) of sifted powdered sugar. Beat the first 2 ingredients together, then slowly add the powdered sugar. Stop when just combined. Spread over the cooled cake. You can also apply it on top of a layer of cooled ganache.

