 If you decide to put your dog up for adoption, you should research your local regulations. Some places have specific laws about adopting out animals that have a history of aggression. You will need to know what your liability is if the dog you give away ever bites someone.Some fearful and timid dogs can act violently if provoked.
Never give away an aggressive dog without professional help. Dogs with behavior problems take those problems with them to the next family, where they can get worse.;
, Before you begin advertising about your dog, you should take it to the veterinarian to have its health evaluated. Be sure to have your dog spayed/neutered and vaccinated, which will make it much more attractive to potential adopters. This will also help you get a better idea of what health concerns, if any, to discuss.Ask your veterinarian things like “how current are my dog’s vaccinations?” or “what chronic issues might my dog develop?”
Be sure to talk to your veterinarian about your dog’s temperament. If your dog’s temperament is the reason you are giving it up, they may suggest a medication or treatment to help it.
 If your dog has a serious behavioral problem, you may want to get it evaluated. There are pet specialists who diagnose dog behavioral disorders and recommend methods of dealing with them.One option a behaviorist might recommend is visiting a dog trainer. Getting any kind of temperamental problems under control will make your dog more attractive to potential adopters. For a shy dog, a trainer may suggest activities that will strengthen your dog’s confidence and make them more social.If you are putting your dog up for adoption because of its shyness, understand that some dogs can be trained out of their timidity.
 Consider calling a local shelter or rescue group early in the process. They will likely have tips to help you market your dog to potential adopters. These groups are accustomed to finding homes for animals and should be a valuable resource.Ask the shelter volunteer things like “what are some good methods for advertising my dog?” or “how can your group help me get the word out about my dog?”

