 This includes LGBT people, but also disabled people, people of color, religious minorities, and more. If you teach children that diversity is natural and nothing to be afraid of, they are more likely to respond well when they meet someone who is not like them.


Treat groups of minorities the same way you'd treat anyone else. That can say a lot to a child who is observing.
Answer questions calmly to reinforce that this is typical. "Yes, I see those women holding hands. Maybe they're in love."

, Your child has seen the princess kiss the prince again and again, so you may want to let them see a princess kiss another princess once or twice (or no one at all).


Screen content to make sure that it delivers an appropriate message and fits your child's age and maturity level. For example, a mature 16-year-old might be ready for Orange is the New Black, while a 6-year-old would be better off with books about the boy with two daddies or the girl who has a crush on another girl.
 Once kids reach a certain age, they have probably already heard the phrase, "oh that's so gay". They have already heard epithets, slang terms, been introduced to stereotypes regarding nearly every single demographic group, including LGBT persons. This is a time to impart factual, carefully selected and credible information.


Encourage them to be empathetic towards people of other orientations, and to consider their feelings.
 Explain that not all men are attracted to women (and vice versa). There is a wide variety of orientations, including gay, lesbian, bisexual, asexual, and aromantic.
 If you assume that your child will be straight, this puts pressure on them, and may make them afraid to be honest with themselves or you. Instead, make it clear that you love them and that this love won't change based on sexual orientation.


Trust them to figure out their orientation. Be supportive and accepting, whatever they realize about themselves.
For example, instead of asking "Have you noticed any cute boys yet?" ask "Do you have a crush on anybody?" This way, if your child actually likes girls, they'll feel that they can tell you.
 Just as a man and woman fall in love with each other, two men or two women might fall in love. Reduce fear or uncertainty by focusing on how same-gender relationships are very similar to mixed-gender relationships.


Leave out mentions of gender when discussing relationships in general. For example, instead of "When a man and woman fall in love," say "When two people fall in love." This helps lay the groundwork for understanding that love is not only limited to heterosexuals.
 They may have noticed discrimination or the erasure of same-gender couples, and you might want to explain as much of that as they are ready for. They might have questions about how sex works, and you can help them find answers.


Emphasize the importance of respect for people who are different. Many kids start developing serious crushes around their preteen years, so your child might have LGB peers at school.
 Discrimination will happen, and they'll have to choose how to respond when they witness it. They'll meet people whose identities are new to them, so help them feel comfortable with that idea and not conflate something new with something dangerous. If you instill good values in them, they should grow up to be accepting, compassionate adults.


Talk to them about how to handle bigotry. These things can be sudden and alarming, so it helps if they already have an idea in their head of what they would do.

