 Having a positive work environment can also make a big difference in the way that you feel about your job. If you are not too close with your coworkers, then you might consider spending more time getting to know them. Some things you can do to get to know your coworkers better include:Attending social functions, such as meeting up with other teachers for happy hour or going to a barbeque at someone’s house.
Eating lunch with other teachers in the teacher’s lounge instead of alone in your classroom.
Asking other teachers questions about their lives, interests, and teaching.
 Your students will look to you each day to set the tone in the classroom. One way to help keep your students in good spirits is to set a positive tone for the class every day. Some things you can try include:Putting an inspirational quote on the board.
Telling a joke for the day.
Greeting each of your students with a smile when he or she enters your class in the morning.
 Sometimes you might feel like you are not making a difference, which may get you feeling down about teaching. To help yourself stay positive, try making a list of all of the ways that you are having an impact on your students’ lives. Some things that you might list include:Being a source of encouragement for a child whose parents rarely provide any encouragement.
Teaching vital skills to students that will help them to find jobs and succeed in life.
Providing a positive, safe space where students can share honestly and be themselves., All teachers have to be evaluated throughout their careers. These evaluations are meant to help you find ways to improve and be the best teacher you can be. Try to stay open minded when you are criticized or advised to change something about your teaching.Even if you are an experienced teacher, try to use your evaluations as opportunities to broaden your knowledge and become even more experienced.
For example, if you are criticized for going too quickly when you lecture about something, then you might look into ways to pace yourself better keeping in mind that this will benefit your students.
 If you are down on your job, then you might also find it helpful to seek out daily sources of inspiration. Try setting aside 10 to 15 minutes every day before you start your day to get inspired.For example, you might read an inspirational quote every morning, journal about someone you admire and whose behavior you would like to model through your teaching, or just watch a video online that inspires you.
 While it is fine to want to vent now and then, if you find that you are surrounded by negative discussions of teaching, then this could be wearing on you.To stay positive about your job, it is important to focus on the positives and avoid conversations that are just about criticizing your profession.


If a conversation becomes negative, then try changing the subject. Try saying something like, “Yeah, that sucks. Oh, I just remembered. Did you see the local news last night? There was a really cool story about one of our students!”
If a coworker is always complaining or talking negatively about teaching, then you might want to try to distance yourself from him or her. Try eating lunch with a different group or go for a walk on your lunch breaks instead.

