 A winter white look can be as cozy and comfortable or as sleek and polished as you like. You'll need to decide what kind of look you want to wear, so you can dress it up or down. For example, if you want a casual look for the day, you can pair white slacks with a cream button-down shirt and blazer. This is an especially good look if you live in a region that has temperate winters.

You could also dress up your look by wearing an outfit of pure white.
For a really elegant event, consider wearing a white cape or stole.
 Keep in mind that if you're wearing mostly white, any bit of color will really stand out. This can be a good thing if you create a focus for your look. Pick out one accessory or piece that you'd like to be the focus of your winter white outfit. Avoid wearing several bright pieces that could compete for attention.For example, you could choose a colorful or printed bag, briefcase, pair of sunglasses, shawl, wrap, or pair of shoes.
 You've probably seen people modeling winter white suits in magazines or fashionable events. This is because it can be a very striking look. Choose a suit that is tailored to you and add interest by wearing a little bit of color. Avoid wearing a suit that doesn't fit you perfectly, since white will really show any imperfections. Look for a suit made from wool or an engineered textile blend which will keep you warm and wrinkle-free.An all-white jumpsuit can also streamline your look. Keep your accessories simple to keep you looking polished.
 Don't be afraid to introduce a sparkly accessory or clothing item to your look. This is a great way to add dimension to a mainly white outfit. Look for items that are metallic, gold, or silver. Look for fabrics that include a little shimmer or add a shiny accessory.For example, you could wear a metallic skirt along with an oversized cashmere sweater for a look that you can wear out to a fun social event.
 Since winter whites can be dramatic on their own, try to keep your makeup simple. Try using neutral blushes and eye shadows, but go for a classic red or burgundy lipstick. Tailor your makeup to your day, so your daytime makeup is more casual than an exciting look you might wear in the evening.You can wear a pinkish blush so that it looks like your cheeks are flushed from being out in the cold. The blush will really stand out with your winter white outfit.

