 Even if you don't feel what you did was completely wrong, surely there are aspects of the situation you could have handled better. Acknowledge ways to respond more effectively in similar situations in the future. This will help you make better choices in the future and make your parents and other parties involved feel better.


Total denial is usually not received well by parents and other authority figures once punishment has already been assigned, so you should avoid denial.;
, Showing remorse to those you've hurt will go a long way to mend damaged relationships. It will be much easier for others to forgive you, if you express remorse.Your apology should describe what you did wrong and how it hurt the person you are apologizing to.


Your apologies must be sincere. If someone is hurt by something you did, an insincere apology will only further strain your relationship.
You may have a hard time organizing your thoughts in an emotional apology, so it's a good idea to write it out. Having a written apology may also show you put a lot of thought into it, conveying your sincerity.

If you really don't feel you can apologize in person, try writing it in a card.
 Trouble sometimes involves damage to or loss of property. You should help repair or replace those items. If you don't have the money saved, consider finding a part time, after school job. If you are not able to get a job, ask family and neighbors if you can do odd jobs to earn some money. You can also do the actual labor to repair damage in some cases.


Doing this will show you are responsible and might even get you out of trouble a little sooner.
 Poor communications often contributes to conflict, and may have played a role in your trouble. Learning to communicate whole messages clearly will reduce misunderstandings and future conflict.Whole messages can be communicated with a simple formula: statement of fact (usually a description of an act) + your interpretation of what that fact means + how your interpretation makes you feel + how you would like the issue to be resolved. For example, "When you take my things without permission, I think you don't respect me or my belongings, which makes me feel angry. I will feel more comfortable with you borrowing my things, if we discuss it before you take them."

