 Keep in mind that in order for you to become a Mechanic, your Blacksmith or Mastersmith should have a base level of 99 and a job level of 50 or higher. If you're qualified, travel to Yuno, also known as Juno, using the Kafra Service in Al De Baran.


If you don't know how to get in Al De Baran, simply use the Kafra Service in Geffen City. Remember that you need to pay fees for their services.
If you don't have any zeny with you, you can ask Priests to warp you to the location.
If you can’t find any Priests, just travel northeast from Geffen City. In case you get lost, you can open your map by pressing Alt +V. A menu will drop-down from the corner; click on the Map option to view your location.;
, Once you get to Yuno, look for an NPC named Chainheart. He can be found near the Blacksmith, near the center of the city.


To locate him, use the mini map at the upper-right corner of your screen. Approach the hammer icon on the map.
 He will tell you that you have potential. He will then introduce himself as a Mechanic.


After the first dialogue, click him again to continue. He will explain to you what Mechanics are and why they're important.
Click him again, and this time select “I want to know more.” He will be surprised and continue, but at the end of the conversation, he will ask you to visit someone in Juperos Ruins.
 From Yuno City, exit south. Once you're in the field, travel to the next map through the south portal. From the second field, enter the portal in the east. For the third map, approach the island in the middle.


You will find a glowing circle on the ground; get inside it to be teleported to the entrance of the ruins.
Make sure you have enough Fly Wings to avoid any aggressive monsters in the field.
 Once you enter Juperos Ruins, follow the path until you reach the end. There will be a Scholar NPC waiting for your there. Talk to him and he will tell you about the ruins.


Before talking to the NPC, make sure you have enough Fly Wings to use. If you can afford any slotted garment with a Frilldora Card, it's best to get one as the Cloaking skill will be useful for this part. Otherwise, you can ask a Priest to assist you for this quest.
Talk to the NPC again when you're ready, and he will then teleport you to the core of the ruins.
 As soon as you enter the room, you will find a Ghost NPC right in front of you. Talk to him and he will tell you that indulging in a conversation might get you killed since there are aggressive monsters in the map. This is the reason why the Frilldora Card is useful.


If you're alone, lure out the monsters first then use your Fly Wing whenever you're stuck.
 After talking to the first ghost, head southwest to find the next ghost. Talk to it after clearing the place and choose “Focus” from the selection.


The ghost will tell you about their history and the knowledge they know about machinery.
 After talking to the second ghost, head southeast to find the third one. Talk to it.


Again, clear the place first before clicking the NPC to avoid being killed.
If you get killed, you will be teleported back to your last saved point, and then you will have to travel all the way back to Juperos Ruins.
 Now you must activate 4 switches in a certain order:


The first one can be found to the west. Simply stand on the switch to activate it, and a message will appear.
The second switch is east of the map. Stand on the block to activate it, and a message will appear.
The third is to the south; you will find a huge statue against the wall. Simply move closer until your character is pressed against it to activate the hidden switch. A message will appear.
The fourth, and last, switch is also to the south, just right across the huge statue (third switch). Simply walk forward to find it, and then step on the block to activate.
Use Fly Wings whenever you're in danger; note that there's no need for you to clear the areas since all you need to do is to activate the switches.
 Now that you have activated all the switches and the knowledge you sought has been found, it's time to head back to the first ghost near the entrance. Talk to him and he will tell you about his tragic past and how he is stuck in that location forever.


Before he can tell you his name, you will be teleported back to Yuno.
 At Yuno, talk to Chainheart. He will explain to you what happened and then he will change your class to Mechanic.


Chainheart will also reward you with a Green Apple Ring and a Driver Band, which will give you a decent headgear stat.
Congratulations, you are now a Mechanic.

