 This is usually a pint glass that is clear of all oils and dirt and that is appropriate for the style of beer to be poured. It should have no fingerprints, fuzz, dirt, or residue on the sides. If it does, it may taint the taste of your beer.


There are glasses for virtually every style of beer; in lieu of a selected specialized glass, use a standard pint beer glass (16 oz. or 475 ml). This makes sure there is enough space in the glass for the entire beer and a bit of foamy head.;
, Bottle-conditioned beers generally have a small layer of yeast on the bottom of the container that you probably want to avoid for taste (and clarity). If you have a bottle, raise it to the light to see if any sediment is visible. If you have a can, check the package for an indicator of sediment – the word “can-conditioned” is a dead giveaway.


Some people like this taste, believing it makes the beer more pungent and that it gives the beer its true flavor. If you’re not sure as to your preferences, try it out – only one way to know what you do and don’t like, after all.
 The edge of the glass should be resting on a flat surface, like a table, while the rest is in the air. This will help you balance the glass and keep everything even (and get the perfect aim for your pour).
 You will be aiming to pour the beer halfway up the glass. This is the best level for aeration and foam.


Don’t touch the bottle to the glass; this is just bad form. If it’s yours it’s no big deal, but if you’re pouring for someone else, follow the etiquette of keeping the glass as clean as possible; there could be bacteria on the bottle, can, or pitcher.
 You want the beer to flow smoothly down the side of the glass without back-splash. Aim for the center of the side of the glass and keep the volume of the beer that’s flowing as consistent as possible.
 You should level the glass at such a rate that the glass lies flat on the surface just when it becomes full with about one and a half inches (or 4 cm) of head at the top. As it fills up, you start setting it down.


If too much head is starting to form, pour the beer in such a way that it does not touch the sides of the glass. This keeps it from aerating too much, keeping foam out of the equation.
If not enough head is forming, keep the beer streaming down the side of the glass until you have an inch or two of foam.
 Take a sniff as soon as possible, however; the aromas are most pungent when the head is at its peak. It's now when you'll best get at the oak-y, citrus-y, or spicy flavors some beers claim.

