 In order to be eligible for unemployment benefits in Alabama, you must have lost your job through no fault of your own. You may be disqualified from receiving benefits if you voluntarily quit your job without a good cause, were discharged for misconduct, or lost your job due to a work stoppage resulting from a labor dispute.


The Alabama Department of Labor (DoL) will ask you why you lost your job when you fill out an application for benefits. The DoL will also mail a form to your past employers when you file a claim for unemployment benefits. The DoL will analyze each response and may ask you for a follow-up interview if they feel it is necessary.;
, When you apply for unemployment benefits, the DoL will assess your past wages in order to determine whether you have earned enough in the past to be eligible for unemployment benefits. Before you apply for benefits, you will want to calculate your possible benefits package so you have an understanding of your eligibility. Calculating your own benefits will also help you identify and fix any errors the DoL might make on determination.


To be eligible, you must have insured wages in at least two quarters of your base period and your total base period wages must equal or exceed 1 1/2 times your high quarter earnings. Insured wages are wages earned while working for an employer who is subject to the Alabama Unemployment Compensation Law.Your average quarterly earnings during your two high quarters must be at least $1,157.01., If you want unemployment benefits, you must be able, seeking, and willing to immediately accept full-time work. This must be the case for each week you are drawing benefits. Therefore, if you reside outside of the United States, you will not be able to successfully file a claim for benefits.Therefore, to ensure you receive benefits, make sure you stay close to home and that you are willing to work at a moments notice.
 Not only will you need to be willing to work, but you must also be able to work in order to be eligible for benefits. If you are sick or hurt and not able to work, benefits may be denied until a time when you provide proof of your ability to continue working., At various points throughout the benefits period, you may be asked to take part in fact-finding interviews, profile interviews, and eligibility reviews. If you are called upon to participate, you must do so in order to remain eligible. If you fail to take part in a review and you do not have a valid excuse, you may be denied benefits., You must do everything in your power to secure employment. To successfully search for work, you should apply to jobs with employers who usually hire people with your skill set, do so in-person when possible, and do so with the person that normally does the hiring., If you refuse an offer for a job or refuse to respond to a possible job referral, your benefits may be delayed. To avoid this, you should accept any suitable offer for work you get. A suitable offer is will be determined by your past training and experience, the details of the job, and the local market where you reside., If you make any money while receiving benefits, you must report that money to DoL immediately. Wages, vacation pay, holiday pay, workers' compensation, and sick pay may disqualify you from receiving benefits., If you are not a United States citizen or do not have permission to work in the United States, you will not be able to receive unemployment benefits. If you are an alien with permission to work, you will have to provide DoL with your alien registration number., If you attend college, a vocational school, or GED classes, you will still be eligible for benefits so long as you remain able and willing to work. If work arises, you must accept it so long as it is suitable, even if it means changing your education schedule.


If you are still in high school, you are not eligible to receive unemployment benefits., Every week you wish to remain eligible, you will need to file a weekly certification. This certification ensures you are continuing to do everything you are supposed to be doing in order to remain eligible. DoL will ask you various questions pertaining to all of the qualifications necessary to receive benefits. You can file your weekly certification online or over the phone., To determine if you have enough wages to qualify, and to ensure your wages have been calculated correctly by DoL, you should always calculate your benefits package for your own records. To start the calculation, you will first need to determine your base period. Your base period is the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters before the week you file your claim. There are four calendar quarters in every year.


To determine your base period, use the chart in the DoL's Handbook, which can be found at http://www.labor.alabama.gov/docs/guides/uc_brr.pdf. Find the month in the far right row in which you filed your claim. The four shaded quarters in the same row will be your base period.For example, claims made in January, February or March will use a base period consisting of the fourth, third, second and first calendar quarters.
 Your high quarter is the base period quarter in which you were paid the highest amount of wages. You will take your two highest quarters and add them together.For example, let's assume your first quarter earnings were $6,500, your second quarter earnings were $2,000, your third quarter earnings were $7,000, and your fourth quarter earnings were $1,500. To calculate your high quarter earnings, you would add together your first and third quarter earnings, which would give you a total of $13,500 ($6,500 + $7,000).
 You will next need to find your average high quarter earnings by dividing the sum of your two highest quarters by two. This average must equal at least $1,157.01 in order for you to be eligible for unemployment.For example, if the sum of your two highest earning quarters is $13,500, you will divide this number by two in order to get your average high quarter earnings. In this scenario, your average high quarter earnings would equal $6,750. Because this number exceeds the $1,157.01 minimum, you would pass the first monetary hurdle to qualifying.
 The next step is to determine the sum of all of your base period wages, which you can do by adding up all of your wages in your base period. In order for you to be eligible for unemployment benefits, your total base period wages must equal or exceed 1 1/2 times your high quarter earnings.For example, let's assume your total base period wages equal $17,000 ($6,500 + $2,000 + $7,000 + $1,500). If you multiply your high quarter earnings ($7,000) by 1 1/2 you get $10,500. Because $17,000 is more than $10,500, you would pass the second monetary hurdle to qualifying.
 Now that you know whether you are monetarily eligible, you will be able to calculate what your weekly benefit rate would be. A benefit year is a 52 week period in which you can claim benefits. However, the maximum benefit amount you can draw during that 52 week period is an amount equal to a maximum of 26 weeks.Therefore, to determine your weekly benefit rate, you will divide the average of the two highest paying quarters by 26.


The minimum amount you could receive is $45 and the maximum amount is $265.For example, let's assume your average two highest paying quarters equals $6,750. You would divide this number by 26 and you would get $259.62. This is the amount of money you would be eligible to receive every week for a maximum of 26 weeks during a 52 week period.
 Once you have calculated your benefits and you believe you are eligible to receive them, you will need to file your claim with DoL. Before you file your claim, you should have the following information on hand:


Your Social Security number;
Your driver's license or Alabama ID;
Your alien registration card (if applicable);
A list of names, addresses, phone numbers, and employment dates for your last two employers;
Information about any federal civilian employment, military service, or work performed in another state in the past 18 months; and
Your bank account number and routing number., You can file your claim online using the DoL website.When you get there, you will follow the directions on the screen in order to complete the filing process. You will use the various information you gathered throughout the application process.
 If you do not have access to the internet, you can also file your claim over the telephone. While on the phone you will be asked a series of questions that you will answer by pressing various keys., After you file you will usually have to wait between two and three weeks to hear the results of your claim. When you hear back you will receive a determination letter laying out two things. First, your letter will conclude whether you are monetarily eligible. Second, your letter will conclude whether you are eligible based on how you were separated from your job.If both of these determinations are made in your favor, you will be eligible to request weekly payments.

