 Let your child tell you what it is they're afraid of at nighttime. But don't force your child to tell you if they're not ready. Keep in mind as well that a child's fear may differ depending on his particular stage of development. For example, younger kids have a harder time telling the difference between what is real and what is imaginary.Never respond by calling your child's fear "ridiculous" or "stupid." Instead, accept your child's fear and work with them to try to overcome it. Remember that you were once a child and likely had lots of silly fears too! Try talking about your child's fears during the day, when they're not afraid. Discuss strategies regarding how they can be less scared at bedtime. Additionally, build your child's self-confidence during the day; comment on their "bravery" and what a "big boy" or girl they are. The idea is that if he feels secure and confident during the day, this can help them in the night., Once you know the nature of your child's fear, don't support the fear, even unintentionally, by formally recognizing or acknowledging it. For example, if your child is afraid of monsters, don't pretend to get out the monster repellant spray or to check the room for monsters. Such actions make it seem to your child like you too believe that these monsters exist.


Instead, consider talking to your child about the difference between imagination and reality. For example, if he's afraid of monsters under the bed because he watched the film Monsters, Inc., let your child know that movies are made-up and are not real. You will likely need to have this conversation multiple times as the child develops his mental capacity for logic and reasoning.Constantly reassure your child that he is safe. Communicate the notion of safety repeatedly., Do not allow your child to watch scary TV shows or play scary or violent video games. These may increase your child's fears before he goes to sleep.In general you should try to limit your child's exposure to TV and other electronics before bed as this can keep him from settling into sleep. Instead, try reading a story to him (again, nothing scary!) or reading together. Research has shown that bedtime stories can enhance children's learning and development and also help develop closer bonds between children and parents., The reason a bath helps with sleep is because your body temperature increases while you are in the bath and then lowers after the bath. Lower body temperature helps people fall asleep.


A bath should be taken about 2 hours before bedtime because of the time needed to first raise and then lower body temperature., Make sure the room is tidy before your child goes to sleep and that you put away anything lying around that isn't where it is supposed to be. When it's dark, a child's eyes can play tricks on him. Keeping things in their proper place will help your child avoid seeing things where there really is nothing to be seen. A neatly made bed - before your child gets into it, that is! - can also help facilitate the bedtime routine.
 Have lots of pillows around the child so he feels safe and cozy. Place a treasured item near your child on the bed, like a special blanket, stuffed animal or family photo beside the bed. Not only will these little comforts make him feel cozier, but they can also help your child feel more secure since he is surrounded by things he loves., A nightlight can be used to give your child a sense of calm as he goes to sleep, since many children are afraid of the dark. You can buy nightlights in fun shapes and sizes. Consider bringing your child with you to pick one out and explain to him what it's for. Give him an active role to play in overcoming his own fear.If the light interferes with your child's ability to fall and remain asleep, you should remove it. A dim nightlight is advised only insofar as it does not disrupt the child's sleeping patterns.
You can also leave your child's door open either partially or fully. Keeping the door open will help alleviate any fear associated with the separation from parents during the night., Cuddles with pets can make people feel better.A cat to snuggle around your feet, a dog resting on the floor, or even the soothing sounds of a fish filter or a hamster wheel can be be comforting in the night., If your child is very frightened and cannot be in the room alone at first, it is acceptable to stay by or in his bed with him until he falls asleep. However, only do this occasionally. If it becomes part of the regular bedtime routine (even two nights in a row), it may become a crutch and your child may not be able to sleep without your presence.If your child is afraid of being alone, let him know that you'll check on him.Start by checking in on him after 5 minutes, then 10 minutes, then 15 minutes, and so on, until he is asleep. Just do a quick check; don't linger, as your child may come to depend on your presence., If your child wakes up in the middle of the night and is afraid to go back to sleep because he is scared, reassure him and tell him that he is safe and okay. If your child comes to your room in the night, take him back to his bed and again reassure him. It's important to not let him get into your bed. Your child needs to learn that his bed is safe and that nothing will happen to him.Letting your child into your bed will not alleviate the fear but instead will support it and your child will not learn to overcome the fear., If your child's nighttime fear continues even after trying all of the above, or if it begins to impact his daily functioning, consider taking him to his doctor, where you can get a recommendation in order to have a formal psychological assessment done.