 Fire-types are strong against Grass (like Bulbasaur, Bellsprout), Bug (Parasect, Caterpie), Ice (Dewgong, Abomasnow), and Steel-types (Steelix, Aggron). Fire-types like Ponyta will inflict twice the normal damage when it attacks any of these types during battle, allowing you to get easy wins and level up faster.


Ponyta evolves to Rapidash only when it reaches level 40, so winning Pokémon battles easy and fast will greatly help speed up leveling.;
, On the contrary, Fire-types are seriously weak against Water (like Squirtle and Gyarados), Rock (Onyx, Geodude), and Ground-types (Diglet, Dugtrio). If Ponyta receives any attack from these kinds of Pokémon, it will take twice the normal damage.


Fighting lower level of these types can still beat Ponyta. If you encounter any of these types, call Ponyta back to the Pokéball or flee from the battle to save time and HP.
Sometimes the Pokémon you are battling will not allow you to flee. Prepare for when this happens by buying some Pokédolls or Pokétoys.
 Taking lots of potions with you will greatly save time, without having to go back to towns and get Ponyta healed in Pokémon Centers. Once Ponyta’s HP gets low, open your Bag (by pressing the Start button) and use a potion on Ponyta to restore its health.
 Some Pokémon have skills that affect its opponents even after the battle. Moves like “Sing” or “Poison Sting” can put your Pokémon to sleep or poison it even after the battle. Leaving Ponyta with these conditions will either render Ponyta unusable on battles or slowly drain its life points.


Items like “Awakening” and “Antidote” removes sleep or poison status conditions, respectively, on your Pokémon and are used the same way as potions (step 3).
On the other, status-removing items removes only the status condition and not restore life points. You’ll still need potions to restore Ponyta’s health.
 If you don’t want to level up Ponyta by grinding and doing the work, you can always use Rare Candies. These items raise any Pokémon’s level by 1 instantly, without having to gain any XP points.


This is perfect for saving time, but each game version only have a limited number of Rare Candies available inside, so it’s a little bit impossible to raise Ponyta all the way up to level 40 using only Rare Candies.

