 Nutritional responses to preventing hair loss are simple common sense approaches to keeping you, your hair, and your scalp healthy. A healthy body is more likely to have healthy hair than an unhealthy one. It is possible that hair loss can be slowed by a healthy diet filled with vegetables and fruits.There are some vitamins and minerals (listed in the following steps) that can be especially helpful in promoting healthy hair and thus preventing hair loss.
 Iron is an essential mineral that is known as heme iron in animal food sources and non-heme iron in plant sources. Too little iron can lead to anaemia which disrupts the supply of nutrients to your follicles, potentially increasing hair loss.To avoid this, be sure to make iron-rich foods are regular elements in your diet.


Red meat, chicken and fish are good sources of iron.
So are green vegetables such as broccoli, spinach and kale.
 Protein is essential for strong hair. A deficiency in protein can lead to dry and weak hair, and ultimately, hair loss.Adequate protein can help to provide the amino acids that strengthen hair. It is often included in shampoos, but it's protein from your diet that will help improve the condition of your hair and prevent hair loss if you eat it in large enough quantities.


Get protein by eating seafood, poultry, milk, cheese, yogurt, eggs, beans, pork tenderloin, soy, lean beef, and protein bars.Vegans, dairy-free consumers, and others can get good non-animal protein from tempeh, tofu, whole wheat bread, peanut butter, brown rice, lentils, quinoa, nuts, seitan, beans, and broccoli., Vitamin C also help with your body’s production of collagen, which in turn strengthens the capillaries which supply your hair shafts.Good sources of vitamin C include:


Citrus fruit, kale, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, baked potatoes and tomatoes.Blueberries, blackberries and strawberries are also good sources.
 These fats keep hair healthy and have a role in preventing hair from becoming dry and brittle.They are found in the cells that line your scalp, and also help keep your hair and scalp hydrated. They are important fats that your body cannot make itself, but have to be obtained through your diet.Include plenty of deep sea fish that contain Omega 3 in your diet, such as tuna, salmon, and mackerel.
You can also get these acids through seeds and nuts, particularly flaxseeds, pumpkin seeds, and walnuts.
 Biotin is a B vitamin that is water soluble. It is of particular importance for your hair, as a deficiency can cause your hair to become brittle and could accelerate hair loss.Good sources of biotin include whole grains, liver, egg white, soy flour, walnuts and yeast.


Whole grains are also a good source of zinc. A deficit of zinc can contribute to a dry, itchy scalp and hair loss., Talk with your medical practitioner first, but you might like to consider using supplements to prevent hair loss. The types of supplements to inquire about include biotin, inositol, iron, vitamin C, and saw palmetto.These are not proven to prevent hair loss, but some anecdotal evidence suggests they work.
 As well as knowing what’s good to consume, it’s best to know what to avoid too. The basic rules of a healthy balanced diet always apply, but there are a few particular things that can contribute to hair loss. The artificial sweetener, aspartame, has been cited as a cause of hair thinning and hair loss. Food additives can also have a negative effect.Raw egg whites contain a substance that binds biotin, which prevents its absorption., A low-calorie diet may lead to temporary hair loss. Your body needs minerals and vitamins (like those listed above) to build and maintain your hair. Cutting back on your food intake may remove these essential nutrients. In addition, cutting out too many calories can lead to major stress, causing your hair to stop growing, or go into the resting or hibernation phase.Avoid crash diets or you may find yourself shedding hair as you shed the pounds.

