 Use the butter to lightly coat the bottom and sides of the pan. This will keep the toffee from sticking to the pan when you need to remove it. Set the pan aside on a wire cooling rack for later -- you'll be pouring the hot toffee into this to cool.


You can also line the bottom with parchment paper or use a Silpat mat if you don't want to grease the pan.;
, Simply cut the butter up into squares. This increases the surface area of the butter and helps it melt evenly.
 Heavy bottom pans will prevent the sugar from burning later on, but you can use a normal pot if you don't have one.Stir the butter regularly as it melts. Once you are sure that all of it is melted, move on to the next step -- you do not want it to brown.
 Once the butter is melted, add 2 cups granulated white sugar, 2 tablespoons light corn syrup, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 cup water and stir it in until the sugar has completely dissolved. When possible, use a wooden spoon instead of a metal one to prevent sugar crystals from forming.If you do not have corn syrup, add an extra 4 tablespoons of butter, divided into small pieces., Sugar can recrystallize when overstirred, leading to grainy toffee instead of the smooth texture you are looking for. Use a pastry brush dipped in water to knock any loose sugar crystals off the sides of the pan and down into the mixture, then let the toffee sit, unstirred, until you take it off the heat.You can also cover the pot briefly -- the steam will condense on the sides of the pot, dissolving the sugar and dripping back into the mixture.
 This is the "hard crack" stage of candy. This means that, when it cools, the candy will break up into the hard pieces of toffee that you are looking for. Turn the heat off when the thermometer reads 300℉.


If you do not have a candy thermometer, the toffee is done when the mixture is a rich golden-amber color, similar to the skin of an almond.Do not let it get brown, however, as this means it is burning.
 This ensures that you get the extract throughout the mixture evenly, but don't cause any more crystals to form. 3-4 stirs around should be enough.
 You'll leave it in your baking sheet to cool and harden, then you can break it up into smaller pieces afterward.


If you want nuts in your toffee, spread them on the sheet ahead of time and pour the toffee over them.
 You can then remove it, crack it into pieces, and serve. Toffee will last for 7-10 days in an air-tight container at room temperature and up to a month in the freezer.

