 If you are applying to a position and don't have the educational requirements, focus instead on your experience. Employers may favor your demonstrated experience over that of education alone. By showing your employer you are already capable of the tasks required by the position, you can increase your chances of getting that position without formal education.Education does not always imply someone will be the best fit for a position.
Showing your previous experience can land you the position over someone with education alone.
 As part of your resume and interview, you should include which skills you are proficient at. A good way to show your skills is to prepare and share a portfolio that contains some of your best work. Showing quality work that you have already produced can be more appealing than that of a degree alone.Only include your own work.
Include some information about the process behind your examples.
Use your example projects to demonstrate details about your skill sets. For example, having a published article might be a good time to mention you are a skilled with specific databases or technology used during research and writing.
Some skills may be more difficult to demonstrate. For example, if applying for a welding position you likely won't be able to include a live demonstration with your resume. Instead you may need to build a portfolio that has photo or video documentation of your skills or includes a small example of your work that you can physically bring with you.
 Making solid, professional contacts can help you when applying for the position without having a college education. Find those you believe would enthusiastically recommend you to an employer and ask them if they would be comfortable acting as a reference for you. Having positive references can tip the odds of being hired in your favor, communicating your skills, knowledge, ability, and work ethic to your new employer.Include people that you worked with directly.
Always be certain that the reference will speak well of you.
It's okay to ask your references to focus on specific aspects such as leadership or skills if you think your new employer wants to learn more about those subjects.
 You may want to take your skills directly to clients instead of seeking a position with a company or employer. Working directly with clients as a freelancer or by starting your own enterprise can allow you to let your skills speak for themselves, avoiding the need to prove them to any hiring person or agency.You will need some basic business skills. Freelancing or starting your own small business will require you to market yourself, communicate and bill clients, manage your work and pay your taxes correctly.
Personal skill in time management is critical. You will be the only one responsible for managing your own time and work schedules.
Learn what your work is worth. You will need to accurately gauge what people are willing to pay and what you need to make your work worth the time you are putting into it.
Some websites allow you to search for freelance work. Try looking at https://www.upwork.com/o/jobs/browse/ to search for clients.
There are many examples of people who have become very successful on their own and without obtaining even a high school degree. One such example, Richard Branson, CEO of Virgin, dropped out of high school at 16.