 The hedgehog is considered an exotic pet, and keeping one may be subject to certain laws in your state or county. In some places it is illegal, whereas in others you may be required to have a special permit. Check with your local state, city, and county ordinances to learn more about any laws or regulations on owning exotic pets in your town.


If you need help finding out about your state's specific regulations, or you need to find a safe home for a hedgehog that you're not legally allowed to have, contact an animal welfare organization or one specifically dedicated to hedgehogs.;
, Hedgehogs bought from responsible breeders are more likely to be well socialized, and because the breeder is familiar with the hedgehogs parents, chances are better that you'll get a healthy pet. That said, it is important to find a good breeder. If you don't, you could end up with a grumpy or sick hedgehog.


Be sure the breeder has quality, pedigree stock with no Wobbly Hedgehog Syndrome (WHS) or cancer in their lineage.
See that the breeder is USDA licensed. In the US, hedgehog breeders are required to have a USDA license. The purchasing process involves paperwork, in which they will provide you with their license number.
Be wary of breeders who post on Craigslist or other online classifieds.
Ask the breeder if they offer any health guarantees. Policies may vary, but you are likely to feel more comfortable with your selection if the breeder offers some option to return or exchange the hog if unexpected health problems arise early on. This also alerts them to possible health problems in certain lineages, so concern in this area is a sign of a responsible breeder., There are several signs you can look for in a healthy hedgie before making your selection.


Clear eyes: The hog should appear alert; the eyes should not be crusty, sunken, or swollen.
Clean fur and quills: While some anointing is normal (see below), fecal matter around the anus may indicate diarrhea or other underlying health issues.
Healthy skin: Crusty skin around the quills could indicate dry skin or mites - if it's the latter, you'll need to treat the hedgehog. Look for fleas, as well (small, pinhead-size brown points that jump quickly) - these also need treatment.
No scabs or injuries: If there is a scab or injury, the breeder should be able to explain what happened, and it should be clear that the animal is healing well. While some hedgehogs can survive infant injuries (such as blindness, loss of a limb, etc.) and go on to lead healthy and happy lives, you'll need to consider the care this animal requires and whether you're realistically able to provide that.
Alertness: A hedgehog should be alert and aware of its surroundings, not lethargic and non-responsive.
Droppings: Check the cage to make sure there are no green droppings or diarrhea. If there are, it might be a sign that the hedgehog has some health issues.
Moderate weight: A hedgie that's obese has fat "bags" around the armpit areas and cannot roll into a ball. One that's too thin has a concave belly and hollow sides. Both may be signs of health issues.
Healthy feet: The toenails should be clipped short enough that they do not curl under. If they're too long, ask the breeder to show you how to clip them., Before purchase, make sure you have everything you need set up and ready to go. Allow the hedgehog at least a month to become familiar with you, the new scents, and the new surroundings. It has just experienced a huge change in its life!


Hold the hedgehog every day as you let it get used to you. This may be as simple as placing it in your lap and talking to it. Encourage trust by giving it treats by hand, and add an old t-shirt you've worn for a day to its enclosure so it gets accustomed to your smell., One of the most unusual behaviors of hedgehogs involves excessive salivation in the presence of a new food, scent, or salt. The hedgie twists into an S shape, turning its head to the rear, and spreads the saliva onto its quills. While no one is quite sure why this happens, it's postulated that this may help make the quills better weapons by coating them with an irritating substance. For this reason, you may notice some slight irritation when you first handle your hedgehog.
 Hedgehogs need a large cage to be comfortable in: they like to explore their living space, and their natural territory is 650 to 1000 ft (198 to 305 m) in diameter. There are other factors to consider, as well, when choosing a cage for your new friend.


It needs to be large enough. The cage should be a minimum of 18 x 24 in (45.7 x 61 cm), but if you can afford a roomier space, so much the better. A 24 x 30 in (61 x 76 cm) cage is preferable, and 30 x 30 in (76 x 76 cm) is very generous.Sides of the cage should be about 16 in (40.6 cm) high. While some recommend smooth walls,others caution that ventilation of smooth-sided enclosures is more difficult.Do be aware that wired sides may create a problem if your hedgehog likes to climb! Hedgehogs are master escape artists. Ensure that the cage is secure with a closed top, or, if it doesn't have a top, that the hedgehog can't climb out.
The house should have a solid floor, as their tiny legs can slip through wire floors, causing injury.Houses should not have more than one level as hedgehogs have poor eyesight and their legs are all too easy to break. Wire cages that they can climb can also be dangerous if you have a climber! Include space for food bowls, toys and a litter tray when considering buying or making a cage.
Make sure the enclosure is well-ventilated. Air flow should be available all the time. The only time you should impede airflow is if the room rapidly drops in temperature (for example, during a power outage) and you need to wrap the cage with a blanket.
 Hedgehogs like wood shavings, but be sure to use aspen shavings rather than cedar: the latter has carcinogenic phenols (aromatic oils) that, when inhaled, can cause cancer. Alternatively, you can line the cage with a sturdy cloth (twill, corduroy, or fleece) cut to size.Carefresh is a commercial product resembling ground-up grey cardboard. While some recommend this, be aware that particle material can get lodged in male genitals or in between their quills. Also, be aware that Carefresh could harm your hedgehog because of a new formula of Carefresh Bedding. , You'll need to add a few things to the enclosure to provide for your hedgehog's needs.


A hiding spot: As a primarily nocturnal prey animal in the wild, hedgehogs need a safety zone for "time-out" from prying eyes, light, and general activity. An igloo or sleeping pouch will do well.
Exercise wheel. Hedgehogs need lots of exercise, and the wheel is perfect for nocturnal running sprees. Wheels should have a solid floor - mesh or bar wheels tend to make hogs get stuck, ripping off toenails and even breaking legs.
You must keep bedding out of the water at all times. Chemicals from the bedding can get into your hedgehog's water, which would sadly kill him.
Provide a litter tray with no more than a 1/2 in (1.25 cm) lip to provide easy access and prevent broken legs. Be sure that you use only non-clumping kitty litter, if you decide to use litter, or you can use a paper towel. The litter pan must large enough for the hedgehog and you should clean it every day. You can use a cookie sheet or commercial plastic litter box. Most owners keep the litter tray under the wheel, since that is where hedgehogs do most of their business.
 Hedgehogs need a slightly warmer room temperature than most people keep their homes at, around 72ºF (22.2ºC) to 80ºF (26.6ºC). Anything cooler and the hedgehog will likely attempt "hibernation," which can be LETHAL (as it may lead to pneumonia), while at much hotter temperatures, heat stress occurs. Adjust the temperature if you see your hedgehog spread out in the cage as if it's hot. If it's lethargic, or the body temperature is cooler than normal, warm your hedgehog up immediately by putting it under your shirt and using your body heat to warm it.


If the hedgehog is still cool after an hour, take it to a vet immediately.
 Hedgehogs are primarily insectivores, but will also taste other things like fruits, veggies, eggs, and meat. They tend towards plumpness, so care must be taken with the diet to prevent a hedgehog from putting on too much weight. An overweight hedgehog cannot roll up and may have "bags" of fat hanging down, which will impede its walking ability.
 While a hedgehog's exact nutritional needs are somewhat mysterious, high-quality cat kibble is considered a good choice for a staple diet, which should be supplemented with other various foods, discussed below. The kibble you choose should be below 15% fat and around 32-35% protein; look for foods that are organic or holistic - avoid kibble that has by-products, corn and similar things listed. Provide about 1-2 tbsp of the dry cat food every day.


Avoid low-quality hedgehog foods as they tend to have a lot of poor quality ingredients. Higher-quality foods may be acceptable, such as L'Avian, Old Mill, and 8-in-1., Many owners free-feed their hogs, giving just enough food for there to be some leftover.
 Supplement the kibble diet with a small amount of other food - just 1 tsp every day or every other day. Some ideas:


Cooked, unseasoned, skinless chicken, turkey, or salmon, chopped up
Small bites of fruits and veggies, such as watermelon, cooked mashed peas or sweet potatoes, or applesauceScrambled or hard boiled & chopped egg
Mealworms, crickets and wax worms: These are also an important treat to the hedgehog's diet. As insectivores, they need mental stimulation that eating live prey provides, in addition to vital nutrition. Feed a few insects one to four times a week. Never feed your hedgie wild-caught insects (e.g., ones you catch in your yard), as they may have toxic pesticides in their systems, or parasites that will infect your hedgehog.
 While hedgehogs appreciate a wide variety of foods, there are some things you should never feed him: nuts/seeds, dried fruits, raw meat, hard uncooked vegetables, sticky/stringy/hard foods, avocado, grapes or raisins, milk or dairy products, alcohol, bread, celery, onion and onion powder, raw carrots, tomatoes, junk food (chips, candy, anything sugary, salty, etc.), anything very acidic, or honey.
 Reduce the amount of food you're giving your hedgehog if you notice she's getting a little plump, and increase exercise.
 Hedgehogs have a crepuscular nature, so they are active around twilight. If possible, feed them once a day around this time.
 The bowl should be wide enough for the hedgehog to access and heavy enough so that the hedgehog cannot tip it over (and start playing with it).
 Fresh water should be available at all times.


If using a bowl, make sure it is heavy and shallow enough not to tip over. Wash it thoroughly every day and fill with fresh water.
If using a bottle with a drinking tube, make certain your pet knows how to drink from it! It should have learned this from its mother, but it may need to be shown. Note that water in bottles also needs to be changed daily to prevent bacteria build-up., Don't house the hedgehog under your stereo player or television. As a prey animal in the wild that depends largely on its sense of hearing, your hedgehog will find too much noise and activity very distressing. Ensure that noise, lighting and activity levels are low in its vicinity and move the cage if the noise levels increase for any reason. Hedgehogs can get used to noise if introduced gradually.
 Hedgehogs are prone to putting on weight, so exercise is a must for them. This means plenty of toys, along with its hedgehog wheel. Toys should be something they can chew, push, nuzzle and even tip over, as long as they cannot chew pieces off or swallow. Be sure their nails or feet can't get caught in any loose strings or small holes.


Possible toys include: rubber balls, old kids' toys, rubber figures, baby teething rings, empty toilet paper tubes cut in half lengthwise, cat balls or bird toys with bells inside, etc.Let your hedgehog play in a larger playpen occasionally. You can purchase a large plastic tub or let it explore your bath (without water, of course).
 Hedgehogs are notoriously good at hiding ailments, so it is extremely necessary to be aware of your hedgehog. Keep track of any changes and call your vet to see if there's something that needs to be checked out.


If your hedgehog doesn't eat for one or two days, something is wrong and it needs veterinary attention. Hedgehogs that go for a few days without food are at risk of developing fatty liver disease, a life-threatening condition.Watch out for scaly, dry skin around the quills: this could be a sign of mites, which can be debilitating if left unchecked.
Wheezing or crackly respiration as well as discharge on the face or wrists are signs of respiratory infection, a common and serious condition in hedgehogs.
Soft stools for more than a day, or diarrhea combined with listlessness or lack of appetite can be signs of a parasite infection or other illness.
Hibernation, though occurring in the wild, is not safe for hedgehogs living in captivity. As mentioned above, if your hedgie feels cool on the belly, try to warm him by putting him under your shirt next to your skin. If he does not warm within an hour, bring him immediately to the veterinarian's., A hedgehog's familiarity with being held comes with being handled frequently. Always be confident when handling a hedgehog: they are not as fragile as they seem. The general rule is at least 30 minutes a day of handling.


Approach your hedgie quietly and slowly. Pick it up by lifting it from underneath, then hold it cupped in both hands.Make time for play. As well as handling your hedgehog, don't be afraid to join in with play. Your hedgehog will accept your involvement in play if you join in regularly.
 Clean the dishes and water bottle/bowl daily with hot water. Clean the wheel and spot-clean daily, changing bedding weekly or as needed.
 Some hedgies are cleaner than others, so you may need to bathe it more or less frequently.


Fill a sink with warm (not hot) water to the level of the hog's belly. Water should not get in their ears or nose.
Add a mild oatmeal bath (such as Aveeno) or puppy bath to the water, and use a toothbrush to brush out their quills and feet.
Rinse with warm water and snuggle in a clean, dry towel until your friend is dry. If she'll tolerate it, use a hair dryer on low - otherwise, stick with the towel. Never put a wet hedgie back in its cage., If they get too long and curl around, they can get ripped off while running on their wheel.


Clip your hog's nails with small manicure scissors, trimming off only the very tips.
If bleeding occurs, dab a little cornstarch on the spot with a Q-tip. Don't use commercially available powders, which are apt to sting., Quilling is the hedgehog equivalent of our losing baby teeth or a snake shedding its skin. This begins to happen at six to eight weeks of age and can happen throughout their first year of life as the baby quills make way for adult quills. This is a normal process and not something to worry about unless there are signs of illness or discomfort present, or the quills are failing to grow back. Your hedgehog may be irritable during this process and less amenable to being held; you can try an oatmeal bath to ease their discomfort. It is only a phase.

