 There's a variety of open source projects that could use your help. You should try and find one where you would have a meaningful way of contributing. It also might be a good idea to choose one in particular that could use more volunteers.

If you're stuck, try checking the Trending Repositories page on Github.
 You don't have to be a programmer to contribute to free software. Open source projects are powered by people volunteering their time and effort. There are a number of ways you could help out. If you have something to offer, your work will almost always be welcomed.
 Free software, just like any form of software, thrives on feedback. Without it, the project could be pulled away from the interest of the user. Tell developers what you like and don't like about their software. If you're offering critical feedback, provide them with a way to make it better. Try and request features you think would improve the software as well., Contributing code is probably the best way to contribute to an open source project. If you are familiar with the language used to write the software you're interested in, try forking the program, make your modifications and open a pull request., Have you found an open source project that hasn't yet or is in the process of being translated into your first language or another language you know? Translating is a great way to contribute to a project without doing any programming., People will always have questions, and someone will always need to be there to answer them. Try taking up this role and help confused users. If these users don't find solutions to their problems, they could find themselves discouraged. Stack Exchange is a great place to start. With its vast network of questions-and-answers websites, you will almost certainly find people in need of help.

Most open source projects also have dedicated forums where users can ask questions and get answers. There, you will find more people asking questions specific to what you're skilled with.
 Promoting the open source project you're interested in is a simple but effective way to push it forward. Share your opinion on social media and help spread the word., The majority of open source projects are funded by donations. Without them, finding money would be particularly more difficult. Donating is an easy and great way of supporting your favorite project.