 Instead of spending the rest of your life ignoring her, take accountability for whatever actions caused her to hate you. It’s best to confront her about this in a private setting.


The easiest way to take responsibility is to apologize. Take the girl aside and say, “I know you’re really mad at me for how I treated you last semester and I just want you to know that I’m sorry. I hope we can work things out so that you don’t feel this much anger towards me.”

, Whether a girl hates you because of something you did or simply because she’s a bully, it’s a good idea to talk through the issue. Ask the girl to join you for a coffee or tea so that you can work out what’s bothering her. Even if you haven’t done anything wrong and are baffled as to why you’re being picked on, it’s still a good idea to get some clarity on the situation. Plan to talk in a quiet but public place to ensure privacy and safety.


Say to her: “I’d really like for us to work out this issue together. Can we meet at Starbucks later this afternoon to talk it out?”
Use “I” statements to avoid making her feel defensive. For example, you can say something like, “I feel sad when you call me names.”
Say what you would like to have happen. For example, you might say something like, “I’d like for you to stop calling me names.”
Avoid criticizing, threatening, advising, or assuming that you know what she is thinking. Stick to saying how you feel and what you want.If you are dealing with a bully in school, have an adult mediate a conversation.
 You can't control other people’s actions, but you can control your own. Depending on the situation, there are a few ways you can radically change your behavior so that the girl will stop seeing you as someone to hate.


If you’re being bullied, try to see that the girl is probably bullying because she is in some kind of personal pain. Say something nice to her every once in a while or invite her to sit with you at lunch and see if she changes her attitude towards you.
If you have wronged the girl in the past, a great way to change your actions is to do something kind for her. Buy her a coffee or a chocolate bar with a note attached saying you’d like to be on better terms. This might not make the girl like you any better, but at least you’ve sent out a positive message.

