 The most important thing for getting high-quality photos is a high-quality camera. Cheaper, lower-quality cameras can leave you with photos that look blurry and indistinct rather than crisp and lifelike. This doesn't necessarily mean you have to spend lots of money on a new phone or camera — just be aware that the better the camera, the better the photo. If you are interested in taking lots of photos, you may want to invest in a professional camera (or borrow a friend's).


If you're stuck using a phone, you can judge the strength of its camera with its megapixel rating. As a general rule, the higher megapixel number the camera has, the better the quality. If you aren't sure what your exact megapixel amount is on your camera(s), you can usually find it by Googling the specs for your specific phone. In some cases, it can be found under Phone Info in the Settings menu.
Phones aren't always a bad choice. Smartphones are also best because filters and lighting can always be edited or changed later on for aesthetic purposes.
 When it comes to selfies, there are many different angles you can try. Try shooting from close to your face and farther away, from up high and down low, and from either side. If you have a friend (or a tripod) with you, you can even shoot from a distance.


If you have a phone with a forward-facing camera, you can just turn it on and try moving your phone around to see which angle you like best without having to take pictures.
One good policy for selfies is to take the photo from eye level or above. Shooting from below that can make your face look rounder and make certain features (like the underside of your chin) look bigger.
 If you're not liking your results, the problem may stem from your camera's settings. Things such as brightness, contrast, focus settings, and different shooting modes (e.g., portrait, action, etc.) can all affect your picture quality. Try looking in your camera's "options" menu or using the appropriate buttons to change the settings.


If you're shooting in dim lighting, you may want to turn your camera's flash off. The flash can make reflective surfaces look distractingly bright. Keep in mind, however, that many professional cameras will automatically have a slow shutter speed in low light conditions, which means you'll need a tripod to keep the camera steady.
Some digital cameras and phones have a "save as flipped" option. This prevents the picture from being reversed once it's taken.
 Getting a good photo is much easier if you have many to choose from. Try taking multiple snapshots from each angle — when you're done, you can go through and pick the ones that look best.


Be a relentless editor. Don't be afraid to delete photos that are unflattering. You have no reason to share anything but the best.
 Once you've found a picture you like, you may want to do some light "touch up" work (though this isn't necessary at all). If you're using a digital camera, editing software like Photoshop (or GIMP, a free alternative) is a good choice.If you're working on a phone, there are a variety of free apps that are available for download that offer basic editing and cropping options.


A good policy is to keep your editing subtle — people are good at telling when something isn't quite right. For instance, if you use computer editing tools to bend the edges of your figure make yourself thinner, this can be easily detected if you are next to a straight edge (like a door frame) because the edge of the object will curve as well.
 Today, this is common for pictures taken on phones. The most famous app for putting filters on photos is Instagram, but there are other apps and computer programs that can do this as well. Examples include Retrica, Filterloop or Vintago. Be sure that the filter gives the picture the look you want. For example, if you're at the beach, try something light and sunny to give your photo a "washed-out" look.


Black and white filters are great for hiding facial imperfections.
 Not sure whether your picture looks good? Ask a friend or family member. Other people may be able to spot imperfections that you've missed or suggest ideas you haven't thought of. They can also be a valuable "deciding vote" when it's time to pick between two different photos.


You can even post your picture on line and ask your peers' opinions on it. Be careful not to do this too often — it can seem a little attention-seeking.

