 Many people have meetings or take phone calls during a work or school day. Take these opportunities to get in a little movement.Not only can this increase your NEAT, but it can help relax you and stimulate your brain.Walk or pace around whenever you talk to someone on the phone. Also consider doing some squats or moving from one leg to the other while you talk.Ask a colleague, teacher, or professor to go for a walk while you have a scheduled or even unscheduled meeting. This can help relax what might be a tense situation or help you think more clearly.;
, People who sit for too long without movement may open themselves up to a host of illnesses including obesity and heart disease. Even those who sit all day and go directly to the gym are at risk.Schedule regular breaks during the day to go for a walk, do some light stretching, or even going to the restroom to increase your NEAT.Schedule time every 30 – 60 minutes to get up and get a glass of water, stretch, or go for a walk around your yard, office, or campus.
Ask a friend or colleague to join you on your scheduled break. This can help you stick to your schedule and increase your NEAT.
Some activity trackers will beep or notify users that they have been sedentary for too long.
 Stepping up or down has a multitude of benefits including protecting against heart disease and obesity as well as improving muscle tone.It also can increase your NEAT. Make a point of avoiding elevators and escalators whenever possible to take the stairs.Taking the stairs burns 50 – 100 extra calories on average while increasing your NEAT. It also releases endorphins, or feel-good hormones., In addition to taking the stairs, you can add walking steps throughout your day. Even something as simple as parking at the far end of a parking lot can increase your NEAT, especially if you make it a regular habit. Some other ways to add steps to your day include:Parking at the far end of a parking lot
Getting off the bus or subway one or two stops early
Sidestepping or standing on one foot while waiting in line
Walking to the post office or your mail boxRecording study or work materials on your smartphone and going for a walk while you listen to it
Doing a couple laps of a mall or store before beginning your shopping, If you are able, walk to your local grocery store and carry home your bags of groceries. Making several small trips each week can increase your NEAT and build muscle tone. It may also keep you from wasting food that goes bad before you can use it.Turn unloading groceries from your car into a NEAT-increasing activity. Each time you pick up a bag, do a few bicep curls with it while you walk to the house. Putting one bag in each hand may take a bit longer to unload, but you can really boost your NEAT with each walk to and from your car, especially if you add a few bicep curls.
 Cleaning is one of the necessities in life. But it’s also one of the easiest ways to boost your NEAT. Turn up the music to pep your step the next time you clean. You may find yourself twirling about with your vacuum cleaner or broom. This increases your NEAT and release feel-good serotonin.Listen to music and dance around while washing dishes by hand. This also boost NEAT and decreases your carbon footprint (by avoiding the use of a dishwasher)., Like cleaning, laundry is another necessity of life, and provides another opportunity to increase your NEAT. Even the most simple part of doing laundry — putting away clothing — aids this. Turn doing laundry into a NEAT-increasing process by:Stepping from side to side as you load the washer and dryer
Folding clothing as soon as it comes out of the dryer
Ironing your clothing
Putting your clothing away as soon as it’s folded and/or ironed

, Taking care of your indoor plants or yard and garden is a must to keep them healthy. This can also be an especially enjoyable way to boost NEAT and gain muscle if you are unable to walk. Try the following to care for plants and a yard while increasing your NEAT:Watering with a hose or watering can
Pruning with gardening shears
Creating flower beds or garden features such as rock displays
Raking leaves
Shoveling snow from delicate plants

