 One of the worst things to experience (and funniest things to watch) is biting into your favorite food, only to discover that something is very, very wrong. If your friend absolutely loves a certain snack or dish, try replacing one of the ingredients in this food with an ingredient that looks the same, but tastes very different. Be warned — your friend will not be happy with you after this prank! Below are just a few ideas to get you started:


Replace the cream in Oreos with mayonnaise or toothpaste.
Replace cake frosting with plain cream cheese.
Replace the sugar on snickerdoodles with salt.
Replace the apples in caramel apples with onions or radishes.
Replace cola with clear soda and soy sauce.
 This may be (quite literally) the oldest trick in the book. It's probably a safe bet that people were pulling this prank on each other before the rise of civilization itself. However, if done well, it's still just as simple, easy, and effective today as it was back then. When you and some friends are walking outside (preferably in a forest, but anywhere with places to hide will do), let the group walk ahead of you. Slowly and quietly fall back and hide behind a tree or rock. They'll soon notice you're missing and, with luck, will start to look for you. When they get near, pop out and shout to startle them. That's all there is to it!


For added effect, try imitating animal noises while you're hiding to freak your friends out. If you're sneaky enough, you may even be able to sneak out of your hiding place and into another without them noticing.
 This classic trick can take a lot of time, but the effects are almost always unforgettable. When your friend is away, take wrapping paper or sticky notes and completely cover her room or car (or both)! The more you can cover, the better. Ideally, her room or car should be completely unrecognizable by the time you're done. Don't use strong glues or tapes, as these can damage your friend's property. Instead, stick to the weak glue on the back of sticky notes or delicate masking tape.


If you're using sticky notes, you may want to consider spelling out a snarky message by arranging the notes in the shape of letters. For instance, if your victim is going to discover this prank after being away for a long period of time, you might want to spell out "Welcome home!"
Be sure to get permission from your friend's parents, roommates, or coworkers before sneaking into her room or tampering with her car. To someone who doesn't know what's going on, it can look like you're trying to break in or vandalize her property. Getting arrested can really derail your prank, so always play things safe.
 This computer prank requires a little more work than simply taping over your friend's mouse sensor, but the reaction when she figures out what's going on is absolutely priceless! First, get a hold of your friend's laptop or computer keyboard. Then, to be safe, ensure the laptop or keyboard is off and is not connected to any power source. Use a flat, skinny object like a screwdriver or a butter knife to gently pry the keys up and pop them out of their spaces. Finally, press each key back into its new spot until it "clicks" into place.


While you may want to simply re-arrange the keys randomly, you can also spell out a taunting message (e.g., "Dorkus", "Umadbro?", "Watsup", etc.) with the new arrangement of the keys. If you do this, don't forget that you can only use each letter once!
Keep in mind that not all keyboards have removable keys. If you're unsure whether removing your friend's keyboard keys will damage his keyboard, try looking up cleaning instructions for the model of keyboard online.
Avoid removing the space bar, as, in some setups, this key can be very difficult to replace., This prank is absolutely devilish if it's pulled off well, but it can result in a big watery mess, so you'll want to do it somewhere where the floor can't be damaged by water, like in a kitchen with linoleum floors. Fill a plastic (not glass or ceramic) bowl with water almost to its rim, then set up a small ladder or stepping stool and grab a broom. Call your friend over. Tell him that you want to show him a magic trick — you'll make the water disappear from the bowl without touching it, but you need his help. Climb your stepping stool with the bowl of water and press it against the ceiling of the room. Then, ever so carefully, have your friend use the end of the broom handle to hold the bowl in place against the ceiling. When he is supporting the bowl, move the stepping stool away from him while explaining that you need room to perform your trick. Then, run away laughing!


Your friend will be stuck in a tricky situation — he can't get the bowl of water down because it won't balance on the tip of the broom stick and he can't reach it with his hands, so eventually he'll have to let it come crashing down, soaking himself. This is why it's important to use a sturdy, non-breakable plastic bowl.
 This prank, popularized by the TV show The Office, is a big hit simply for its ridiculousness. To start, you'll need to steal some small but important possession of your friend's. Don't pick something which can be damaged by moisture, like a phone or tablet. Pens and, of course, small metal tools like staplers work well. Next, you'll want to make half a bowl of jello. Allow it to set, then and add your friend's possession on top of the solid jello. Add more liquid jello above and wait for this to set. When your jello is nice and firm, the stolen object should be suspended in the middle of the mold. Leave it in the place your friend normally keeps the object and wait for him to stumble across it.


Keep in mind that gelatin will slowly melt if exposed to heat, so don't leave the jello'd item in a spot that's warm or near sensitive materials that can be damaged by moisture.
 First, inflate an ordinary balloon with air (don't use helium). Then, set your balloon on a cake platter and cover it with frosting. Add thin strips of actual birthday cake around the balloon to make your cake look more realistic. Spread frosting over the gaps between the cake and the balloon until, from the outside, your creation looks like a normal birthday cake (or as close as you can get it). Decorate the cake as you normally would. When the time comes, present it to your friend and ask him to cut it. When the knife hits the balloon, he'll get a surprise present he wasn't expecting!

