 To prepare for a causal Monopoly tournament in your home, you will need to work out some details. Think about why you want to have a tournament, who you will invite, how many games you will play, and if you will give away prizes to the winners.For example, you might be thinking of having a casual Monopoly tournament as a birthday party theme or as part of a dinner party.;
, It's definitely best to have at least four players for a causal Monopoly tournament, but the more the better! Send out invites or just tell your friends about the tournament. Let them know when, where, and what (if anything) they should bring.


For example, you could save yourself from having to buy multiple Monopoly sets by asking a few of your friends to bring their sets to the tournament. You could also ask everyone to bring a dish to share to save yourself from having to buy a ton of food.
 Putting on a Monopoly tournament, even if it is a casual one, requires lots of different things. You will need Monopoly games, enough tables and chairs for all of your players, refreshments and snacks, pen and paper for keeping score, and prizes for your winners.Make a list of everything that you will need for your casual tournament and check items off of your list as you get them.
 In 2008, Hasbro made some changes to the game, such as increasing the Luxury Tax from $75 to $100, the dark purple properties are now brown, and more. Make sure you're familiar with the game and the detailed rules., Even if you are having a casual tournament, you will need to decide how it is going to work. Do you plan to just let everyone play at their own pace and give out prizes for the players with the most assets at the end of each game, or do you plan to have two timed 90 minute games similar to an official tournament?Decide how many games you want to have at your tournament and how long each game will be.
 Get everything almost ready to go before your guests arrive. Set up your tables and chairs, put the Monopoly games on the tables, and put out the food and refreshments. Greet your guests as they arrive and invite them to have something to eat/drink and find a seat.
 A Monopoly tournament works best if all of the teams have the same amount of players on them. For example, if there are 12 players in total, then you could split them up into three groups of four. This will ensure a more even playing field for all of your guests., If you are playing by tournament rules, then you will want to have two 90-minute games. Announce the time remaining every 30 minutes and again when only 15 minutes remain. You may also want to have a brief intermission between games to allow players to get something to eat and/or drink before the next game begins., After the second game is over, each of the players should add up their scores from the first game and the second game to get one grand total. The player from each 'group' or 'table' with the most total assets in the end advances to the final round.
 After the first two rounds are over, you will need to have the final round to determine the winners. That means that if you started with 12 contestants and split them up into three groups of four, one person from each game would advance to the 'finals', allowing there to be three finalists in the last round. The winner of this last game wins!, After the games are over, announce the winner of the tournament as well as the runner up and 3rd place. If you are giving away prizes, then you can present the winners with their prizes now as well. You may also want to present all of your guests with a little party favor of some kind and thank all of them for attending the tournament.

