
Keep some photos in your journal similar to a narrative scrapbook, or a special kind of journal, similar to a diary.;
, Some people write only their family's and friends' information in it, or just things from ones own experiences, faith and beliefs including goals, religion, prayers, ideas about politics, school, college, university, job changes, work, promotions and career(s).


Focus on your goals, ideals and understandings of changes -- not just special events but life experiences.
Update your resume using this as your work history to help when recalling your training education, and career.
Include little things and big events, or that you might forget down the road, but when added together can, at the very least, add up to a significant look back at your life and the changing times.
Include daily journal entries as a way of keeping track of what you do, plan, think and what happens in your life -- and how you feel about that.
 It might be a good idea to have a distinctive look so that it stands out to you and makes it easy to find.


Alternatively use an iPhone, Blackberry, or other PDA and you can keep it on a note-taking application.
Or, keep your notebook in the computer, but the computer isn't always handy. Write in your notebook and put it on the computer when you can. If you do enter your notebook in the computer, it becomes very easy to edit and to search for specific parts.
 Private so that it can only be viewed by you. That way, no matter where you are, you can access it online. Go to your favorite search engine and do a search for "free personal blog" or something similar.


Be sure that it will allow you to make it totally private!

,,,, Include:


Day by day listing about your work, classes, goals, prayers and plans of what you are working toward.
Date each entry. Start writing and keeping your narratives and thoughts.
Review to remember working for these things and you can check them later to see how they turn out.



Separate or mark your records according to kind including:
Friends, family, city, state, nation and the global events (improvements, famine, pestilence, war and peace, rumors of war and rumors of peace).



This is important: Keep a separate place in the journal for just how and when each goal is achieved.

