 In order to obtain a marriage license in Wisconsin, you must meet certain requirements regarding who can get married. The following restrictions and allowances apply in Wisconsin:



Age. Any person 18 or older can marry as long as they are otherwise competent.If you are 16 or 17, you must obtain written consent from parents, guardians, or custodians.Family relationship. No person can get married to another person if they are nearer of kin than second cousins (e.g., siblings, parents and children, grandparents and grandchildren).First cousins may get married only if one of the parties can prove they are permanently sterile or if the woman is 55 or older.Marital status. If you already have a husband or a wife living, no marriage license can be obtained.Also, if you are divorced, a marriage license cannot be obtained until 6 months after the judgment of divorce has been granted.Same-sex couples. As of 2014, same-sex couples can marry in Wisconsin.The process is the same for same-sex couples as heterosexual couples.;
, When applying for a marriage license, you will be required to prove your age and identity.In every county, a photo I.D. and/or a social security card should suffice to prove your age and identification. With that said, each county has different rules for proving your age and identification. For example:


Milwaukee County requires a valid photo I.D. and a social security number (not necessarily the social security card).Dane County requires a photo I.D. and a social security number if one is available.While a social security number is not required if the applicant does not have one, a photo I.D. is mandatory.Brown County requires a photo I.D. and a social security card (not just the social security number) if the applicant has a social security number., Wisconsin requires that both you and your partner provide certified birth certificates when you apply for a marriage license.However, if you cannot obtain a certified birth certificate, some other documentary proof must be provided instead of the certified birth certificate.Each county may require different proof, but so long as the county clerk is satisfied with your documentary proof, you will be able to move forward in the process.A certified copy of your birth certificate is one that has a registrar's raised, embossed, impressed, or multicolored seal; the registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office.You can order a certified copy of your birth certificate from the state in which it was issued.Look at the following website to find out who to contact for a certified copy of your birth certificate.A birth certificate that is not certified is considered informational and cannot be used to officially verify your identity.
Certain counties are very strict. The Dane County Clerk's Office essentially states that unless you were born overseas, you need a birth certificate. Other counties appear to be more flexible, allowing people born outside of the United States to "substitute a passport, green card, or naturalization papers, but a birth certificate is always preferable."

, All parties have to provide proof of residency regardless of whether they live in WI, another state, or overseas.Acceptable documents may include a Wisconsin photo I.D., a utility bill, a bank statement, or a lease agreement.ref>http:

, If either party was married in the past, that party will need to provide documentation of a finalized divorce or death.Acceptable documentation may include a certified death certificate, a state annulment, or a final divorce judgment., In order to obtain a marriage license, you must go to the county clerk's office in the county where one of the parties has resided for at least thirty days immediately prior to making the application.If both of you are nonresidents of the state, the marriage license should be obtained from the county clerk of the county where the marriage ceremony is to take place.In either instance, both applicants will most likely have to apply together and in person., Once you are at the correct county clerk's office, you and your partner will want to fill out the marriage license application. Make sure you read the directions and proofread your application before you submit it.
 For each license granted, a fee will be assessed and must be paid to the county clerk.Each county has different fees and the amount to be paid will vary depending on which county you are applying in.Marriage License fees in Wisconsin are quite expensive compared to the rest of the country. For example, in Dane County the fee is $120, and Milwaukee County it is $110.
 No marriage license will be issued within five days of applying for it.However, the county clerk may issue a marriage license within the five-day waiting period if the applicant pays an additional fee. A marriage license will be issued so long as all of the above steps are followed and there is no prohibition against or legal objection to the marriage.The waiver fee differs by county. Dane County's fee is $25.

