 If your tank is empty or your gas supply line is turned off, even a perfectly functioning grill won’t work. Replace empty tanks. Turn all supply valves to the "On" position once the gas supply and grill are hooked up. Check supply lines for cracking, looseness, and other signs of wear and tear. Replace old or faulty supply lines.If the rubber of your supply line feels brittle, it’s a good sign the line should be replaced. Replacement parts can be found at most hardware stores and home centers.
When the grill and gas supply are properly hooked up and the gas turned on, a hissing sound, especially from connectors or valves, could be a sign of a gas leak. Leaks can result in fire or explosions. Turn off the gas and stop using your grill immediately if you suspect a leak.
 The starter on your grill is used every time you fire it up. The frequent usage of this part sometimes causes it to break or fail. When you’re certain you have gas and the supply lines are in good condition, manual lighting is a great solution for faulty starters.Sometimes you can tell when an igniter is bad by the sound it makes. If you push your igniter and it makes a different sound than normal, this could indicate that your igniter no longer works.
 If your gas supply is fine and the igniter seems to be working, the problem may be with the burners under the grate of your grill. Follow your grill instructions for proper replacement procedures.Before replacing your burner, try resetting its regulator. This may not be possible for all grills, but if it is for yours, instructions on how to do this will be in the grill's manual.
You can usually replace burners inexpensively with a suitable new part purchased from a hardware store, home center, or the manufacturer.
 Many newer grills have batteries and electrical lines to supply power to other functions of the grill. These can come loose or degrade over time. Re-fasten loose electrical cables. Replace any batteries that might be flat, then try to light your grill again.


Igniters, in some cases, use a small battery to power the ignition mechanism. The placement of this part will depend on your grill, but many times it is situated close to or underneath the igniter switch., Cold weather can cause the internal pressure of tanks to decrease. This can cause the gas to flow slower than normal or freeze. Allow additional time for gas to feed through the supply line to your grill when it is chilly or cold.


If your tank has frozen, you won’t be able to use it until it has thawed. Bring the tank in a warmed location, like a shed or basement, so it can thaw.