 If you don't have any experience or samples, employers won't be able to evaluate your skills. To get the initial experience that you may need, try signing up to freelancing websites such as Freelancer, Elance or oDesk. These websites have small one-time assignments offered by people who need writers. Create an account and start to bid on offers in their database.Make sure the employers that you take jobs for are verified to ensure that you get paid for your work.;
, Talk to family and friends and see if they know of any publications that are looking for journalists or if they can get you a job. If you know of any other freelancers, try to talk to them or invite them to lunch to talk about what kind of opportunities exist. Continue to talk to people in the industry so that they can keep you abreast of any jobs or assignments that might be available.If you are in school, talk to the editor of the school newspaper and see if there are any opportunities to write for them.
 Several online journalist communities can help you get work as a freelance journalist. Look for communities on LinkedIn and Facebook and become members of them. Start talking to other journalists to help build your network and gain more knowledge. These online communities can help you further your career and is a great knowledge base for new journalists.Other online communities include JournoBiz Forum, Mumsnet, and The No1 Freelance Ladies' Buddy Agency.
 Read different publications and find ones that you'd like writing for. Get to know their writing style and what kind of topics they usually write about. This will give you clues on how to pitch to them. Try to find contact information for editors so that you can send them pitches for articles.For instance, if you're a movie buff, look at publications that review or evaluate new films that come out.
If you're really into gaming, research gaming websites or magazines that talk about computer or video games.
 A website is a perfect way to show off past examples of your work. A website will give potential employers an idea of the type of content they can expect from you. You can either hire someone to build the site for you or build the website yourself. Remember to include your contact details so that people can connect to you.


Your website should contain contact info, a biography, examples of past work, and possibly a link to your personal blog.
Avoid cluttering your website with nonessential links or photos., A pitch is a small summary of an idea that you have for an article. Typically freelance journalists will pitch article ideas to editors who will accept or reject your pitch. If you don't have experience, you can pitch entire articles to editors so they have an understanding of how you write. Pitches contain a catchy headline and then a couple of sentences that explain what you want to write, and why people would want to read it. Start writing multiple pitches to different editors and see if you get any responses.