 This can't be emphasized enough. The general rule is if you don't know a good deal about an industry outside of China you will never be able to make sense of it, or make good business decisions when jumping into China to find suppliers. Don't go into China just looking to take advantage of some mythical pot of export gold. Go because you know what product you want to sell, and you know you can find the best/cheapest supply in China.;
, If you come in with a good overall sense of the products you're after, you're in good shape...what they go for elsewhere, what a version manufactured elsewhere would look like quality-wise. If not you'll be lost when presented with 400 different versions of the same item in a massive market where each vendor will naturally claim the superiority of their own manufacturing. That logic applies whether you're buying online, or heading directly to Chinese manufacturing cities like Guang Zhou.
 Unless you speak Mandarin and have direct experience with on the ground negotiating and business in China, by far the best approach is to find an online supplier, preferably one that has connections to your global region.
 You need someone who has a system in place and who is also reputable and trustworthy, right? Read reviews! Talk to others in the industry. The web may make the whole world accessible in a blanket, impersonal way, but business is still done person to person. Talk to someone DIRECTLY at the company, and talk to someone who has been their client, resale partner, or has significant experience in your industry.
 There are dozens of these. START there though and work to hone your search toward your specific industry and needs. Otherwise you're just basically going where anyone with a passive interest in reselling can go in a few minutes.
 Don't underestimate the potential cost and confusion of doing this improperly. The benefit to using a supplier with an established wholesale network is that it will be up to them to ship the goods through customs and they will already have the systems in place to get the goods across the border legally, safely, and timely...all of which can be a massive headache otherwise.
