 For many, masculinity is a symbol of absolute power and too often, femininity is seen as a form of weakness or a subordinate status. However, you must look past this state of mind and celebrate the many unique strengths of femininity.



The Divine Feminine: Many believe becoming a goddess means awakening the Divine Feminine or following the feminine principles of being nurturing, loving, compassionate, of insight, intuition, creativity, forgiveness, healing, and wisdom.;
,


This space can be a cozy room, a reading nook, or a quiet corner.
Fill your safe space with items that symbolize the goddess you want to be. It can be a picture or an object that represents your goddess.
Add relaxing items like candles, incense, a water fountain, plants and flowers, or spiritual crystals and stones.
Journal, pray, or daydream in this space. Do things that relax you and allow you to reflect and nurture yourself.
 In order to find your inner goddess, it’s important that you find peace within yourself.


Don’t try to fill up a void or emptiness through external means (like being obsessed with vanity, greed, or lust to feel better about yourself).
Don’t focus on things you can’t change. Instead, accept it for what it is and you will be able to relieve yourself from the stresses of worrying about a situation you can’t change.
Don’t deny your emotions. Acknowledge them as valid and something worthwhile to feel and explore.
 Meditation has many benefits psychologically and physiologically. The purpose of meditation is to clear your mind from distractions and give you more control over your own mind and body. It can lower stress levels, decrease your heart rate, build self-confidence, and increase creativity.Many women meditate as a way of connecting to their inner goddess.


Try a simple breathing meditation to start. Sit cross-legged or in a comfortable position. Close your eyes halfway and focus exclusively on the natural way you breathe. Become aware of how breath goes in and out of your body.Resist the temptation to follow the many different thoughts that come up in your mind. Instead, focus all of your attention to the sensation of breathing.
Try guided meditation if you have trouble meditating. This requires less effort from you, but still gives you the benefits of meditation. It can also take you to places you would never have thought to visualize.Try yoga as an alternate form of meditation. Yoga borrows much of its principles from meditation. It can help improve your physical health and breathing techniques.
 You might spend most of your time inside a building and divided from nature. It’s important to remind yourself of where you came from and the beauty of nature in order to find your inner goddess.


Walk bare feet through nature and feel the way your feet steadies and grounds you to the earth.
Do activities outside like biking, swimming, or hiking to appreciate and celebrate the beauty of nature.
 Your body is deserves to be treated with self-care practices that honour your physical and mental health.


Take an Epsom salt or milk bath while listening to soothing music and surrounded by sweet smelling candles. This will relax your mind but also soften and improve your skin.
Take mental health days where you spend time by yourself doing relaxing or uplifting activities.
Cut down on junk foods and have a well-balanced diet.
 Goddesses can come in many forms, so there is a lot of freedom to develop your own style. Popular representations of goddesses depict women wearing flattering, yet modest, clothes that have a classic and romantic style to them.


Wear clothes tailored to your body type to accentuate your best features.
Try pastel and earth toned garments.
Wear natural fibre fabrics like leather or silk.
 Try different goddess-inspired hairstyles like Grecian or Roman updos. And keep your hair looking natural and healthy by using special hair products or natural home remedies.To grow thicker hair: Stimulate your hair follicles by massaging slightly heated coconut oil into your scalp and wrap a hot damp towel around your hair to increase the oil’s effectiveness.
To remedy limp or flat hair: Using beer is one popular way to volumize hair. Create a hair mask by mixing 15 mL of flat beer (left out to sit for a few hours) with 1 tsp of canola or sunflower oil and a raw egg. Apply this to dampened hair for 15 minutes and rise thoroughly. You can also spritz beer onto your hair with a spray bottle. Beer helps strengthen fine hair and create structure.
To fix frizzy hair: Avocados alone or combined with other ingredients like bananas, egg yolks, mayonnaise or sour cream are a great way to moisturize dry or frizzy hair. Massage mashed avocados and/or equal parts of another moisturizing ingredient to your scalp. Let it sit for 15 minutes before rinsing off with cool water.
 If you do decide to wear makeup, use makeup that enhances your natural beauty.Skin: Conceal any flaws like blemishes and dark circles with a lightweight concealer. Avoid putting on too much or caking on foundation.

Cheeks: Use a blush colour in a warm peach or pink colour to give yourself a subtle and natural flush.

Eyes: Choose an eyeshadow palette that accentuates your eyes. Try a colour slightly darker than your skin to create natural contours around your eyes. Avoid hard edges by blending in your eyeshadow.

Eyelashes: Use natural looking lash extensions to enhance your look. Put 1-2 coats of mascara but avoid putting on too many coats or you’ll get a spidery lash effect.

Lips: Plump up your lips with a colour that matches your natural lip colour or try a gloss to create a kissable shine.
 Find a beauty routine that is easy to maintain everyday. They can be simple things like:



Developing a skincare routine that ensures your
Avoiding harsh chemicals that might damage your body, skin, or hair. , As a woman, you may have been taught to keep quiet, be polite and be accommodating. This may often lead to many missed opportunities, misunderstandings, and pent up anger and anxieties that lead to depression. Being a goddess means standing firm in what you believe and living authentically.Do what you want to do. Don’t feel guilty or obligated to do things you don’t want to do. These things may take time away from what is important to you or may go against your own values.
Have presence or an energy that tells others you are giving all your heart and mind into every situation. This will earn you respect and power without demanding it through forceful or obnoxious ways.
 Bring people together and towards a higher good. Show them you care and lead by example. A goddess should have everyone’s best interests at heart.Having charisma helps to better inspire others to devote to you or follow you.
Be approachable and friendly by having a smile for everyone and showing you care, especially when no one else will.
Give even when someone doesn’t deserve it. This shows compassion and will inspire others to do better.
Be understanding and approach misunderstandings with positivity and objectivity.
Give opportunities and resources to others when they need it.
 Sometimes this might mean surrendering to the things you have no control over and trusting that the best outcome will unfold for you in some way or another.


Be grateful for what you already have in life. Don’t take things for granted.
Live everyday as a gift. Take chances and explore new opportunities.
Have a positive outlook and faith in your self-worth and abilities to accomplish your goals and dreams.

