 You know your real value, and so do your close friends. Being confident in your own skin is much more important than what others think of your appearance.The composition of your body does not make you confident or unconfident.
Confidence is being proud of who you are and brave enough to show your true self to the world.;
, No matter what someone says or does, you are in full control of feeling one way or another about it. Choose to either ignore the comment, or choose to respond in a way that counteracts his negativity and inappropriate focus on weight.Don’t internalize someone else’s criticism of you. Many times kids who are told they are overweight and bullied become adults who tell themselves the same kinds of things in their heads. It’s not good for your long-term mental health to constantly be worried about your weight or what you are eating as a child/teen, so focus on action rather than feelings., The best way to keep other people’s body negativity from infecting your own thoughts is to make taking care of yourself mentally, emotionally and physically your first priority! There is no one right way to practice self-care, as it is very individual.Some possibilities are:


Set aside time every morning to visualize how you want your day to go, or every evening to reflect on your day. Focus on the things you have control over rather than what others might have pushed onto you.
After school, spend 20 minutes doing something that makes you happy. Get some nice colored pencils and a fancy coloring book, or write a letter to a friend or family member just to say hi.
Read some body positive blogs or articles on the internet. For excellent information on how expectations of women’s bodies in society are unrealistic, see http://www.jeankilbourne.com/videos/ and http://therepresentationproject.org/


, This never helps you feel better in the long run and takes your focus off of taking care of yourself first. Unless your profession depends on being a certain weight, like being an actress or model, it is not an issue about which you need to look to others for acceptance., Both boys and girls, of all ages and weights, regularly say negative things about their own physical beauty in either an attempt to get a compliment back or to humble themselves in front of peers. This kind of type hurts your self-esteem more than helping it, and it perpetuates societal standards that focus on appearance over personality. 