 In order to prepare for a colonoscopy, you need to cleanse your colon. Some physicians give their patients ‘prep kits.’ If your physician gives you a prep kit, follow the directions for that particular kit.


During the prepping phase, you can only drink clear fluids. If you consume anything besides clear liquids and the prep products listed below (or given to you by your physician), the radiologist may not be able to provide your physician with accurate results.
 Some patients suffer from dehydration while prepping for their colonoscopy, so make sure you drink plenty of clear fluids.


The Dietary Reference Intakes (DRI-established in 2004) recommends men have a daily water intake of approximately sixteen 8 oz. cups a day. The DRI recommends women drink eleven 8 oz. cups of fluid daily.
The best way to determine if you are getting enough water/fluids is to look at the color of your urine. If your urine is straw colored, you are hydrated; dark urine is an indication that you are dehydrated.
Your body will also help you determine if you are drinking enough fluids. If you feel thirsty, your body is telling you that you need more fluids.
 If your physician did not give you a prep kit, you will need to purchase the following non-prescription items:


A package of 4 Bisacodyl tablets – 5 mg (Dulcolax, Correctol, Bisacolax or Doxidan).
64 oz of a non carbonated, clear liquid drink (Propel, Gatorade or Crystal light). If you are diabetic, you can use sugar-free Gatorade.
8.3 oz (238 grams) of Polyethylene glycol 3350 powder (Clearlax, MiraLAX, GaviLAX or Purelax). You can find these products in the laxative section of your local pharmacy or department store.
 If you have diabetes, use sugar-free beverages for your prep. If you take insulin, take half of your evening dose the day before your procedure and the other half on the morning of your colonoscopy.


If you do not take insulin, do not take your diabetic medicine on the morning of your procedure.
Monitor your blood sugar throughout the prepping process.
 At 4 p.m.on the evening before your colonoscopy, take all 4 of the 5 mg Bisacodyl tablets (Dulcolax, Correctol, Bisacolax or Doxidan).


At 6 p.m. take a pitcher and fill it with 64 oz of the clear, non-carbonated beverage you purchased (Gatorade, Propel or Crystal Light).
Mix in the 8.3 oz of Polyethylene glycol 3350 (Clearlax, MiraLAX, GaviLAX or Purelax). Stir well, until the powder dissolves completely.
Drink ½ (32 oz.) of the mixture. You should drink 8 oz. every 15 minutes. If you want, you can drink it through a straw.
 5 hours before your colonoscopy, drink the remaining 32 oz. of the clear, non-carbonated mixture. Unless otherwise directed, you will take nothing by mouth (food or drink) for at least 3 hours leading up to your colonoscopy. Additionally, you should:


Wear comfortable, loose clothing.
If you are taking heart or blood pressure medication, take it by mouth with a sip of water.
Leave your valuables at home (including jewelry).
Make a list of all your medicines so they can be added to your chart.

