 One reason that you might wake up with a stomach ache is that you are thirsty. Dehydration can cause a stomach ache and since you have just gone all night without water, you may be slightly dehydrated. Pour yourself a glass of water and drink it slowly. You don't want to drink it too fast and shock your empty stomach.


You can also add lemon to it as well. It can help calm any stomach irritation caused by the dehydration.
You can also try to drink juice or a sports drink to help replenish any nutrients or electrolytes that you might be missing., If you wake up with pains in your stomach, you may need something to calm your stomach down. Ginger, whether it is in tea, raw, or in ginger ale, can help calm your stomach and make it feel better. It promotes the release of enzymes that help neutralize stomach acid and contains phenols that relax the stomach muscles and irritated tissues. One of the best ways to get pure ginger is by making a homemade ginger tea.


To make the tea, start with 2 inch piece of ginger root and water. Peel and cut the ginger root into small pieces, then crush the pieces into even smaller bits. Boil 2-3 cups of water and add the ginger once it's boiling. Let it boil for 3-5 minutes. Remove it from heat. You can strain the ginger out when they pour it into a mug if you want or you can leave it in and drink it along with the tea. You can also drizzle some honey in it to make it sweeter.
You can simply eat ginger if you prefer that to drinking the homemade tea., Chamomile tea is a great way to soothe your stomach. The chamomile in the tea helps reduce inflammation, which can help relax the muscles in your stomach that are contributing to the ache. If you are not a fan of chamomile, you can brew most herbal teas to help with stomach issues.


Steer clear of peppermint tea. It ca relax certain parts of your esophageal sphincter, which leads to heartburn and acid reflux., Unlike normal water, coconut water contains electrolytes and natural nutrients that can help alleviate stomach pain. The water contains natural sugars that will give you calories to give you energy as well as potassium and vitamin C.


Make sure you get 100% pure coconut water.You don't want any of the artificial ingredients that may make your stomach ache even worse.
 Baking soda is great for a stomach ache because it helps neutralize stomach acid, which causes pain. Many over the counter medications contain baking soda, but you can make your own home solution to ease your stomach pain. Add a tablespoon of baking soda to 1 cup of water. Stir it well and then drink it.


You can warm the water if your want, but it isn't necessary., Unlike other kinds of vinegar, apple cider vinegar is rich in nutrients that can help alleviate your stomach ache in the morning. It also has helpful bacteria and enzymes that will alleviate digestive disruption, help indigestion, and reduce cramps.


Mix apple cider vinegar with water and honey and stir. Drink it all to help alleviate your stomach ache.

