 Choose your material wisely, depending on the aesthetic and functional qualities you desire for your trellis.

Although a metal trellis can look very ornate and attractive, metal isn’t always the best choice because it can heat up in the sun and burn the plant.



 


Wood is easier to work with and paint, and is more sympathetic to the plant's needs.






When selecting wood, make sure you use kiln-dried wood to avoid warping. Cedar is a popular choice.






Consider treating the wood with wood preservative before you work with it: this will prolong the life of your trellis.






Get 4 pieces of 2x2 wood, all about 8 feet (2.4 m) in length, plus another 4 pieces of 1x3 wood about 5 feet (1.5 m) in length.






Get some shorter lengths for making horizontal cross pieces like the slats on a ladder.






Remember that the wood may be roughly finished, so beware of splinters and use work gloves when handling it.





;
, You can make a garden pyramid trellis using pre-cut wood or by cutting your own wood, depending on your skills, experience, and available tools.

Cut your wood to size if you need to, otherwise, move to the next step.






You can download free cutting guides for woodworking that may make the job easier by telling you how and where to cut.






A mitre saw will probably be essential if you are cutting your own wood to size.
 It’s best to pre-drill any nail holes in order to prevent splitting in the timber when sinking nails.


Additionally, if you plan to paint your pyramid, you should do so before assembly to make it easier to cover every surface.
Dark green paint always looks good, or you can try using a contrast color such as bright blue, deep red, or white.
These colors will look good against any green foliage you have in your garden.
Remember that it’s hard to repaint once foliage is climbing up the structure, so paint your trellis with primer or undercoat, then apply at least 2 coats of a good quality weatherproof paint so the paint lasts and looks good over the years.
 Use the 4 longer pieces of wood that you cut or purchased to make 2 V-shaped frames.


Start by cutting the 4 longer pieces of wood on their joining edges at a 10 degree angle.
Make sure they fit flush against their partner at the pointed tip, then nail them together.
If you are unsure about cutting at an angle, or don’t have a mitre saw to do so easily, consider building a tall oblong shape, as this lets you retain the square edges and join the pieces at right angles.
This may be slightly less stable once finished, so it will need a sheltered position out of strong winds.
 Nail the crosspieces of increasing lengths up the length of the shorter pieces, like making a ladder with only one central vertical length.


The shorter lengths of wood should be used to hold up the horizontal crosspieces.
Use stainless steel nails (or brass) and make sure you sink them slightly beneath the surface of the wood.
 Start by joining the 2 V-shaped longer pieces. Then, add the shorter lengths along all 4 sides of the pyramid, joining using the crosspieces.


It may be helpful to have a second person to help support the pyramid whilst you secure the pieces together.
You might like to place the nails where they aren’t so visible, i.e. on the inside surfaces of the pyramid.
This isn’t essential, and can be a little more fiddly.
You can add a finial (decorative wood top).
You can simplify the design by adding crosspieces to the 4 long pieces and skipping the step where you add shorter vertical lengths to the structure.
 If you are in a windy area, you should anchor your pyramid to prevent it toppling.


If the pyramid moves, it may cause damage to any plants that are growing on it.
You can achieve an attractive look by shaping garden canes or willow rods into a pyramid shape and attaching them to the trellis with garden twine to keep it in place.
Remember that climbing plants will eventually add their weight to the structure, and may topple it if it becomes too heavy on one side.
Consider planting on both sides to balance your trellis and anchor it to the ground.
 If you plan to keep the structure in place for a while, consider preparing the area before placing it.

Dig some manure or compost into the ground.






Remove stones and weed the area before placing your pyramid trellis.






Be aware that if you dig first, the ground may settle and the pyramid may sink a little over time.






If the feet sit in damp ground, they are more likely to rot or crack.






Soaking the lower part of the structure (or all of it) in wood preservative overnight will help prolong the life of your trellis.






If possible, place it on hard, free-draining ground because the trellis won’t last as long if it sits in wet earth or a puddle.
 After choosing a position for your pyramid trellis, you can plant climbing perennial plants such as Clematis, Ivy, Passionflower or Climbing Rose against it.


Some climbing plants will benefit from being lightly tied onto the pyramid structure; others will be able to scramble up by themselves.
Also consider annuals such as Black-eyed Susan, Sweet Peas or Morning Glory.

