 Since acorn squashes are notoriously hard to cut, you'll need a sharp, long chef's knife for this job. The knife will need to be long enough to cut through most of the squash, so choose a knife that's about 8 to 10 inches. The blade should be sturdy and sharp. Using the right, sharp knife will help you easily slice through the squash and prevent injury to your fingers.


If you don't have a sharp chef's knife, you can use a serrated knife or a cleaver. Regardless of which knife you choose, it needs to be sharp in order to cut through the hard squash.;
, Carefully use a sharp chef's knife to cut 1/2 an inch off of both ends of the squash. This will help keep the squash in place and prevent it from rolling as you cut it. You can throw the ends of the squash away.To keep your cutting board from slipping, lay a damp washcloth on the counter. Set your cutting board on top of the cloth. The moist cloth will keep the cutting board from moving as you cut.
 Place the acorn squash on a cutting board so that the sliced end is level on the cutting board. Carefully take the sharp knife and use a rocking or sawing motion to cut the squash in half right down the middle. Avoid chopping right into the squash. Instead, you can try cutting through a quarter of the squash, turning the squash, and continuing the cut on the other side.If you're having trouble cutting through the squash, try using a rubber mallet and a knife. Insert the knife into the rind of the squash and tap the knife with the rubber mallet. This will split the acorn squash.
Always keep your fingers away from the knife as you cut to prevent injury.
 Take a large spoon and scoop out all of the seeds and membrane from each of the acorn squash halves. It may help to use a metal spoon or a firm-handled spoon that won't snap as you scoop out the seeds.You can throw away the seeds or save them to roast.
 Place one half of your acorn squash seed-side down on the cutting board. Cut the squash into 1/2 to 3/4 inch slices by carefully cutting across the ridges.You don't need to peel acorn squash before cutting or preparing it.
Slicing the acorn squash thinly ensures that it will cook faster than if you simply roast half of the squash or bake large wedges of squash.
 To make large wedges, lay one half of your squash seed-side down on the cutting board. Carefully cut lengthwise along each ridge of the acorn squash to make wedges. Cutting the squash into wedges keeps more of its rustic shape and gives you larger pieces to serve.If you'd like to peel your acorn squash, you should cut them into wedges first. This will make it easier to hold the squash while peeling.
 If you need cubed or chunked acorn squash for a recipe, start by cutting the squash into wedges. Once you've sliced the wedges, you can peel each individual wedge. Lay the wedge so that one side lays flat on a cutting board. Take a knife and cut each wedge into cubes or chunks.


You can cut the cubes or chunks to any size you would like. Keep in mind that if you're roasting the squash with other root vegetables, you should keep them all the same size.
 When cutting your acorn squash in half, ensure that you cut it crosswise. Once you've scooped out the seeds from both halves, take a sharp knife and cut the squash in half crosswise again. This will make one ring. Continue cutting rings until you reach the end on each half of the squash.You can cut the rings as thick as you like. Many recipes call for the rings to be sliced between 1/2 and inch and 1 inch.
 You should use the acorn squash as soon as you've cut it since it will begin to lose flavor and health benefits. But if you can't use the acorn squash the same day you cut it, wrap the squash in plastic wrap and refrigerate it for up to four days.You can also freeze the cut squash for several months. To do so, wrap the acorn squash in plastic and place it in an air-tight freezer bag. Label the bag and use the squash before you see ice crystals form.
 Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (218 C). Rub a few tablespoons of olive oil over several halves of acorn squash with the seeds removed. Sprinkle the flesh with salt and pepper. Place these on baking sheet flesh-side down. Roast the squash for 15 to 20 minutes or until they're soft. If you'd like to try a unique flavor, consider seasoning your acorn squash with one of these combinations:Sesame seeds and cumin
Cinnamon and butter
Balsamic vinegar and shallots

, For a quick puree, roast the acorn squash in halves. Once the roasted squash is cool enough to handle, just scoop out the flesh and mash it in a serving bowl along with butter, salt and pepper. For an even smoother consistency, you can beat it with a hand mixer.


You can also steam the acorn squash before pureeing it. To steam the squash, heat about an inch of water in a saute pan. Add cubed acorn squash and let it cook over medium-high heat until it's tender (about 10 minutes).
 Take 1/2 inch rings or slices of acorn squash and combine them with a few teaspoons of melted butter or olive oil. Place the squash in a saute pan that you can also place in the oven. Cover the pan and cook the squash over medium-high heat for 15 minutes. Transfer the pan to the oven and bake them at 400 degrees F (204 C) for 15 more minutes.If you'd like a slightly sweet caramelized flavor, add a few tablespoons of brown sugar to the squash before you bake them.

