 Those who are clingy often feel insecure, jealous, and lonely. When it comes down to it, these emotions can make the needy person feel simply awful and ultimately, unhappy with the relationship. When they are unhappy, they tend to project this onto their partner. This may cause the more secure partner to leave because they are tired of the way their spouse is treating them.


Ask your spouse if they think you tend to exhibit these behaviors towards them. For instance, you could say, “Do you think I act jealous or insecure about our relationship? If so, how does that make you feel and why do you think I behave the way I do?”
Opening up the lines of communication with your spouse helps them to understand that you believe you may have a problem and value their opinion regarding it. You can also work together to brainstorm solutions., In new relationships, it is common for those involved to want to be around each other all of the time. After a while, though, it is natural for that initial spark to begin to fade and those in the relationship start to become more independent.


If one spouse begins that normal tendency while the other continues to want to spend lots of time together, the other may begin to feel “suffocated.”You can overcome this dynamic by spending more time apart. You might say to your partner, "I think I have been suffocating you, and I'm sorry. I didn't realize. I think it will be healthy if we start spending more time with friends or family to give each other some space."
If being apart from your partner frightens you, fill your social calendar. Schedule gatherings with friends. Pursue your education or complete goals that have been left unfinished. Take up a new hobby or skill.
 When needy spouses are constantly checking in with their spouses, forbidding them to go anywhere without them, or berate them with questions when they come home, the more secure spouse may think the clingy spouse doesn’t trust them.Overcome the trust issues associated with neediness by using language that demonstrates faith in your partner and the relationship. When your partner goes out with friends, say "Be careful, sweetie. Have a good time." rather than berating them about calling you every hour on the hour.
Trusting your partner to be away from you and still uphold the values of your relationship is important. Avoid texting or calling them nonstop when you are apart. Don't check their call logs or emails.

