 It is important to include more heart healthy foods in your diet, such as nuts and high fiber foods, low fat dairy products, vegetables and lean meats. Try to stay focused on all of the foods you can eat in larger portions, such as vegetables, and avoid focusing on what you cannot have.For example, you could enjoy a portion of meat with a large serving of broccoli and carrots, and a ½ cup to 1 cup of brown rice. Aim to cover half of your plate with vegetables.
 Another way you can still enjoy meat on a lipid lowering diet is to have smaller portions of meat in your meals. Try increasing your servings of vegetables and grains and reducing your servings of meat on your plate. Instead of having a fist sized amount of meat, for example, you may try having half a fist sized portion.You should also make sure you have more vegetables and grains on your plate than meat so your portions are smaller. Filling your plate up with vegetables and grains can help you feel more full and not as hungry for meat.
 Another way you can reduce your servings of meat is to view meat as a condiment rather than the main focus of your meal. Sprinkle a small portion of meat over your salads. Have a small amount of sliced meat over your rice and vegetables so you still get some meat but too much.You can also prepare meals that are vegetable focused with a small amount of meat added for flavor or seasoning. For example, you may make a soup stock that is meat based and use it to make a vegetable soup. Or you may use a cut of meat to season a vegetable and bean stew.
 Rather than cut out meat completely from your lipid lowering diet, try to cut down on the number of meat heavy meals you have per week. Maybe you eat vegetable focused meals five days a week and meat heavy meals two days a week. Or perhaps you have two meals a day that are vegetarian and one meal a day that has a small portion of meat. Try to make meat less of a focus of every meal and vary up your meals so you are eating more vegetables and grains.Try having more meat substitutes in your meals so you still feel satisfied. Fill your plate with healthy substitutes for meat that still taste as good as a big slice of meat. Portobello mushroom burgers, eggplant lasagna, or vegetarian curries are all good substitutes for meat heavy meals.
 When you eat out at a restaurant, try to go for the lean meat option on the menu so you are not having a meal too high in fat. Look for lean meat options like a chicken dish or a lean beef dish. Try a turkey burger instead of a ground beef burger. Opt for the fish entree instead of the steak.If you are not sure what the fat content is for certain items on the menu, do not be afraid to ask your server at the restaurant for this information. Ask questions about the meat menu items so you can find one that has a lower fat content.
 If you are struggling with how to integrate meat into a lipid lowering diet, speak to your doctor. They may be able to recommend certain meals or different ways you can prepare meat in a healthy way. They may also put you on a dietary plan that allows you to still eat some meat but also maintain a lipid lowering diet.


Your doctor may recommend that you work with a nutritionist if you need more detailed guidance and want to maintain a dietary plan long term.

