 Heat the oven to 400 F/ 204 C. Tear off a square of aluminum foil. The piece should be around a square foot in size.
 Take your whole head of garlic and set it on the middle of your aluminum square. Drizzle it with 1 1/2 tablespoons of olive oil. Then, wrap the aluminum foil around the garlic, sealing it in and making a pouch.
 Set your pouch of garlic in the oven, directly on a rack. Let it cook for 30 minutes. The garlic will be soft when it's finished cooking. Remove it from the oven and foil. Let it cool.
 The individual cloves of garlic should be soft enough that you can squeeze them right into the pan. Do this for the entire head of garlic. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil and heat a minute over medium heat.
 Add the flour to the sauté pan and stir well, making sure to reach all areas of the pan so that the flour is completely incorporated. Continue to stir while cooking the mixture, or roux. The roux should start to darken a bit in color.
 You can simply microwave the stock while your roux is cooking, or you can heat the stock in a pot on the stove. Don't let it boil.
 Very gradually pour the stock into your roux while whisking with your other hand. This should be a slow process so that the stock has a chance to be absorbed into the roux without separating into clumps.
 Keep the temperature around medium, or medium-low if it starts to boil. The sauce will start to thicken up pretty quickly.


You should notice a lot of evaporation as the sauce reduces to about half of the volume. Stirring frequently will help prevent scorching, or burning.
 Stir to combine the stock/garlic mixture and cream. Remove the sauté pan from heat.
 You can either use an immersion blender or regular blender. If using an immersion blender, transfer the sauce to a deep bowl. Then, stick the immersion blender in it and process until the sauce is smooth. If using a regular blender, transfer the sauce to the blender and blitz until smooth.


Blending the sauce will also smooth out any lumps of roux you might not have whisked completely.
 Add salt and pepper, according to your taste. Use immediately or return the sauce to the sauté pan, where you can keep it warm over low heat.

