 When you get your herbs home from the store, dry them as if you were going to store them freshly. Rinse them, if necessary, dry them thoroughly, and trim the stem ends of the herbs. Gather them in bunches and let dry for at least a week. Different herbs will dry at different rates.


Gather the herbs in loose bundles, tying the stems together with rubber bands, twine, or old twist-ties.
Hang the herbs upside down in a cool dry place in your house, so the air circulates around them thoroughly.
You can also store your bunches in dry paper bags, which helps to collect falling dried leaves and seeds that can fall. Some people like the way it looks to have herb bunches hanging around the house, though.
Herbs are done when they're crunchy and dry and no longer have any moisture in the leaves.
 The fastest way to dry herbs is in the oven. Generally, you'll get more flavor and life out of herbs if you dry them more slowly or freeze them, but this is a method to use quickly if need be.


Arrange picked leaves across a baking sheet and bake at extremely low temperature, the lowest that your oven will go.
Turn the leaves frequently to make sure they don't burn, and the herbs should be thoroughly dried in an hour or so.Depending on the herbs and the temperature of your oven, the herbs can burn very quickly, or dry very slowly over a period of several hours. Leave the door open a crack and watch them closely, turning often, to keep them from burning.
 If you want your dried herbs to resemble the herbs you might buy at the store, crumble them by putting them into a plastic bag and massaging them with your hands, or with a rolling pin. It's also fine to leave the leaves whole and break them up when you choose to use them.
 Dried herbs can be stored in the pantry in airtight containers to keep them fresh for several months. Old mason jars, pickle jars, and other containers are perfect for storing a large quantity of dried herbs.


Light can cause dry herbs to loose flavor and color faster, so storing them brown glass or metal is a good option.
 Keep dried herbs away from heat sources like toasters, ovens, dishwasher, or the space above the fridge. The heat can cause the herbs to lose lots of flavor and color. Your pantry should be a fine place for storing herbs.

