 Map out each room, area, closet or cupboard that needs organizing.;
, Work on the tool bench in the garage rather than the entire garage. Work on the pantry rather than the entire kitchen.
 You may wish to sit and crochet while at your favorite window seat. You may also enjoy reading at the same area.
 A wheelbarrow, shovel and watering can would be needed for gardening. Paints, brushes and canvas would be needed for painting. Thread, scissors and patterns would be needed for sewing.
 A wicker basket would be suitable for embroidery threads, a hoop, scissors and needles. A bookshelf would be suitable for your reading area. A small garden shed would be suitable adjacent to the garden gate.
 Containers should be movable if you wish to rearrange your area periodically. At times, toys may be stored in the living room, but then moved into your child's bedroom when guests arrive. Transfer your chair and bookcase to a new sitting area. Take your knitting basket to a chair with the most sunlight.
 Use a mug to measure rather than buying a measuring cup. Use a cooking pot as a mixing bowl. Use a fork as a whisk.
 Place a silverware basket on the kitchen counter for use with food preparation. Transfer the basket to the kitchen table for use while dining. Use a cosmetic basket at the mirror in your bedroom or at the mirror in the bathroom.
 Use an old purse as a jewelry case or sewing kit. Recycle a glass jar to arrange a few flowers on the windowsill. Use an old suitcase to store your shoes under the bed.
 Fold your colorful bath towels on a shelf near the shower. Use a small wicker basket for decorative soaps.
 If you frequently travel, make a separate cosmetic case just for such an occasion. If you walk in the park, pack a small shoulder bag with your iPod and sunglasses. Keep a small first-aid kit in an envelope in the glove compartment of your car.
 Use your desk area to write bills, do your artwork or place a towel over your desk to do your ironing. Lounge or study while on your bed. Hang a quilt over the back of a rocking chair as display and as a cushion.
 Hooks at the entry are convenient for your keys, purse and coat. Attach an additional hook in the kitchen for the convenience of an extra kitchen towel. Place a hook in your breeziest window for a wind chime. Hang a battery-powered lantern in the screen house. Hanging things on the wall creates greater floor space and ease in cleaning.
 Keep your items stored away in their containers. Dust, then vacuum once the dust settles to the floor. Items can rapidly collect dust leading to allergies, respiratory discomfort and more cleaning.
 Use an open basket with a handle for cleaning products. Carry it throughout the house and store it conveniently beneath the kitchen sink. Use a covered container for buttons. Use a Ziploc bag for things that need to kept clean, such as a handmade heirloom. Use Ziploc bags for toys with small pieces.

Cut off the lower portion of a cardboard box and use it as a cover.
Cut the handle of a milk jug into a scoop. Use the bottom of a milk jug as a waterproof container. Scoop pet food and provide water to your pet while outdoors.
Attach a long string to either side of a coffee can for berry picking. Place the string around your neck so that your hands are free to pick. Cover the can with a plastic lid.
Reuse a glass jar for small notions to be easily seen.
Reuse a glass jar for food storage.
 Learn to live with less. Having less means less to organize.
 Organizing small portions of your life will provide convenience and ease in doing things. You'll have more free time to relax and enjoy the company of your friends, perhaps a long walk in the woods or star gazing in the evening. Searching for things will cease. Gathering your things will no longer take up your time.

