 There are many herbs that have been traditionally used to support liver function. Little is known about how these herbs function, but there is a long history of safe use. In general, most of these herbs have been given as teas, so dosing is not often clear. Follow manufacturer’s instructions and consult your physician for dosing. The doses listed here should only be used as guidelines.


Milk thistle: Research suggests it may be most useful for those with alcohol-related liver disease, cirrhosis, and hepatitis.Dosages range from 160-480 mg daily.
Astragalus:The usual dose used is 20–500 mg of extract taken three to four times daily.
Dandelion/Taraxacum root: Decreases cholesterol, reducing the burden on the liver. Drink two to four cups of dandelion root tea daily or two to four gm of root daily.Combination formulas: There are many of these on the market, though most have not been clinically tested. Examples include NOW’s Liver Detoxifier and Regenerator, Gaia Herbs Deep Liver Support, and Oregon’s Wild Harvest Milk Thistle Dandelion.
Green tea: Reduces the risk of liver disease, but in some people, it can increase liver problems. The best course is to speak to your physician for advice regarding using green tea. In general, two to four cups of green tea has been shown to reduce the risk of liver disease., These herbs not only taste delicious, but are also known to improve liver health. Add these herbs to taste, and use at least one of these daily.


Garlic also prevents liver cancer and heart disease and boosts the immune system.Turmeric has anti-inflammatory properties that support the liver by decreasing the inflammation that leads to hepatitis, NASH, liver cancer, and cirrhosis., Though there are plenty of ways to get antioxidants through diet, supplements can help you get even more. Alpha-Lipoic acid (ALA) is an antioxidant that has been studied in diabetes, heart disease and liver disease. It supports sugar metabolism in the liver and prevents alcoholic liver disease. The most common dose is 100 mg three times a day.N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) serves as a precursor to glutathione, the body’s major antioxidant. The most common dose to support the liver is 200–250 mg twice daily.


ALA may interact with diabetes medications, so consult your physician regarding the best dose.
There have been rare cases where very high doses of NAC increased liver enzymes.