 The first thing that will be done when you get CIT is to have your face cleansed and sterilized. After your face is cleaned, the practitioner will apply a topical numbing cream onto the affected area. This will be left on for 20 to 30 minutes.Since the procedure requires the use of needles, a numbing agent is used to ease pain or discomfort. However, you still may feel some discomfort or minimal pain.
 Your treatment will either be done via a needle roller or a needle pen. The practitioner will move the roller or pen over your skin, puncturing the skin in evenly space wounds.This procedure takes anywhere from 10 minutes to an hour and a half, depending on the extent of the area being treated.
Most people find the treatment uncomfortable, but not extremely painful.
 After the treatment, your skin will be red or pink for 12 to 24 hours.Most people can return to work the day afterwards.If you have sensitive skin, your skin may be redder longer. If extremely long needles were used, it might take longer for the redness to subside, too.Some people might experience slight swelling or bruising.
Your skin might be warm, itchy, or tight after the procedure. Others might peel. This is normal.
 You should follow all post-treatment care your practitioner provides. This helps keep your skin from scarring or becoming damaged.Stay out of the sun for two days after the treatment. Wear hats, scarves, or other garments to cover your skin if you have to go outside for 24 hours after the procedure. Stay out of tanning beds after the procedure.
Only use lukewarm water to clean your face for two days after the treatment. Gently pat the area dry. Don’t rub the area.
Don’t touch the area with dirty hands. This helps reduce risk of infection.
Refrain from putting on most makeup for 12 hours after the treatment. Your practitioner can give you mineral makeup that can be applied a few hours after treatment.
Follow any skincare regimes and use any skincare products given to you by your practitioner.
Avoid cosmetic products with alpha or beta hydroxy acids, vitamin A, benzoyl peroxide, or alcohol for two days after the procedure., CIT requires multiple treatments to be effective. In most cases, two to three treatments will be needed. These treatments are generally four to six weeks apart.In cases of bad scars or stretch marks, you made need five or more treatments.
You should start seeing results in two to eight weeks. Some people don’t see results for up to three months.For maximum results, complete all follow-up visits suggested by your practitioner.
 Though CIT is best done by a medical professional, there are at-home products you can use for minor cosmetic purposes. Home rollers or pens have shorter needles that can be used a few times a week. At-home needling devices are used to reduce the size of large pores, help with oil production, help with fine lines, and help the effectiveness of topical agents.You can use at-home CIT with vitamin C serums. It generally takes one to two hours for the wounds to heal after an at-home needling.
If you use an at-home roller, make sure to buy a quality one, such as the Derma Roller home roller. It’s pivotal to get quality needles. Products sold on the internet may not be top quality and can cause damage to your skin.

