 To help you have a serious discussion about finances, schedule a meeting.Avoid talking about finances while lying in bed or when your attention is divided. You want to stay focused on one topic: finances.Find a quiet place and time to meet. If necessary, send the kids to visit friends or neighbors.
You might need to hold a series of meetings if you can’t resolve all issues at once. You might want to block out a couple hours every Saturday afternoon to talk.;
, Before meeting, you should gather financial information so you can accurately talk about your financial situation. Collect the following:tax returns
pay stubs
bank statements
investment statements
credit reports
child support orders
spousal maintenance orders

, Talk about the benefits and negatives of each approach with your partner. You have several options:


Commingle everything. This might be the easiest approach. You can have joint checking and savings accounts, and both people deposit their paychecks into it. You then pay all expenses from one account.
Keep everything separate. Some people need their financial independence. To keep arguments to a minimum, you might want each person to have their own checking and savings accounts. You’ll have to decide who pays what bills.Commingle some finances. Another popular option is to create a joint account for common household expenses, such as the rent/mortgage or utilities. However, each spouse can have a separate account that they use for personal purchases.
 You’ll need to talk about your goals with your partner. Do you want to retire early? Pay off your home early? Spend now and worry about retirement later? You need to get on the same page, otherwise arguments will erupt soon after you marry.


One technique: each spouse can write a list. At the top, write what you consider the most important expense, e.g., buying a home. Then list other proprieties in descending order of importance. After each partner has created a list, you can compare them and use them as a basis for discussion.Also decide how goals can change. Ideally, your new marriage will last until death, which means you might need to tweak your goals at some point. Accordingly, you need to know who can decide to change your goals and under what circumstances.
 If you have children from other relationships, you’ll want to understand who will pay for what. Consider the following:Will children receive an allowance? If so, how much?
Will children be responsible for certain expenses, such as buying new school clothes, paying for a car, etc.?
Who will pay for a child’s health care expenses?
Who will pay college expenses? Who will save for college?

, Your home might be your largest asset. Where you live can also be a complicated decision for people remarrying. For example, consider the following:


If you have children from a prior relationship, decide where you will create your home.This isn’t always easy. If an ex has visitation, then you might not be able to move out of state without their permission.
Talk about how you will finance your home. Will you take out a loan in both names? Will either of you sell assets to contribute to the home?
Also discuss in whose name you will put the house. You can have it in one or both names. If you choose joint tenancy with right of survivorship, then the surviving spouse gets the property without going through probate.
 You might find to your surprise that you and your partner disagree on most financial issues. It’s important to listen to each other. Maintain a respectful demeanor and don’t get angry.


Sit with an open body style. For example, don’t cross your arms or angle your body away from your partner when you get angry.
Don’t talk over each other. Instead, make sure your partner knows you hear them. Quickly summarize what they’ve said and ask if you understood them properly.
Use “I” statements. For example, “I’m really nervous about using credit cards” is better than “Your ex-wife said you were irresponsible with credit.”, You need to reach an agreement about how you will spend and save money during your marriage. This means you may need to compromise with your partner. Give-and-take is vital to making this work.For example, you might fear debt, while your partner racks up credit card debt without remorse. You may need to create a plan where your partner agrees to contribute a specific sum of money to pay down their balance each month.
Compromise where possible. If you resist compromise now, do you think you’ll be happy in the marriage?

, Someone should write down everything you decide.Look over your notes after a meeting to make sure that they are accurate. Your notes can form the basis of a prenuptial agreement, if you choose to sign one.
 With a prenuptial agreement, you and your partner decide ahead of time how property will be divided should you divorce or separate. Some advisers recommend them for couples entering a second marriage.You can also direct how you will handle your finances when married. For example, you can agree who will pay for bills, manage joint bank accounts or credit cards, and how much you will save.
However, you can’t decide child support or child custody ahead of time. Instead, a judge will always decide what is in the best interest of the child.
You also might not be able to waive spousal maintenance, though this will depend on the state you live in., You can’t spring a prenuptial agreement on your partner a week before the wedding. If you do, a judge will likely find it illegal. Accordingly, start the process early. Allow sufficient time for each partner to review the document thoroughly and to negotiate, if necessary., Prenuptial agreements are only legal if each side enters the agreement voluntarily. Accordingly, each partner should have their own lawyer who reviews the agreement.Don’t share a lawyer.


You can find a family law attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Ask for a referral and schedule a consultation.
Your lawyer can help draft the prenuptial agreement and negotiate anything on your behalf with your partner’s lawyer.
 If you lie about assets, a judge is likely to find your prenuptial agreement illegal. Hiding assets is just as bad. Accordingly, give your partner all of your updated financial information. Don’t hide anything.Also expect your partner to fully disclose their assets and debts. If they don’t, you should question why you are about to marry them.
 To be valid, a prenuptial agreement must be voluntary. If your partner resists signing, then consider not getting married if a prenuptial agreement is so important for you.


There are many ways to pressure someone beyond physical coercion. For example, you can’t threaten psychological harm. However, threatening to call off a wedding is usually not enough to qualify as coercion.You also can’t have your partner sign when they lack the capacity to do so. For example, a prenuptial agreement will be invalid if your partner was suffering from an illness or under the influence of drugs when they signed., You have a lot of leeway when drafting your prenuptial agreement. For example, one spouse can agree to give up their right to inherit from the other. However, your prenuptial agreement should not be too unfair.If it is, then a judge might strike it down.


This is a bit of a gray area. Generally, unfairness will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of each case.
For example, providing no alimony for a disabled or totally-dependent spouse may be so unfair that a judge will ignore that provision., Each state has its own rules. You generally need your prenuptial agreement to be in writing and signed by both partners.You may also need to sign in the presence of a witness and notary public.
Talk to your lawyer about execution requirements for your state.
 If you don’t sign anything before your marriage, you can sign a postnuptial agreement after you are married.A postnuptial agreement must meet the same requirements as a prenuptial agreement—full disclosure, signed, written, and voluntary. It also can’t be so one-sided as to be unfair.You’ll definitely want a lawyer to help you draft your postnuptial agreement. Some states especially frown on these types of agreements, so you will want it to be written in an air-tight manner.
You and your spouse should each have your own attorney advising you—just as you would with a prenuptial agreement.
 When you divorced, the judge might have divided your marital property. Although you might want to leave property to your new spouse, the judge might have prevented that. For example, the judge might have given your ex-spouse half of your retirement policy.You’ll need to know this information before adjusting your estate plan.


Find a copy of your divorce decree. This should explain how your property was divided.
If you can’t find your copy, then contact the clerk of the court which finalized your divorce. Check how you can get a copy.
 Find your will or trust and review it. Consider what you want to change now that you are marrying again. You should meet with an estate planning attorney to discuss your options.


If you haven’t established an estate plan, then now is the time to do so.
Also find your life insurance and retirement policies. You don’t leave these assets through your will. Instead, you name a beneficiary on the policy, and you might want to update them., Once you remarry, you’ll want to provide for your spouse and any children the two of you have. In most states, your spouse can take a percentage of your estate even if they are not named in the will. However, you might want your spouse to get more or less than what the law allows.


Also consider if you want to leave anything to your stepchildren. They don’t have a right to get anything from your estate unless you specifically name them as a beneficiary.
Don’t forget your children from a first marriage. If you leave everything to your new spouse, they can do anything they want with the property after you die. In fact, they can cut out your children altogether., Changing an estate plan can negatively affect your children. For example, your will might have left all of your assets to your daughter from a first marriage. If you want to give assets to a new spouse or child, you should talk to your daughter.


If you don’t, they might be blindsided at your death. Furthermore, your children could be counting on that money and making decisions right now based on assumptions about what they will inherit from you.
 A qualified terminable interest property trust is helpful for couples who have children from a prior relationship. You leave property to your spouse, who gets a life estate. This means they can collect income the assets produce and stay in a home. However, they do not own the property and cannot sell it.When the surviving spouse dies, the property goes to your children. A QTIP trust is a good way to take care for your new spouse in their old age but provide for your children at the same time.
Discuss a QTIP trust with an estate planning attorney. It’s a complicated trust, and you should have an attorney draft it for you.
There may be other trusts that you can create, which an estate planning attorney can explain to you.
 You should think about them carefully before deciding to change your plan. Talk about them with your attorney.

