 Although it's more fun to play with more than one other player playing against you, having more makes the game more challenging and enjoyable and more exciting.;
, The standard UNO deck has 108 cards consisting of: four colored "suits" (Blue, Green, Red, and Yellow), Action cards (Draw 2, Reverse, and Skip), Wild cards, and Wild Draw Four cards.
 The person with the highest number is the dealer. In this instance, Action cards (including Wild and Wild Draw Four cards) have a value of zero.
 This pile of cards in the middle is known as the draw pile.
,, Your card must have the same number, color or wording as the top card of the discard pile... unless you have a Wild card, in which case you can choose which color cards will be played.










The Reverse cards (of any color) mean that the direction of play is reversed (i.e. clockwise to counter-clockwise).
The Draw Two cards (of any color) means that the next player must draw two cards from the draw pile and skip his/her turn.
The cards marked Skip (in any color) means that the next player must skip his/her turn. In a 2 player game, if someone lays a skip on their last turn (UNO) they must go again and play another number.
The black cards (Wild) means that a player may choose any color (or stick with a same color) that he/she wishes.
The black (Wild Draw Four) cards means that a player may choose any color, but the next player must draw four cards and skip his/her turn. Wild Draw Four is the most valuable card ever. You can only play this card at the beginning of your play.
 Play the drawn card if you can. If you can't, it's the next person's turn.
 You can play a Wild card any time it's your turn and can name any suit you wish.










When you play a Wild Draw Four card, the next player to act must pick up four cards from the draw pile.

Wild Draw Four and Draw Two Cards may be placed in succession of each other, making it possible for one player to draw 16 cards in one turn.
 This may mean that you have to draw two cards, skip a turn or even draw four cards.
 If you forget to say UNO and another player catches you, you must draw two cards.









If someone discards their second-to-last card (i.e. has one card left) but fails to say "UNO", and someone else notices this, the player must pick up two cards from the draw pile. If no one speaks up about said player not declaring "UNO", there is no penalty.
 The game is over when one player is completely out of cards. That person gets all the points.

Count number cards (0-9) as their numeric value.
Count Draw Two, Skip, and Reverse cards as 20 points.
Count Wild and Wild Draw Four cards as 50 points.
Award all points to the winner of each round.
