 Sound and audio techs deal with the soul of the band: the music itself. Get to know the ins and outs of setting up sound system equipment, speakers, and microphones. Consider apprenticing and freelancing to build this experience, and to gain contacts for referrals.


When writing your resume and cover letter, emphasize any experience you have in operating sound and audio equipment.
A degree in production or audio engineering from a college or trade school is a plus; however, being an apprentice of a sound engineer is a way to get your foot in the door., Consider lighting if you’re interested in creating the look of the show, in terms of the artists on stage as well as the ambiance of the entire venue. Focus on acquiring training and experience handling lighting equipment and operating the lighting board.A degree in lighting design from a technical college or trade school is a plus. However, a high school diploma is usually all that’s required.
Training in lighting and audio/visual technology is required.
 You can try to get a job working as a tour crew member, often called “roadies.” Focus on finding a band who is seeking touring crew members; word of mouth is key. This is also a great way to build relationships and networks.
 Since a production assistant works with essentially everybody involved with the production aspect of the concert performance, it’s a great way to build diverse skills and gain contacts. Search for job openings and inquire by word of mouth to find out about rock bands looking for a production assistant.


Highlight any experience with audio and visual equipment as well as setting up and breaking down equipment.
No formal education is required to be a production assistant. However, training or a working knowledge of sound and lighting equipment is important.
 If you want to handle the physical appearance of band members, it’s often about who you know. Focus on getting referrals, and contacting people you know with affiliation to a rock band because most stylist positions are filled by word of mouth. Make sure that you have a portfolio of your work. Leave your business card with band managers.


Be sure to mention your experience with styling hair and outfitting people in the music and entertainment industry.
You must have a cosmetologist license if you are styling the hair of band members.

