 The easiest way to get started is to grab a sheet of scratch paper and drawing out racetrack designs.The drawings don't have to be overly detailed. After all, a racetrack is basically just an oval road. 2 equidistant, curving lines is usually all it takes.;
, After you have gotten your design down, it's time to move to another clean sheet of scratch paper. This time, however, you will want to draw out your racetrack the way it will look like in the final copy.
 The simplest form of moving pieces in a board game is probably using dice; the player will roll a dice to get a number, and then move that many spaces.


To create spaces, you can take your second sheet of scratch paper (the one with the clean racetrack), and add lines at intervals maybe on inch apart (depending on the size of the track) until the spaces are made all the way around.
 This is probably the most exciting or least exciting part. You can either draw and cut out your own cars, or print some off the internet.


However, make sure you can fit the cars in the spaces you made earlier. Too big of a car might be confusing to determine which space it is in, and too small of a car could get lost.
Be creative: This is your game and your car. Use whatever you want for your car. Maybe take the race car from a Monopoly game or just draw a new car every time you play.If you want to go big, use a poster board in your final copy of the game so that way, you can use toy cars as your pieces.
 The most basic gameplay rules can be just a set number of laps you must complete in order to finish, but there is no limitation. Get creative if you'd like to!

, Want to have a pitstop? Then add some more rules or obstacles to the course. Here are some ideas to get started with:


Oil slicks skip your turn once.
Rolling a 6, 3 times in a row will make your car break down and you can only move 2 spaces each turn until you reach the pitstop.
Using the pitstop makes you lose a turn.
Go Mario Kart style and add bananas and homing turtle shells.
 These can be tricky because it can be hard to measure each turn, but using a separate sketch pad may help.


Start with a base fuel level (Ex: 50). That is the total number of spaces your car can move before running out of gas
Subtract the amount you moved each turn from the base fuel. Every turn should bring it lower and lower
You can refuel back to 100% at the pitstop. If you fuel reaches 0, then you can only move 2 spaces each turn until you reach the pitstop.
 After finally finishing your ideas, it's time to move onto the final copy.


Copy the design for the racetrack you drew onto a clean sheet of copy paper. That way, it is easy to carry around in a folder to show to friends and family.

