 For black-tie affairs, you will want to keep your look simple and elegant. Pair a pearl necklace with a pair of matching pearl earrings or a pearl ring. The necklace should accentuate, not overpower, your look. This can be easily accomplished with a short, simple strand of pearls.Pearl necklaces pair beautifully with chiffon blouses.
Be daring and wear a long strand of pearls with an elegant jumpsuit.
Consider wearing your pearls with a black gown with high neckline for a classic, timeless look.;
, Nothing is more classic than a little black dress for a formal occasion. Couple it with a strand of white pearls for a polished look. Wear a shorter strand for a lower neckline and a longer strand for a higher one to balance out the neckline.


Wear a black wrap dress with a short strand of pearls for a an effortlessly chic look.
Wear a black cocktail dress with a turtle-neck type collar and a few long, layered strands of pearls for a classy look.
 Hold the strand with both hands at either end of the strand. Move your non-dominant hand to the lower third of the necklace. Wrap the pearls around your non-dominant hand so that there is a loop with an opening. Pull the opposite end of the pearls through the opening. Gently tighten the knot. Do not pull on the strand with a lot of pressure or else you will risk breaking your necklace.


For longer strands of pearls, at least 30 inches (76.2 cm) or longer, consider the knotting the strand around the bottom half of the necklace. This will add a chic twist to a time-honored look., Multiple strands of pearls should be worn with an outfit that is elegant but understated or else you will risk distracting others with your “busy” look and detract from the beauty of your pearls. If your strands are long enough, twist them once before placing them over your head to create an additional loop. This will give the illusion that there are two strands, even though you are only wearing one.Wear a dress that is a solid color. Avoid busy or “loud” prints, as these will distract others from seeing your beautiful pearls.
Pair layered necklaces with a dress or blouse that is simple; no ruffles, embellishments, or designs. Try a button-up shirt and slacks or a dress with a simple neckline.

