 Most babies develop the ability to control their fingers and hands (at around nine months) before they can control their speaking voice (somewhere around ten to twelve months). As anyone who uses sign language can tell you, communicating with gestures requires similar memorization and pattern recognition and anticipation skills. Therefore, using music and gestures in combination can enhance the developmental benefits for your baby.Try using simple songs that utilize simple hand gestures that coordinate with the lyrics. For instance, sing “Wheels on the Bus” and make the hand motions for the spinning wheels, swooshing wipers, opening doors, and so on.;
, Children can often replicate such sounds before they can speak other types of words, so you can use this as an opportunity for an early sing-along in which you sing most of the lyrics but allow the child to jump in to make the sound effects.“Old McDonald” is one of the best songs for this type of activity, what with all the repetition, identification of different animals, and “woofs,” “moos,” “quacks,” and so on.
Anticipating the correct time to “jump in” may also help the child pay closer attention to the other lyrics in the song, which in turn can aid in language development.
 Practically all kids, once they can get up on their feet (however shakily), love to dance. If you coordinate dance styles to match the tempo and beat of particular songs, you can help the child build awareness of cadence and rhythm, both of which are key elements of language development. Of course, this also means that you have to dance along!For instance, model some deliberate, delicate movements while listening to “The Nutcracker,” then speed things up by putting on your favorite (kid-friendly) hip-hop album.
The “Hokey Pokey” is another good kid-friendly song example, as it utilizes simple, repeated dance moves that follow the music.
 The odds are decent that you learned your letters with the help of the “ABC Song,” and perhaps picked up on numbers by belting out “One, two, buckle my shoe …” or “This old man, he played one …”. Instill these building blocks of language and learning in general by listening and singing to fun songs together.While nearly everyone seems to gravitate towards the same alphabet song, the options for numbers are nearly endless — “Five Little Monkeys,” “The Ants Go Marching,” “One Potato, Two Potato,” and so on. Or make up your own songs.
 Listening to music in any manner benefits all people, from fetuses still in the womb to Alzheimer’s patients. However, in babies and young children, the language-development benefits of listening to recorded music are not as clear as the benefits of being sung to (and singing along when able). So, no matter what you think of your voice, sing to your baby instead of popping in a CD or streaming a lullaby playlist whenever you can.Even in their earliest stages of life, singing to a baby provides an interactive and reciprocal experience that cannot be matched by recorded music. In addition to the elements of bonding and visual feedback it provides, singing in your own voice also introduces specific language patterns and tones to your child.
 Opinions still vary on the benefits of placing headphones on your stomach to play classical music to your fetus, but it is clear that babies in the womb can hear and recognize familiar voices. Singing to your (or your significant other’s) belly may seem a bit awkward at first, but it is an easy way to begin the bonding process and introduce your baby to both your voice and your language patterns.Once the baby is born, keep up the singing with regularity. The peak period for “speech sound learning” occurs at around nine months for most babies, but the earlier and more consistent the stimulation of the language centers of your baby’s brain, the better., Let’s face it — the lyrics of many popular lullabies and nursery rhymes either make little sense or seem a bit inappropriate to sing to an infant. However, such longstanding tunes usually carry “signature” melodies and inflections that are representative of that particular language. Think of them as the “master tunes” that can help prepare your baby’s brain, ears, and voice for that language.In English, for instance, classics like “Mary Had a Little Lamb,” “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” and “Rock-a-bye Baby” are good choices to put into heavy rotation. Even if you may get a bit tired of singing them over and over, babies don’t mind (and usually love) repetition.
If you live in a bilingual household or are otherwise trying to teach your baby two languages, utilize classic baby songs in both languages.
 For your own sanity and as a means to further your baby’s language development, you can begin over time to adapt the lyrics of familiar tunes to match different situations. Providing new language information within a familiar “package” can help ease continued language acquisition.For instance, “Wheels on the Bus” can easily be adapted in various ways — such as “This is the way we wash our hands / brush our teeth / eat our peas.”
Try not to “jam” words that don’t fit or too much new material into familiar songs, though, or you may foster more confusion than learning.
 There is ample scientific evidence that music benefits brain development overall, and language development in particular. A 2016 U.S. study, for instance, found that 9-month-old babies who were given drums to bang away on showed increased brain activity in the pattern recognition areas essential to language development, in comparison to babies given blocks or other toys to play with.To help better explain the connection between hearing and/or creating music and language development, some experts rely on what is known as the OPERA thesis. It posits that music stimulates an Overlap of cognitive processes used in both music and language; enhances Precision in the brain’s processing of audio clues; heightens the Emotional response to the stimuli; facilitates the Repetition skills common to music and language; and increases the Attention and focus of the listener., Practically every form of music, from lullabies to heavy metal, is built upon a foundation of repeating patterns. Experiencing musical patterns, either by hearing or creating them, helps small children and people of all ages enhance the pattern repetition and anticipation skills required for learning a language. Therefore, easily discernible and repeating patterns, consistent rhythm, and repetition through rhyme are particularly helpful for small children.Music is constructed from a series of repeating parts that make up the whole. Recognizing and mastering these smaller, more easily digestible pieces is easier for most small children to handle., We all know that different types of music have different impacts upon our mood, focus, energy levels, and overall emotional state. When incorporating music into language learning for small children, choose music types that align with the setting and goals. For instance, use upbeat music for motivation and energy, and classical or instrumental music to enhance calm and focus.Combine music with other learning activities, from reading aloud to visual demonstrations. A familiar musical accompaniment increases recall abilities, with the “ABC Song” as perhaps the best-known example for small kids.
 Music presented in isolation will never have the same impact upon a small child as the social, interactive experience of listening to or singing with a parent or loved one. Language is, after all, designed for communication with other people, so language development is likewise enhanced through social interaction. Experience and enjoy music together, and your child will derive greater benefits in a host of different ways.Don’t simply rely on music to improve language learning in a baby or small child; rely on sharing the experience of music with the child to support and enhance the range of skills required for language development.

