 You can't call yourself a fan without actually liking him.


Can you relate with Flash? Is he a great role model in your opinion? Think this way in your evaluation.;
, Always, remember this. If you slip up and identify Flash as a Marvel character, you'll probably have a few angry fanboys/girls on your hands.
 He was a forensics scientist who was fatefully struck by a lightning bolt, gifting him with the ability to run at superhuman speeds.
 These are:


Barry Allen, the main Flash
Wally West, AKA Kid Flash, Flash's nephew
The Reverse Flash, Flash's nemesis
Jay Garrick, the original Flash, and, in the TV shows, the Earth-3 Flash
Hunter Zolomon, Jay Garrick's nemesis
Zoom, the Earth-2 Reverse Flash

, Here are some examples:


Grodd
Weather Wizard
The Trickster
Mirror Master
King Shark
Reverse Flash
Captain Cold.
, These introduce the classic Jay Garrick, Wally West, and Barry Allen.
 Some good reads are:


Crisis on Infinite Earths
Lost Time Issues #30-40
Dastardly Death of the Rougues
Flashpoint
Flash: Rebirth
Final Crisis

, This is the Flash that appears in DC's new movies.


His first appearance was a vision in Batman vs. Superman: Dawn of Justice, but will appear in 2018 in his own movie and in 2017 and 2019 in the Justice League movies.
 Some of his most notable appearances were in:


Justice League: New Frontier
Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths
Justice League: Doom
Justice League: Flashpoint Paradox
Justice League: Throne of Atlantis
Justice League vs. Teen Titans

, It stars John Wesley Shipp as the Flash.
 It stars Grant Gustin as the Flash.


You should be aware that CW's Flash adds new characters into the mix, alters back stories, and changes villain alter egos, motivations, and relationships.
 Arrow is another CW TV show that started in 2012. It follows the vigilante Green Arrow, and as Barry Allen is friends with him, occasionally stars Flash and other Flash characters. The crossover episodes are:


The Scientist (Season 2, Episode 8)
Taken (Season 4, Episode 15)
Three Ghosts (Season 2, Episode 9)
The Man Under the Hood (Season 2, Episode 19)
The Brave and the Bold (Season 3, Episode 8)
Broken Arrow (Season 3, Episode 19)
Green Arrow (Season 4, Episode 1)
My Name is Oliver Queen (Season 3, Episode 23)
Legends of Yesterday (Season 4, Episode 8)

, Supergirl is a show that aired in 2015. It follows Kara Danvers, the cousin of Superman, and her attempts to prevent supernatural crime on Earth. The eighteenth episode, World's Finest, features Barry Allen.
 Legends of Tomorrow is yet another CW TV show that began in 2016. The following episodes feature the Flash:


Pilot, Part 1 (Season 1, Episode 1)
Fail Safe (Season 1, Episode 5
Star City 2046 (Season 1, Episode 6)

, It's episode four, and called Run.


Be aware that the Smallville Flash is known as Bart Allen instead of Barry Allen, but has the same powers.



You can also memorize the side actors and actresses that are in the Flash movies and TV shows.
 There are hundreds of many cool shirts, posters, and other things related to the Flash out there. If you have some extra money go check some out.
 If you're into going to comic con/other cosplay events, go as the Flash.



If you're more of a fanfiction person, use sites like FanFiction.net and Archiveofourown.com to write and post your fanfiction.
If you prefer fanart, visit sites like Tumblr and DeviantArt.com to post your fanart.
 Display them around your house or room.
 Flash figurines.


There are also many different characters from Flash that appear in Funko POP! form, such as Arrow, the Reverse Flash, and the Flash from the comics.
 He appears most prominently in the Lego DC video games.

