 The ATF requires you to be 21 years of age, have a business venue for selling firearms, and to not have a history of criminal actions, mental illness, and dishonorable military discharge.;
, You can obtain the application online from the ATF website or from an ATF regional office from either the Dallas or Houston areas.


Click on the ATF website link shown in the Sources section of this article and locate the "Necessary Materials" section on the right. You will need to print both the FFL application and Certificate of Compliance forms from this section.
If you live near Dallas and do not have access to the Internet, obtain the required forms from the ATF regional office located at 1114 Commerce Street, Room 303, Dallas, Texas, 75242. You can also call the office at 469-227-4300 or send an email to DallasDiv@atf.gov.
Applicants who live near the Houston area can acquire the forms from the ATF regional office at 5825 North Sam Houston Parkway, Suite 300, Houston, Texas, 77086. The office's phone number is 281-716-8200 and the email address is HoustonDiv@atf.gov.
 The ATF will place your photographs on file with your application and licensing information.


The photographs must display your face and measure at least 2 inches (5.08 cm) in both height and width.
 The ATF will require you to obtain 2 fingerprint cards so they can keep your fingerprints on file and use them for the background check.


Visit your local law enforcement office to obtain the fingerprint cards. If you need help locating the nearest police station or law enforcement office, call the Texas Department of Public Safety headquarters at 512-424-2000.
 You will be required to include an application fee with the package you send to the ATF.


Pay 3,000 dollars (2,119 euros) if you are going to sell destructive devices such as explosives, grenades, mines, and poison gas; otherwise, pay 200 dollars (141 euros) for the application fee.
Pay the application fee by check or money order, or print your credit card information on the FFL application form.
 You will be required to enter a variety of information about yourself and your firearms business; such as the business' address, contact information, and hours of operation, the types of firearm devices you will carry in stock, and your personal history regarding past convictions or crimes, if applicable.
 This form will require you to certify that you will abide by federal firearms dealers' laws and certify that you are a citizen of the United States.
 After your application package is received by the ATF, they will perform a background check on you and review your application. They will then send your information over to the ATF field office in your region for further action.


Place your fingerprint cards, personal photographs, the Certificate of Compliance, the FFL license application, and your check or money order for the application fees in the envelope.
Send your FFL licensing package to the headquarters of the ATF at: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, Georgia, 30384-9567.
 After the ATF regional office receives your information, they will contact you to schedule an interview. The representative will verify that you understand the federal laws regarding being a Texas firearms dealer and will inspect your physical business location.
 After your interview with the ATF representative and after you have been approved for an FFL license, you will receive the FFL license in the mail within 60 days of turning in the application.

