 Around 1600, German astronomer Johannes Bayer developed the first modern system for naming stars based on their apparent brightness within their constellation. He used Greek letters to rank stars from brightest to dimmest ("Alpha" being brightest and "Omega" being dimmest), followed by upper and lowercase Roman letters when he ran out of Greek letters. A star's name was composed of its brightness rank and the possessive form of its name, thus the brightest star in the constellation Centaurus was designated Alpha Centauri under Bayer's system.


Bayer's system did not always name stars purely by their brightness; sometimes he also took the position of the star within its constellation into account. Bayer designated Castor as "Alpha Geminorum" and Pollux as "Beta Geminorum," even though Pollux is actually brighter than Castor, because Castor appears above and to the right of Pollux in the sky.
Bayer's method was later modified by adding letters after star names to indicate individual stars within a multiple star system, such as Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B, and numbers after the magnitude designator, as in Pi-1 Orionis, Pi-2 Orionis, and so on.
 Developed by John Flamsteed in the 18th century, the Flamsteed method numbered the westernmost star within a constellation as "1," the next westernmost as "2," and so on, using the possessive name as a suffix. The westernmost star in Leo would thus be designated 1-Leonis in the Flamsteed system.


The Bayer and Flamsteed naming conventions are often used in conjunction with proper star names. If a star has a proper name, it is generally known by that; if not, by its Bayer name; if it has neither a proper name or a Bayer name, then by its Flamsteed number. The main exception to this rule is Alpha Centauri, which is known by its Bayer name instead of its proper name of Toliman (and by aviators and mariners as Rigil Kentaurus).
 Because the system of proper names, Bayer names, and Flamsteed numbers favors brighter stars and ignores the larger number of dimmer stars, a different method was necessary to catalog all the stars in the night sky. This method involves cataloging a star by its right ascension, its distance from the vernal equinox, and its declination from the Celestial Equator. Such catalogs often break the sky into strips of either right ascension (celestial longitude) or declination (celestial latitude) and enumerate stars within these strips.


The Harvard Revised Bright Star Catalogue (now compiled at Yale University) lists 9000 stars down to 6th magnitude from west to east. The star Vega in the constellation Lyra is known as HR 7001 in this catalogue.
The 19th century Bonner Durchmusterung (Bonn Survey) covered stars visible in the northern sky down to 10th magnitude, dividing each degree of declination into its strip. In this catalog, Vega would be designated BD38 3238. (A companion survey, the Cordoba Durchmusterung, covered the southern sky.)
The most commonly used star catalog today is the Henry Draper catalog, which numbers its stars solely by right ascension. In it, Vega is designated HD 172167. Other star catalogs include the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observation and the Hipparcos International Catalogue; Vega is designated as SAO 067174 and HIC 91262 in these catalogs, respectively.

