 One potential way to draw attention away from your mouth, and towards another facial feature, is to make that other facial feature really stand out. One way to do this is with really creative eye makeup, or really bold coloured eye makeup., Draw everyone’s attention away from your mouth by wearing really awesome earrings. Wear earrings that are large, or colourful, or really stand out with your hair style.People will be too busy admiring your earrings to even notice you have braces.
 Certain hair styles naturally draw the eye away from certain facial features - like your mouth - and the attention somewhere else. Speak to your hair stylist about what styles will work best for you. Also consider getting your hair dyed a really awesome fashion colour. Not only are these colours extremely popular today for almost any age, but they’re sure to have someone looking at your hair and not your mouth., This is obviously not going to work for everyone, but it certain is an option for some. Beards, in general, are quite popular right now and a lot more men have grown theirs out. And depending on the beard you grow, it can make you look more distinguished and mature. And if you go for the lumberjack look, pretty much anything below your nose is hidden by hair, including your braces!, Eating, drinking, talking, environmental conditions, and other things can cause your lips to dry out and become chapped. Chapped lips tend to stand out on a person. If you have braces, you want to make sure you keep your lips healthy and moisturized into order to draw attention away from your mouth. Try carrying a good quality lip balm in your pocket or bag and applying it regularly. If possible, make sure the lip balm includes sunscreen., If you’re self-conscious about your braces standing out when you smile, practice in the mirror.This may be even more important if you are going to have your photo taken for something like a wedding, graduation, etc. There are also smile exercises you can do to help train and build the facial muscles you use to smile.Check out the article How to Smile with Braces for more great tips!

, There is absolutely nothing about your braces that is shameful. You may feel awkward with them, but you have them because you want to improve your teeth and your oral health. In fact, braces have actually become more popular because a perfect smile with perfect teeth has become more popular and people have also realized that beyond the aspect or high cost, braces are really important for your health in the end. Some teens are actually pressured into getting braces, instead of teased about having braces!Parents - if you’re thinking it’s time for your child to get braces, talk to them about it. Make them part of the decision. Take all their questions seriously, and allow them to ask their orthodontist any and all questions they have. The more comfortable they are that they’re making the right decision for themselves, the more likely they are to accept the whole process.Remind yourself that, chances are, not a lot of people even notice you’re wearing braces. Because you’re concerned about your braces, you are probably noticing braces on other people way more than they are noticing the braces on you.If you’ve had a bad day, maybe because someone teased you about your braces, or you weren’t able to eat your favourite food because your teeth hurt too much, talk about it. Vent your frustrations to your good friends, siblings, or even your parents. Sometimes simply saying it out loud and having someone listen will make you feel a lot better.