 First, pull apart the paperclip so that it resembles the letter S and then straighten out the paper clip wire entirely. Use the pliers to help you straighten the wire if it is too difficult to straighten with your fingertips. The wire does not have to be completely straight like a pin. It can be a bit wavy as long as it is no longer in the shape of a paperclip.
 Grip one end of the paperclip wire using the pliers and begin wrapping the wire around the pen or marker. Use the other pair of pliers to grip the other end of the wire and continue wrapping the paperclip wire around the pen until you have made two full rings.
 Try not to bend or unfurl the coil too much or you may need to redo the previous step.
 Try to make sure that the rings are roughly the same size and shape, but don’t worry if they are not identical.
 Use the pliers to bend back about 1/4" of wire on each end and fold it so that it is aligned with the ring wire. Bending back the wire will redirect the pointed ends of the wire so that they are not pressing against your inner and outer lip. When you bend back the wires, make sure that the ring opening is wide enough to easily slide over your lip. This space should be about 1/4" wide, but you may want it narrower or wider depending on the thickness of your lower lip.
 Use the pliers to reshape the rings after you have bent back the ends. Make sure that they look exactly how you want them to look.
 Simply slide each of the rings onto your lower lip and adjust their placement so that they are spaced equally on your lower lip. The two rings should be closely aligned with your canine teeth. If they are too loose or too tight, gently squeeze or pull on the rings to adjust the fit.,, You can buy these in a variety of sizes and materials. Choose ones that appeal to you. Don’t worry about the bead’s color or design since you will be removing it., Remove the captive beads from the rings by gently pulling the two sides of the ring apart and letting the bead drop out. You do not need to keep the beads unless you think you might want to use the captive bead ring as an actual piercing at some point. , Simply slide each of the rings onto your lower lip and adjust their placement so that they are spaced equally on your lower lip. The two rings should be closely aligned with your canine teeth. If they are too loose or too tight, gently squeeze or pull on the rings to adjust the fit.