 While they are cause by acne, post-inflammatory erythema (PIE) and post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH) are not actually scars, but rather discoloration of the skin.PIE are the pink and red discolorations caused by inflammation and acne lesions. PIH marks are the brown marks that are causes by the excess production of melanin.
You can distinguish between PIE and PIH by the color, and also by the press test: PIE disappears when you apply pressure to the area, while PIH does not.
The term "scar" really only describes indentations in the skin caused by acne, though many people who have had severe acne are also interested in reducing the appearance of their PIE and PIH.
 Unlike scarring, PIE will eventually fade away due to slow collagen production. But since the process can take six months to several years, many people prefer to speed up the process using treatments.


Effective treatments should contain skin-lightening or tone-correcting ingredients. These lotions are often popular in Asian countries, where light skin tone is considered desirable.
Look for ingredients such as kojic acid, vitamin C, arbutin, niacinamide, mulberry extract, azelaic acid, and licorice extract. As these ingredients are scientifically reviewed as skin-lightening agents, they are generally safe to use and should not cause any adverse reactions when used as directed.
Some doctors will prescribe a cream containing hydroquinone, but this should be used carefully and only for a short period of time due to possible side effects.
Vitamin C serums rebuild collagen, evening skin tone to treat PIE. It's important to note that many over-the-counter Vitamin C products do not contain a high enough percentage to effectively work. A Vitamin C serum is the best route available by prescription from your dermatologist is the best choice.
Wear sunscreen. Sunscreen protects skin from UVA and UVB damage, which can reduce the amount of time it takes for PIE to clear up on its own.
 Over-the-counter products containing alpha hydroxy-acids (AHA) exfoliate the skin and help skin cell turnover, treating acne and PIE.AHAs are effective exfoliants — which means that they encourage skin to shed its top layers faster and reveal fresh, unblemished skin beneath. Wear sunscreen as AHAs cause photosensitivity, which can result in a sunburn.
Consider getting a chemical peel treatment (which uses glycolic acid or other AHA or BHA acids) at the dermatologist. This is much more intensive than the OTC AHA products and will penetrate deeper layers of the skin, but of course it is also more expensive and will result in several days or even weeks of redness and irritation on your skin.
 Retinoids are acidic vitamin A derivatives which are highly effective in treating a number of skin issues, such as fine lines and wrinkles, acne and discoloration.


Retinoid creams will help to fade PIH marks by speeding up cell turnover, and retinoids can also help with atrophic scarring as they stimulate collagen production.
Retinoid creams are mainly available by prescription, so you may need to make an appointment with your dermatologist to pursue this treatment. It's also important to be aware that retinoids make your skin very sensitive to sunlight, so they should only be applied at night.
A a retinoid called Differin gel (adapalene gel) is now available over-the-counter in the US. It is prescription-strength, but somewhat milder than other prescription brands.
A weaker form, known as retinol, is a common OTC ingredient in many popular skin care products. These products claim to produce the same effects as retinoid creams, but they are not nearly as effective.
 If PIH or PIE marks do not fade within several months, you could consider getting laser treatment to fade the marks and make them much less noticeable.


The latest laser therapies can resurface the skin, thus getting rid of any marked, discolored patches of PIH. These lasers can also boost collagen production to fill in atrophic scars. Other lasers such as the Pulsed-dye laser, target the redness and discoloration of the skin caused by acne.
The only downside is that laser treatment is expensive and you make require up to three sessions to completely erase the PIH, and can cause sensitivity and irritation. However, the results are often fast, effective, and permanent., Although medical procedures and treatments have the highest rates of effectiveness, you may prefer less invasive, home ingredients readily available and safe to use.


Honey mask: Honey contains sugars, amino acids, and lactic acid. This means that honey will attract moisture and trap it on your skin while mildly exfoliating and treating acne. Prep your skin by pouring hot water into a bowl and putting your face near the surface, draping a towel over your head and the bowl to trap the steam. The steam will help your pores better absorb the honey. After a few minutes, rub pure grade A honey on your face and let it sit for 15 minutes before washing it off.
Aloe vera: Aloe vera is another moisturizing product which helps to soothe and rejuvenate hyperpigmented skin. Although you can buy skin care products containing aloe vera, aloe vera is readily available with an aloe plant. Break off a leaf and use the gel-like sap directly on the skin. If you like, you can mix a drop (and no more) of pure medicinal grade tea tree oil in with the aloe before applying. Tea tree oil undiluted causes chemical burns, so it must be diluted. Tea tree is antibacterial and helps to promote clear skin by treating acne. Diluted neem oil is another additional oil to add that also treats acne.
 There are many articles online that advise the use of products that are dangerous or damaging to the skin. Be sure to do your own research and only use products that are safe for topical use.


Just because it is "natural" doesn't mean it is "safe." You would not put naturally occurring mercury or poison ivy on your skin, so be cautious of ingredients that are marketed as "natural," home remedies, or are trademarked. Do however use ingredients scientifically proven to treat skin.
Just because it is a food, doesn't mean it is safe for your skin. The pH of certain foods may harm your skin. Treat your skin as the delicate organ it is, not as a dinner plate.
In particular, avoid recipes or home remedies that include lemon juice or baking soda. Both should be avoided in facial care as they could cause chemical burns and worsen erythema. Additionally, lemon juice causes photosensitivity. Both have a pH too far from the natural 5.5 pH of healthy skin and aren't usually recommended for use on your skin.

