 Add two cups (about ½ liter) of white vinegar to this bowl. Only use white vinegar. Do not substitute with something like apple cider vinegar.
 Xanthan gum is a thickening and stabilizing agent. You can buy it online or in some grocery stores. Add 1 ¼ teaspoons (about 6 mL) of xanthan gum to the bowl of vinegar and stir. Continue stirring until there are no more white particles in the mixture and it's smooth and even throughout.








Xanthum gum is sometimes hard to find at supermarkets. You may have to order it online, so keep this in mind. Order it a few days before you want to make this kind of slime.
 A few drops of green food coloring will give your mixture a slimy feel. Start with a few small drops and add more until your mixture is your desired color.
 The mixture will be too runny to use at first. In order to get a gooey texture, chill your mixture in the fridge. While it only takes two to three hours for the mixture to thicken, it's best to leave it in overnight. This gives the xanthan gum time to dissolve completely., Make sure to do this over a sink or in the bathtub so you're using a surface that's easy to clean afterwards. Sprinkle the baking soda all over the bottom of your chosen surface







, When you remove the mixture from the fridge, stir it again. Keep stirring until the slime looks cloudy and somewhat creamy.
 To test to see if your mixture is ready, lift some of out of the bowl with a spoon and pour it back in. It should pour somewhat quickly. If it's too thick to pour easily, add a splash of vinegar and stir it again. Keep adding vinegar until your mixture runs smoothly.
 Once your slime has thickened, pour it over the baking soda. The baking soda is basic and your slime is acidic because of the vinegar. The addition of the baking soda will turn the slime into a bubbling, fizzing slime. The more baking soda you use, the longer and more vigorously the slime will bubble.
 There are many ways to play with bubbling slime. You can pretend your slime is something like toxic water on a foreign planet, for example, and play with astronaut toys in the slime. You can use dinosaur toys to pretend the slime is prehistoric slime. Some people simply enjoy watching the slime make bubbles.









Make sure to wash your toys completely after playing with them in the slime.
Do not eat your slime as it is not safe to ingest.

