 Cleansing balms can work well for any skin type, but are especially helpful for people with sensitive or dry skin because they are less drying. When you choose your cleansing balm, you want to make sure that it’s formulated for the type of skin you have.If you have oily skin, using a cleansing balm with a soft cloth may help you prevent your skin from over-producing oils.;
, Cleansing balms contain different vitamins and nutrients that improve the look and feel of your skin. Look for the formulas that offer what you’re looking for.For example, you could choose a balm that exfoliates dead skin cells, hydrates dry skin, acts as an anti-inflammatory, or gives your collagen a boost.
Some brands offer a wide-range of antioxidants from fruit, vegetable, and tea additives. These ingredients can firm and brighten your skin.
You can also find brands that offer organic or all-natural formulas.
 In addition to finding advice in magazines, you can find lists of the best cleansing balms for different skin types by consulting beauty guides online. Leading authorities on beauty have compiled lists of products that meet different needs at a variety of price points.


For example, to read Allure magazine’s recommendations, visit http://www.allure.com/gallery/best-cleansing-balms.
 Your cleansing balm will remove your makeup, dirt, and impurities, so don’t wash your face or wet it before you use it. The oils in the balm need to interact with the oils in your face and in your makeup, so avoid water when initially applying the balm.There is no need to remove your makeup before cleansing with a balm.
 Make sure that your hands are dry when you touch the balm. The cleansing balm should be hard and almost solid, so you may need to dig in your fingers. Your scoop should be enough balm to cover the tips of two fingers.


Make sure that you use enough balm to completely clean your face. If you don’t use enough, then your face won’t be clean., Your balm should start to melt a little in your hand, making it easier to apply it to your skin. It should only take a few seconds for your balm to warm up enough for you to use it., Using your fingertips, make circular movements to work in the balm. Continue to rub in the balm so that the oils in the balm have time to mix with the oils on your face.As you massage your face, you’ll also be improving your circulation.
Don’t forget to apply the balm to the eye area. Unlike other products, cleansing balms can be used around the eyes.
 While you can remove the product with warm water, using a cloth will ensure that you get off all of the product. Cleansing balms are harder to remove than standard cleansers, so using only water can result in a residue on your skin.Some balms come with a muslin cloth to remove the makeup, but any soft facial cloth will work.With some cleansing balms, it’s okay to leave the residue on your skin as a moisturizer, so you may decide to use just water so that your product can be used as both a cleanser and a moisturizer., Gently pat your face to remove the remaining wetness. Use a fresh hand towel or face cloth to make sure that you don’t transfer dirt or bacteria back onto your face.


If you still have makeup around your eye area, then you may need to use an eye makeup remover to clear away remaining eye makeup, especially if you wear dark eyeliner or mascara., Follow your cleansing balm with a night cream or serum.If you use a toner or other face products, you can apply them as well.

