 Treasures include resources like Food, Coin, or Wood, and unique units like pet bears and dogs that appear on the landscape and that are often guarded by Treasure Guardians. Some of them are worth lots of XP, like the “Journal of El Pollo Guopo” on the Texas map worth 320 XP.


Move your explorer around in the unexplored areas of the map by left-clicking him and then right-clicking the area where you want him to go.
Keep doing this until you find a treasure. Just looking at the treasure should be enough to tell you what it is as. For instance, if the treasure is Wood, you will see blocks of wood lying on the spot where the treasure is.;
, Do this by hovering your mouse on the treasure. A tooltip will appear that will inform if and what amount of XP the treasure is worth.


Keep looking till you find a treasure with XP. Treasures with XP are the ones that don’t have Food, Wood, or Gold.
 If a treasure is has guardians, they will be out in the open, hovering about the treasure. Evaluate the level of military power it would take to kill the Treasure Guardians guarding that particular treasure. Their type, number ,and power depends on the value of the treasures they guard.


Usually, your explorer is able to easily kill one guardian. If the treasure is guarded by just one, just kill the guardian by left-clicking your explorer and right-clicking it.
If the treasure is guarded by many guardians, however, they may overpower and kill your explorer. Direct some of your military units to the area to assist your explorer.
 As soon as all the Treasure Guardians have been eliminated, your explorer’s ability to collect will activate. Select your explorer and then right-click the treasure to collect it. The respective amount of XP will be added to your total XP.


You cannot claim a treasure unless all of its guardians are dead.
Besides your explorer, the only other unit that can collect treasures is a settler (villager).
 You can check the progress of your XP by checking the green XP bar next to the Home City button (a button that features the flag of the player’s Home City) near the bottom-left corner of the screen. Each time the XP bar fills up, an additional help shipment is ready for you to request from the Home City.


Hovering your mouse over the XP bar will display a tooltip that will inform you exactly how much more XP you need towards your next shipment. For instance, if you needed 400 XP, and you claimed the “Journal of El Pollo Guopo” for 320 XP, you would then require only 80 XP.

