 This experiment uses two separate jars and results in a crystal formation similar to a cave stalagmite; the crystal will grow by dripping on top of itself.To use this method for crystal growth, you will need: two glass jars, wool yarn, distilled water, a plate, two paperclips, washing soda (sodium carbonate), and a spoon.


Natural fibers such as wool work better than synthetics like acrylic.Distilled water has fewer impurities in it and is better for crystal formation.
Call the store to ask if they have washing soda. Some large chains do not carry it, but neighborhood stores often do. It was a common washing detergent in the early 20th century and it is gaining a following for being environmentally-friendly now.;
, Boil 2 cups of distilled water. Add 1 tablespoon of sodium carbonate and stir to dissolve. Continue adding the washing soda, a spoonful at a time, while stirring continuously. Add the soda until it stops dissolving. Despite stirring, you will see the washing soda sink to the bottom instead of dissolving.Once the washing soda stops dissolving, remove the solution from heat and allow it to cool to room temperature.
 Once the solution has cooled, add half to one jar and half to the other jar. Set the jars apart and put a plate between them. This will be your final experimental setup.Put your experimental setup in a place where it won’t be disturbed during the crystal growing process. A windowsill is a good option because it won’t be accidentally knocked.
Moving the crystals, even slightly, may cause the experiment to fail.
 Cut a piece of yarn long enough to be submerged in the liquid of the jars, but also hang below the solution line between the two jars. Tie a paperclip to each end of the string to serve as a weight and hold the strings in the solution of the jars.


To speed up the crystal growth process, you can soak the string in the saturated solution before stringing it between the jars.
Make sure the string hangs below the liquid or the experiment won’t work.Position everything so that the string hangs above the plate between the two jars.
 The yarn will wick the solution until it is saturated. It will drop into the saucer, eventually creating a column of crystals from the saucer to the yarn.The longer you leave the solution, the higher your crystal “stalagmite” will grow.

