 Recent studies have suggested that using e-cigarettes while you quit smoking can help you reduce or quit smoking.Other studies recommend caution when using e-cigarettes since the amount of nicotine varies, the same chemicals as those in cigarettes are still being delivered, and they may re-activate the habit of smoking., Behavioral therapy combined with medication therapy can improve your chances of successfully quitting.If you've tried quitting on your own and are still struggling, think about getting professional help. Your doctor can talk to you about medication therapy.


Therapists can also help you through the process of quitting. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy can help change your thoughts and attitudes about smoking. Therapists can also teach coping skills or new ways to think about quitting., This medication doesn't actually have nicotine, but it does help reduce the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal. Bupropion could increase your chances of cessation by 69 percent.Usually, you'll want to start taking bupropion 1 to 2 weeks before you stop smoking. It's normally prescribed in one or two 150mg tablets per day.


Side effects include: dry mouth, difficulty sleeping, agitation, irritability, tiredness, indigestion and headaches as side effects.
 This medication curbs nicotine receptors in the brain, which makes smoking less pleasurable. It also reduces withdrawal symptoms. You should start taking Chantix one week before quitting. Be sure to take it with meals. Take Chantix for 12 weeks. Side effects include: headaches, nausea, vomiting, trouble sleeping, unusual dreams, gas, and changes in taste.But it could double your chances of quitting.Your doctor will have you increase your dose over time. For example, you'll take one 0.5mg pill for days 1-3. Then you'll take one 0.5mg pill twice a day for days 4-7. You'll take one 1 mg pill twice per day after that.
 NRT includes all types of patches, gums, lozenges, nasal sprays, inhalers or sublingual tablets that have and deliver nicotine into the body. You don't need a prescription for NRT and it can reduce cravings and withdrawal symptoms. NRT could increase your chances of quitting by 60 percent.Side effects of NRT include: nightmares, insomnia, and skin irritation for patches; mouth soreness, difficulty breathing, hiccups, and jaw pain for gum; mouth and throat irritation and coughing for nicotine inhalers; throat irritation and hiccups for nicotine lozenge; and throat and nasal irritation as well as runny nose if the nasal spray is used.

