 Controlling any jealously or possessive urges that you may feel could prevent unnecessary drama. Before you do or say anything, decide not to allow another person’s actions negatively impact you. Sometimes your inability to maintain control may be the result of past experiences where you did not feel secure. If you have ever had someone cheat on you before, you may fear that it will happen again, which may cause you to feel jealous. Realize that your past is not your present and jealousy is not warranted in this situation.
 When you react to another person staring at your wife, you display a lack of trust in her and possibly even low self-esteem or low self-worth. Not allowing the stares of others to affect you will show that you trust your wife and those staring are not a threat. Remember that she chose to marry you and likely has a connection with you that she does not share with anyone else. Building your relationship on love, trust, and respect can reduce feelings of jealousy and help you to maintain control when someone is staring. You must believe that your wife will not do anything to break your bond and know that what you have is special.Most wedding vows include “forsaking all others,” so remember that your wife made a commitment to you that probably means a lot to her.
 Whether it is a confident walk or standing tall, presenting yourself with confidence when you enter a room can sometimes eliminate the problem because those observing will know that they cannot compete with you.Feelings of inadequacy can sometimes create possessiveness because you want to control the person so that they do not leave you. Having confidence can alleviate that need for control.
To build your confidence, you can make a list of all of the things that you like about yourself and perhaps even include the things that your wife likes about you. This exercise can help to remind you that you are in fact a great catch., It is not uncommon for a man to admire a woman. There were probably even times when you observed an attractive woman and found yourself staring. It is reasonable to expect that your attractive wife will receive admirers, but that does not mean that anyone will act on those feelings.
 When observing a guy staring at your wife, it may be hard to tell what kind of person you are dealing with. He might have an anger problem or a chip on his shoulder, which could create a problem. Instead of getting upset or jealous, just ignore him. You cannot change what other people do, but you can certainly change your response to their actions.

