 Use the suggested guidelines here for your own drawing.


Shape the two ovals that will form the eyes.






Add in the eyebrows. These have a wild, jagged edge to them, as shown.






Draw two curved lines that will serve as his ears. Draw both left and right ears, shaping them in opposite directions.







Draw two oval shapes to form the nose. The smaller oval shape will serve as a reflection of the nose.






Draw the fur atop the head. Draw the fur in wave-like shapes, with jagged tips to help keep the impression of wildness and movement. Keep the same flow as with the eyebrows.






Pencil in the mouth clearly. Leave space for the tongue to loll out. While drawing the fur-side of the mouth, keep with the jagged fur flow that you've already used for the eyebrows and head top fur.






Draw the tongue. Now that the mouth is in place, concentrate on fine-detailing the tongue. Be sure to give the impression that it's big and fleshy.






Draw in the fangs. Make these slightly curvy rather than simply pointing straight down but still create a sharp end point for each fang.


Draw the left paw.






Sketch the right paw.
 Draw as shown, with his legs in a bent stance.
 This will make these features stand out from the remaining outlines and colors of the body and also gives depth and a small sense of cheeky menace.
 Once that is done, erase the remaining guidelines and refine any elements as needed.
 The suggested colors are a dark brown for the fur, pink for the tongue and a beige or tan color for the fur surrounding his mouth area and covering his chest or belly area. Leave the fangs white, as well as the whites of his eyes.
 Ones 3 months or younger are usually the best.;
, Remember, it's always better to get something from the ORIGINAL MAKERS of the cartoon. Not other artists who draw it. This helps make it look more authentic.
 Some people think that's not true, But it is. The person who is telling you this article doesn't hold his pencil right!

, It doesn't matter if you screw up, even if you've barely drawn the head!

,, However if it's a bigger project with a deadline, stare at your character's picture for 3 to 7 minutes (Take less if you feel it is right - hat's just how long I take).
