 Some of the best sources of selenium are fish and seafood. These are rich in selenium and will help keep your levels high. Include seafood at least two to three times a week to ensure you get enough selenium; However, make sure you avoid seafood that might contain mercury, such as King mackerel, shark, marlin, tilefish, orange roughy, swordfish, ahi (bigeye) tuna, and albacore tuna. Food sources rich in selenium are:


Fish, such as light or skipjack tuna, sardines, tilapia, anchovies, cod, salmon, sole, trout, and halibut
Seafood, such as shrimp, clams, and scallops;
, Meat and other animal parts are some of the best sources for selenium. Look for lean meats and eat meat or meat parts two times a week to increase your selenium. These meats include:


Lean beef
Lamb
Chicken
Turkey
Eggs
Organ meats, such as liver, kidneys, and sweetbreads (made from animal brains)

, Whole grains, seeds, and nuts are great sources of selenium as well. These can be incorporated into meals, added to snacks, or eaten by themselves. Make sure you look for unsalted nuts and seeds to avoid getting too much sodium every day. These foods include:Nuts, especially Brazil nuts
Seeds, such as mustard, chia, sunflower, flax, and sesame
Whole grains, such as brown rice and quinoa or breads that also incorporate the healthy seeds
Beans, especially lima and pinto

, There are a number of vegetables that are high in selenium. These will help improve your health while pregnant. These are also helpful if you are vegetarian or vegan but still want to increase your selenium. These vegetables include:Mushrooms, especially crimini and shiitake
Asparagus
Soybeans and tofu
Spinach
Cabbage
Swiss chard
Broccoli

, The best way to get your daily amount of selenium is to mix up all the different selenium-rich foods. Grab a handful of Brazil nuts (four or five) to get 300 to 375 mcg of selenium. Throw ¼ cup of sunflower seeds into yogurt to get about 19 mcg of selenium. Make three ounces of halibut, salmon, clams, or oysters for 40 to 60 mcg of selenium.Just have fun and switch it up. You will never get bored with the combinations if you keep changing them up.

