 Wipe away any dirt or debris from the surface you plan to adhere the Magic Mesh onto.


Grime can prevent the adhesive hook and loop strips from sticking to the door frame.
Quickly wiping the door frame with a slightly damp rag or disinfectant wipe should remove most of the dirt. Allow the frame to air dry naturally before installing the Magic Mesh screen.;
, Make sure that the screen will not interfere with the door as it opens.


If your door opens inward, you should install the Magic Mesh on the outside of the door frame.
Conversely, install the Magic Mesh on the inside of the door frame if your door opens outward.
When installing a Magic Mesh screen over a sliding door, make sure that you attach it to the stationary door., Use a measuring tape to measure the height of the door frame. Mark this measurement down for future reference.


You will need to use this measurement to determine how high you must hang the screen. If the screen is longer than the height of your door frame, you will need to install the screen so that the top edge lands above the frame. Otherwise, the screen may drag on the floor.
 Use a measuring tape to measure the width of your door frame.


Mark this measurement down, then divide the measurement in half. Write that distance down, as well.
When installing the screen over a sliding door, the opening should be 36 inches (91.4 cm) or larger. For non-sliding doors, the width of the door frame must not be smaller than the width of the full Magic Mesh screen.
 Measure out half of the total door width along the top frame. Use a pencil to lightly mark this center point directly on the upper door frame.


This point must lie at the exact center of the upper door frame.
You will start at this center point when installing the Magic Mesh screen panels.
 Spread out the Magic Mesh, laying it over the ground or another large, flat surface.


Keep the two screen panels side by side. When joined together, these two panels will become one screen. The connecting magnets of both screens should be aligned to the center of the overall screen.
The gap between the magnets and the trim will appear larger at the top end of the screen and smaller at the bottom end of the screen. Additionally, the bottom edge is slightly “ruffled” or “scrunched.”, The magnets of each panel should form pairs with one another. Go down the entire lengthwise center of the panel, checking each magnet pair to make sure that the magnets of each pair attract one another.


If one magnet pair works correctly, the others should also work. It is still best to check each pair separately, though, since a manufacturing error could have resulted in magnet pairs that don't match up.
Note that you will need to separate the magnets of each pair before installing the screen.
 Peel the backing off the soft side of each hook and loop strip, then apply the exposed adhesive to directly to the back of the Magic Mesh screen.


The screen should come with 12 adhesive hook and loop strips when you purchase it. These are the strips you need to use.
Attach the strips to the side of the screen that will face the door. Make sure that each strip sticks to the screen securely.
Position the strips in a precise manner. Starting with the screen panel lying to your left (panel A):Place strip A1 along the upper edge, placing it as close to the center as possible.
Place strip A2 along the center of the upper edge.
Place strip A3 in the outer, upper corner.
Place strip A4 one-quarter of the way down the outer vertical edge.
Place strip A5 three-quarters of the way down the outer vertical edge.
Place strip A6 in the bottom outer corner.


Mirror the same placement on the second panel (panel B) using the remaining six strips (B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6).
 Remove the backing from the other side of strip A1. Press the exposed adhesive onto the door frame, positioning it so that the inner edge of the panel lines up with the center mark previously made on your door frame.


Press and hold the adhesive strip for at least 30 seconds to ensure a secure fit.
Double-check to make sure that the screen is high enough to prevent the bottom edge from dragging on the ground. To preserve the integrity of the adhesive, you should verify the correct height before sticking the strip to the door frame. Removing the strip and placing it elsewhere can cause some of the adhesive to wear away.
 Remove the backing from the other sides of strips A2 and A3 and press them both in place along the top frame of the door.


Press and hold each strip in place for at least 30 seconds.
Make sure that the top edge of the Magic Mesh screen panel is horizontal and parallel to the door frame.
After adhering the top edge of panel A, this panel should remain in place during the remainder of the installation.
 Remove the backing from the other side of strip B1 to reveal the adhesive. Press this adhesive side onto the door frame on the opposite side of the center mark.


Press and hold the strip for at least 30 seconds.
The center edge of this panel (B) should lie directly next to the center edge of the first panel (A). The two edges may even overlap slightly.
Make sure that the height of panel B is the same as the height of panel A.
 As with panel A, remove the backing from strips B2 and B3, then press the newly exposed adhesive sides of both strips onto the top of the door frame.


Press and hold for 30 seconds.
The top edge of this panel must be horizontal, parallel to the door frame, and even with the first panel.
Adhering the top edge of panel B should prevent the panel from falling down during the remainder of the installation.
 Work your way down the vertical center of the overall screen, snapping the magnets in each magnet set together.


If the screen panels have been hung evenly, the magnets of each set should connect properly and completely. The magnets should also be aligned along the vertical center of the door.
If the magnets of each pair fail to connect, the Magic Mesh screen will not close properly after installation.
 Peel the backings off the remaining hook and loop strips, then press the newly exposed adhesive sides of each strip to the door frame.


Work down both sides simultaneously.

Adhere strips A4 and B4.

Then, work on strips A5 and B5.
Finally, adhere strips A6 and B6.


Press on each strip for at least 30 seconds, or until secure.
By working in rows like this, you can ensure that the magnet pairs stay together and prevent the panels from splitting too far apart.
 For added security, you should tack the installed screen to the door frame using wood tacks.


Note that this step is only optional, but it is highly recommended.
These wood tacks should be included when you purchase the Magic Mesh kit. You should have a total of 12 wood tacks.
Simply press one wood tack into the center of each hook and loop strip placed around the perimeter of your overall screen. You should be able to use your thumb to install the tacks, but if that doesn't work, you could gently tap on each tack with a hammer.
Only use the wood tacks on wood frames or wood molding. Do not use them on any surface not made of wood.
 The Magic Mesh screen is now installed. Test it out by walking through the center of the screen several times.


The magnet pairs should split apart as you walk through them and close back together once you leave the doorway.
If the screen does not work as designed, you may need to reinstall it, moving the panels closer or further apart as necessary.

