 Use clear ones for a basic, go-with-anything look or feel free to use a colored bottle if it's likely to match your usual clothes. Things to consider when choosing the bottles:


If you do think of changing the sizing of the bottles suggested here, at least keep the sizes of the bottles the same, to avoid mismatching and be aware that the zipper size will also be impacted by any size change.






Make sure the bottoms are new and not damaged. This will ensure the purse closely snugly, as well as looking decent when completed.





;
, The supplies needed are listed below. When purchasing the items, consider how you'll decorate the purse as this will impact what you purchase or find from the craft box. There are lots of possibilities such as:


Decide if your coin purse will have a “personality.” Give your purse a face using googly eyes, a big felt smile and fake hair.






Bedazzle your purse with fake jewels, rhinestones, charms and other dazzling elements.






Paint the purse. In this case, either paint additional designs over an initial coat of paint or stick additional decorations over the painted surface.
 Empty and clean the bottles by filling with warm water and sloshing around a little mild dish detergent. This will lift off any sticky soda residue. Allow the bottle to dry, tipped on its side for a few hours.
 Hold the bottle on its side on a non-slip surface (such as a silicon mat). Keeping your precious fingers well out of the way, cut or saw off the base of each bottle. Cut more rather than less, as you can always shape it down but you can't add more back once cut. Try to cut each base the same height; you might need to mark each bottle to manage this evenly. Take care when cutting!


Trim off any rough edges or jagged pieces using sharp scissors. A nail file is handy to smooth rough parts that won't improve with cutting.
 To do this:

Measure the circumference of the cut base to check that the zipper is the right length (it should be if you used the measurements in this tutorial––if not, get a different zipper that will fit).






Cut two lengths of paper the same height as the bottle base, long enough to wrap right around each base without overlap. Make sure the lengths are dead straight on at least one side of the length.






On the dead straight side of this length, mark evenly spaced holes the entire length, about 1⁄2 centimeter (0.2 in) from the edge. You could follow a ruler or rule a straight line for exactness or use your instinct if you're good with this sort of thing. (A ruled line is easiest, especially for the direction-challenged crafter.) Repeat for the second paper length.






This is now your sewing guide for the zipper.
 Wrap the guide around each base, with the dotted line edge flush with the top of each bottle base. Don't overlap it––tape it together exactly where it joins. Check that it is straight––if crooked, your zipper sewing will also be crooked!

, If this is tough on your hands, you can hold the needle with a small pair of jewelry pliers or wear lightweight leather gloves to stop chafing. A thimble can also be helpful for the powerful shove that you'll need to give the needle through the plastic each hole. Once completed, pull away the paper patterns. The bottle bases are now ready to have the zipper stitched in place.
 Although this may seem like a daunting task, the prepared holes will actually make it a lot easier than faster than you might expect. To do this:


Unzip the zipper.






Assess how comfortable it feels to work with the zipper free or whether you need it to be supported (in the same fashion as pinning fabric pre-sewing). If you find the zipper difficult to hold while stitching at the same time, consider attaching the zipper in place around each base using adhesive tape. Be sure that no part of the zipper has wrinkled though––you want a smooth finish.






Thread the same needle used to poke the holes through the plastic. Embroidery floss is probably the best pick for this, although you could use woolen yarn, twine, etc. provided it fits through the holes and needle's eye.






Start sewing 7.5"/3 centimeter (1.2 in) from the start of the zipper. Sew around the first bottom, then do the same for the next bottle base.






Overlap the fabric end of the zipper on each bottle base.
 Once you're happy with it, you have the option of decorating it (see suggestions above). Otherwise, it's good to go as is.
