 Get your mushrooms recipe ready by halving them, quartering them or removing the stems. Set the stems aside if they are to be used in the dish. Save all major chopping or slicing for after the mushrooms have been cleaned.Cutting mushrooms into slightly smaller segments increase their surface area, meaning more of the mushroom will get cleaned while rinsing.;
, Take a kitchen colander or strainer and put the mushrooms inside. Spread the mushrooms out to increase the amount of water they’re exposed to. A quick rinse under the faucet will be sufficient for cleaning most small, smooth types of mushrooms, like the white, button and leaf varieties.
 Turn on the faucet and wash the mushrooms under cool or room-temperature water at a medium pressure. Rinse the mushrooms thoroughly. Shake the colander or turn the mushrooms by hand periodically to make sure that all mushrooms have been rinsed.This method will be sufficient for quickly cleaning most varieties of mushrooms, save for those that have been dehydrated.
While rinsing mushrooms is sometimes frowned upon in culinary circles because it is thought to water down natural subtle flavors, recent culinary research has shown that rinsing mushrooms does little to increase their internal water content., Shake any excess water from the colander and lay the mushrooms out on a flat surface lined with paper towels. Use a sharp knife to slice off any part of the mushrooms that are still caked with dirt or have mold growing on them.


Because of their high natural water content and the places that they grow, a little bit of mold is normal on most mushrooms. However, if the mushrooms are especially moldy, slimy or have a dry, withered appearance, they are likely past their prime and shouldn’t be used.
 Once the mushrooms have been rinsed clean, press them gently with a folded paper towel to soak up lingering moisture. Separate the mushrooms into a single flat layer rather than a pile to help them dry faster. They're now ready to be chopped and cooked!


Take care not to mash or otherwise damage the mushrooms while drying.

