 Erotomanic delusions involve themes that another person is in love with the individual. Usually, the person who is believed to be in love with the individual is of higher status, such as a famous person or boss. Often, this person will try to make contact with the person she believes is in love with her. It can even prompt stalking or violence. Usually, erotomanic delusions involve peaceful behavior. But sometimes individuals with the delusion can become irritable, passionate, or jealous.Common behavior for those with erotomania include:The belief that the object of her delusion is trying to send her coded messages, such as in certain types of body language or words.
She may participate in stalking or making contact with the object of the delusion, such as writing letters, sending texts, or emails. She may do so even if the contact is unwanted.
There is a persistence belief that the object of the delusion is still in love with her even with contrary evidence such as a restraining order.


This particular type of delusion is more common in women than in men. , Grandiose delusions are delusions with the theme of having an unrecognized talent, insight, or discovery. Persons with grandiose delusions are convinced of their own uniqueness such as having an important role or other powers or abilities. They may also believe themselves to be a famous celebrity or think they have invented something fanatic such as a time machine.
Some common behaviors for those experiencing grandiose delusions may include seemingly boastful or exaggerated behavior, and they may come off as condescending.Additionally, this person may seem impulsive and unrealistic about goals or dreams., Jealous delusions have the common theme of having a spouse or lover being unfaithful. Even if these is evidence to the contrary, the person is certain that his partner is having an affair. Sometimes people with this type of delusions will piece together certain events or experiences and conclude that it is evidence of infidelity. Common behavior in those who have jealous delusions include violence in the relationship, attempts to limit their partner's activities, or attempts to keep their partner at home. In fact, this delusional type is most associated with violence and is often a common motive for homicide., Persecutory delusions include themes that the person is being conspired or plotted against, cheated, spied on, followed, or harassed. Sometimes this type of delusion is referred to as paranoid delusion and is the most common type of delusion.Sometimes individuals with persecutory delusions experience a vague feeling of persecution without having the ability to pinpoint the cause.Even small insults can be exaggerated and seen as an attempt to be cheated or harassed. Behaviors for those with persecutory delusions may include being angry, guarded, resentful, or suspicious. , Somatic delusions are ones that involve the body and the senses. This could include delusions about appearance, disease, or infestation.


Common examples of somatic delusions include the belief that the body gives off a bad odor, or that the body is infested with insects in the skin. Somatic delusions can also include the belief that one’s physical appearance is ugly or that a part of the body is not functioning properly.
Behaviors for those experiencing somatic delusions are usually specific to the delusion. For instance, someone who is convinced of an insect infestation may continually consult a dermatologist and refuse psychiatric care because he does not see a need for it. 