 For many patients, seeing people who they are close with in their daily lives can help them recall memories formed before the stroke occurred. Apart from that, patients with a good emotional support network and a positive attitude generally have a better chance of healing well. Showing your love and support helps your loved one regenerate as well as possible.;
, Similar to the point mentioned above, reminding the person of people, pets, and events in their life before the stroke can help restore memory, as well as ease the access to the skills that person used. If you can't visit often (daily would be most beneficial), ask the medical staff to keep the photos close by and show them to your loved one daily. Write the names of the people in the picture on the back, i.e. "Dave's birthday. Dave is your son. He is 20 years old and is holding your dog, Rex".
 Bring up memories from long ago to help the brain re-establish synaptic connections. This means singing nursery rhymes the person knew when they were little, for example, or showing them childhood pictures. The more familiar the memory is, the better.
 Don't assume just because your loved one cannot speak or has trouble communicating, that they don't understand you or that they are mentally impaired. Many stroke patients have full mental abilities, but may experience "locked-in syndrome", meaning that they cannot speak or express themselves to their surroundings. It is terrible to be fully mentally aware and be treated like a child or a thing. Treat them with the same respect as before and assume that they understand you.
 If your loved one can't speak, he or she might suffer from aphasia. This means that they are intending to say a certain word, but a "wrong" connection in the brain makes them use another, which may or may not be related to the subject they are trying to speak about. The correct word is "blocked" in their vocabulary. For example, they might want to watch TV, and repeatedly say "show" while indicating a square shape with their hands. However, they might mean to say "TV" and come out saying "exact" instead, which has no obvious relation to television. It is often difficult to know whether the aphasia patient is using similar words to hint at what they need or not. When you figure out what it is they are trying to say, they usually don't have trouble repeating the correct word. However, it might take a lot of exercise for it to be committed to memory. Be patient. Keep in mind that their ability to understand you and build opinions is still completely intact.
 Your loved one will most likely have to do exercises to regain their physical ability. The neurological connections from the brain to the limbs are considered a "two-way street", meaning that even though the patient may not be able to willfully move a certain body part, moving it for them by picking it up and performing the movement while asking them to picture doing it in their mind's eye as well can help support the recovery. The individual progress is strongly dependent on the intensity of the brain damage sustained.
 Having a stroke does not only cause physical, but emotional trauma in the patient and their surroundings. Your loved one is experiencing intense feelings of physical helplessness, which is a severe shock to someone who has always been self-sufficient. They are being cared for by strangers in the hospital who may or may not understand their needs. They have to ask for things they used to be able to do whenever they wanted. If they have issues with communication, they experience intense anxiety about being understood. If they are being treated like a child or a "vegetable", this leads to intense anger, frustration, sadness, and despair. Find a psychologist or therapist specialised in trauma recovery, more precisely "somatic experience therapy". This can help patients deal with a traumatic injury and help them cope with the changes it has brought about for them.
 Even though they might not be able to move independently, try to create experiences that tie in with the person's likes before the stroke. For example, if your loved one was a rocker/biker, drive his/her motorcycle to the hospital and obtain permission to take them outside (if they are well enough to do that) to see and touch the bike. Speak about shared memories relating to motorcycles if you can. The powerful positive memory can bring about a lot of progress. Once your loved one is well enough to do so, help them participate (for example by renting or buying a by-wagon and taking them along when you and/or other biker friends go for a ride).
 After hospitalization ends, include your loved one into day-to-day activities as much as possible. Not only will this help them recover further, but create a positive attitude and help them enjoy life . The living conditions might be different and they may need help, a shower seat, a cane, or other items to ease daily tasks, but their life is not over.
 There is no guarantee for a full recovery after a stroke. Never assume that your loved one "should be walking by now" or feel resentment towards them for their level of ability. They did not choose this change in their life, or to be dependent on the goodwill of others to meet their needs. Motivating them by showing love, complete acceptance, and the knowledge that they are still the same person on the inside, will help them avoid depression or cope with their own grief at the loss of the plans and dreams that they may now have to change.
 As in the motorcycle example above, everything fun in life can still be done. It might be different than before, but never impossible. If your loved one enjoyed cycling before, but their balance is too impaired for using a bicycle, get them a tricycle. If their feet won't stay on the pedals, help them out with Velcro loops. If they only have dexterity in the fingers of the right hand, attach their bell and brakes on the right and wire them differently. Anything that lets them participate in activities they love will help them get as well as they possibly can.

