 Corner kicks are considered "set plays", since they depend on the coordination of the whole team. The kicker can practice alone all he likes, but he's unlikely to score if his teammates don't know the plan or haven't learned to work with him. The following guide will aim to develop the skills of the entire team, not just the kick taker or goal scorer. Know what your teammates are practicing and expecting, even if the advice doesn't apply to your specific role.
 Scoring a goal directly from the corner is extremely rare. Most of the time, the kick taker tries to cross a dangerous ball hard into the box, where a teammate has a good chance at hitting it into the goal. The kick taker must have excellent ball-curving ability and a powerful, accurate kick.

Typically, right footed players take left corners best and left footed players take right corners best, since these are the most natural positions for curving the ball toward the goal.
Two common mistakes are failing to get past the first defender, and delivering the ball too close to the keeper.
 Headers and volleys are the most common ways to score a goal after a corner. The players most successful with these techniques should practice receiving the corner kick and directing it down into the goal. The most common positions to score from are in front of one of the two goalposts., Divide the team into defense and offense so you can practice under more realistic conditions. There are two typical situations that both sides can practice:

Defense typically aims to man-mark every player in the box, and especially the tallest and most skilled scorers. The offense attempts to swarm around and create confusion, wearing down the defense until one of the offensive players slips clear.
Alternatively, defense can practice zonal defense, creating a human barrier while a few other players harry the most dangerous attackers. Offense can counter this by flooding the area with their own players, breaking up the defensive line.
 Always have a midfielder positioned centrally just outside the penalty area to collect the ball if headed clear by the defense, and maybe hit a first time volley. You never want to watch your whole team racing back to the opposite goal because you lost possession., Once you have the basic skills down, start practicing more advanced, coordinated strategies. These are described in the section below.

As you decide on the most effective strategies, come up with a signal for each one. The kick taker should signal the strategy and receiving player before taking the kick.
 Designate a fast, agile player to make this goal attempt. Have the kick taker aim as close to the near post as possible, while bypassing the defenders. Her teammate starts further back from the goal, runs forward as the kick occurs, and heads or kicks the ball in as it arrives in front of the goal.

Besides the one or two players there to attempt a goal, the rest of the offense should try to drive the defenders toward the far post to clear some space.
 If the keeper is close to the near post, the kick taker may prefer to make a similar approach with the far post instead. Because the kick must be higher to evade the defenders, this works best with tall teammates who can head the ball effectively., If your team has a disadvantage in the air, consider a short pass to another player instead. That player typically receives the ball while running toward the penalty box, and either crosses it to another player or finds an opening to charge through., This is a less common strategy, since scoring from outside the box is much more difficult. However, if you have a midfielder with strength and precision, he can take advantage of the lack of a marker to find a shot at the goal.