 Search the websites of different stroller companies for testing videos to see how different stroller designs perform in a variety of environments, from navigating neighborhoods to boarding airplanes.While you are online conducting research, consider checking parenting chat rooms for tips and stories from parents around the world.;
, Travel system strollers can also break down into car seats. This style of stroller is a particularly useful investment, as it can be used from infancy into toddler-hood. , These three-wheeled strollers have a fixed front wheel and a hand-brake, in addition to the traditional parking break.Avoid joggers if you don't exercise. Their fixed front wheel can make them a challenge to maneuver on varied terrain.
Avoid jogging strollers if you have a child under a year old.
 These strollers are equipped with large wheels that are compatible with a wide variety of surfaces, from store floors to grass. They often have three wheels, with a front wheel that can swivel, or lock in place. Keep in mind that all-terrain strollers are heavy (often weighing up to 30 pounds) and bulky when folded up.
Note that all-terrain strollers are typically not suitable for infants under 6 months, unless stated otherwise.
 Umbrella strollers tend to be inexpensive and lightweight, and they fold up to about the size of an umbrella. However, they are not typically durable or suitable for newborns. , These come in two styles: side-by-side or inline. They are a must-have if you have more than one child. Side-by-side strollers tend to be wide and bulky when folded.
Inline models are better for children with an age gap, as one seat tends to have more recline and leg rest adjustment range that is necessary for young infants.
 Convertible strollers can seat one to two children, as it comes with an easy-to-add second seat. These are great if you alternate between traveling with one or two children, or if your elder child has nearly graduated from their time in a stroller. Convertible strollers tend to be built to handle up to 100 lbs, and are applauded for their longevity.
On the downside, the heavy-duty material of convertible strollers can be frustrating when the stroller is seating only one child, as it will be heavier than traditional single strollers.

