 If you’re saying 'thank you' in person, remember to smile and make eye contact with the person whom you’re thanking. These small gestures add a massive amount of sincerity to the 'thank you.', Showing your gratitude to someone else is awesome. Gushing over them and falling all over yourself to say 'thank you' is overdoing it, and could end up embarrassing the person you’re trying to thank. Keep your gratitude simple, to the point and pleasant., You should be thanking someone because you honestly and sincerely are grateful for something they did. You shouldn’t be thanking someone because you were told to do it, or because you felt it was somehow required. Insincere gratitude is obvious and unappreciated.This is especially important for those who work in a retail environment where they may feel obligated to thank customers on a regular basis. If you aren’t actually sincere about the thanks, the customer can tell. Even if it’s your job to thank a customer, you can still make it sincere.
 There are certain situations that require more than just an in-person ‘thank you,’ such as being treated to dinner, being giving a present, etc. When these situations occur, a written ‘thank you’ is vital. Whomever treated you to this extra-special kindness deserves the same in return, and writing a 'thank you' note or card is the best way to show how much you really do appreciate what they did.If you decide to use a card, blank ones work best in these situations. Blank cards allow you to write a brief, but custom, note inside.
Whatever form your ‘thank you’ note takes, it should specifically mention the reason you’re saying ‘thank you.’
While emails can obviously be personalized, avoid sending an email in these situations. Emails just aren’t as sincere and well-meaning as an actual note or card.
 Do not ask someone else to send someone a ‘thank you’ on your behalf, do it yourself. It isn’t a sincere ‘thank you’ if it isn’t coming from you directly.If you’re a really busy person who doesn’t have a lot of extra time, have some custom ‘thank you’ cards made for you and keep them handy. Or buy several boxes of blank cards to keep in your desk.

