 Cake mascara is trending these days, and you may be curious it it will suit your lifestyle. In general, if you favor a more natural look (instead of seeking out mascara that looks like false lashes) and like avoiding infections, cake mascara ought to be something you consider.


Cake mascara has a long history. The fact that it's been around a long time gives it a cute vintage vibe. Because it’s dry and doesn’t sit in a tube, it doesn’t clump up, and you can take it on a plane as a carry-on.Cake mascara is also more hygienic than cream mascara. The dark, wet interior of a mascara tube is a perfect place for bacteria to grow, but cake mascara is dry and doesn't encourage this.There are some drawbacks, too. Cake mascara is difficult to source, has a slight learning curve, and is not as easy to throw in your purse as cream mascara. It’s up to you to decide if the pluses outweigh these minuses.;
, Most mascara you find in drugstores and behind beauty counters is a cream formulation. If you’re having trouble locating cake mascara in a brick-and-mortar store, you may have to Google for shops that will ship the cosmetic to your area.


Sephora started carrying Besame Cosmetics cake mascara online in 2016. This brand is well-recognized, and though it’s pricy, it won’t expire like cream mascara will.
Many smaller indie brands offer cake mascaras, too. Try Clean-Faced Cosmetics or KeepingItNatural.
 Usually, your cake mascara will come with its own brush. It should look sort of like a toothbrush, with stiff bristles lined up along only one side. If your mascara didn’t come with a brush, you can use the brush side of an eyebrow/eyelash comb (like this one) or a cleaned brush from an old tube of cream mascara.
 You can use cake mascara for many other applications other than darkening and lengthening your lashes. It also works to fill in your brows (if you’re dark-haired), and as a stand in for gel liner.If you’d like to make your mascara multitask, you’ll have to have the proper tools.









If you want to use cake mascara to fill in your brows, a small angled brush is great. You can use it to fill in sparse spots, or create an entirely new shape. You can also use a spoolie to comb the powder through your brows, which will make them look more natural.
Small bent or angled brushes are best for eyeliner application.
 This step is optional, but it will open up your eyes and make the final look more striking. For best results, concentrate on the eyelashes in the outer corners of your eyes. Crimp the eyelash curler on the roots for a few seconds, then on the middle of the lash, then finally on the tips.You can heat your eyelash curler by running hot water over it, or turning a blow dryer on it for a few seconds. To make sure it’s not too hot, press it on your wrist before putting it near your eyes.Never curl your lashes after mascara, even cake mascara. The makeup can stick your lashes to the curler’s pads, which will rip them out.
 For a dramatic look, place a drop of water onto the mascara cake. It should sink in, creating a dark paste. If you’d like a subtler look, wet the brush with a bit of water instead.








You can use a drop of contact solution as well. This is sanitary, since saline is sterile, and convenient., A little mascara goes a long way. You want to pick up a bit of pigment on the brush’s bristles, but not too much. If you see clumps or excess makeup on the brush, tap off the extra on the side of the cake and start again.
 Once you have the moistened cake mascara on the brush, the motion for applying it is similar to that of applying cream mascara. Open your eyes and raise the brush to them. Start at the roots of your upper lashes, then slowly pull the brush through them. Wiggle the brush a bit so it coats every lash. Dip the brush back into the cake, then repeat on the other side.









If you find yourself blinking reflexively, open your lips a bit when you put the brush near your eyes. This will inhibit your blinking reflex.Don’t apply cake mascara to your lower lashes. It’s not waterproof, so it runs easily, and makeup that drags the eye down is often unflattering anyway., Cake mascara isn’t gooey like cream mascara, so it won’t clump up on your eyelashes. Therefore, you can keep layering it on to your heart’s content. Try one coat for a subtle look, two coats for a more striking daytime look, and three coats for evening. While you’re at it, go ahead and experiment with the mascara as a liner or filler.
 Use an eyelash comb to ensure that each lash is coated and separated from its neighbor. If you’ve smudged a little extra mascara on your face, don’t worry. The easiest way to remove it is a cotton swab soaked in water, makeup remover, or micellar water.Just check yourself before you go out, and your cake mascara should contribute to a retro, fresh-faced look.

