 Coffee shops vary in ambiance and clientele—from the more relaxed Internet cafe to the bustling, trendy bistro—and it's important to find the right "fit" for your personal preferences and needs. There are a lot of factors to consider when trying to find your perfect away-from-home working space;however, there are certain things that anyone working in a coffee shop is likely to want.


A comfortable place to sit that is warm or cool enough for your liking.
A menu that you enjoy with reasonably priced items.
Free Internet access.
A place where you can sit for long periods of time without being asked to leave outright... or subtly.;
, It's also a sensible precaution to select a range of possible coffee shops to use should one be too crowded or closed for any reason. Things to consider include:


Crowds. The noise from a crowded coffee shop can make it hard to think, but the activity from all the people might actually be energizing and inspirational.
Music. Shops that play music can create a distracting atmosphere, or the music may be invigorating. Mostly this depends on you, your mood, your tastes, and the music being played.
A relaxed atmosphere. In general, this is a good thing; however, some people work better in the middle of a vibrant buzz.
 It never hurts to research shops ahead of time. There are many resources that will help you find the right coffee shop for you without having to drive all over the place. Try a little research to avoid disappointment.


The iPhone app, WHA (Work Hard Anywhere) allows users to find laptop-friendly coffee shops in their area by showing a bar graph that rates things such as internet speed, noise level, and the accessibility of power outlets.Websites such as Workfrom use crowd-sourced reviews (similar to YELP) to inform visitors of laptop-friendly coffee shops as well.WOM! No, this isn’t another app, it simply stands for “word of mouth” and it is considered one of the most powerful forms of advertising. Simply ask people if they have experience with any local shops that are laptop friendly. People are usually very happy to share their opinions.
 If you don't want to have to make trips back and forth between the coffee shop and your home office, make certain you are equipped with everything you need, or even might need, ahead of time. Items to consider:


Laptop, iPad, or other form of text processing or Internet access device. You may or may not need this; for some, a simple notepad and pencil may suffice depending on what your work consists of.
A suitable bag to carry your laptop, files, books, etc. Choose one that is comfortable to wear and sits well between your feet or next to you.
Extra batteries for any of your electronic equipment. Better safe than sorry.
Three-prong-to-two-prong plug converter. This is a fantastic item to keep handy if you are using electronic equipment, since you might not always know what type of outlets will be available.An organizer book with a checklist. Checklists keep you on track both for the work you need to do, and the items you will want to always have with you. Just make sure to check it before you head out to the coffee shop!