 You may notice that a friend has posted a racist image on their Facebook profile or a relative has commented positively on a racist joke on social media. Rather than scroll past it and ignore it, call out the person’s racism. Staying silent and ignoring the content will not make it go away and the person may feel they can get away with making racist comments with no consequences or accountability.You may leave a comment that discusses why you believe the posting is racist and how it perpetuates racist stereotypes of a group of people. You may also acknowledge your own privilege in your posting but note that is important that we all recognize and call out racism so it does not seem acceptable or okay.
For example, maybe your friend posts an image of a white person wearing blackface. You may comment on it by saying, “This image is racist towards Black people and represents the lack of power and privilege Black people have experienced throughout history. I think you should remove this image and apologize for posting it. Racist imagery has no place on social media, or anywhere else in our society. If you are curious about how and why blackface is racist, you should read more about the history of blackface in America and how it perpetuates harmful stereotypes of Black people.” You may then include links to reputable sources online that explain the history and background of blackface.
If the person made a comment affirmative of racism, such as "I agree that black people are evil and should be condemned", then speak up telling him or her that is a very insensitive and racist thing to say. Tell the person that a lot of them are good people and they do not deserve to be discriminated against just for their skin color.
 If you come across websites, webpages, or social media groups that have racist content, you should flag them as hate groups or containing hate speech. You can flag them by writing to the hosting company of the group and noting that the group is promoting racism. You should then recommend that the group be taken down, as the hosting company should not support racism in any way.You may also want to make your flagging and boycotting of the website public by commenting directly on the website or sharing the website on your social media and calling them out for their racist content. You may then recommend that people boycott the website, as well as any services or products they sell. This could help to build public pressure on the site or group, and cause them to reconsider their stance on race.
 You can also be an active contributor to the conversation around racism by talking about racism on your social media accounts. You may post one article or text a day that discusses racism on your Facebook page or you may share personal stories of racism on your blog. You may also comment on other people’s postings about racism to keep the conversation and dialogue going. Doing this can allow you to use your social media to participate in the fight against racism.If you are a white person, keep in mind you carry white privilege with you. This means you are bringing your privilege to any conversation you are having about race, even online. While it is important that white people get actively engaged and involved in acknowledging racism, white people also need to focus on being allies to people of color and avoid dominating the conversation.
This may mean that you read and share content written by people of color, rather than just texts written by white people. This will allow people of color to speak for themselves and still feel supported by white people. You may also ask people of color how they feel about certain racial issues or topics, rather than posting your own personal ideas on the issue.
If you are commenting on a post by a person of color, do so respectfully and without trying to take over or dominate the conversation. Show an awareness of your privilege and be willing to learn and listen to people of color. This will foster a healthy and honest discussion.
 You can also use the internet for good by creating anti-racist platforms, like an online publication or an online social group that discusses social justice and race issues. Doing this will help you to give more opportunity for people of color to connect, share, and work together to fight racism. You should then promote these platforms and invite people from your network to join.When you are setting up your platform, you should focus on having an equitable and diverse community of users. This could mean making sure you have people of color involved in your platform and in positions of power. You should also ask for opinions and input from people of color so your platforms are useful and effective.

