 Tell your family members that you value their love and support. Do not allow momentary feelings of anger, skepticism, or simple confusion to lead to more serious issues between family members.Share what you appreciate about what you do for another. Thank each other for attending one another’s events or obligations.
Thank each other when you’re there for one another. This doesn’t require a long or dramatic conversation, simply say thank you for the acts and behaviors you appreciate.
 Talk to one another frequently about how everyone is feeling. This is vital to positive relationships within your family. It is also easier than it seems once you do so regularly. Make sure you understand what your family members are feeling so that you’re aware of any unmet needs or desires.Be explicit. Use short, direct statements. It’s always helpful to say positive things like, “We can figure out a way to handle this that works for everyone” or even, “We’re in this together.”
Alternatively, be clear about what you need by saying things like, “I’d feel more comfortable with _______,” or “I don’t like it when _______.”
Do not allow negative emotions to build. Never maintain silence simple to “keep the peace.” This will lead to larger issues in the future.
If your family goes through a major life change, such as a new member in the family, a loss, or a significant move, be especially aware of the greater need for open communication in periods of transition.
 Contemplate your own needs, wants, and feelings. Share these thoughts with your family. You will feel better, and your family members will better understand you. Begin statements with phrases like “I feel like…” and avoid accusatory language or complaints.Avoid contentious statements or language that might escalate a conversation. In particular, avoid beginning statements with accusations.
Instead of, “You always _______,” try “I’m frustrated that this keeps happening,” and go on to explain why you are unhappy with the situation.
 Put effort into improving your listening skills.Everyone needs the opportunity to express themselves, especially in the context of close relationships. Ensure you are allowing others to effectively communicate with you by doing the following during important conversations:


Maintain eye contact.
Don’t interrupt.
Watch your body language. Ensure that you’re conveying respect and genuine interest in what your family member has to say by sitting or standing attentively, and facing towards them.
 There are many conversations between parents and children that can be challenging or feel awkward. Allow certain conversations to happen naturally, and don’t hesitate to start a conversation when an opportunity to do so presents itself.


When a child or sibling becomes especially frustrated at a situation outside of their control, be there for them. Wait for them to calm down and then encourage them to talk about how they felt. Speaking with one another about how anger develops can help us learn how to control our emotions.
Talk about sexuality and bodily awareness with young children early and often. This actually encourages responsible sexual decisions later on (and does not encourage promiscuity).This can also diminish the need to have an intimidating, dramatic talk about sex someday.
 Ensure your family members can trust you by following through on promises and staying true to your word. If you’re communicating effectively, trust will be built into the relationships you have with one another. In the event that you need to rebuild trust, begin by stating that it is your intention to do so, and put extra effort into communicating openly, honestly, and as often as possible.