 Over the summer, your eating schedule may have gotten a little wild. So start eating at the time you plan to once you’re back in school.


If you've been consuming a lot of fast food during those lazy summer nights, get back to eating nutritious, well-balanced meals. Healthy foods aren't just better for your body. They also boost brain power.To determine what time you will be eating dinner, you’ll need to sit down and figure out your evening schedule, looking at things like a) after-school activities, b) how much homework you think you’ll have, c) how much time you’ll spend preparing for bed, d) how much free time you’d like, e) what time you need to go to bed and f) what the rest of your household’s schedule looks like.
 Reading at night (reading in general if you haven’t for awhile) will get those brain circuits flowing again. This will make studying easier, and it will get you back into the mode of doing homework at night.


You could also work on things like Sudoku puzzles, crossword puzzles, children’s workbooks, flash cards – anything to kick-start returning to an evening routine that includes studying and homework.
Try to get your schedule and do activities related to your schedule, like finding online Geometry problems. It will actually be more like homework than reading and puzzles, and will also improve your grades for school.
 You may have gotten out of the habit of taking that nightly shower or bath, if you take it at night, or even brushing your teeth. Now’s the time to start doing these things again regularly. And, as with your morning routine, do them at the same time you plan to do them once school starts.


This is also a good time to get back into the habit of or create the habit of laying out your clothes for the morning. Doing this will make you feel less rushed in the morning and less stressed overall, especially if you are very particular about what you wear.
 Once you have reset your clock, continue going to sleep at the time you've set for yourself, even on the weekends. Resisting all temptations to break your new sleep schedule will be rewarded soon enough.

