 This will keep your body hydrated, especially if the symptoms include vomiting or diarrhea. Water can also soothe your throat and make your mucus thinner, which facilitates its expulsion. Have at least eight cups a day. You can also drink orange juice: the vitamin C contained in it will strengthen your immune system;
Drink hot beverages such as herbal tea or hot water with lemon. This will soothe your sore throat and open up your airways. Lemon is also a good disinfectant and some herbal teas will contain decongestants such as peppermint or ginger.
If you have difficulty drinking because of stomach sickness, take small sips but keep drinking. Vomiting and diarrhea can both lead to severe dehydration if your water intake is not restored.Stay away from caffeine and alcohol, as they do not help hydration. , Although it won’t relieve any flu symptoms, it will speed up recovery by fortifying cells that are involved in fighting the infection. Foods that are rich in vitamin C include oranges, lemons, limes, kiwifruit, papaya, leafy greens and bell peppers. You can eat the fruit or drink pure juices with no additives. Because vitamin C is a great support for your immune system, it should always be part of your diet as way to prevent infections.
 Bananas contain vitamin B6 and carrots are rich in beta-carotene which, like vitamin C, are both important nutrients for your immune system. Rice is also a good source of carbohydrate that can boost your energy and it is especially recommended in case of diarrhea, as are bananas.


These foods are also easy enough for your body to digest when you have intestinal symptoms or your appetite is low. , This is a time-old home remedy. Not only does hot water relieve sore throat and steam decongest your airways, but the chicken also contains vitamin B6 and C as well as proteins that can boost your energy for recovery. To make a nourishing pot of soup:


Boil a chicken in water with onion and celery for one hour.
Remove the chicken or leave as much as you like.
You can also add vegetables such as carrots and garlic, or curry and other spices that can help you expel mucus. , Chili peppers are natural decongestants, and so is horseradish, which also speeds up your blood flow to infected areas to make your recovery quicker. Cayenne pepper contains vitamin C, ginger can reduce fever and encourage mucus expulsion by coughing, and garlic stimulates the cells in your immune system.Add these spices to your food or make a herbal infusion: cinnamon and ginger are very good in tea, while garlic and pepper can season your soup.

