 If learning history seems like just simple memorization, try to understand it as a narrative. Much like any good story, historical events and subjects all have a beginning, middle and end. In it, there are often climatic events and surprise twists that make it interesting. Instead of simply memorizing names and dates, think of the story that goes with them. This will be more fun to learn and make it much easier to remember things.


For example, instead of just memorizing the names and dates of the Revolutionary War, think of the story of the colonists battling Great Britain for independence. Understanding the general narrative of the war will help you better comprehend and recall important people, places, and events.
 If you are studying certain historical figures, try to understand them as people just like you. They had their own ambitions and dreams, as well as faults and imperfections. If you try to understand people in the past as real people, you may find that you have something in common with them, which will make learning about them much more fun.


If you find that you enjoy learning about historical figures, try reading biographies about them written by historians. These tend to full of juicy and humanizing details.
Some good examples of historical biography include Ron Chernow’s Alexander Hamilton or Erik Larson’s The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America.
 If you find history a little tedious, try mentally placing yourself in the past. Imagine what it would be like for you and your family to live in a certain time period. Think about how different that time and place would be from the present day. Consider how you might act in a certain historical scenario or situation. In the process of placing yourself in the past, you will also learn something about it.


What are the difficulties you might face? How would people in that place and time react to you?
Are there any special skills that you have that would be particularly advantageous to another time and place?

, If you are having a difficult time enjoying a particular historical subject, try connecting it to something that you enjoy doing. If you learn it while doing a hobby, you will eventually start to enjoy it. Even if you still find the subject dull, you will at least be learning while doing something fun.


For example, if music is one of your hobbies, try writing a song that ties in the historical subject. You can also look into the music of a certain time and place.
If you are working on an assignment you find boring, finding a way to connect it to your hobbies will make it a little less painful.
 Find people who are enthusiastic about history and do some activities with them. These can be historians, reenactors, or historical RPG players. These people will be extremely enthusiastic about history, which might be infectious and rub off on you.


If you are interested in historical RPG, Reacting to the Past has historical scenarios that you can play out with others., If you are a student and struggling to find history interesting, try participating more in class. Answer questions and ask for help with your assignments. You might find that, as you engage more with class activities, the subject will become more alive and interesting.


If you really want to go all in, try joining your school’s history club.
 If you are having a difficult time in your history class, you might want to consider finding someone to help you out. One option is asking a friend for help. You can also sign up for a history tutor at your school. If your school does not have tutors, you may be able to find them in your community. However, if you are looking for tutors outside of your school, be sure to ask your parents for help and guidance.

