 It will be easier to introduce dead space into a larger room than it will be to do so into a smaller room. Fewer things mean more space.


Add mirrors. Mirrors can create the illusion of space and make the room feel larger than it is. A horizontally-oriented mirror over the bed is a good option.
Look carefully at the layout of your motel room to decide what is crucial and what is not.
Don’t introduce lots of chairs, tables, floor lamps, potted plants, or other things that take up space.
Keep counters and dresser tops clean of excess objects like placards or small statues., Remove things that are hard to clean or could be easily broken. For instance, do not include breakable glass statues or candles that could spill wax on the carpet. Use furniture with rounded corners -- a rounded corner is more difficult to dent than a sharp corner. Remove objects that attract visible dust like study lamps and instead use wall-mounted lighting., Instead of placing the door in the center of one wall of the room, for instance, place it in the corner of a wall.


Try to expand the visible angle of the room from the doorway. For instance, if the bathroom is right next to the entrance to the room, cut the corner that is closest to the center of the room from the bathroom’s layout (turning it into a five-sided bathroom).
This is important because people often ask to see a room before they choose to rent one. First impressions are important, and giving the room a spacious feel can encourage potential customers to stay.
 Warm colors will inspire enthusiasm and optimism in the guest. Cooler -- but still vibrant -- colors like blue and green can also energize guests and impart a sense of safety and comfort.Use one dominant color and white highlights to maintain a clean, minimalistic design.
Despite the temptation to simplify the color selection process, do not paint all your rooms the same color. This way, if a potential guest doesn’t like the color of his or her room, you can offer another.
Do not leave any concrete or brick exposed in the hotel room.
 Vinyl floors feel that resemble hardwood appear more residential to guests, and are easier to clean. Plus, many people believe that carpets are not clean. Choose a light-colored wood to prevent your room from feeling small and cramped., While total soundproofing is almost impossible, using soundproofing materials can reduce the amount of unintentional eavesdropping guests will have to do during their stay.

