 If you believe that the termination of guardianship is going to be contested, it may be in your best interest to hire an experienced family law attorney. A family law attorney can:


Help you assess the strengths and weaknesses in your case.
Gather evidence to strengthen your arguments.
Write and argue persuasively for the termination of guardianship.
Know the proper forms and documents to file with the court.
 In most cases, a guardianship does not terminate unless a court approves the termination, even in the case of a guardian attempting to resign. Therefore, those seeking termination of a guardianship must seek court assistance from the probate or family court where the minor child lives.In order to determine what court has jurisdiction over the guardian case, conduct an internet search for the name of the county and state where the child resides and “termination of guardianship.” This should direct you to the appropriate court that hears termination of guardianship cases.
 Each county has its own rules for filing a Petition to Terminate Guardianship. As mentioned above, you can locate the appropriate court with an internet search. Often, these courts will also have form petitions for you to use. Generally, a Petition for Termination of Guardianship will include the following information:


The name of the court where the petition is being filed.
The name and contact information for the petitioner (the person filing the petition) and their relationship to the child.
The reasons the petitioner is requesting termination.
The names and contact information for any person who should be notified of the petition and hearing, including the minor, and the minor’s parents.
Whether the petition is related to an estate or guardianship of a person.
Whether there is consent among the interested parties that termination should occur.The petition must be filed in the appropriate court, usually in person. You should check with the court to see whether there are any fees associated with the filing.
You can find links to state-specific guardianship resources and court websites at: http://www.brycs.org/guardianship/guardianship-information-by-state.cfm.
 As part of your petition or during the court hearing, you may be asked to provide evidence to support your request for termination. Depending on why you are seeking termination, this evidence may include:


A guardian’s final accounting of the ward’s estate to the court. You may need to provide this if the ward died, if you are a guardian of property and the ward’s assets are used up, or if you are a guardian seeking to resign your position.
Parents who want their children to live with them may need to submit a financial disclosure form to show that they are financially stable. A disclosure form may include information such as: current and previous employment information; yearly and monthly income; sources of income; a detailed list of expenses; the number of children living in the home; and an accounting of all personal assets and debts.Parents may also present evidence of drug or alcohol rehabilitation.To see a sample disclosure form visit: http://www.familylawselfhelpcenter.org/images/forms/misc/financial-disclosure-form-pdf-fillable.pdf.
You must serve the petition on all interested parties and provide a certificate of service to the court showing that you mailed or served the petition in accordance with local court rules., After your petition is filed, the court will notify you of the date of the hearing to determine whether guardianship should be terminated.


The person who filed the petition must present evidence that supports termination for guardianship.
In a petition by parents, a court will want them to show that they can provide a stable place to live and a good home, that they have a source of income, that they are fit to be caregivers and that the child has an emotional bond with the parents.
If a child is 12 years old or older, the court will take into account where the child wants to live.
The judge will make his or her decision based on what he or she believes is in the best interest of the child.
If the court grant’s the petition, the judge will issue an Order Terminating Guardianship., In most states, you have the right to appeal a family law court’s decision. You must check with the court clerk to determine how long you have to file the petition, any fees that are required and the format of the petition. You will also have to show one of the following:


The court failed to make adequate findings of fact;
The court did not follow the law properly;
The court abused its discretion.