 In order to reach the top, you need to be passionate about what you do. Think about it. It's so much easier to motivate yourself to work hard when you're energized and excited by what you're doing.


The road to success is long and has its fair share of ups and downs. Working towards something you're passionate about will give you strength during the tough times and added satisfaction during the good.
If you're not sure where your passions lie, think about going to see a career coach or a good psychologist. They will help you to identify your strengths and weaknesses and gain a clearer vision of your life goals.
Remember that not everyone has a pre-existing passion, it may take some time to find yours. It is also possible to become passionate about a job, with enough hard work and dedication.
 Success is the result of long-term planning and daily action. Good organization helps you gain control of your time so you can plan and complete the tasks needed to achieve your goals.


Focus on what's important. Remind yourself of your long-term goals and revise them when necessary.
Learn to prioritize. Decide what your goals are each day, then set daily priorities in order to achieve your goals.
Finish one task before you start another. Multi-tasking is overrated. Focus 100% of your attention on every task you set your mind to, whether it's responding to emails or filling out paperwork. This reduces the chances of you making a mistake or overlooking something important.
 Networking can be very helpful to your career. Networking is about making connections and building enduring, mutually beneficial relationships with other professionals. It enables you to find out about exciting career opportunities, learn of new developments in your field or discover the solution to a problem you face at work.


Networking is all about communication — making phone calls, conducting information interviews, writing letters or connecting through online networking sites.
Once you have made contact with a person, it is important to try to develop a relationship with them, to keep in contact with them and to help them with any requests or favors they might have. You never know what they might be able to help you with in the future!
One of the best ways to network successfully is to do informational interviews. This is where you organize to informally meet with a senior colleague or other professional for lunch or coffee in order to ask questions, gain valuable information and insights and create business relationships. Once the meeting is over, thank them for their time, ask for a business card and try to stay in touch.
Remember: no matter how hard you work, unless you’re aware of an opportunity, you’re not going to get a shot at it. Your network will open up opportunities for you and your career, both now and in the years to come.
 Creativity is a word that's thrown around a lot in the world of business. Employees are expected to "think creatively" and come up with "creative solutions" to the obstacles they face at work. But what does being creative really mean? Creativity is essentially whole-brain thinking - requiring the imagination and intuition of the the right side of the brain, combined with the logic, strategic thinking and critical analysis of the left. It involves coming up with innovative, yet effective ways to deal with the problems you encounter and providing a unique perspective on the world around you.


When faced with a problem at work, use a blank sheet of paper, start thinking about possible solutions, and write down anything that pops into your mind. Try to free your mind from the shackles of reality and practicality. Allow your brain to think freely and to make associations you wouldn't normally make. Creative thinking requires thinking outside the box.
Become more playful in your work. Use images and colors when writing reports. Use toys or props to stimulate creative thinking. Give a presentation from the back of the room. Break away from convention in order to think creatively.
 An education from a high-ranking university can be instrumental in getting you to where you want to be in life. Completing increasingly advanced levels of education shows that you have a drive and commitment to learn and apply information, ideas, theories, and formulas to achieve a variety of tasks and goals.


Attending a good school will not only provide you with the necessary knowledge and skills required for your chosen career, it will also allow you to compete for the best positions on the job market. Some of the most prestigious positions will only accept graduates from top level schools.
Attending a good school will also provide you with an excellent opportunity to make contacts and interact with the best people in your field.
 Don't be afraid to admit that you don't know everything. It is important to know where your weaknesses lie and to constantly seek to improve them. Even when you are confident in your abilities, you should always seek to boost your skills.


Learn as much as you can from the people around you, read books to increase your knowledge and go to workshops to improve decision-making or interpersonal skills.
Find a mentor. A mentor is someone, usually with a bit more experience than you, who knows the trade, offers advice, and helps you in your pursuit of success.
 Regardless of how many opportunities come your way, how much experience or how good of an education you have, the number one key to success is hard work. Nobody makes it to the top of their game without putting in long hours and making sacrifices in order to reach their goals. If you're finding it tough, just remind yourself that the rewards will be worth the effort.


Stay away from distractions. It's difficult to focus on work 100% of the time, but when you're aiming for the top it's important to minimize distractions as much as possible. It's important to take some personal time now and again, but aim to be focused and efficient whenever you're in work mode.
Surround yourself with motivated and successful people. By surrounding yourself with other like-minded people you'll be forced to set yourself very high standards and to work extra hard in order to stand out.
 In order to succeed, you need persistence. You need to fall on your face, then get back up and try again. Success doesn't come easy, it takes consistency and determination.


Don't be afraid to fail. Failure can be a good thing, if it helps you to learn from your mistakes.
If you begin to feel demoralized, remind yourself of everything you've achieved already and how far you've come. Remember that your greatest achievement might be just around the corner!

, Being a successful business woman means you have to constantly push yourself beyond your comfort zone, take risks and be fearless in pursuit of your goals. Each individual success will increase your confidence and encourage you to strive for more. Even when things don't go as planned, remember that it's not the end of the world and you can do better next time round. Be strong, confident and brave and you will soon reap the rewards.