 People who have affairs may lash out because they feel guilty.Affairs may also be the result of a flagging, unhealthy marriage. Signs of an unhealthy relationship include: Your spouse will criticize you more often.
You will engage in more frequent fights.You will spend less time together.
He or she will avoid your calls.
A low-quality relationship can be a symptom or a cause of cheating. In either case, take steps to make things right with your partner. Talk about your concerns honestly and openly, and let them know that you love them and want a healthy, caring relationship.;
, When they become infatuated with another romantic partner, they may mention them abundantly in conversation. They might also mention their romantic partner critically in front of you, or stop mentioning them at all.Your spouse may quote a potential romantic partner at length, or relate a story about something innocuous they did together. If your spouse insists vehemently they are “just friends” with the individual in question in a way they don’t with other acquaintances, it may indicate an affair.
Alternately, if your spouse stops referring to someone he or she had spoken of frequently before (usually a coworker), it may be a sign they’re having an affair.Finally, if your spouse starts criticizing someone they previously had no problem with – a neighbor, a coworker, or friend – it may be to conceal the fact that they are actually involved with that person romantically and are attempting to mislead you.
 When your spouse is having an affair, they may take a new interest in their appearance.They want to look nice for their new romantic partner by purchasing new clothes, changing their hairstyle, or otherwise upgrading the way they look. Other visible signs your spouse may be attempting to please their lover with a new, more youthful appearance include:


visits to the dentist
a new pair of glasses
visiting the tanning salon more frequently
using a new cologne or perfume
losing weight
exercising more often

, If your partner is cheating, your intimate encounters with them may improve or evaporate depending on your partner.If your partner is satisfying his or her sexual appetite with someone else, they might have little energy left to spend on you. On the other hand, it is possible that in order to better conceal the affair, your spouse has decided to mislead you by boosting the level of intimacy at home. Perhaps the affair improved your partner’s sex drive overall or introduced them to new techniques in bed. Be on the lookout for changes in the level and type of sexual activity between you.
 If you suspect that something is wrong, don't ignore it. You may be detecting some subtle microexpressions (very brief flashes of an emotion other than the one being expressed) or insincere emotions.What is often chalked up to intuition or a gut feeling has a solid basis in biology. Trust your feelings when you suspect infidelity.

