 Naturally gorgeous skin starts with eating a diet full of vitamins and minerals. All foods break down into the building blocks that create collagen and elastic tissue, which makes your skin strong and supple.The best diet includes lots of colorful vegetables and fruits. These foods are high in vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and antioxidants that help repair damaged skin.
Avocados and olive oil contain healthy fats that make absorbing nutrients easier.
Carbohydrates – brown rice, quinoa, and squash – and proteins such as in pomegranates, Greek yogurt, and kidney beans, are also important for repairing and building muscle.
 Studies on water have shown increase blood flow to the surface of your skin, aiding the skin’s density and thickness. If the outer layer of skin, the epidermis, does not retain enough water it will lose elasticity and feel course.The signs of aging skin are minimized when you skin is hydrated by drinking 8-10 eight-ounce servings of water a day.
Despite the connection between water and a hydrated epidermis, there is no evidence that drinking excess water will increase the hydration of your skin.
Beyond water, avoid exposure to dry air, use a gentler skin cleanser, avoid products that contain alcohol, moisturize your skin after a shower, and use a humidifier to help you maintain hydrated skin.
 Green tea possesses an abundant amount of plant polyphenols and antioxidants that protect the skin against UV rays, accelerated aging of the skin, and loss of tissue elasticity.When drinking green tea, squeeze citrus juice into your tea. This provides better absorption of the antioxidants, keeping it in the body longer with lasting benefits.
Green tea is good for the eyes too. You can steep your tea for drinking and then squeeze the excess water from the tea bags. Chill green tea bags and then place them on your eyes for ten or fifteen minutes. The tannins inside the tea will constrict the skin and help reduce puffiness.
Apply green tea powder to your sunscreen. The benefits of green tea against sun damage are well-documented.
Not all studies agree with the impact green tea has on the skin when tested against the damage created by UV rays on inflammation, infection, or on cellular activity., There are few secrets when it comes to eating healthy with fruits and vegetables. A well-balanced diet is essential for a natural glowing and healthy appearance to your skin. Fruits and vegetables have an unending amount of good nutrients that will nourish your skin and prevent aging and wrinkles. Good nutrition, after all, is the foundation of healthy skin. Fruits like kiwi and pomegranates are rich in pectin, fiber, vitamin C, and antioxidants. This will help you prevent wrinkles and blemishes while ensuring your skin to be healthier, cleaner, and more beautiful.
Papayas are full of vitamin A, a natural exfoliating tonic, will leave your skin spotless while peaches provide moisture to combat dry skin.
Citrus fruits like lemons and berries are rich in vitamin C and aid in clearing your skin. Berries – strawberries, blueberries, cranberries, and bilberries – are packed with antioxidants famous for rejuvenating your skin.
Kale excels as an absorber and neutralizer of free radicals from the sun, protecting your skin from deadly UV rays, even those that penetrate your body through sunscreen. Kale also has high amounts of vitamins A and C, which helps to firm your skin.
Yellow, green, and red bell peppers help reduce wrinkles around the eyes because of the boost in antioxidants they provide. Better store up on these yummy vegetables.
Carotenoid fruits and vegetables, like carrots, contain high amounts of beta-carotene, vitamin A, and antioxidants. Carrots benefit not only your skin but also your hair, teeth, and the digestive system.
 Antioxidants stabilize the free radicals responsible for causing damage to your skin and accelerating the aging process. Vitamins A and E found in pumpkins, sweet potatoes, carrots, and cantaloupes are high in antioxidants. In other words, eating a healthy diet will help you obtain all the necessary antioxidants your body needs.Although we often associate fruits and vegetables as sources of good antioxidants, spices and herbs are actually very effective. Choose a food, like Indian cuisine, that contains lots of turmeric, one of the best spices to consume.
Nutrients such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, and selenium are good sources for antioxidants.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are excellent for strengthening your skin and are largely found in fish and nuts. These are good fats that promote the health of the cell membrane, which determines the ability of the cell to hold water, produce moisture, and help reduce wrinkles on the skin.Almonds (antioxidants, vitamin E); pecans (complex B vitamins); hazelnuts (magnesium, unsaturated fats, and vitamin E); and pistachios (vitamin E, oleic acid, and antioxidants) provide enough healthy nutrition that you no longer have to avoid the “nut tray” during holidays.
Omega-3 fatty acids are also involved in slowing down the skin’s aging process and impacts how the skin appears.
 Sugar spikes insulin levels which will induce inflammation, irritating and aging your skin. This inflammation breaks down collagen, a protein that aids in the appearance of supple skin, making your skin look dull, dry, and brittle.Although not completely conclusive, diets low on the glycemic index, a system that ranks the effect of blood-sugar levels from 1 to 100, may improve skin from acne.
Be aware of protein bars because they are a candy bar in disguise. The sugar from these bars gets into your bloodstream quickly, spiking insulin levels that will cause acne, wrinkles, and rashes.
Although fruits are high in sugar, they also have a high fiber content. Fruits are also anti-inflammatory and good for your skin.
Dark chocolate and cocoa protect the cardiovascular system, protects your brain, absorb important nutrients, and protection from sun damage to your skin. In this case, choose extra dark chocolate of at least 70 to 85% cocoa concentration.

