 Being self-motivated and goal oriented are important qualities of successful online students. You must be able to work independently. It is up to you to make sure that you complete the weekly requirements on time.Since there are not regular class meetings, it is up to you to set your own schedule. Make sure that you set a goal of getting all of your work done on time.
Be proactive. Take the lead in starting a discussion thread. If something intrigues you about the topic, make a post asking others to share their thoughts.Prepare for long-term assignments in advance. Look ahead at the syllabus and figure out when the mid-term is. Don't just start to study the week of the test.
 Having a place where you can concentrate is critical to your success. Find a physical study space that works for you. It might be a desk in your home office.If you live with others, make it clear that you are working. If your brother asks you to hang out, say, "I need to spend another hour on this course. Then we can shoot hoops."
Try to limit distractions. Don't study in front of the tv or in a room with a lot of other activity going on.
 You may not receive an A on your first assignment, and that is okay. You can learn from the comments that your professor makes on your work. For example, if your instructor tells you to use more specific examples from the course materials, make sure to integrate that advice into your next assignment.If something in your professor's comments is unclear, ask for clarification. Send a polite e-mail saying, "You noted in the comments that my essay needs better organization. Would you recommend a chronological approach for the next paper?"
Read the comments with an open mind. Don't take it personally if you do not receive the grade you want. Figure out how you can make improvements.
 Make sure to look over everything that you submit in an online course. This obviously applies to papers and assignments. You should edit, read out loud, and use spell check and grammar check.You should also proofread your discussion posts. Make sure that your points are clear and concise. Remember, these posts are graded, too.
Proofread your e-mails. You want to make a good impression when you communicate with your professor and classmates.
Spelling mistakes and grammatical errors indicate a lack of attention to detail.

