 Unless your veterinarian has told you otherwise, you probably don’t need to spend a lot of extra money on fancy dog food with added ingredients. If your dog is a normal, healthy dog, most regular dry dog food will be fine for your dog’s overall health needs.Make sure your dog's food contains the essentials. A well-balanced dog food should have between 30 – 70% of carbohydrates, 18 – 25% protein, 10 – 15% fats, though these percentages will vary based on the dog's age and health. Foods should also contain essential vitamins and minerals, including vitamins A and E, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, sodium, chloride, sulfur, and potassium. Your dog's food should also contain water, even if it is dry food.It's a mistake to think that a particular brand's Basic/Budget food is markedly inferior to its Premium and Super Premium foods. In many cases it just means that the Basic/Budget food only has the (essential) ingredients that a dog definitely needs, without the bonus additional items — for which your dog may not have the slightest need.;
, There are many different kinds of food that cater to different types of dogs. Think about your dog and their particular energy needs and choose the dry food option that is most closely related to your dog’s lifestyle and needs.There are dry food options that are specifically formulated for older dogs who have lower activity levels, but may need more nutrients and vitamins.
There are dry foods made specifically for puppies whose higher activity levels. Constant activity means they require more nutrients that will fuel their energy.
 If your dog has known allergies, it's probably more important to pay attention to whether a food is hypo-allergenic or contains certain ingredients. Even then, it's not wise to get too hung up on this question unless your dog actually shows real observable and measurable signs of a dietary intolerance. There isn't any value in trying to preempt a problem — just be guided by your vet if you notice your dog seems particularly sensitive to certain products or ingredients.Some ingredients that most often cause allergic reactions in dogs include beef, dairy, chicken, lamb, corn, wheat, yeast, and soy.
Signs of an allergic reaction include itchy skin (especially around the face, feet, ears, and forelegs); hair loss; excessive scratching; or skin infections.
 Be sure to talk to your vet about any specific recommendations they might have about what food you should feed your dog. If your dog has any special health considerations, your veterinarian will be able to tell you what kind of food will be the best for your pup.

This will give you an opportunity to ask your vet any questions you might have. There is a lot of information out there and so many different brands to choose from. Talking to your vet will help allay any fears you might have about choosing the wrong type of food for your dog.
 There is a wide variety of dog foods available from various brands. Spend some time researching a few of them so you can settle on one that you like. Try to pick a brand that has different product levels available (like a Basic/Budget food, a Premium food, and a Super Premium food) so that you can stick with the same brand if you need to switch food types for a particular nutrition need your dog may have.


Try to start with the Premium level food, if your budget allows, as it typically has better quality products than the Basic food. There usually isn’t much need for your dog to eat the Super Premium food unless it has a specific dietary need and your veterinarian has recommended a higher quality food.
Look for a brand that has a wide range. This means looking for a range of foods at different prices (i.e. Super Premium, Premium, and Basic). This will make your testing much easier.If none of your chosen brand's foods suit your dog, then move on to another non-commercial brand that offers foods in different price brackets, and go through exactly the same process.
 When deciding on what dry dog food to purchase, spend some time reading the labels of the various food types and brands. This will give you some insight into what kind of product it is and how it will affect the health of your dog. Dog foods sold in the US must have the following: product name, net weight of the product, name and address of the manufacturer, guaranteed analysis, list of ingredients, the words “dog or cat food” (intended animal species), statement of nutritional adequacy, and feeding guidelines.If this information is not in the packaging, then you should not purchase the food.


Guaranteed analysis ensures that the product contains the minimum amounts of protein, fat, water, and fiber.
The ingredient list will tell you what ingredients are contained in the food. They are listed in descending order of weight.
Note if you see the same ingredient listed again and again but in different forms (e.g. corn, flaked corn, ground corn, screened corn, kibbled corn). This may make it appear as though there is less filler (in this case, corn) in the food than there actually is.
The statement of nutritional adequacy tells you how the food was tested (feeding, laboratory analysis, or formulation). Look for the statement “complete and balanced,” which means contains at least the minimum amount of each nutrient recommended by The Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO).
Feeding guidelines will tell you how much food to feed your dog based on their age and/or weight.
Avoid foods with the following ingredients: meat by-products, a generic fat source (e.g. "animal fat"), artificial colors, sweeteners, and artificial preservatives (e.g. BHA, BHT, or ethoxyquin), Be aware that there is no such thing as "the best dry dog food." Rather, the best dry food is the one that suits your dog's particular needs, both in terms of nutrients and what your dog enjoys eating. This means reading labels and doing some trial and error testing.It may take you several months to land on the dry dog food that is right for your dog.
You should typically give a new food a few weeks during its trial period before deciding to switch to something else. This is enough time to really see how it affects your pup. If it appears to be causing an adverse reaction in your dog, then it is ok to switch to something else right away.
Don't suddenly switch out your dog's food for another brand, as this can cause stomach upset. Rather, gradually switch to a new food by mixing it with the old food. Start out feeding your dog 25% new food, 75% old food. After a couple days, move to 50% of each, then 25% old food and 75% new food, and finally 100% new food. This can be done over a period of about seven days., See whether it's possible for the brands to send you samples rather than you having to spend ridiculous amounts of money on big bags of food.Some companies (like Petsmart) have policies that will allow you to return opened bags of food that your dog does not like and exchange it for another type of food.
 Dogs are carnivores by nature and they need a protein-rich diet to maintain a healthy life. Dog food provides this protein by including meat, eggs, and dairy products as major ingredients in the food.Protein gives your dog the real, usable energy it needs to stay healthy and active. Energy from these types of food are converted into energy more effectively than energy obtained by eating carbs.
A puppy typically needs 28% of its diet to be comprised of protein.A normal adult dog should get 18% of its diet from protein.
A highly active dog should have protein make up 25% of its diet.
 Fats are necessary for your dog's health, and should make up about 10 – 15% of their diet. Good sources of fat include omega-3 fatty acids, found in fish oils (herring, salmon, etc.) and flaxseed and canola oils, as well as omega-6 fatty acids, found in pork fat, poultry fat, as well as oils (safflower, sunflower, corn and soybean).Tallow and lard are not quality sources of fat for dogs and should be avoided.
Fats from table scraps or excessive treats can lead to health issues for your dog. Avoid giving your dog too many calories and make sure they get exercise to put that protein and fat to use., Carbs can provide a quick source of energy for your dog as well as fiber, and complex carbs can help keep your dog feeling full until their next meal. Try to avoid foods that contain refined grains or simple carbs, which have reduced nutritional value and can cause your dog's blood glucose levels to spike.Technically, your dog does not need carbohydrates in their diet — they could get by on just protein and fats. This doesn't mean, however, that your dog's body can't utilize or benefit from cabs. They can be an acceptable form of energy and nutrients, and their inclusion makes dog food more affordable.
Carbohydrates should make up between 30 – 70% of the nutrients found in the dog food, but no more than that.
 In Premium and Super Premium dry dog foods, there are usually bonus ingredients that may or may not be beneficial for your dog. You'll notice that in comparison to a brand's Basic/Budget food, the Premium and Super Premium foods have some great sounding bonus additions like herbs (which add to the taste and are said to aid digestion) or Glucosamine, Condroitin, and MSM (which are believed to be beneficial to your dog's joints).You should talk to your dog's veterinarian to determine if your dog needs these additional ingredients.

There are other additional bonus ingredients to be found in the more expensive foods, but they're too numerous to mention. These nutrients typically aren’t necessary unless your dog has a specific dietary need, as recommended by your veterinarian.
Some of these ingredients are assumed to provide some added benefit for your dog’s health, but there is usually no conclusive evidence to prove this. A case in point here is that while many people truly believe that Glucosamine, Condroitin, and MSM are great for their dogs' mobility (and maybe they are in some cases), there's still no absolutely conclusive scientific evidence to back this up and their effectiveness seems to be different for every dog.
Be aware that more is not always better, even when it comes to vitamins and nutrients. Dogs will have different dietary requirements, and over-supplementation may lead to health issues in an otherwise healthy dog.

