 Cut the mango into halves or thirds while avoiding the large pit. Then, make vertical cuts on the piece you're holding. Be careful not to cut through the skin. Now make horizontal cuts to create a checkered pattern. Grasp the skin on the back of the half and push it forward.


The chunks you cut should come out, making the mango piece look like a flower.
Next, just pull off the mango chunks.
If they don't give, use a knife to slice them off into a bowl or a spoon to scrape them off.
 Place the cubed mango in a bowl, grab a spoon, and enjoy! If you want to save the cubed mango for later, put it in Tupperware, but recognize that it's best enjoyed fresh and will get soggy if you put it away for a while.


Add a touch of lemon juice to the mango for zest.
 Cubed mango can be a fantastic addition to any fruit salad. If you don't want the salad to be overwhelmed by mango juice, drain the mango chunks before adding them to the salad. Here are some suggestions for making a delicious mango salad: :


Make a salad with papaya, apples, and cantaloupe.
Make a salad from mangos and pineapples. Add a pinch of cinnamon for flavor.
Make a salad of mangos, pears, and a few cherries sliced in half.
Eat a salad of mangos and oranges with a touch of lime juice.
 Though you may think mangos work best in fruit salads and desserts because of their sweet and juicy flavor, they can add a perfect kick to almost any main course. Here are a few examples of ways to use mango chunks in main courses:


Create mango salsa just with papaya, avocado, a little bit of lemon juice, and some cilantro. You can put the salsa over chicken, beef, or shrimp, or just use it for potato or plantain chips.
Put the cubes of mango in a burrito.
Use the mango in Caribbean rice or any other foods with a Caribbean flavor.
 Mangos are naturally sweet and would work well in many desserts. Here are some suggestions:


Put cubes of mango into yogurt.
Put cubes of mango into ice cream.
Put the cubes of mango into rice pudding along with some raisins.
You can put the cubes on top of these desserts, or stir them in.

