 If you want your favorite coffee shop office space to not go out of business, you need to help support it by spending money during your time there. If you’ve chosen a spot with lots of good food and drinks at reasonable prices, you should be able to patronize the shop without putting too much of a dent in your wallet.


Buying one drink every two to three hours of work is considered fair.If you are working through lunchtime, consider buying your lunch from their menu.
Tip the baristas well. This will also likely keep you from suffering “the evil eye” after you’ve taken up a table for a few hours.
 You don’t need to take another seat for your laptop bag, etc. Put them on the floor if you need to. Leave the chairs for other customers.Chose a bag with a long strap to wrap around your ankle if you are concerned about someone possibly taking it.
 Try your best to make one table work for you by not spreading out too much.


One way to conserve space is to have as many of your work materials already in digital form on your laptop or on flash drives.
 Coffee shops make their money in direct proportion to the number of customers they serve. If they can’t turn over your table because you keep overstaying your welcome, the shop will lose customers and profit.


As long as you keep spending money, most places welcome you to stay until closing, but you should NEVER stay past closing time.
If you are freeloading, eight hours is considered pushing it, so take that into consideration.Consider using a timer on your phone or laptop to signal when you may be coming to the end of a reasonable stay.
 It may be best to avoid working in the shop during times when they generate their key profits from turning tables.Try having two shops or more to frequent that have different high volume schedules and then working your schedule to accommodate those times.
 Although shops generally don’t require you to do so, it’s a very good way of showing consideration for the employees.


As a regular who cleans up after themselves, you are likely to find employees will be much more receptive to your long visits., If you go to the restroom, take easily carried valuables like your phone and wallet with you, and ask a trusted neighbor to keep an eye on the remainder of your stuff.


If you are a regular who has earned the respect of the employees, you will often find they will be receptive to keeping an eye on your things.

