 A depth of 1 inch (2.5 cm) is about right. If the weather is warm and the dog is not likely to escape the yard, take the bath outside. Otherwise, use a bathtub or place a bucket in the shower.
 If the dog has a waterproof toy she especially loves, let her hold on to it in the bath., Bring the dog into the room and praise him in a gentle, encouraging tone. Place him at the edge of the tub, stroke him to help him calm down, and slowly introduce him to the water. It's ideal if he steps in on his own, but you may need to place him in the tub yourself. Give him a treat if he stops trying to leave.


If the dog has a full-blown fear reaction, you may need to take him outside and sponge him there instead, or wash under a thin trickle from a hose.
 If the dog is not panicking, turn the tap or hose on in a slow trickle. Just fill the tub to the level of the dog's knees if he can't stand a deeper bath.

Remember, the water should be lukewarm, not hot or cold enough to startle the dog.
 Scoop up the water from the tub with a cup and pour it in a trickle on the dog's back, or splash it gently onto the dog with your hands. If she doesn't try to jump out, praise her and give her a treat. Repeat until her whole back is wet, stopping to soothe her when necessary. If your dog is terrified of water, you may have to wash her this way in a shallow tub, at least the first couple times you give her a bath.


If the dog is still nervous, praise her and give a treat every time you move a little further down the back.
 Turn off the water and rub the dog shampoo into the dog's back, from the neck to tail., Pour water from the cup again over the shampooed fur. Rub the fur with your hands as you pour to rinse off the shampoo and comfort the dog at the same time., Dogs tend to be more skittish about their face. Sponge it with a damp cloth or sponge, minimizing the amount of running water. If your dog is skittish about his legs or belly, do the same for these areas.

Make sure to keep soap out of the dog's eyes.
If the dog panics when you try this, finish it as fast as you can. Next time, you may want to wipe these areas separately, not during bath time.
 Get the dog out of the tub and let him shake if he wants to. Dry him off with a big, warm towel while praising him. Give him a final treat or two so he associates a successful bath with a big reward.

