 Why are you bringing your laptop, are there other alternatives? Could you do your work in an internet cafe and save your work on a USB or hard drive?;
, Regardless of your method of travel, you will need something to protect the laptop from movement and harm during transport. Use a case that can be carried as you would carry a briefcase, or a shoulder bag that is made well and provides padding and cushion.
 Do not leave your computer unattended in airports, train stations, or bus terminals. If you are traveling by car, be sure to keep it out of sight when you get out of the car for gas, food, and bathroom breaks. Take it into hotels with you overnight. If you are in a crowd keep you bag on your front. If you want to travel light it is best that you leave less valuable bulky luggage in storage.
 In hot countries heat and humidity can cause problems for your laptop.
 In some countries like India it is important you have a voltage stabilizer.
 You will want to be able to pick it up off the conveyor belt immediately after it goes through the x-ray.
 Be sure your firewall is in place, and ensure you have anti-virus and anti-spyware applications running.
 When you travel, try not to transmit credit card information, or personal identification such as social security numbers or birth dates.
 Choose passwords that you can easily remember, but are not obvious.
 Retailers such as Dell, Staples and Office Depot offer coverage for laptops. Most policies cover accidental damage, and some policies also cover loss and theft. Beware insurance for your laptop does not cover leaving your laptop unattended and is limited to 90 days and travel insurance although it covers more than 90 days usually has an item limit of around £300.
 There are ways you can keep your laptop safer when travelling, you could get a laptop lock(Kensington) and alarm such as alert both of these are more aimed at being deterrents than keeping your laptop totally safe, so it is best to keep it with you at all times.

