 One way to help you be more tired at the end of the day is exercise. It helps burn off energy and tire you out, with the added bonus of helping your burn calories. It also helps energize you right after you work out, which gives you an extra push during the day. Plus, the tiredness from the exertion comes on later in the day to help you sleep better at night.


Never work out two or three hours before bed. This kind of activity that late is too stimulating for your body and will keep you up.;
, To improve your sleeping situation, you need to improve your sleep hygiene, which is a series of steps that help you get regular and restful sleep. Make sure you limit activities in your bed that don't relate to it. This means you should only use your bed for sleep and sexual activity.


Avoid watching TV or reading in bed, because your body will start associating wakeful activities with your bed, which can interrupt your sleep patterns., One reason your body may not be falling asleep is because it is working overtime to digest food. Because of this, don't eat anything heavy at least two hours before you go to bed. Your body will still be digesting it, which can make you have more energy and cause sleeplessness.


Also avoid caffeine, especially late at night. For some people, caffeine should be stopped after noon. For others, a little later in the afternoon is fine, but make sure you avoid it at night.If you are hungry and need to eat close to bedtime, try foods that have tryptophan, an amino acid that helps produce sleep inducing brain chemicals. These include milk, yogurt, oats, bananas, eggs, peanuts, tuna, and poultry. A small bowl of cereal, for example, is a great snack to eat close to bedtime that may help induce sleep instead of keep you up., To help you sleep, you should avoid letting too much light into your room. Exposure to light decreases the production of melatonin, a hormone that encourages sleep that is stimulated in the dark. If you have too much light, your melatonin levels will stay low, which may cause sleeplessness.


This light can also be from electronic devices. Avoid too much exposure to light in the hour or two leading up to bedtime. , Sleeping requires a comfortable bed and bedroom. This can vary from person to person, but common things that contribute to comfortable bedrooms are cozy sheets and comforters, proper pillows, and comfortable pajamas. Since you are enveloped in these things when you sleep, any irritation from them can disrupt your sleep cycle.


Temperature control is also important when sleeping. If you are too hot or too cold, you may have a hard time sleeping. Find the right temperature for you.
Noise also causes uncomfortable sleeping arrangements. If you live in a noisy area or have noisy roommates, use earplugs or soft, calming music to block out annoying and loud sounds., Every day, follow a routine for going to bed and waking up. This will help your body get used to the activities and make your sleeping patterns more regular. The routine can be anything that works well for you. Activities such as reading, washing your face and teeth, changing into your pajamas, preparing tomorrow’s lunch, sitting outside for awhile, or practicing relaxation techniques are common in nighttime routines. Try a few combinations to see what works best for you.


Whatever routine you choose, make sure it isn't too stimulating and that you associate it in your mind with sleeping and rest., When you can't go to sleep, you may get annoyed and frustrated. Try not to, because this will only make it harder for your to go to sleep. If you don’t fall asleep right when you get into bed, don’t fight it. Just get our of bed and do some part of your routine or something else relaxing that might help you move towards sleep.


In these moments, avoid eating a midnight snack, doing anything too stimulating like video games or exercise, or working yourself up because you can't sleep. The point is to relax in order to move closer to sleep, not move your farther from it.A glass of warm milk may help calm you down, both from the warmth and the tryptophan.