 You will start the game with the Dodge Dart GT (a Class D car), but you must buy better and higher class cars to remain competitive and progress through Single Player mode.


Buy a car that has good acceleration and handling so you can get a head start in races by knocking down other cars and finish the race without wrecking many times. If you're a beginner, make sure that your car has at least 1.200 for handling. If you're a pro that can control your car, you don't have to worry about your car's handling.
For beginners, it's a good idea to buy the Audi R8 and E-tron and Tesla Model S also for Class D.;
, Start a race in Single Player mode, start knocking down other cars, and try to complete all levels with flying colors.
 Some shortcut roads are short while some are long. To find the shortest shortcut road on every track, just go across the road without using nitro.


Please keep in mind that you should always use the short way unless your nitro is very fast. For that, you have to explore places. Great Wall have nearly 6 routes. There is a good chances for you to find shortcuts.
 Racing with players from around the world is harder than you think.


When playing in Multiplayer mode, remember shortcut road, plan your strategy and your way to go across before the race starts.
The higher your level is, the more money you get.
 Try doing a Barrel Roll, Flat Spin, and other driving techniques to gain nitro and gain precious seconds.


Barrel Roll is easy, but the trick to a Flat Spin is to just drift when you arrive at a ramp and you will automatically do a Flat Spin.
 If you have enough credits to upgrade your car's performance, take the opportunity to do so. This will give you greater results during the races.


Be clever. Remember that Acceleration and Top Speed alone will not lead you to victory. Upgrading your Handling lets you have more control and avoid crashes during a race.
Acceleration can push your car faster! Upgrade your car's Acceleration if you need some extra speed.
Upgrade to maximum speed! Do this to upgrade your Speed and Acceleration.
Have Nitro. It is the most powerful thing and must-have if you want to win the race. Upgrade it so you can cut another racer easily, and knock down another racer easily in Single Player!

, Don't worry about other players, because aggressive play is needed in Asphalt 8 to burn down your friend's (or enemy's) position. It can also lead you to victory.


Knock down as many cars as you can! To knock down other racers, hit up your Nitro and ram or hit them. Try to knock down all of them.
In Multiplayer mode, it's hard to knock down other players. Gameloft just changes their game knockdown mode to balance so everybody can safely play the game. However, this is not bad news. To knock down other racers in Multiplayer mode, flank them from the side and push them to the wall as hard as you can. This will automatically knock them down.

Alternatively, you could simply hit up a maximum 100% Nitro with a Top Speed nitro (more than 35km/h nitro speed). Hit them from their back to knock them down!


You can also use the Death From Above tactical strike to knock down other racers. Ram them into a ramp, and hit them from the skies.



Practice drifting perfectly without crashing or being hit! This will automatically refuel your Nitro. When on the straight road, try to do some small drifts; however please note that drifting can slow your vehicle.
Practice Knockdowns to refuel your Nitro by

