 Take it slow, don't get discouraged, and realize that your dog is trusting you a lot by allowing you to lead it up a frightening, unstable-feeling, freaky obstacle that he doesn't understand. However, if you do get this accomplished, be proud!;
, Due to this, it will be a lot different for him/her going up the stairs, than with you or a non-blind dog. Before starting, make sure your dog is very comfortable in your home and with you. Then, introduce him to the stairs.
 Never begin at the top; your dog might fall down and become forever scared and petrified of the stairs. Get your dog comfortable and play around with him. Next, gently pull his front paws up onto the stairs.
 If you aren't, your dog won't see any point in putting his paws up, and immediately take them back down. Make sure he knows that you are on the stairs, and that you are completely safe.
 If you show him that you are happy and safe, he should be fine. Pet him/her and compliment him for doing so well. This will make your dog feel more comfortable and help it relax. Do the same with the next few steps, and reward your dog with a treat.
 Pull the treat away from him slowly, making sure his head and body moves forward reaching out to it.


Slowly pull the treat up to the next step. If you are nervous, you can take your dog back down and begin on the bottom step again. Your dog might trip or bump into the step as he leans towards the treat. At this time, encourage him and jump up onto the next step.
He now knows that not only the treat, but also his soul companion, is on the next step above him. If he appears confused or scared, encourage him and pull one of his paws up onto the next step. He should place his other paw up and with proper encouragement manage up. If he pulls his paw down, replace both his paws onto the next step. If he needs, push his bottom up a little so he gets the idea to go up. When he does, give him a treat, pet him, and compliment him.
 He should gradually get better at this, and go up the stairs more quickly as he realizes he gets treats and compliments each time he does.
 Do so before giving him a treat, and the rest of the deal. Next, get his leash, lead rope, or muzzle. Encourage him up the steps as before except now, go 2 steps up and pull gently on the rope to encourage him up.


When he goes up to you, you may give him a treat and compliment him, or you may wait. If you wait, continue up the stairs until you reach the top, at this point you may give him an overdose of love and several treats. Do this repeatedly.
 He will probably come up, but if he doesn't go down a step to encourage him. Once at the top treat and move on.
 Place your dog at the bottom step, and move yourself to the top. Encourage him and let him know you have treats and that you want him up at the top with you.


He will probably begin up the steps gradually. Also, he will be confused as he wonders why you are not as near to him as you were in the other training sessions. However, he will probably, trying to find you, continue up the stairs. Continue encouraging him, if he slows, go down a few steps or let him sniff the treat and go back up. When he reaches the top, treat and complement.
 Also, if he goes up the stairs by himself or when he does, always make sure to compliment him. Sooner or later, he should be able to go up the stairs by himself.

