 Bleach is a strong chemical; it can irritate and even burn your scalp and skin. The natural oils that build up when you don’t wash your hair will protect your scalp from these harsh irritants. Give your hair at least a 48 hour break from shampooing before you begin the bleaching process.Deep-condition your hair a week before you plan to bleach. This can help minimize hair damage and breakage associated with bleaching.;
, Unless you were born with very light red hair, you will probably have to bleach first to achieve a true color change. Developer is the chemical that lifts color from your hair. The strength you need depends on how many shades you have to lift.Dark red hair will need a stronger developer than lighter red shades.


Vol 40 is the strongest developer. It will lift four levels, or shades, from your hair.Vol 30 will lift two to three levels.
Vol 20 will lift one to two levels.
 Pick up the developer strength you need and bleach powder at a beauty supply store. Grab an applicator and a pair of plastic gloves, too. Put on the protective gloves and pour equal parts bleach powder and developer in a large bowl. Stir until they are fully incorporated.Drape a towel around your shoulders to protect them from the bleach right before you begin.
 Bleaching is an easier process if you start by dividing your hair up into four manageable sections. Part your hair down the middle, from crown to nape. Then divide those sections in half horizontally, from one ear to the other. Use a hair clip to secure each section on top of your head.Working in sections also helps you get the most even coverage and results.
 Bleach the bottom sections first. Remove the hair clip from one of the bottom sections of hair. Apply the bleach mixture to that section of hair with the applicator, working from root to tip. Get as close to the roots as you can, but don’t get the bleach on your scalp. Completely saturate that section of hair, then carefully clip it back up., Unclip the next section and apply the bleach in the exact same way. Clip it back up and repeat until you’ve finished saturating all four sections of hair with the mixture. Paint the mixture on in thin layers to make sure you get full and even coverage.


If you like, you can wrap your hair up with saran wrap or place a shower cap over it to prevent dripping, but you don’t have to., The exact time frame depends on the current color of your hair and the specific products you’re using, but 30-45 minutes is the typical range. Never leave bleach on your hair longer than 60 minutes. If it helps, set a timer so you won’t lose track of time.Check your hair every ten minutes or so to gauge progress.
 Cold water reacts with the bleach chemicals and causes them to stop processing your hair immediately. Rinse the bleach mixture out carefully and thoroughly. Follow up the rinse by shampooing twice to ensure you’ve completely removed all of the bleach mixture., Use a comb to divide your hair into four manageable sections. Part your hair down the center, from the crown of your head to the nape of your neck. Then divide those sections in half, horizontally, from ear to ear. Clip each section of your hair up and out of the way so you can concentrate on one at a time., Put on protective gloves. Pour the dye components and developer into a large bowl, then mix it up until until fully incorporated. Check the instructions that came with your products to make sure there aren’t any additional directions., Drape a towel around your shoulder. Start with one of the top sections and work your way down to the bottom two. Unclip one of the top sections of hair. Use an applicator to saturate the section with the dye mixture. Use thin coats to ensure even application. Once saturated, clip it back up., Take out the clip and use the applicator to thoroughly apply the dye mixture to your hair. Once saturated, clip it back up out of the way. Continue in this fashion until you’ve saturated all of your hair with the dye., Different products and brands will vary in exact time frames for color development, but in general, you’ll be waiting anywhere from 20 to 45 minutes. Check the instructions that came with yours and follow those specific directions., Rinse thoroughly while gently massaging your scalp. Continue to rinse until the water runs completely clear. Once rinsed you can proceed to style your hair right away., Try to go a few days between shampoos, since your hair color will fade slightly with every wash. Use cold water when shampooing, which is easier on color-treated hair.Try out dry shampoo, which can help you prolong the time between washings.
 These products, which you can pick up at beauty supply stores, can help you keep your newly-dyed locks looking vibrant. Pick up one or two brands and give them a try. There are easy-to-apply semi-permanent dye products you can look into to help preserve your color, as well., Bleaching and dyeing chemicals can be tough on hair. You may experience damage and breakage after going through the process. This is normal! To combat this, deep-condition at least once per week to restore much needed nutrients and moisture. Apply a rich and moisturizing hair mask every couple of weeks, as well., Heat styling tools can fade your hair color. Whenever possible, forego the blow dryer and let your hair air-dry. Use flat irons and curling irons as minimally as possible. When you do use them, apply a protective heat serum to your hair before proceeding. Use the lowest heat setting your styling tools will allow.