 With both retirement and disability benefits, you will be receive a monthly payment directly into your bank account. The benefits are paid in the month after they are due. For example, your August benefits will go into your bank account in September. For retirement benefits, the exact date you receive payment will depend on your date of birth. If you were born between the 1st and 10th of a month, you will get the benefit on the second Wednesday of the month.


If you were born between the 11th and 20th, you will receive the payment on the third Wednesday.
If you were born between the 21st and 31st, your payment will be processed on the fourth Wednesday of the month.
If you are receiving retirement benefits based on someone else's earning record, the payment date will be calculated according to this person's date of birth.
For example, if you are earning benefits based on your spouse's earnings record, the date will be determined from your spouse's date of birth., During the application process, you will have provided the required bank details in order for you to receive electronic payments. This is an easy and efficient way to pay out benefits, and it means that the money goes directly into your account without you needing handle any checks or cash. Most commonly you will be paid through direct deposit.


An alternative electronic payment method is the Direct Express card program. With this method you sign up to receive a specific card, which your benefits payments will be paid directly onto.
You can sign up for this program by calling the toll-free Treasury Electronic Payment Solution Contact Center at 1-800-333-1795. You can also sign up online at http://www.GoDirect.org.
You can also get the benefit paid to an Electronic Transfer Account. This is a low-cost federally-insured account that you can use for electronic payments.
Banks, savings and loans, and credit unions all offer this account. Find a local provider by visiting the website at http://www.eta-find.gov., It is possible that you will have to pay taxes on your social security retirement benefits. Around 40% of people currently receiving social security benefits pay tax on this income. If you file a federal tax return as an "individual", and your income is more than $25,000, you will have to pay tax on your benefits.


If you file a joint return, you will have to pay tax on your benefits if you and your spouse have a joint income of more than $32,000.
If you are married, but file separate returns, it is most likely that you will have to pay tax on your benefits..

