 Playing games helps you get money based upon if you win, how much time it takes you to finish the game, or what points did someone else get. Some games gives you tickets instead of money. These tickets can be used to buy specific items at a store.;
, Booty Grab is a 'game' linked to aquariums where you and the tank owner can earn lots of Gold. Go to the Aquarium forms and look for a Booty Grab thread.


While on the thread look for glowing fish in the fish tanks in the poster's signature.
 There is a lot of discussion, whether it's game related or off-the-wall talk, you will get money out of them. So just reply to a random question or join in a conversation that piques your interests.
 Vote and become a judge in a variety of contests and artwork showcases, such as best house, best avatar, or best art piece.
 Every day, a little red machine will pop up above the Gaia toolbar. It will hold a surprise in it, for example money or other nice items. If you go to the main page, the world page, and the forums page, there will be a daily chance machine.
 You will get "paid" for just looking at pages. Browse around the discussion forums, catch butterflies, or click on random links - there will be a small pop-up at the top saying how much you have earned while browsing.
 Go to the Gaia towns and walk around. You'll see trees and bushes that you can shake and money can be earned. For seasonal and special events, there may be other objects as well.
 There is a trading option for trading objects and money.
 Always be on alert when they announce, "Watch _____, Get ____ gold!". You will need a Firefox plug-in called "IDM Flash Plugin" in order to watch videos from Gaia Cinemas.


When you get into the theater, it may take between 2 and 8 minutes of waiting period before the actual video starts. After the video is over, additional instructions will be given (either in a pop-up or on the cinema screen). Follow the instructions to receive the gold/prize.
 This is a favorite way to earn money on Gaia. Many people on the site love getting avi art, or art for their OC. Try making them some traditional art, or maybe even art that you drew on the computer (with Photoshop/Paint/etc) and they may give you tips! If your good enough, try opening a shop to make even more money! (Note: Go to the Freebie Artboard & start there if you are new to drawing people!)

, Go to your aquarium, and click on the aquarium inventory tab at the top of your tank. Then go to the decoration tab in your aquarium inventory tab, and there will be a small statue.


Place that in your tank, and clicking on it daily will get you gold or some sort of item.






Also, if you click on the bottle picture on the top of your tank, next to your aquarium inventory tab, you can make a message in a bottle. Once you make one, you can write messages in other players bottles, and get rewarded in gold for it.
 Working the Gaia Exchange, a place where you can buy and sell items cheaply, and then sell them for more on the marketplace is a way for Gaians to make millions of gold per DAY in some cases. It takes skill and dedication to read the marketplace (inflation/deflation) but is very profitable!

