 If you need to get your fitness level up, practice for 30 minutes every day until you feel that you're around the same level as the other players on your team.
 When dribbling, keep the ball close to you. Don't kick it very far away from you so that you need to speed up to get it again. Lightly move the ball forward with the outside of your foot. Start out by walking and dribbling. Once you've mastered that, move on to jogging and dribbling at the same time, and then sprinting and dribbling. Finally, you may want to try out some simple tricks(consider watching YouTube tutorials).
 When passing, kick the ball with the inside of your foot. Don't kick it with your toes. Adjust the force that you kick the ball with according to how far away from you the player that you're trying to get the ball to is. Don't kick it too hard, because they might not be able to receive it, but don't kick it so lightly that it won't reach them.
 When shooting, the ball should make contact on the lace area of your foot. The rule for shooting is to take a few steps back, place one foot(standing foot) beside the ball, and then kick it with your other foot(stronger foot). Practice doing this, and then eventually you'll be able to do it without thinking about it.
 Most players are right-footed, so left-footed players have an advantage. Players that are able to use both feet effectively are the ultimate threat.
 Make sure to look up before passing and shooting so that you can determine where you want the ball to go. Bring a friend/family member outside and practice passing to them from different distances. Then practice shooting on net. The more you practice this, the better you'll get.
 If the ball is coming towards you in the air, perform a header. Position yourself so that the ball hits you at approximately where your hairline starts. It shouldn't hit you in the face or too far back on your head. This skill takes a while to master, but it's worth it.
 You can't use your hands in soccer, but you can use basically every other part of your body. If the ball is coming to you, stop it by letting the ball hit your chest, knee, or foot. Don't be scared of the ball.
 These not only look great and will impress others, but they're often used to get or keep the ball away from the other team.
 To do a good throw in, grab the ball in both hands, put your hands behind your head, and throw it as far as you can. Make sure to keep your hands behind your head and both feet on the ground at all times, or else the referee will call it and also your chest must be facing the direction you are throwing the ball to.

.