 Is it for the glamor? The cool factor? The connection to genius (or at least musical competence)? The thought that you might get songs written about you? These aren't the best reasons in the book, and it'd probably be best to be glamorous, cool, or creative yourself.;
, Do you want a hip indie rocker in tight pants? A Macho metal guy? A dramatic goth boy? A political punk? A down to earth folk guy? An unfathomable avant-garde musician? Do you want a cocky lead guitarist? A cool bass player? A nice drummer? A keyboard player? A sousaphone player? (Note: the author has no idea where to find a sousaphone player, let alone how to date one, best of luck.) (Sub-note: you can find a sousaphone player in your high school or college marching band. A sousaphone is essentially a tuba made for marching.)

, Also develop a working knowledge of cultural phenomenon surrounding that movement (key books, movies, etc) so that when speaking with the likely very music/pop culture focused musician you display an awareness of music beyond the usual groupie squealing.
 Develop a style that both fits in with, and stands out from other girls in your desired scene. Do not dress in an overtly sexual manner, this will only get you one night stands, usually with the least attractive guy in the band. This does not mean dress like a nun, it means dressing like you would on a date. Think classy (or well, intellectual, or generally not "have me now wear" depending on the genre, punks are rarely "classy") Basically, you don't want to look like a groupie, you want to look like a potential girlfriend.
 It's usually best if this interest isn't music unless you're already talented in that area, badly done music is a turn off for most musicians. Musician's are creative types so they usually date girls of similar temperament.
 Pick some potential targets, and find out who has a girlfriend (from my knowledge, girls who hit on guys with girlfriends often get very bad reputations in the music scene) and strike up a conversation with one of the guys you're interested in. Mention you like the band (but don't rhapsodize about how they're the best thing ever) talk about music for a bit (tell him how they remind you of one of the bands you learned about in your studies that sound like they influenced the band, and then go off on general bands you like), and ask questions about the musician (not about the band). Ask him where he grew up, where he got that shirt, that sort of thing. Remember, he's probably sick of talking about the band.
, This will not only improve your knowledge of music, it may even make you smarter than your prospective musician boyfriend, especially if he plays guitar or drums (no offense to guitarists and drummers). There's nothing better than having a partner who can give new insights into improving one's own craft. Girls who seem very educated in music (without being condescending) and are also passionate about it are very attractive to musicians. Note: You don't have to have a PhD to get the knowledge needed to impress him. Just read a few music theory books and you'll have him in awe.

