 First things first, Aries is a fiery, passionate, sexual sign. If your lustful, impulsive side is at all buried under a pile of inhibitions or insecurities, your Aries will quickly look the other way. So get to flirting and constantly -- it's a primary source of fun and reaffirmation for this sign of the zodiac. In their minds, it keeps every situation spicy!


Flirt with him on every level -- with your body, with your eyes, and with your words. To make him even more entertained, make it subtle with double entendres and plays on words. The Aries man loves a clever woman who can keep him thinking on his toes.;
, Aries men are very tuned into their bodies and how others operate in theirs. To satisfy this need of his, use your body language to draw him in. As you pass him, graze his back. Tousle his hair at the nape of his neck. Dangle a heel against his calf. He loves the challenge of not being able to think straight!


This being said, Aries men do love an intellectual woman. They're all about passion, novelty, and excitement. If you can keep them engaged on multiple levels (intellectually, sensually, etc.) they'll be even more amazed and in awe of you.
 Most Aries men are attracted to women who are quite feminine. They want to be with a woman who they can provide for, who they can feel needs them like a damsel in distress. Crazily enough, clothes can convey this meaning. Dresses and skirts can remind him of your femininity and still be classy!


Since your Aries is so sensual, it's important to smell great, too. You want to engage all his senses. Soft skin to touch, a luscious scent to smell, a feminine silhouette to gaze upon, etc. You want to keep his mind reeling 24/7.
 Let's put it out there: the Aries man is pretty fond of himself. He can be rather self-centered and egotistical. In order to get into his head, you'll have to play along. Give him the praise he believes he deserves. He'll think you're just showing good sense!


This can be a quality that's a little hard to come to terms with. Realize that it's just a part of his personality and how he operates. Some will find it charming; others will find it painful. If you can find it charming, he'll love you for it!

, The Aries man needs a strong personality to counter his boundless enthusiasm and drive. Though he does crave a damsel in distress, he also needs a woman that's confident. Kinda seems like a contradiction in terms, but it is doable. Show him that you love who you are and he won't be able to argue with it. Who could?


Just because you're praising him and being coquettish doesn't mean you can't be confident about it! On the contrary, doing these things shows him that you know what you're doing and are comfortable deferring to others.
 In addition to confidence, Aries loves a woman who is clever. They want someone who can play at all levels -- the Aries man is not a fan of boredom (and that's putting it lightly). They need to be entertained. Being clever can do just that!


Go ahead, tease your Aries! They'll love the attention, especially if you do it slyly and with a grin. Don't just spit out facts -- add humor and dynamism to your words. In short, be yourself!


, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius are all what are called "fire" signs. This means just what it sounds like -- they are enthusiastic, larger than life, and unstoppable. They are generally very self-assured, confident, sexual and incredibly creative. Your Aries is just that!


The downside of this is that they have very strong personalities and can be seen as rather bossy. When a fire sign gets too hot to touch, you may need to stand back to avoid "getting burnt." If you can handle the heat, stay in the kitchen!

, Let your Aries man always think that he is the pursuer and you are his lovely catch. He sits naturally in the role and loves nothing more than an old fashioned chase. So don’t make it easy for him and enjoy the attention he pores on you as he slowly circles you and draws you in. This is the best position for you to be in to get an Aries man.


Take pleasure in knowing that you are actually dictating the moves while he is none the wiser. But don't be the mouse that runs away and can't be seen anymore -- stay just out of his reach. Let him think he's making progress and about to get you. If he doesn't see progress happening, he'll find another mouse to play with.
 Aries loves a woman who can challenge him mentally. Don't be afraid to start an intellectual debate with him to get his brain juices running. He should be in awe of you just as much as you're in awe of him!



However, be careful with this. He likes being on top. If you prove him wrong, he may get emasculated and not be able to handle it. Give concessions. Agree to disagree or tell him that he's made valid points that are getting you thinking. He really likes debating -- he also really likes winning.
 There is no room for boredom in Aries' life. The second they get bored, they go elsewhere seeking fulfillment and excitement. So seek adventure yourself! Suggest dates that are exotic and a little crazier than your typical dinner and a movie. Go to an amusement park, go hiking, or go on an impromptu road trip. Keep it spicy!


Not only is this good advice for Aries, but it's good advice for everyone. Ever heard of the Capilano Bridge Experiment? Turns out there's such a thing as a "misattribution of arousal" -- meaning that when your body gets aroused (be it from heights or horror, etc.), you don't know why -- and you attribute it to the sexiness of your partner!, Aries (fire signs in general, really) tend to have a few characteristics that others find off-putting: They can be selfish, jealous, temperamental, childish, and moody. When this side breaks out, it's important to stay calm and not take it too personally. If they're displaying emotion, it means they care!


That being said, Aries are full of great qualities, too (otherwise you wouldn't be attracted to them in the first place!) They are driven, confident, charismatic, clever, sensual creatures. Their less positive traits are just more obvious because their personalities are so strong.
 Aries loves the thrill of the chase so much it can seem hard to keep them running after you for more than a hot minute. But it is possible if done with a bit of panache. Don't give your entire personality up at the get-go. Leave little gems for them to discover along the way to keep them thinking there's more of you to conquer!


Because of this, it's important that you maintain your own self in this relationship. Keep up your hobbies, have a world they're not a part of. That way Aries will feel like there's more territory they need to gain, a more thorough understanding they can have of you. They don't want their partner to be easily figured out!

, Remember that "Aries hate being bored," thing? Get around this by being a little naughty and impulsive. They are too, so when you show this side, they'll get it. Suggest an impromptu romp and refer to it as a "power lunch." They'll be left reeling for days.


In addition to impulsive sexual behavior, be impulsive with your lifestyle! Surprise gifts, surprise trips, spur-of-the-moment changes in plans -- Aries will eat it up. They'll spend every day wondering what the next will have in store. And looking forward to it!

, When you're springing surprise romantic gestures on your man, make it clear you've been paying attention. He'll love seeing that you remember that one comment on Star Wars he made three months ago. That's admiration in its finest form! The little things mean a ton to him.


This goes back to Aries needing praise and attention. Even if he seems self-assured and like he needs nothing, it's not true. He still needs others, craving their approval and notice. These little displays of your awesome observational skills will let him know you're there and giving him just what he needs.
 Aries is a fire sign and needs to be let loose to find his true power. If you try to reign him in, he'll just explode. He relishes his independence and thrives on it, so it's important not to be too clingy. Let him do his thing. Trust him.


Aries wants a partner that is their own spirit. When you start attaching onto his, you're cramping his style. Be confident in your relationship! It's the sexiest thing there is.
 Aries is full of life and he expects you to be too. How else could you keep up with his vitality?! He's going, going, going, so to be a viable partner, you'll need to be quite the Energizer bunny yourself. So when it comes to life, get excited! It's the only one you have, after all.


Don't be afraid to show your emotions. Aries thrives off of stimuli and sensation. If something makes you excited, preach it on the hilltops! And if your Aries is showing you how much he cares, definitely give him the reaction he's aiming for!

, At the end of the day, Mr. Ram is looking to provide for you and to be the man you've dreamed of. He feels he's worthy of it, so let him! He can be all about chivalry -- which is nice, considering it's practically dead. Let him keep it alive. Let him know he's needed. How could he then stray?


Allow yourself to get vulnerable with him. Though he can be erratic and moody and fiercely independent, showing him you can get real will show him he, in turn, can get real too. He'll love seeing the softer, genuine side of you. And he'll love that you trust him enough to do so!

