 Wear breezy clothes that aren’t too tight. You don’t have to wear loose clothes, but you should stay away from clothes which cling to your bust or which show a lot of skin. Consider wearing peasant blouses that are flowy and girly, or loose-fitting empire style dresses.If you’re more of a tomboy, don’t feel like you have to wear dresses or extra-feminine clothes just to look innocent and cute. Try wearing raglan-style shirts or loose-fitting crop tops for a cute and youthful silhouette.;
, Light colors naturally look more innocent than black or other dark, bold colors. Wear clothes, especially tops, that are light colored as opposed to dark.

Try wearing tops that are white, yellow or pastel colors. You can also wear clothes with cute prints like hearts, polka dots, or animal patterns like cat faces or owls.
To look extra-feminine, wear shirts with cute embellishments like bows, lace or ribbons.
 A lot of people think that the only way to look cute and innocent is to not wear makeup. But if you love wearing makeup, there’s no reason to give it up! Instead of wearing dark makeup like smoky eye shadow, black winged eyeliner, dark lips and heavy contouring, go for lighter-colored makeup instead.Use rosy shades for your eyes, lips and cheeks. Rosy tones make you look cute and flushed, adding to your innocent look.
You can also wear sparkly eye shadow in colors like champagne, rose gold or peach.
Larger eyes naturally look more cute and innocent. Emphasize your eyes by lining them with brown eyeliner at the lash line. Black eyeliner can be overwhelming especially on light complexions, but if it works for you then go for it.
There are thousands of makeup tutorials on the Internet that focus on cute makeup looks. In particular, look for words like “cute”, “innocent”, “natural” and “romantic” when you are finding a tutorial.
 Wear cute accessories like bows, barrettes, or butterfly clips in your hair, and jewelry that has cute charms like hearts or stars. If you want a more subtle cute look with your accessories, wear small, delicate pieces like thin rings and bracelets.If you’re a tomboy, you can accessorize with a baseball cap, a beanie or a newsboy cap for a cute look.
 Try to avoid wearing heels, and instead, wear flat shoes like ballet flats, mary janes or canvas sneakers. You can also wear flat boots in the winter. Flat shoes look more youthful and wholesome than heels - and they are better for you too.
 If you’re naturally a loud person, try and monitor how loudly you talk. A soft, easy voice can add to your innocent, shy vibe. Don’t try to change your voice altogether, just try to tone down your voice a little bit. It may be worth it to take a couple of days where you really pay attention to the way you talk. After a little practice, it should come naturally to you., Playing with your hair is an adorable way to bring attention to yourself. If you have long hair, run your fingers through it, curl in around your finger or tuck it behind your ear when talking. If you have short hair, rumple your hair or sweep it to the side., Part of being innocent and cute is having an optimistic and positive outlook on life. Smile to let your sweet side shine through. Giggle or laugh when people tell jokes or funny stories to show that you appreciate them and to come across as being approachable and friendly.Try to laugh sweetly rather than loudly or aggressively.
You can even put a hand up in front of your mouth as you giggle. This is an extra cute way to laugh!

, Always aim to be considerate and kind. Instead of dominating conversations and making yourself the focus of a group, take a step back and hear others out. Do your best to make people feel included and comfortable, and try to be sensitive and empathetic instead of hardheaded or stubborn.If you notice that someone looks uncomfortable or is not participating in a conversation, ask them a question about themselves to make them feel more at ease and involved.
 Don't make crude jokes or tell stories with a lot of sexual innuendo. Attract attention because of your kind and sweet personality, not because you are being sexually suggestive.


If you are in a conversation that turns sexual, you don’t have to pretend like you don’t know what is being talked about, but instead stay silent or giggle shyly.
Just because you want to embrace your cute side, don’t think that you can’t have a boyfriend. You just need to focus on making your personal and romantic life private rather than something you talk about in detail.
 Your shyness isn’t a weakness; in fact, it will only add to your innocent vibe! Don’t think that you have to hide your shyness or compensate for it. Blushing or even being a little awkward will only make you appear more cute and adorable.If you’re not naturally shy at all, don’t feel like you should fake it. You want to be as authentic as possible.
 Find a fulfilling and enriching hobby to keep you out of trouble! Hobbies can awaken your curiosity and your inner child, especially creative ones like drawing, writing or learning a musical instrument. You can also try out activities like horseback riding or hiking which bring you closer to nature. If you don’t already have a hobby, try a couple on for size.


If you don’t know how to start, join a class or a club to help you get started.
 Find friends who also are trying to live wholesome and fulfilling lives. It’s much easier to feel innocent and sweet when you spend time with like-minded people. Find alternative activities that you can do with these new friends instead of partying or getting into trouble.


Don't worry if you find that you are happier around younger friends - it's perfectly normal.
Spend time with kids and interact with them to see how they act. Try to understand how they see the world and try to learn from them. Enjoy children's activities and the things that innocent people enjoy.
To find new friends, try and talk to new people at your school, your work, your church or other place of worship, or through a youth group.
 Make kindness a central part of your existence. Try to do one thing a day to help others out, whether it be helping someone cross the street or tutoring a classmate. Being kind not only benefits others, but it can change your world view. It’s hard to feel cynical when every day you are helping others and making a difference.Be interested in others; someone who engages others in conversation, takes an interest in what others say, and shows a genuine concern for the other person's interests.
Give compliments. Everybody loves a girl who sees good in others and makes them feel good. It can be a great conversation starter sometimes too.("Where'd you get your shoes? They're so cute!") Just make sure you mean it; say it in your normal tone of voice, not a squeaky, overenthusiastic one.
Think about volunteering in your spare time; it's a great way to give something back to the community and to meet other people who also want to make a difference.
 Getting drunk and out of control isn’t cute at all. Try to drink only in small amounts, or, better still, cut it out all together. If you are socializing with people who are drinking, have only one or two drinks or opt for something non-alcoholic. Smoking also destroys your new cute persona., Try to aim at being the best and getting straight A's. Be polite in class, and make sure you always do your do your homework on time. Be nice to your classmates and to your teacher. Be respectful, kind, and helpful to everyone at school. This will make people like and respect you more.


Being innocent doesn't mean being ignorant, so try to read proper newspapers and books out of class.
 Sex and violence help sell things and so they are highly prevalent in the media, and it’s hard to stay innocent when you are constantly surrounded by them. To stay safe online, ask your parents to install parental control software on your phone and PC. This will let them block websites concerning porn, drugs, violence, etc, which are inappropriate for the new you. Don't feel childish or silly about asking for this; you will feel safer and protected this way, and your friends will think it's very cute.
Try to cut down the time you spend in front of the television, and try to customize the media that you take in by cutting out shows that feature a lot of sex and violence. Again, your parents can help you here.
Celebrity magazines aren't really good for you either - try to read something more uplifting.
 Instead, agree a bedtime with your parents (10.00? 10.30?) and ask them to make you stick to it even if you would rather not sometimes. You will feel super cute and innocent getting ready for bed knowing that other girls are out partying.


Bedtime is much better if your bed is lovely and warm. So ask your Mom to put a hot water bottle in your bed around 20/30 minutes before your bedtime.

