 Whenever you're suffering from a chronic condition like arthritis, you may have some limitations on what you can and cannot do. It's important to first check in with your physician before trying out a new exercise routine like Zumba.


Meet with your doctor during a regular check up or give them a call. Talk to them about your arthritis and desire to take a Zumba class.
If you haven't seen your physician in a while, talk about how well managed your arthritis symptoms are, when and where you have pain and how long it lasts. This may help your doctor determine whether or not Zumba is appropriate for you.
When you first start with an exercise routine like Zumba, you may notice some initial pain, stiffness or achiness during or after a class.Talk to your doctor about how to manage these temporary symptoms.;
, Since Zumba has gotten so popular, there are now a variety of types and styles of Zumba classes. Taking ones that are designed for your specific needs can help you enjoy the class and prevent injury or pain.


If you are not currently active or have more joint pain, consider trying Zumba Gold. This is a specialty Zumba class that is geared towards older adults, those with joint pain or limited range of motion and those who need a low impact and low intensity class.Aqua Zumba is another great version of this exciting exercise. Done in the pool, this low impact exercise can help work up a sweat but without all the pain in your joints.However, a general Zumba class will fit a variety of fitness needs. If you are already slightly active or don't have a lot of joint pain, you should consider trying this regular Zumba class.
Whether you choose regular Zumba or Zumba Gold, you can bring up or take down the intensity of the class by doing alternative moves and exercises.
 Zumba is a great class for exercise. It's fun and exciting and can keep you motivated to continue being active. However, it can be a little intimidating to start out, so take time to chat with the instructor.


If you've signed up for a Zumba class, get to class about 10 to 15 minutes early. This will give you time to chat with the instructor, get the layout of the room and choose a spot to do your exercise.
If you're taking a regular Zumba class, talk to the instructor about modifying certain poses to accommodate your joint pain and stiffness.
Even if you do take the Zumba Gold class, still talk to the instructor about the level of exercise of the class. You may be able to follow along without a problem or even be able to modify exercises to make them a little more difficult.
 Like all types of exercise, it's important to wear the appropriate type of clothing. It'll help you feel comfortable in the class and allow you to perform exercises easily.


First, find exercise clothes that are movable and not restrictive in any way. Zumba classes do a lot of movements and to do them correctly, they should be done in a fluid motion. This also helps prevent joint pain.In addition, find clothes that are breathable and wick sweat away from your body. Even if you're taking the Zumba Gold class, you'll still work up a sweat.
You'll also need to wear a pair of supportive exercise sneakers or cross trainers. A correct shoe does a lot to help prevent excessive joint pain or stiffness.
 Like many types of exercise, Zumba classes will help you work up a sweat. Make sure you bring the appropriate items with you (like a water bottle).


Make sure to bring at least a 16 oz water bottle filled with cold water or a low calorie sports drink. Zumba classes are generally 45 to 60 minutes long, so you'll need to refresh with a beverage.Also consider bringing an exercise towel. You might work up a good sweat and need to towel off a bit in between songs.
If you need a knee or ankle brace or wrap, make sure to bring those items with you. You'll need to put those on right before you start your class.
 When you're starting a new fitness routine with a condition like arthritis, it's important to ease into it. If you overdo it, you can injure yourself or cause more pain.


Health professionals recommend only doing Zumba one to two times a week to start with.
If you have difficulty getting down the steps and rhythm, you might consider going twice a week to help you learn the choreography.Also, if you feel like you cannot do the whole 45 or 60 minutes, let the instructor know ahead of time that you'll be slipping out after 30 minutes or whatever amount you can do.
 Strength training exercises are especially important for those dealing with arthritis. Make sure to include a few days weekly of these exercises in addition to your Zumba classes.


Strength training helps build and maintain lean muscle mass. Muscles help absorb the shock of certain movements - like walking - and can help alleviate the associated pain.Health professionals recommend that adults, even those with arthritis, aim for one to two days of strength training exercises each week. You should exercise for about 20 minutes and work each major muscle group.Most strength training exercises are appropriate for those with arthritis. However, ask your physician before doing above the shoulder exercises or using the leg press machine., In addition to strength and Zumba classes, health professionals also recommend those with arthritis include a few days of balance training.Those with arthritis may be at increased risk of falling due to the stiffness and pain in their joints. Improving your balance can help prevent this.
Tai chi or yoga are exercises that can be adapted easily for those suffering with arthritis. They help improve strength, flexibility and improve balance.
In addition, you can try standing on one leg for a few seconds and then alternating sides. Do this daily to help improve your balance.
 Flexibility, stretching and range of motion exercises are also very important to include for those with arthritis. If you don't work on improving your range of motion, you may experience increased pain and other symptoms.Loss of range of motion is associated with increased pain and loss of joint function, physical limitations and increased risk of injuries and falls.
Regular stretching and range of motion exercises is generally recommended. You can do these most days of the week without increasing injury risk.
Do not simply stretch without guidance. Joints that are affected by arthritis are easily overstretched and vulnerable to injury. Always talk to your doctor about what stretches are appropriate for you.
 Zumba is a great cardiovascular class to take. However, if you can't get to a Zumba class regularly or want to incorporate other types of aerobic activities, you can try:


Water aerobics. This water and swimming based class is a great exercise for those suffering from arthritis. It's low impact and the water helps prevent excess pounding on your joints.Using a stationary or recumbent bike. Both a stationary and recumbent bike are good for those with arthritis - especially in your knees. It's a low impact exercise that can help strengthen your knees and give you a great cardio workout.Walking more regularly. Walking is a great exercise for those with arthritis. Overtime it can actually improve and lessen joint pain and improve other symptoms., Arthritis can make following an exercise routine more difficult. When you first start, you may notice more pain.However, be patient with yourself as you embark on improving your health and fitness.


When you have arthritis, being more active can help to reduce the amount of pain you have. It can also improve your range of motion and balance.Give your body time to get used to Zumba. You may be moving and activating muscles that you haven't used in a while. Being a little sore is normal.
Don't give up after one class. Even if your joints were a little achy or sore, that's OK. Keep trying - the more you do it, the easier it gets.
 Pain is common and to be expected in your joints when you have arthritis. Some days, your pain level will determine how much exercise you do or the intensity.Change the part of the body you're working. Switch exercises based on what part of your body is aching or in pain. For example, if your knees are sore and achy, consider doing water aerobics instead of walking.
Change the intensity of the exercise if you're feeling some pain or fatigue. If you normally do Zumba at a regular intensity, consider taking it down a notch or modifying moves to help reduce pain.
 If you have arthritis, wearing some supports around certain joints can help alleviate pain. In addition, these supports may help you be able to participate in more activity.Consider wearing a supportive brace. You'll most likely need either an ankle or knee brace for Zumba classes.
If you just need a little support, consider using a wrap or bandage around your knees or ankles.
 With any type of exercise, it's important to know when your body has had enough. Make sure to stop exercising when you're at risk for injuring yourself.


Some exercises, including Zumba, may cause you too much pain or discomfort. If this is the case, you'll need to stop or give yourself a break for a few days.
If you consistently need to take pain relievers to deal with the pain felt during or after exercise, that's a sign you need to take it down a notch.If you have injured yourself or had a flare up in a joint, make sure to give yourself adequate time to recover before starting back with your Zumba class.

