 Using tourniquets increases pressure in your veins and fills them, causing them to be easier to see.Tie something around the section of your arm or leg where you'd like the veins to pop out.


Another method is to place your right hand right above your left wrist (or vice versa) and grip it tight.
This is the same idea used when you go to give blood or give a sample drawn. The nurse ties a band around your arm to get the vein to pop so she can see where to put the needle.
 After securing the band around your arm, clench and unclench your fist several times. Doing this with a tourniquet traps the blood in your veins, which causes the veins to pop out., This should take about 10 to 15 seconds. Just as if you were holding your breath, you'll be able to tell when your arm or leg needs oxygen. Your veins should be popping out.


Release your hand or the tourniquet when your limb needs oxygen. The veins will slowly return back to normal upon the release.
 Holding your breath hinders the flow of oxygen in the body and increases blood pressure. Close your mouth and nose and press hard. Bodybuilders sometimes use this trick when posing to make their veins pop.This method can be dangerous. Popping veins this way can sometimes lead to ruptures. These can happen in less serious places like the eye, or in serious places like the brain. Just remember to breathe after 30 seconds or so.
 During exercise, cutaneous veins are pushed towards the surface of the skin, making them appear to pop. This is especially prominent in bodies with low percentages of body fat.Lifting weights can produce more prominent veins in the exercised muscles. Veins are also more prominent after exercise because you are dehydrated., When your body heats, the blood is pushed towards the surface of the skin, increasing the appearance of veins. One quick trick some bodybuilders use is to use a hairdryer on your skin to get the veins to pop. Another, safer way is to heat your body through the foods you eat. Try hot peppers or cayenne pepper. Some supplements also provide the same benefits of these foods.