 Most girls like a guy who thinks on many levels and has some element of "culture" to him. If you have (or can develop) a polished vocabulary and speech style, many girls will take notice. Add some charm to the mix and they will find you quite attractive.


Don't conceal your intelligence—you want to attract girls who like smart guys, and it's not good to lie about who you are.;
, Just as you aren't attracted to every girl, not every girl will be attracted to you, and that's okay. You're better off waiting for someone who is a good fit. If you are rejected by the girl you've got your eye on, then tell yourself it just wasn't a good match, and move on.


If you're shy or very romantic, it may be extremely hard to let a girl go. It's okay to feel deeply about someone, but it's also important to respect her boundaries. Keep in mind that she is an individual with her own life and feelings, and you need to respect that—no means no, and if you don't listen, she may feel annoyed or even frightened.
 Many intelligent girls desire a partner who they can have a meaningful conversation with and will appreciate their intellect for all it is. If you're in school, talk to girls who take Advanced/AP/Honors classes. If you're working in science, engineering, or similar fields, look to your coworkers. Find women who excel.


Keep in mind that advanced classes or a career in science don't necessarily indicate intelligence, and any C student or secretary could be extremely intelligent, but can't or won't adhere to conventional standards for "smart" people.
A part of sexist thinking is that girls should pretend to be less intelligent than guys, for fear of emasculating them. Show girls that you do not follow that mindset and are perfectly okay with their full intelligence. They will appreciate your respect.
 What does she like? What do you two have in common? If she is also intellectual, this may be easier, because your interests will most likely overlap more. If you can find topics that the two of you enjoy, then you just might be a good match.
 Most girls won't approach a guy reading a book in the corner or staring down at his cell phone, so don't be too preoccupied if you want someone to come. Have open body language: keep your arms uncrossed, sit up straight, and direct your feet/torso toward a girl, whether she is talking to you or sitting nearby. If you see her looking, smile and see how she responds. An inviting smile can get you a long way.
 Flirting helps you determine whether a girl is interested by offering her a chance to reciprocate and get to know you better. There are plenty of ways to flirt, and you can find your individual style, from gentlemanly to sweet. As you get to know a girl, you'll see what sort of flirting she enjoys most. Here are some examples of flirting:


Looking across the room, catching her eye, and smiling
Finding an excuse to walk over to her
Touching her arm or arranging her clothes/hair
Complimenting her
Listening to her and asking questions to get to know her

, Girls look for partners who respect them and are good listeners. Work on being polite and warmhearted, and you will have found your natural charm. Treat women like your equals, do kind things for them, and don't be surprised if you notice some of them getting crushes on you.

