 You can find refill cans almost anywhere you can purchase cigarettes or cigars, like a tobacco store. Look for bottles that come with metal tips instead of plastic ones. Metal tips are better for inserting the butane into the lighter.Verify the butane works with your lighter by reading its label instructions. Always follow the safety directions on the canister to achieve the best results.
Select a high-quality butane specifically intended for butane lighters. Low-quality fuel may not light as well.
 You'll also want this to be in a place that is well ventilated. You’ll be dealing with flammable gas while refilling. Good ventilation will prevent the buildup of harmful fumes.


Your kitchen or an outside area are good places to refill your butane lighter because both are open spaces.
Open a window or turn on a vent in the room if it is available. If airflow is still poor even with a window open, use a stationary fan to improve circulation.
Remaining fluid or gas may spray onto your work surface while refilling. Protect your work surface with a layer of newspaper or a drop cloth., Release the air and remaining fuel inside the lighter. While holding the valve so it's pointed away from your face, push down on the refill lever with a screwdriver.The air will be fully released when you no longer hear a hissing sound.








The refill lever is also sometimes known as the nipple. It is located on the bottom of most butane lighters and usually looks like a small hole with a tiny, circular valve inside.
If you don't have a screwdriver, use a pen, paperclip, or similar tool to push down the valve and release remaining air in the lighter.
If lighter fluid sprays onto your hands or tools, rinse these thoroughly in soap and water. If you forget to do so, the fuel may ignite and burn you when you test the lighter.
 The flame height adjuster is usually on the bottom of the lighter and looks like a screw with a flat head screwdriver slot. Use a small flat head screwdriver and turn the screw clockwise to lower the flame.









By turning the adjuster to its lowest setting, even if you accidentally ignite the lighter, the flame will be small and unlikely to do harm or damage.
Some lighters may indicate the minimum setting direction with a minus sign ( - ). Turn the adjuster screw towards the minus sign to lower the flame., If you have an older can especially, give it a few shakes up-and-down. Over time, the fluid can sink to the bottom and not spray effectively. By shaking the can, you'll prime it for refilling.









While shaking the can, you'll also be able to feel fluid swish around inside it. This will give you a chance to gauge how much is in the bottle.
Nearly empty bottles may not have enough fluid to fully refill your lighter and should be swapped out for a new can of replacement fuel., Make sure you are holding the lighter and refill bottle straight up and down. In some cases, the bottle tip may not form a secure fit with the lighter's valve. In this situation, use a tip adapter.


Most butane refill bottles come with an adapter, so before you try to refill, make sure the standard tip fits over the valve.
Don’t fill the lighter at an angle. This will let air into the lighter tank. Air in the lighter will cause the lighter to not work properly. It will have to be drained and refilled., Pressing the lighter down onto the bottle will disengage the release valve on the bottle's nozzle. Press down on the lighter firmly for about five seconds to refill the lighter.








After filling, if you feel like your lighter isn’t full, repeat this procedure for another five seconds. Refill cans low on fuel may take more time to refuel lighters.
Some lighters have a fuel level that you can check. Check the butane level viewer if you have one to gauge the lighter's fullness.
Lighters that are filled up too much will overflow. This can be dangerous, as butane can leak and catch fire when lighting.
 Flip your lighter over and reset the adjuster to its starting position. Ideally, the flame should be about 1 to 1 1⁄2 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) tall. Before attempting to test the lighter, let the butane settle for a few minutes.









Once you’ve refilled and set your flame height, give your lighter a minute or so to absorb the butane.
As you wait for butane to be absorbed, check your lighter for leaks. Wipe up leaked fuel with a dampened rag. Rinse the rag frequently.
If your lighter leaks, you may have to purge the fuel and refill it again. Check for obvious culprits first, like loose fasteners, before purging and refilling., If there are any spills or if you smell even a hint of fumes, wait a few more minutes for these to dissipate. Hold the lighter at a safe distance from your face and ignite the flame. You may need to add more butane if the flame does not catch or seems weak.









In most butane lighters, butane won't dissolve over time. Always test your lighter before refilling it to make sure that it is empty.

