 One baby is a big adjustment. Bringing three home can cause even bigger changes in your life. It's normal to feel overwhelmed when you have three babies. Finding a workable routine can help.Your babies will need to be fed, changed, comforted, and loved. It can be difficult to anticipate when they will need each of these things.
It is useful to try to create a routine. For example, try to get up at around the same time each day. You will also need to feed them at regular intervals.
While a routine is helpful, you can't plan for every eventuality. So much sure to allow yourself some flexibility.;
, Babies need to eat multiple times a day. When you have triplets, multiple times can easily mean "dozens". Experiment to find the best feeding method and routine for you and your babies.If you are breastfeeding, it might take a couple of days or weeks to really get the hang of it. It is possible to feed two babies at once.
Experiment with different positions. One method is to cradle one baby in each hand with their feet facing outward.
Maybe you are choosing to bottle feed. Make sure to prep several bottles at a time so that you are ready when your babies need to eat.
 Triplets formed a very close bond with one another while in the womb. Once they are born, they are still a great source of support for each other. Consider having them sleep together.You might want to try putting your triplets in the same crib. The can soothe one another simply by being near.
If your babies are sleeping together, they are likely to wake at the same time for nighttime feedings. This will help you manage feedings a little easier, even in the middle of the night.
When your babies nap, you should try to nap, too. Sleep schedules can be erratic, so take your rest when you can get it.
 Babies require a lot of equipment. This can seem overwhelming when you bring home triplets. It's a good idea to figure out which things your babies can share, and which items you will need three of.There are lots of things your babies can share. For example, you will only need one changing table and one activity mat.
You will also only need one breast pump and one baby monitor. One triple stroller will probably best suit your needs.
There are some things that you will need to purchase for each baby. For example, you will definitely need a care seat for each one. It might be a good idea to have multiple swings, too.
 Having multiples will cause dramatic changes to every aspect of your life. One of the biggest shocks can be the financial cost. Try to make a specific list of all of the additional costs you will have.Plan for healthcare. Your pre-natal and post-natal doctor's appointments will be costly.
Try to figure out how much your hospital stay will cost. Talk to your insurance provider about what will and will not be covered.
Make a list of everything your babies will need. Factor in large items, such as cribs and high chairs. Don't forget smaller items, such as diaper rash cream and baby wipes.
 Your life with triplets is going to be hectic. For the first few months, you are mainly going to be concentrating on feeding and holding your babies. That means that it is okay to make sacrifices in other areas.Your standards of household neatness are going to have to relax for a while. Tell yourself that it's okay if the dishes don't get done immediately or if the laundry pile lingers longer than normal.
You probably won't shower every day. You might not even get dressed every day in the early stages of raising triplets. Give yourself permission to be a little more relaxed.
You probably won't be up to cooking gourmet meals for your family while you're coping with triplets. Don't be afraid to turn to ready to eat meals.

