 What is beauty? A nonexistent standard placed on us by society. Beauty is in every woman. It's the essence of a woman. Read Captivating by John and Stasi Eldredge. This book will help you recover from inner issues and understand the heart of a woman.;
, Then love it. Sit down and see what you like about yourself and what you do not.Remember to love the skin you're in.
 Go to your local drugstore or health food store for an appropriate program. Eat lots of fruits and vegetables and salmon. No sugar, no salt, no caffeine- try your hardest, and try to stay away from flour or fattening carbohydrates. Drink 8 cups of water daily. Breathe 5 deep breaths a day for oxygen increase to the brain and better blood flow. Take multi-vitamin,MSM, calcium, fish oils, biotin, iron, zinc, and evening primrose vitamins as addition to the multi-vitamin for hair, skin, and nails. Do this for 3-6 weeks (continue for health reasons!).
 Do crunches, lunges, squats, lift weights, get a personal trainer, run, ride a bike, belly dance, Pilates, hip hop dance, anything that will get you going 20-30 minutes a day.
 Try to sleep 8-10 hours a night if possible.
 Veneers or braces can help with crooked teeth.
 Regardless of how crooked your teeth are, they can still look nice and bright.
 Studies show it makes you more attractive!

, If you have a nice butt, why not get a nice pair of jeans?! etc.
 Natural looks are more beautiful and more you! Also, you will look younger! Visit a department store for a new look. Always carry a sheer colored lip gloss, a nice foundation, eye liner, and mascara.
 New clothes = new you. Make a deal with yourself to "pay" yourself monthly!

, Studies show that fragrance makes you "seem" more beautiful. Have good hygiene and healthy nails. Do your own manicures and pedicures. Purchase a kit at your drugstore.
 It will lift your face and make you look younger and more polished.
, Go to your hairstylist and get a new look.
 Exfoliate 2-3x a week head to toe (do not use the same exfoliator for the body for the face), use Proactiv for blemishes, use a skin brightener or something for discoloration, and use an instant suntan lotion (even if you are African American or dark skinned - it gives you a glow!).
 Do what you love, let go of baggage, move on, and do something to better your life- go back to school, invest, etc. Participate in a class- dance, learn Latin, etc. Do your favorite hobby weekly... have time for yourself, so you can be sane when you are taking care of others!

