 In order for your child to feel comfortable confiding in you, they have to have the opportunity. If you’re always chatting on the phone with friends, locked into the television, or away at work, you’ll miss chances to communicate.Think similarly to professors and establish some “office” hours for your children when you remove distractions and focus on them. You can use this time to do chores together, engage in fun activities, or share details about your individual days.
Make yourself more available to your children even outside of these hours. If they need to talk to you, make it a point to clear some time as soon as possible. Let them know that you’re there if they need you.;
, One-on-one time with your children is precious. Quality time together helps you forge a bond, get to know your children’s individual quirks, and have time to talk about sensitive/personal topics that may not be brought up during family gatherings.Aim to spend as little as 30 minutes to an hour alone with each of your children every week. Go for a walk around the neighborhood. Toss a ball around in the backyard. Or, cut off your phone, turn down the radio, and use your chauffeuring time to get personal.
 Kids are more open to sharing with parents when you share common interests. If there is nothing shared between you, the child may have a hard time relating to you. If your child can’t relate to you, then they won’t see much of a point sharing—they’ll just go to their friends or the cool parent in the neighborhood.Watch an age-appropriate TV show together every week and discuss it afterward. This is a great way for your child to relate to you and vice versa.
Engage in common interests that allow you share and bond. You may opt to go fishing, hiking or camping, or you may want to try an activity they've expressed interest in such as a cooking or drama class at a local community center.
Another way to be relatable is to stay current on pop culture and things that interest your kids. You don't have to avidly watch these sources, but it can help to be in the loop when your kids bring them up.
 Regular communication is key to positioning yourself as a potential confidante for your child. Make chatting with you a typical part of their day. As you drive them home from sports practice or chop vegetables for dinner, ask questions about academics, friends, teachers. Even more keep track of important dates and details to demonstrate you are actually absorbing what they tell you.


For example, your daughter mentions her friend preparing for her first date. After the special day elapses, you might ask, “So, how was Amanda’s date?”, Parents often think “been there, done that” when communicating with their children. As a result, you might cut into their sentences or block their responses because you’re so sure you know what they were going to say. Doing this can cause you to miss key details. When your child is talking, give them 100% of your attention. And, wait until they’re finished to respond.Silence your phone. Turn off the TV. Go someplace private away from their siblings or peers. Make eye contact with your child. Nod or make sounds like “ahh” to show you’re listening.
Once they’re done, don’t immediately add your own feedback. Instead, summarize what they said like “If I’m hearing you correctly, you’re saying that…”

, Your words can break down the lines of communication, but your posture can, too. If you’re hoping your child will open up to you, the last thing you want is to frighten them away with threatening body language.


Don’t cross your arms, or hoover over your child. If they are sitting, sit, also. Leave your arms and your legs relaxed at your sides., The conversation could be advancing easily, and a frown on your behalf shuts it down in an instant. Just like intimidating postures, knitted eyebrows, flared nostrils, or smirks can make kids back out of the discussion. It’s okay to use nonverbal signals, but use the right ones.Follow a technique known as mirroring, in which you copy the nonverbal expressions of the speaker. If your child appears worried, match their expression. If they display a goofy grin, do that, too. Mirroring shows empathy and so naturally help the speaker feel more at ease, and keep them talking.
 A major roadblock with many adolescents is they expect their parents to have mind-reading abilities. They may drop clues or suggest what’s wrong, but expect you to figure out what the problem is. Of course, you can’t mind-read, but you can use contextual clues.


Consider what your child might be holding back based on what’s currently happening in their lives. If you have a suspicion about what’s on their mind, bring up the topic. Maybe they fear being laughed at or teased. Maybe they fear getting into trouble.
Bring their fears out into the open to make confiding easier. Say something like, “I heard their having a big problem with bullying at your school. You want to talk about it?” to get them talking., Once your child feels ready to confide in you, there’s a possibility that you won’t altogether like what they have to say. Resist the urge to go into a spiel, lecturing them about how they were wrong. Responding the wrong way now could threaten any future discussions.Take a deep, cleansing breath. Relax your body language and facial expression. Continue to listen attentively despite the content of their message.
 If your child appears upset after a confession, be sure to address their feelings first. Showing some empathy towards them demonstrates that, to some degree, you recognize their distress. Empathy at this time can also strengthen your bond. Even if you are upset, you see your child suffering, so you want to acknowledge that.Say, “I’m sorry telling me this made you upset. I can see this was hard for you. That sounds like a difficult situation to be in.”
Things that may seem trivial to you may not feel trivial to your child. Interact with them as an individual and let them know what they are thinking is valid and reasonable.
 Your child may have shared a big revelation or a minor admission of guilt. Or, perhaps they almost never talk to you and finally opened up. Regardless, it’s important that you show gratitude that they shared with you. A simple “thank you for telling me” goes a long way towards ensuring they will confide in you again in the future., As a parent, it can be hard to hold in remarks like “you should know better” when your child reveals they made a mistake. Think about it, would you be interested in confiding in someone if they judged you afterward? Of course not. It’s pertinent that you withhold any criticism at this time, particularly if you want to continue being your child’s confidante., Big or small, a disclosure from your child should be considered priceless. If it is not absolutely necessary to share this information, don’t. Keeping their secret demonstrates your trustworthiness.


Your child will likely be upset or embarrassed if you share their trusted information with your friends, or worse, their friends. Let them know that you won’t by saying, “You don’t have to worry about me saying anything. I will keep this between us.”

, If the content of your discussion requires some sort of action, tell your child upfront what has to happen. If they are older, you might ask, “So, what do you think you should do?” Don’t just solve the problem for them. Allow them to bounce ideas off of you and give them an opportunity to take action on their own behalf and be a part of the solution.For instance, if your child revealed that he is being bullied, you could say, “I will need to contact your school to inform them about this incident. Would you like to join me and tell the principal your side of the story?”
If you child hurt someone or broke a rule, you might say, “I’m glad you told me that you took this phone out of Tom’s bag. I hope you understand that we will have to return it. How about we do it together?”

