 Most people have, at some point, experienced a “gut feeling.” It seems to arise from nowhere but is quite distinct. Gut feelings make people feel in any number of ways. They can also cause a person to sense and know things without any logical explanation. And, at times, they spur a person to do things he or she might not otherwise. The famous psychotherapist, Carl Jung, said that all people use intuition as one of the four ways we function in life. The other three are feeling, thinking and sensing. This makes intuition distinct and not determined by the others.Even though many people dismiss intuition as being either nonsense or luck, scientists are now saying it’s a very real ability that's been identified in lab settings and on bran scans., Researchers say that everyone is born with intuition, but not everyone is open to believing in it or willing to listen to it. And some people are more intuitive than others. That may be because they were naturally born with a heightened awareness. It could be because they’ve seen it work in their lives. And it might be because, along the way, they learned to notice and pick up on subtle cues from others and the environment.


Often those who are very intuitive are also particularly people-focused. They are more easily able to sense what others are feeling.
They’re generally more emotionally oriented than analytical.
They frequently make decisions quickly and efficiently. They're able to do this because they use past experiences and emotions to guide them.
Women are often more intuitive than men.This could be the result of an evolutionary process that's made women particularly conscious of human responses and social stimuli.
And there is evidence that some people can go a step beyond what's even normal in this realm. There's documentation of people knowing events have occurred far away, even though they have no prior knowledge of the event or factual basis to explain how they knew., Scientific studies have shown that highly intuitive people experience changes in their heart rate and get sweaty palms when they are exposed to deceit. They believe it is a response to the stress of subconsciously knowing or suspecting they were being tricked. This seems to indicate that our instincts kick in and cause physical sensations first. Our minds catch up quickly, but second., Though intuition varies, there are things you can do to become more intuitive if you practice and have an open mind. The most basic way is to still (calm) your mind so you can a) listen to your inner voice and b) learn to be more observant of your environment and the people in it.


Pay attention to sensations that seem to come out of the blue and have no logical explanation. Our brain’s amygdala, which generates the fight-or-flight instinct, is able to activate, process and respond to cues and information before we are consciously aware they exist. It can also process images (and initiate our response to them) that pass before our eyes so fast that we cannot even see them.
Researchers believe this stems from our very ancient ancestors' need to quickly gather and assess information if they wanted to survive.
Get plenty of REM sleep. During REM, our brains problem solve, connect pieces of information and are most in tune with emotions.
Before you go to sleep, write down a problem or worry you have. Think about it for a bit, and then let your brain come up with an intuitive solution during REM.
Distract your conscious mind so your intuitive mind has a chance to do its work. Research shows that our intuitive mind processes information even when we’re not consciously paying attention to that information.
In fact, the decisions a person makes when distracted have been shown to often be the correct ones. If you have a problem or concern, think through your options. Then stop and concentrate on something else. Go with the first solution that comes to you., Growing scientific evidence supports the wisdom of many intuitive decisions. Issues such as extreme distress can distort that intuitive processing, though, and lead to bad decision-making. Gut reactions and hunches are not always accurate. A smart approach is to listen to your gut and, at the same time, evaluate what it's telling you against the evidence.


Also factor in your emotions. Were they extreme when you got the gut feeling?