 Unscrew the handle and set it aside. You should see a metal cap with a small threaded washer (the adjusting ring) set into it.
 If the water leaks from the handle, you can usually fix the problem quickly:Place a kitchen knife or putty knife into the slots on top of the washer. (If necessary, you can buy a repair kit with a special tool for this purpose.)
Turn the ring a short distance clockwise.
Replace the handle and turn on the water. If the handle still drips, turn off water and tighten further.
Tighten in small movements only. Overtightening can make the handle difficult to turn.
 If the leak comes from the spout, or if adjusting the washer didn't fix the problem, consider buying a new faucet. Ball faucets are difficult to repair and do not have a long lifespan compared to other options.Removing the whole thing and installing a new one is much easier. If you do decide to repair it yourself, continue on to the next step.
 Leaks coming from the spout happen due to corroded or broken parts further down in the faucet. Carefully remove each of the following, noting (or photographing) how the parts fit together:Remove the top metal cap and collar with slip-joint pliers, then lift out the spout.
Lift out the plastic cam and cam washer. If you cannot remove this with pliers, your faucet may require a special tool from a repair kit.Remove the ball.
 If the ball looks pitted or corroded, it needs replacement. You must find a part exactly the same size, but it does not need to be the same material. Plastic balls are cheaper, while brass balls last longer.If the ball looks fine apart from slight mineral buildup, dissolve the mineral with a few drops of distilled white vinegar and scrub with a plastic scouring pad.Even if the ball is corroded, inspect the other parts as described below. More than one part may need replacement.
 The ball sits on top of valves that control the water flow. Carefully remove the two valve seats with needle-nose pliers or a pencil. A spring should pop out as you remove each one.If a valve seat or spring shows signs of wear, you will need to replace that part.
 The final parts that tend to wear down are the O-rings at the base of the faucet body. If these are corroded, cut them off and replace them with new O-rings. Coat the new O-rings in nontoxic, heat-proof plumber's grease before sliding them on., Once all parts are cleaned or replaced, reassemble the parts in the reverse order you removed them. Pay special attention at these points:Line up the slot or mark on the ball with the notch on the faucet body.
Line up the lug on the cam with the same notch.
To reinstall the spout, twist while pushing down hard.
 If the spout still leaks, make sure each part is tight. If the handle leaks, tighten the adjustment ring at the top of the mechanism, as described at the start of this section.


