 Apple cider vinegar may help in treating blistered sunburns by absorbing the heat from the skin and relieving the burning sensation and the pain. The acetic acid and malic acid in vinegar can neutralize sunburns and re-establish pH levels in the affected area. This prevents infection by making the skin environment inhospitable to microorganisms.To apply apple cider vinegar, mix the vinegar with cold water and soak a soft cloth into the solution and apply or drape it on the affected skin. Vinegar can also be directly sprayed onto the sunburn skin.
The use of vinegar is only recommended for skin without abrasions, open cuts or ruptures because it can burn and irritate the skin.
 Turmeric contains antiseptic and antibacterial properties that may help ease the pain and inflammation caused by the sunburn and blistering. Here are some tips to apply turmeric powder:Combine turmeric powder with water or milk to make a paste. Then, apply it on your blisters for 10 minutes before rinsing it off gently.
Mix turmeric powder, barley, and yogurt to produce a thick paste and cover the affected skin. Let it sit for about half an hour, and then wash it off with cold water.
 Tomato juice can lessen the burning sensation, reduce the redness of the affected area, and improve the healing of the sunburn.


To apply, combine 1/4 cup of tomato paste or juice to 1/2 cup of buttermilk. Apply the mixture on your burned skin for about half an hour and wash it gently with cold water.
Alternatively, add two cups of tomato juice to your bathwater and bathe your body in it for 10 to 15 minutes.
For instant pain relief, apply mashed raw tomato mixed with crushed ice to the affected area.
You could even try eating more tomatoes. One study has shown that people who ate five tablespoons of lycopene-rich tomato paste for three months had 25% more protection against sunburn., Raw potatoes may help heat escape from the burned skin, leaving behind cooled skin that hurts less and heals faster.Blend rinsed, cleaned, and sliced raw potato to produce a paste. Apply it directly to the blisters. Leave it until it dries and gently rinse off with cold water.
This remedy can be repeated daily until the blisters are gone and ready to heal.
 Milk produces a protein film that helps calm the burning sensation of your skin, leaving it cool and allowing for relief and comfort.Soak a soft cloth in cool water with skim milk and drape it over the burned skin for several minutes.
Make sure the milk is cool and not cold. Take it out of the fridge about 10 minutes before you plan to use it.

