 Psychiatric and non-cardiac medical diagnoses can both lead to palpitations. Read the following and consider whether or not they pertain to your life and situation. The following sub steps cover psychiatric conditions that may lead to palpitations:


Focus on the situation that triggers the onset of palpitations. If palpitations are triggered by facing a stressful situation (stress reaction), follow a traumatic event (post-traumatic stress), by exposure to an object or a situation to which you have abnormal and excessive fear (phobias),your palpitations are most likely caused by a psychological or a psychiatric cause.
If you have repeated attacks of severe anxiety that occur at any time, not specified to any particular situation, the probable diagnosis is that your palpitations are caused by panic attacks.
 As mentioned above, palpitations can be triggered by medical conditions that do not relate to your heart. Consider the following:


If you have fever which has triggered palpitations, your palpitations will settle once the cause of fever has been removed. However, if the cause of fever is not obvious, you should get yourself checked by your doctor so that he may exclude the possibility of infective endocarditis (an infection of heart) as the cause of fever.
If you have other symptoms of medical conditions like thyrotoxicosis (increased appetite but weight loss, sweating, tremors and enlarged thyroid gland) and Pheochromocytoma (facial blushing, episodic high blood pressure, abdominal pain and constipation), you must get yourself evaluated by your doctor for the presence of these conditions (both of which are noncardiac medical conditions).
If you have are experiencing fatigue, shortness of breath on minimal exertion and a pale complexion, you may be suffering from anaemia. You should get your level of hemoglobin measured to determine if this is the cause of your palpitations.
 If you are not used to doing exercise, short lived palpitations (less than five minutes in length) caused by strenuous exercise are completely normal.


However, you should talk to your doctor if you are experiencing these palpitations and also have prior medical history.
 Similarly, short lived palpitations caused by excessive intake of coffee or tea, excessive smoking, or the use of other forms of tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drugs like cocaine or amphetamines, do not indicate a serious medical cause of palpitations.


Again, you should contact your doctor if you have consumed any of these substances and also have significant prior medical history.
 Many pregnant women experience palpitations while they are pregnant, which means that they are generally not something that you should be overly concerned about.


However, you should still report your palpitations to your attending gynecologist, because he or she will be able to create a plan to manage any conditions, like anemia, that may be causing these palpitations.
 If you do not have the above causes of palpitations, your palpitations are not normal. It is highly likely that your palpitations are caused by some medical problem that should be evaluated by your doctor.


It must also be kept in mind that if palpitations are brought on by mild exercise or little consumption of coffee, tea, tobacco or alcohol, you should also consult your doctor.
 The palpitations caused by cardiac pathologies can be potentially dangerous, or even life threatening. Therefore, it is important to work with your doctor to determine if you have a cardiac disease. You may have a cardiac condition if:


Your palpitations lead to feelings of dizziness or cause you to lose consciousness. You may also experience shortness of breath, chest pain or tightness. If you are experiencing these symptoms, go to the hospital immediately.

