 This may be done at the wall switch, if the switch(es) control the entire fixture (both fan and light). If the wall switch controls only the light, and a pull chain on the fixture controls the fan (or vice versa), or if an RF remote is used, then it should be shut off at the electrical panel.
 This is should be done only if the light fixture is overly ornate, delicate, heavy or obstructs access to the fan blades. Generally, the light fixture is secured with 3 or 4 screws that need to be removed. These screws may be behind a glass globe or shield that needs to be removed to access. With the screws visible, have a helper supports the fixture and remove the screws that secure it. Allow the fixture to separate from the fan several inches. Disconnect the light fixture from the fan wiring. The light fixture will most likely have either a nylon molded plug or wirenuts connecting it to the fan portion. Identify the wires and remove the wirenuts. If a nylon plug is used, simply pull apart. The plug can only be inserted one way.
 All of the blades may be removed if desired, but all that is required are enough to allow access to the ceiling where the fixture is secured. Many newer fans have blades that "slip" on metal studs on the hub support arms and lock into place, others require that 2 screws be removed from the hub support arms of the fan. Unclipping the blades is much quicker and reduces the chances of losing screws.
 If the fan does not have a down rod, skip ahead to "Ceiling Hugger" below. Locate a single screw on the housing that covers the ceiling wiring compartment. The housing looks like an "upside down" bell. Loosen the screw and slide the housing downward on the rod to the fan housing. The hanger and wiring should be visible now.
 Identify the wires originating from the ceiling box. The fan should have bare or green, white and black (and blue if a light fixture was installed) wires connected. Identify the wires from the ceiling as "white", "fan" and "light" as they are connected to the fan. If the fan's black and blue wires connect together with a wire from the ceiling, mark it as "light". If the fan utilized an "RF remote" instead of a wall switch to control all or part of the ceiling fan / light fixture, disconnect it from the ceiling allowing it to remain with the fan for now. Remove the the bare / green wire from the support fixture. With all wires disconnected, grasp the fan and or down-rod and lift upward. Maneuver the down-rod so round knob on the end can slip out of the "cage" or "basket" support it sits in, and lower to a helper. Skip ahead to "Finishing Up" below.

