 Grab several utensils that you are not particularly worried about. You will be pushing a fork and spoon together and balancing them on a glass, so they are bound to fall a few times, and possibly get dinged or bent, as you get the hang of the trick. In total, you will need the following:


Two forks.
A toothpick.
A glass of water.
A wine cork.
Matches.
A spoon (optional)., Push each fork’s teeth into one another so that it is snugly interlocked. You want to be able to operate the two utensils as one “unit.” When you pick up the handle of one utensil, the other utensil should be lifted as well.


You may use a spoon and fork rather than two forks if you desire. Note that this may bend the teeth of one of the forks.
 Rest the middle of where the utensils meet on your finger. Move the utensils back and forth on your finger until you they are perfectly balanced, with no other help needed to stay perched on your finger. This is the center of mass.
 Force the toothpick into the center of mass by wedging it into where the two forks’ teeth meet. Use just enough force to move the toothpick into the forks without breaking apart their hold to one another. This might take a few tries!


If your toothpick breaks apart or can’t find a wedge, try taking the forks apart and putting them back together, a little less snug this time.
 Find the point on the body of the toothpick that will perfectly balance the forks on the rim. The forks will lay horizontally along the rim of the glass, encircling the top.


A little trial and error is all that is needed. You can try starting with a longer tooth pick if that helps you achieve the balance needed.
You can also balance utensils this way on surfaces other than glasses. Try salt or pepper shakers if they're available!, Use a match and light the end of the toothpick overhanging the glass on fire. The toothpick will slowly burn away. Continue to do so until only the portions of toothpick touching the rim and overhanging. Wipe away the burned portions of toothpick to complete the illusion.

