 Himalayans love to have lap time, so expect to have a companion on your lap while you work and relax. Himalayans are quite fond of their human companions and will want to be wherever you are. Your Himalayan may even follow you from room to room and try to “help” you with things.Himalayans require lots of affection and attention, so make sure that you take time to pet your Himalayan every day.
 Himalayans are intelligent cats that require stimulation to be happy. They are happy to play with everyday objects, such as crumpled piece of paper, but you should also get some special toys for your Himalayan. Try getting a puzzle toy that will let your Himalayan earn a treat when he figures it out.
 Scratching is an instinctive behavior for cats, but they may sometimes try to scratch things that you do not want them to scratch. To protect your furniture from scratching, you will need to make sure that your Himalayan has some appropriate places to scratch.Try getting some corrugated cardboard scratching boards or setting up a few upright wooden scratching posts around your house.
If you ever catch your Himalayan scratching the furniture or carpet, do not punish him. Just pick him up and take him to the nearest scratching post.
Rubbing a bit of catnip on the scratching post may make it more attractive to your Himalayan.
 Make sure that your Himalayan has access to clean litter boxes at all times. Fill the boxes with about two inches of a fine-grained clumping clay cat litter. You will need to scoop the litter box daily and change the litter twice per week.You should have one more litter box than the total number of cats in your home. For example, if you have two cats, then you need three litter boxes.
If you have a Himalayan kitten, then you will need to teach her how to use the litter box.
 Himalayans spend most of their time on their humans' laps, but your Himalayan will also need a place to sleep when you are busy or not at home. Get a cushy cat bed for your Himalayan to sleep in whenever she feels like it.

