 With your television turned on, press and hold both the one on the remote and the one on the television itself.Hold them for about five to seven seconds, until the service menu appears.Some LG models allow you to access the service or installation menus with the OK button, but others require you to press and hold the MENU buttons.
For other models again, both these methods will work, and will bring you to separate menus.;
, Your television may or may not require a password to access the service menu. If one is required, there are several password options that may work, including:0000 or 7777
0413
8741, 8743, or 8878

, In case anything happens when you’re playing with the menu or in the future, you want to know what the original settings were so you can restore the television if necessary., The LG service menu gives you several feature and adjustment options that allow you to tweak the audio and visual settings, change color settings, upgrade the television, and more.


Under the PICTURE menu’s standard settings, you can control the brightness, contrast, color, sharpness, and tint. Under the white balance settings, you can change the color values and temperatures.Under SOUND, you can alter the treble and base, the volume curve, and the maximum and minimum volumes, or make audio adjustments for the output settings.
Under GENERAL, you can make changes to the backlight flicker frequency and brightness, test the colors, and set power mode instructions that will tell your television what to do after a power shut down (this is especially useful for people who experience frequent power surges or outages.With UPGRADE, you can upgrade the firmware in your television, which will improve the device’s operation. Firmware updates are generally available every couple months., Once you’ve made a change, don’t save the new settings until you’ve noted what effects those changes had. That way, if you don’t like the result, you can try again, or turn off the television to restore the original settings and try again., If you’re happy with the effects of the changes you made, go ahead and save the new settings by pressing OK on the remote.
 With your television turned on, press and hold both the one on the remote and the one on the television itself.Hold them for about five to seven seconds, until the installation menu appears., For the installation menu, try the password 1105.If this doesn’t work, try the passwords used for the service menu.
 The installation menu will give you access to hotel mode and the TV’s USB settings, and give you the option to change the password. Save changes by pressing OK on the remote.


In the installation menu, you can enable hotel mode, or disable it to give you more control over the television functions.
The USB setting lets you program the television to automatically detect a USB that’s inserted into the slot at the back, thereby allowing you to access audio and video files on the USB from your television. 