 Screen doors or window screens with holes are a perfect place for poisonous pests to get in your house. Repair any holes you find to keep pests out. You can use something as simple as duct tape to repair a hole. If you don't have screens at all, consider investing in some., Bugs don't just enter the house through holes in screens. They will find any hole or crack to burrow their way in. Check especially around doors and windows, and then fill in any holes or cracks you find.You can use things like silicone or plaster to fill in holes. Even duct tape will work in a pinch.
 If you have lights near your entrances and doors, that's a big attraction for insects. They will congregate around your doors and enter as you come in or go out. Try putting your lights on a motion sensor, so that they only come on when you're trying to go inside.While spiders don't like the light, they will show up to eat the other insects.
 Clutter gives pests places to hide. Spiders, especially, are good hiders, and they love to hole up wherever they can. If you can clean out some of the clutter, you'll be able to reduce the possibility of poisonous pests in your house.Also, work on keeping your house clean. Vacuuming and dusting can help keep your home free of pests. It can help to clean more regularly around where your pet frequents, as your dog can bring pests into the house from outside., One way pests are attracted to your house is through sources of food or water. Try to keep crumbs out of your kitchen, for instance, as that can draw in pests. In addition, try to fix water leaks in fixtures like faucets and pipes, as bugs are also drawn to water sources., If you do get pests, you can use common pest removal techniques such as fogging or spraying your house. However, make sure you move your dog out of the house before you spray or fog. If you use traps, put them where your dog can't get to them.Be cautious when using foggers. Make sure you calculate the space correctly, multiplying the length of the room by the height and width to get the volume of the room. If you use too much, it can build up and cause an explosion.You can house sprays at home improvement stores, but you can also call in a professional to spray your home. They'll know what to look for, plus they'll know what's safe to use around your dog.

