 This means you should not only get used to the idea of full control of the reality in your dreams and the idea of dreams not being fixed state, but also getting excited about those ideas. This will increase the likelihood of success, as Lucid Dreaming becomes a highly desirable state your mind want to go to.


Learning how dreams themselves work will further increase your chances, by making your mind sensitive to spotting dream logic. This is done through Reality Checking, which should be practiced while awake.;
,


Choose a song you like. Make sure it's not too energetic or too relaxing, but find a balance between the 2, while sticking to songs with personal meaning, memories or generally something you'd instantly recognize.
Get a computer or smartphone to automatically play the song on a very low volume, starting the chosen song at either 4 1/2, 6, or 7 1/2 hours after falling asleep. Finding the right level of volume can be hard, but aim for something quiet enough to not wake you up, yet loud enough so you'll hear it.
This is a trial and error step, so while it might not work the first couple of time, don't give up. Writing down what might have gone wrong can help.
Use the song to wake you up in the morning, at a high volume. That way the song is automatically associated with wakefulness.
 The first couple of times, you're likely to get excited about having reached the state of Lucid Dreaming and while this is understandable, it'll most likely wake you up. To avoid this until your mind has gotten used to balance itself, without needed conscious self, try to:


Spin your body, rub your hands together or fall backwards. This is theorized to cause your mind to spend so much brainpower on recreating the physical sensations, that it's too busy to wake up.
Shout your name, the phrase, "I want to keep dreaming" or a personal mantra. Like the previous, brainpower is likely used to comprehend your language or if some theories are correct, it convinces your subconscious mind to stay asleep.
Fold your hand like you're praying, but keep pushing your fingers towards your wrist, causing your fingers to painlessly and seamlessly pass through your palms. This can be extremely freaky and might wake you up, but is by far the most effective method when it works, since the brain spends so much brainpower simulating and experiencing this completely new sensation, that it won't wake at all.
 Once you're used to it, start increasing the volume as your tolerance to music increases and start putting together a playlist.


Do this slowly over a few weeks so your mind won't be shocked awake, by only adding 2-5% of volume a week and one song every 5-7 days.
Don't despair if it wakes you up completely. Just try to fall asleep without turning off the music. This will help building tolerance, wakefulness association and can directly induce a lucid dream.



Don't exceed 60 minutes, as REM sleep won't last for more than 60 minutes.
Use it for a few weeks and then set the playlist to random to mix it up.
 Now you've got a movie soundtrack for your dreams, with a ~90% success rate of inducing Lucid Dreaming.



This will provide variety and allow you to plan the perfect soundtrack for the kind of experience you want.

Non-specific romantic music for romantic dreams, lively music for action, relaxing music for unwinding, jazz for 1920s time travel, electronic music for sci-fi, erotic music for sexual/adult dreams etc.
Movie soundtracks for reliving your favorite movie (and sequels) with you as the puppet master dictating how you want the dream to play out, you as the main character or whatever you'd like.



