 There's no point doing this if the school specifically forbids it. If you're at a sugar-free school or a school focused on healthy eating and no candies, you'll likely get yourself into trouble with the authorities if you haven't told them and get found out. Realize that parents who don't want their children eating sugar may make trouble in such a case.
 What kind of candy do people at your school want? Does anybody else sell candy? You need to know everything you can in order to maximize profit.


The most popular candy tends to be candy bars but it may depend on where you are and what the current fad is.
 Realizing this is your first step, because you will most likely be let down. Think small, but by all means think profit!!!

, When you have at least $10 or more, you can go to a nearby bargain store and buy bulk packs that contain over 30 candy bars in each pack. That alone will cost you $10 or so and is a great way to invest in for starters.


Buy only a little of any new brands of candy you want to try selling. If it is unpopular, you won't waste money and take a loss.
 Put the candy inside. A box as wide and long as a shoebox is pretty good, but you may want to aim for one that's a little thinner. It doesn't have to go in your backpack; feel inclined to carry it. Take between 15 to 20 bars or bags a day of a good variety will help you maximize sales.
 This will save you from having to search inside the box to tell the customer the actual kinds of candy you have.
 Use the day to advertise. Tell everyone that you will be selling candy and that each bar will be around $1 or so. That way, they will come to school with money and ready to see what you have.
 Sell it on the bus, in the cafeteria, even during class, if people really want the candy! (But don't get in trouble.)


Stay on top. Eventually, people will try to sell candy too. You need to make sure they don't. Get better product and deals than them, and run them out of business.
 You may find that interest declines after a while and so do your profits. Take a break from selling, then come back with specials. Buy three bars, get one free. Create a bar-a-day club where customers can buy a bar each day Monday through Thursday and get a free bar on Free Friday.

Expand your employees. Is anybody interested in joining you? If so, hire them. You could hire a supplier (makes candy) and a distributor (sells candy). That way, all you do is sit around and manage the money. Eventually, people could even work for your distributor or supplier.
Gain more ground. Try to get distributors in different areas. Do you have friends in another school or neighborhood? If so, you could potentially get more profit off of different people.
