 Hold the door open for her, if you're walking into a room together. Offer her some of your food, if she's hungry; ask if she needs anything when you go to the store. Make sure she knows that you're thinking of her well-being, and go out of your way to make things easier for her.Be ready to help her out if she's struggling with something – but always give her the chance to figure it out herself! Even if you just offer, she'll know that you care.
Bear in mind that not every girl wants things done for her. Being thoughtful does not mean assuming that she cannot do things herself; it merely means that you want to make her happy.
 Smile at her and ask how her day is going. Make it clear that you're happy to see her, and make a point of taking the time to talk to her. Be absolutely present during this time; don't check your phone or talk to anyone else. It may brighten her day if she knows that she has brightened your day.
 Make it thoughtful, and put your heart into it. It doesn't have to be expensive, unless your girlfriend prefers expensive things. it could just be a letter or a poem you wrote. Don't gift her too often, maybe once every few weeks or every month – otherwise she will keep expecting it, and the gifts may lose their novelty.Consider writing her a song, if you're musical. Draw her a picture, if you're artistic. Write her a poem, if you're good with words. Make her a piece of jewelry, if you're crafty. Use what you have, and make it personal.
If she's been talking about something for a while, consider buying it for her to show her that you've been listening. Be careful not to get her things that she doesn't want: she will still see that you care, but she may feel less appreciative.
 Tease her in a friendly and casual way. Always remember any inside jokes between the two of you, and bring them up so that she knows that you remembered. Try to understand her sense of humor so that you can make her laugh even more. If you go out of your way to brighten her day, it will show her that you care.
 She will appreciate your effort, if the two of you are already romantically linked, and she may love you all the more for it. Be kind and sincere to the people she cares about, and she will care for you in return.


Back off if she seems uncomfortable with you getting close to her loved ones. Read between the lines, and know where her boundaries lie. She may just not be ready – or there may be a deeper problem in your relationship.

