 The circle should have a diameter of about 12 inches (30.5 cm).


Note that a ravel-resistant fabric is recommended for this project. If you can find a sturdy fabric, like felt, that works even better.
The original instructions for this hat are designed to work with small children. For an adult-sized hat, you may need an initial circle that is roughly 18 inches (45.7 cm) in diameter.
 Cut a small circle out of your original circle. The diameter of this circle should roughly match to diameter of the wearer's head.


To find the diameter of the wearer's head, wrap a tape measure around the part on which the hat will sit. Divide this number by pi, or 3.14, and round up to the nearest half inch to determine the right diameter for the hat.
 Use the same green fabric used for the circles. The length of the rectangle should roughly match the circumference of the smaller circle with 1 inch (2.5 cm) of extra material for a seam allowance. The width should be about 12 inches (30.5 cm).


The circumference of the smaller circle is also the same measurement as the circumference of your head.
For an adult-sized hat, you may wish to consider upping the width of the fabric to 18 inches (45.7 cm) for a more balanced hat.
 If you are using a fabric that is somewhat flimsy, place iron-on interfacing on the back side of the fabric and iron in place until bonded.


Note this step is not necessary if you are using a thick fabric, like felt, that is durable to stand on its own.
When using iron-on interfacing, cut out a sheet of interfacing that matches the dimensions of the body rectangle. Apply the iron-on side, which should be clearly marked, to the wrong side of the fabric and iron in place, passing the iron over the interfacing firmly and securely so that it does not peel up or shift in place as you iron it. Once cool, simply peel off the paper backing.
 Fold the rectangular piece of fabric in half widthwise, with the wrong side facing out, and pin in place. Stitch a straight stitch along the open end of the fabric, roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in from the edge.


If using a sewing machine, a simple straight stitch will work fine. If handsewing, try using a backstitch to give the thread a little more durability.
 With the wrong side still facing out, and the wrong side of the small circle facing up, pin the circle to one open end of the cylinder. Stitch in place.


The right sides of the fabric should not be visible to you at this present moment, but they should all face one another.
If using a sewing machine, a simple straight stitch will work fine. If handsewing, try using a backstitch to give the thread a little more durability.
 Turn the hat upside-down and right side out. Pin the inside of the ring to the remaining open edge of the hat and stitch in place.


If the outer edge of the ring threatens to fray, you can hem it or apply fray check to stop the threads from unraveling.
If using a sewing machine, a simple straight stitch will work fine. If handsewing, try using a running stitch so that the rim is a little floppier and more whimsical.
 Use sturdy, ravel-resistant fabric like felt and cut out a rectangle that is 4 inches by 5.5 inches (10 cm by 14 cm). Cut out a second rectangle from the center of this rectangle, making an outline that is roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick.


If the edges threaten to fray, you can hem them with a needle and thread or apply fray check to the edges.
 The strip of black fabric should be about 4 inches (10 cm) wide and the same length as your original body rectangle.


Use sturdy, ravel-resistant fabric, like felt.
If the edges threaten to fray, you can hem them with a needle and thread or apply fray check to the edges.
 Sew or glue the yellow buckle piece onto the center of the black band.


Try to place the center of the buckle directly over the center of the band. This “belt” portion of the hat should be fairly symmetrical.
You can hand stitch the buckle piece in place or hold it together using fabric glue.
 Sew or glue the black band around the bottom of the hat, just about the brim.


The band should almost lie flush against the rim of the hat. Bring the back edges together at the back edge of the hat, allowing them to overlap.
You can hand stitch the belt in place or hold it together using fabric glue.

