 Lincoln may have had a lot of folk sense in him, but he never turned down an opportunity to look civilized and classy. His dress of choice was always a black overcoat. So long as the coat doesn't have any visible logos or symbols, you can use any black overcoat for this.Look at existing Lincoln costumes or pictures of the man himself and decide if any coat you have fits the bill.


A grey vest underneath may help to round off your costume.However, if you can't find one of those, a white dress shirt will do. You may also choose to button up your overcoat.;
, Top hats can be found at costume or consignment stores, or made by rolling black felt and gluing on a rim. Provided you're aiming for a traditional Lincoln costume, you should keep the hat black. Top hats often come with pre-fabricated Lincoln costumes.If you can't find a top hat, make your own. Roll black construction paper into a tube. Stand it up on another sheet of black construction paper, and trace the circle around the bottom (use a pencil so the silvery graphite will show up). Fold the paper in half so that the circle is exactly in half, cut out the circle, and cut a second circle out around the edge, so that you end up with a brim for your top hat. Tape it to the black tube.
 Although they won't attract as much attention as your coat or top hat, it's nonetheless a good idea to round off your costume with a good set of black shoes. The most important thing is that your shoes are black; this way they won't conflict with the rest of the costume. Shoes with a buckle are rarer today than they were then, but they also match the costume if you have them lying around.


Lincoln wore size 14 shoes.
Lincoln's father was a shoemaker., They are not commonly worn in fashion today but you can usually find them for sale at department stores and costume shops. Bowties don't need to be done up perfectly. Rather, an imperfect bowtie will give your costume that much more character. Lincolns bowties were obviously hand-tied, but pre-tied bowties are available as well if you don't want to bother with the tying process.To hand-tie a bowtie, loop the bowtie around your neck, leaving a few inches more on one side. Draw the longer end under the other side of your tie and loop it through the center, tightening it as you go along. Bring the longer end of the bowtie over the other end and pinch them in the middle, looping the longer end through a hole at the back. Tighten it gently.