 If you're planning to give your girl a foot massage, then odds are she's tired. It's time to be her knight in shining armor. Make or order dinner, do the dishes, and clean the living room. If your girl suddenly finds herself sitting comfortably in her favorite seat while you bring her food, clean the house, and refuse to let her lift a finger to help, she will soon start thinking warm, happy thoughts - starring you!;
, Assuming she's already agreed to the foot massage, your next step is to determine the setting. The bed is probably a bit too obvious, although that may be your eventual destination; try the couch instead. Prop her head and neck up with pillows, then sit down and put her feet in your lap.
 Gently use your middle finger and thumb to ever-so-softly massage her heel, the ball of her foot, and her toes sliding your index finger one by one between each toe. Spend about five minutes on each foot- it will pay off soon!

, She will be watching you the whole time, so the expression on your face and the direction of your gaze are both important factors. Watch her feet while you massage them, making sure to keep a tiny hint of a smile on your face (this smile may take some practice in front of a mirror. Most people's idea of a small smile is all but undetectable by others. You want your girl to know you're enjoying it - and also to know that you want more). Occasionally look into her eyes. As you do, allow your smile to widen a little, and part your lips slightly (again, the mirror is indispensable. Practice makes perfect).
 "Harder or softer?" is your ideal question. If you're doing Step 3 right, she will almost certainly answer "harder." When she does, listen to her tone of voice. Is she beginning to sense your intentions, and if so, does she sound excited or tired? If she's excited, then the game is yours. If she's tired, there is still hope, but you'll be fighting an uphill battle from here.
 By now her tendons will be loose and she will probably be ready for more. Begin using your thumb, fingers, and especially the "heel" of your hand to massage her firmly. Firmly, but not TOO firmly! Now isn't the time to prove your manly strength. There is nothing so likely to kill your girl's sex drive as a sudden pinch in a sore spot that sends her leaping off the couch, never to trust you with her feet again. Avoid massaging the middle section of her feet entirely, as this area contains sensitive bones and tendons. Instead, concentrate on the heel, ball and toes (gently with the toes!). Spend another five minutes here.
 Make small murmurs (a deep, quietly whispered "Mmmm" works beautifully) and widen your smile to a grin at intervals, to show your girl that you're fully appreciating every interaction with her body.
 As always, timing is an enormous factor. Don't start the massage with a big sloppy toe-sucking fest, because unless your girl is in the mood to jump into bed right away, she will most likely find that sort of behavior annoying. Make sure you've fully completed the previous steps first, then ask her if she's enjoying the massage. She will almost certainly say yes (what else CAN she say without being rude?). If she does, slip off the couch, get down on your knees, and gently kiss her feet a few times. Look up and ask, "How are you enjoying it now?" Her response is unlikely to be anything but positive. Keep kissing her feet for at least another minute, but avoid using tongue or putting her toes in your mouth unless you include this as a normal part of your sexual routine. Otherwise it might freak her out.
 This is a big step, so be sure to word the question in a way that lets her know exactly what you want. It won't be too difficult at this point; simply saying, "Can I massage the rest of you?" might just work wonders on its own. If you think she's in the mood and you want to try something a little more seductive, say, "The rest of you looks tired too. Can I take care of that for you?" If she says yes, you've got it in the bag. "Oh... darn. Your clothes are in the way...." You get the idea.

