 If you started with body-weight exercises, you can hold dumbbells or a medicine ball in your hands while doing many of these exercises to increase resistance and further build muscles.For example, if you're lunges with rotation, you can hold a dumb bell in each hand as you move from side to side. This adds resistance and increases the difficulty of the exercise.
Typically you want to start with about five pounds of weight. If you can't complete your routine using a five-pound dumb bell, you may want to consider just using your own body weight for a few more weeks until you gain more strength.
Add weight as the exercises become easier for you to complete. You should be struggling to complete the final repetitions of each exercise.
 The teapot is a relatively small and simple exercise, but it can work your lats, obliques, and glutes as well as improve your grip. Windmills increase the stability in your shoulders and core.To do teapots, stand tall holding the kettle bell by your side. Your feet should be no more than hip-width apart, but you'll work out your abs more the closer together you plant your feet.
Put your other hand on your hip, then slide the kettle bell down the side of your leg, bending at your waist. Keep your back and shoulders flat so you are simply hinging to the side. When you've gone as far as you can, slowly stand back up.
Do 8 to 10 reps on one side, then take a brief rest and switch the kettle bell to the other hand so you can repeat the exercise on the other side.
 Try an exercise like wood choppers weighted with a medicine ball. Alternatively, you can use a single dumbbell if you don't have access to a medicine ball.To do wood choppers, stand with your feet about hip-width apart, or maybe a little wider – you want to feel stable.
Hold your medicine ball or dumb bell over your head with your arms straight. Then bend from your waist, also bending your knees, and lower the weight to the outside of your left foot. Engage your core as you lift the weight back over your head, then repeat on the opposite side.
While doing wood choppers, make sure you keep your arms and back straight.

