 Keep in mind, before you start, that dancing (especially freestyle dancing) takes a certain level of courage and spontaneity. You can't be afraid to go crazy, but you also need to focus on your limits and what you can do. Think about if you have these necessary things to create a dancing style that you can call your own.;
, After all, you are going to have to do some pretty goofy stuff before you can perfect your personal dance style and unless you want to be laughed at, solitude is your best option. Although some prefer to have a pet (i.e. dog, cat, even goldfish) with them/watching them for comfort.
 This means really comfortable, like those ratty sweats you'd never wear in public or that boxer shorts/T-shirt combo that your spouse keeps threatening to throw away but never does. Or even your pajamas. Something light and stretchy and easy to move in.
 This is optional, but it may help you become more at ease if you can start singing in that voice of yours that you keep saving for the shower. You don't have to sing while dancing, but it definitive gives you more control.
 You're going to be the star of your own personal show, and you need an audience. What better audience than one which will appreciate you no matter what you do? Fake applause is optional as well.
 Make sure it's something you like and it's got a beat to it.
 Close your eyes and listen to the music. Relax your body, feel the music in your body and start to sway. Open your eyes and.
 Move your feet and tap to the rhythm. The point here is to get comfortable moving your body to music. Use the hairbrush to sing if you want. Don't worry, the only one you'll scare is the cat, and who cares what it thinks? Go crazy!

, Are there any moves you like? Any you would like to toss out the door with yesterday's newspaper? Make a mental note of it. If you're really serious, you may want to break out the video camera.
 Go to a video website and look up dance videos and see a little of how it's supposed to be (good things to search for would be like Ballroom, Samba, Cha-cha, B-boy, Breakdance, Arm wave, Moonwalk, Waltz, Charleston, etc.) just beware of the people that only think they can dance.
 Really like that shoulder roll you do when you've got your groove thing on? Try to do it on purpose. Try to do it at different angles and speeds to discover which one looks best. Once you've got it to where you like it, feel free to bow to the "audience." They'll love you for it. Do this for each move you like.
 Just remember to leave the hairbrush at home and wear something besides the ultra-comfy clothes. Don't be afraid to show others your wonderful (or not so) dancing skills.
 By now you have realized that the thing you do with your head where it moves back and forth only emphasizes the electrocuted chicken look. Your "audience" may not be complaining, but you sure know about it, and it is not helping out your groove thing one little bit. Don't just toss it out the door; fix it! Do the same thing you did with the things you've liked. Try it slower and faster, change the angle, roll instead of jerking it back and forth. Do this for each move that needs fixing until you're happy with what you see.
 Dancing should be about having fun! If you aren't enjoying yourself, everyone else probably won't either.
 Remember: emphasize the positive, eliminate the negative and blend your all-too-groovy moves until your "audience" can't help but cheer at your fantastic self.

