 Blueberries that have been washed, dried, and stored in the refrigerator can last for up to three weeks, but moisture will decrease their shelf life.When you're in the mood for a snack, grab a handful and enjoy. For larger snacks, fill a small bowl or a cup and snack on them over time.


You should wash your blueberries in hot water for 30 seconds to kill any bacteria on them.
Store your blueberries in well ventilated containers to prevent the buildup of moisture and to get the most out of your blueberries.Blueberries mix well with nuts and granola. For a quick and easy snack, fill a plastic baggie with blueberries, almonds, and granola.;
, You might not think it, since they can be so sweet, but blueberries pair well with many kinds of meat or seafood. Try blueberries as a side to meat dishes like pork chops, turkey, or shrimp. Blueberries also go well with many kinds of greens. Try blueberries in salads, for example.Blueberries also make a convenient side for lunches. They're a highly portable food, and can easily be brought to work or school in a plastic baggie or plastic container.
Whip up a blueberry relish for meat and seafood dishes by combining fresh blueberries with diced, pickled onion, and diced tomato.
Create a blueberry flavored dressing for your salad by mixing together fresh blueberries with a little blue cheese in a vinaigrette.
Throw together a blueberry loaded fruit salad by mixing together a bowlful of blueberries, cut, fresh watermelon, and peeled orange wedges.Serve this as a side to meals., Fruit flavors usually pair well with blueberries. You can add the refreshing taste of blueberry to your drink by plopping a few into a fresh glass of fruit juice, like lemonade, in the summer. Allow the blueberries to soak for about hour before drinking your drink.


By allowing your blueberries to soak, your drink will get a dash of extra flavoring. What's more, you'll get to enjoy the juice soaked blueberries at the bottom of your glass.
You can mix in other fresh or frozen berries, like strawberries and huckleberries for example, to create delicious flavor combinations.
An adult version of this drink can be made by adding a shot of vodka to each glass of fruit juice filled with blueberries and/or other berries., The natural sweetness of blueberries makes it a great dessert item. You could make a more involved dessert, like a blueberry cobbler, but you could also satisfy sweet toothed individuals with some blueberries in vanilla yogurt.Another simple blueberry dessert you might try: frozen blueberries served with a dollop of whipped cream.If you have muffin tins, why not mix up some blueberry muffin batter and making this delicious blueberry treat for yourself and others?

, In some cases, removing the moisture from a fruit or vegetable to dehydrate it can harm the food's nutritional value. Blueberries, however, retain their health bolstering antioxidant properties, even after being dried out. These will stay good for long period of time, making them an excellent hiking snack.


Dehydrating most fruit has a tendency to concentrate its sugar content. This means that a half cup of fresh blueberries will have fewer calories than a half cup of dried ones.
You may want to stick to one serving of dried blueberries per day to prevent yourself from eating too many calories., Being a nutrient packed, light food, blueberries are excellent at breakfast. They are a popular option to mix in with cereal, oatmeal, pancakes, and yogurt. Making it a habit to have some blueberries every day with breakfast will surely increase the amount you eat.To create a rich topping for pancakes and waffles, crush up some fresh pineapple with some blueberries and a tablespoon of your favorite jam., Take a whole honeydew melon and cut it into four to six equal sections. Using a spoon, scoop the seeds from the inside of the melon to create a small hollow section. Add blueberries to the hollowed out part, and then eat the melon and blueberries with a spoon.


You might want to drizzle some lime juice over top your blueberries and melon. This flavor pairs quite well with this combination of fruit.