 There are some precautions you can take to prevent malaria, especially in countries where malaria is common. When spending time or sleeping outside, always use mosquito netting. This will prevent possibly infected mosquitoes from biting you. Also try to eliminate or avoid pools of standing water. These serve as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Make sure you also use plenty of insect repellent if you plan to be outside without netting.
 If you plan on traveling to areas where malaria is common, it is important you see your physician at least four to six weeks prior to your trip. At this time, they will likely prescribe medications for the prevention of malaria, which will help lessen the likelihood of you contracting malaria.


These should be taken before, during, and after your trip., The key point in the treatment of malaria is to catch it early. See a doctor for diagnosis within 24 to 72 hours of your possible infection or when your symptoms appear. There are many medications that you can take, which will be taken for a minimum of seven days. However, the length of time you need to take the medications will vary depending on the severity of your case and how much the rest of your body has been affected. All malaria medications are safe for children. Possible medications you may be prescribed include:


Mefloquine
Atovaquone-proquinal
Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine
Quinine
Clindamycin
Doxycycline
Chloroquine
Primaquine
Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine, though its effectiveness has yet to be cleared, Since doctors in the US are not as aware of malaria issues, you have to be extra vigilant if you live there. If you arrive back in the US and have a fever for any reason, head directly to the emergency room or doctor’s office. Tell your doctor exactly where you have traveled and that you suspect malaria so they can treat you promptly.


A delay in diagnosis can result in death. 60% of diagnoses are delayed because of misdiagnosis of malaria as other diseases. To prevent this, always give an adequate history of where you have traveled in the last year or two.
If you contract malaria, you will hospitalized so the doctors can properly administer the antibiotics.

