 Because the feed holes will be placed near the bottom, a wheeled bin might get in the way of the feed holes you’ll want to make. A 30 gallon trash bin should be enough to hold 150 pounds of chicken feed.


While you’re at a hardware store, pick up six pipe elbows and six pipe end caps.;
, Make your marks equally spaced from one another. This will maximize the effectiveness of your feeder.









These holes should be located near the bottom of the bin.
The marks should denote where the saw should start., When you pick up a hole saw, you should make sure the diameter matches the pipe you’re using. There should be six holes made for a 30 gallon trash bin.









If you are using a smaller bin size, you should use a lesser amount of openings as best suits the bin.
It’s a good idea to spin the hole saw in reverse. This will result in a cleaner cut.
 These windows will allow the grain to pour in inside the bin.
 Once you've made the proper openings in the back of each pipe fitting, fit them to protrude out of the holes you made with the hole saw. Reach into the bin and fit them from the inside out. It's a good idea to do this immediately upon making the holes and modifying the pipes. If your holes aren't big enough, you can make the holes slightly bigger with a precision knife. Excess gaps can be covered over with caulking if need be.









The "female" end of the PVC pipe should fit on the inside of the feeder bin.
 Cut the top two thirds out of each of your pipe caps. When it comes time, you will place them on the feeder holes with the remaining third of the cap placed on the bottom.









This may be done with a precision knife.
It's good idea to sand down the edges you cut to prevent roughness.
Offering a “window” (rather than an open hole) will prevent the chickens from unnecessarily wasting the feed., Fix them onto the fronts of your PVC feeder holes. Try to make the bottom third as level to the ground as you can. Chickens will be sticking their heads in, and an uneven window can make it difficult for them to properly access the grain.
 Particularly if you're tending your chickens in a rainfall-heavy area, squeeze a caulking tube around the outside edge where the PVC tube and bin meet. This will waterproof the cracks, helping to ensure that moisture won't be able to get in when the feeder isn't in use., This is an optional step, as bigger bins should be secured naturally by the weight of the chicken grain., This also has the effect of keeping the grain away from ground level, where dirt and grime my risk getting mixed in with the grain.
 Securing your chicken feeder with a lid will make sure that nothing unwanted falls in. it’s also a good idea if there’s a risk of rainfall entering and damaging the grain. Most garbage bins will come with a pre-fitted lid., Place your feeder somewhere where your chickens will be able to access it easily. To load the feeder with grain, remove the lid and insert the grain by the bucketful. Because the grain's weight can be used to stabilize the feeder, you should make a habit of keeping the feeder at least half-full.
 Once the feeder is set up, you should watch how the chickens react to it. Make an effort to notice any potential problems that may arise, either with regards to the grain's accessibility or feeder's stability. If you spot something amiss, you can make your modifications as needed.








