 Drink water throughout the day before you start drinking alcohol and drink water in between alcoholic beverages. As one of the key causes of a hangover is dehydration, the more you do to combat it beforehand the better. If you have a hangover, be sure to drink plenty of water as well.Drink a pint of water before you go to sleep at night. Since your body continues to process water while you sleep — albeit less water — you will still wake up more dehydrated than when you go to bed. Since hangovers operate on dehydration, you can help lessen the effects of alcohol by drinking more water.Try to leave a glass of water by your bed so you can drink it when you wake up.
 In addition to water, these isotonic sports drinks can quickly replenish the fluids in your body, while adding carbohydrates needed for energy and electrolytes to your system.Sports drinks can be good to ease an upset stomach, too. Pick a flavor that tastes good and won’t make you further nauseous.
 Vitamin C, specifically, helps replenish energy, which is vital when the lethargic power of a hangover kicks in. The fructose found in many types of juices will help replenish sugars in your body depleted in order to process the alcohol you’ve consumed.Tomato juice and coconut water are also great options., Since alcohol is a depressant and makes people sleepy, it seems like the common cure-all would be coffee. Yet, coffee will further dehydrate you. If you have an upset stomach too, coffee may further irritate it. Stick to water. Rest is better than coffee., Chinese researchers tested the effects of 57 drinks and found that Sprite was the most effective at combatting hangover effects. The enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase is released by your liver when you consume alcohol. The longer this enzyme is in your system directly relates to the length of your hangover. Get rid of it quickly if you want a shorter hangover. These researchers found that Sprite flushed the human system of alcohol dehydrogenase faster than any other beverage. Herbal tea actually prolonged the presence of this enzyme., Stay away from "the hair of the dog that bit you." While many people will tell you to just drink a little more of what you drank the night before to get over a hangover, don’t listen to them. All you’ll be doing is prolonging the effects of the alcohol. It may numb your symptoms in the short-term, it’ll probably worsen the hangover in the long term.