 You can do a quick ten minute foot massage at home using your hands. Massaging your feet can help to loosen the tight muscles around your bunions and on your big toe, reducing pain and cramping in this area.Start by using your thumbs to massage right beneath the mounds of your toes. This will help to release these muscles and loosen any tension in this spot.
You can then massage from the base of your big toe and down through your inner arch. Use your fingers to massage along the little toe side of your foot and anywhere on your sole that feels tight.
Finally, stick your fingers between your toes as far as they will go. You may need to wiggle your fingers to get them between your toes. Work the toes back and forth with your hands to loosen them up further.
 You can stretch your arches by doing arch lifts at home. This will help to stretch and strengthen your arches, making your feet feel less cramped and sore. You can do this exercise on an exercise mat.Start by standing with your feet hip width apart. Then, lift all ten toes and stretch them upward. Slowly lower them back down one by one.
Raise only your small toes and keep your big toe on the ground. Extend your big toe forward and down toward the ground.
Then, ground your big toe mound and inner heel down to the ground. This will keep your arch lifted and strong.
 You should also do toe stretches by moving your toes up and down on the ground. This will help to stretch and strengthen your toe joints.


Lift and extend your big toe several times. Extend it forward, like you are trying to push a button in front of your toe, and then slowly lower it down.After you do this several times, you may notice the muscle that runs from your inner heel through your inner arch to your big toe is starting to ache. This is a good sign, as you want to work this muscle, the abductor hallucis.
Then, lift all of your toes and extend only your little toes out and down toward the ground. Do this several times.
Finish by lifting your middle toes and spreading them out. Then, extend only your big toes and little toes out and down toward the ground.
 To avoid agitating your bunions, you should stick to low-impact exercises like walking, swimming, or stationary biking. These activities will not irritate your bunions as much as high-impact activities like running, martial arts, or contact sports.If your bunions become less painful and uncomfortable over time, you may be able to resume high-impact activities and exercises.

