 Are you clinging onto the past? Are you too afraid of life, of the future? Or maybe of people Do you worry too much? Make a list, use a journal, or use a blog to vent and rant. Talk to a trusted friend if that makes you feel better. It might hurt like hell, but you need to learn to face your problems and let go of them once you have. Cry, scream, write, do whatever helps you cope. You deserve to be happy, and that really helps you become much younger mentally.;
, Tell a person you like that you like them, and don't let their response get to you. Finish a book, a painting, a poem.
 Once you let go of as many negative things as you can, you will notice changes in your way of thinking and in the way you see and do things. Your energy levels may even rise.
 You're human. You're supposed to be relaxed 99% percent of the time, and rarely ever stressed. Not the other way around. Reduce health risks, increase creativity, and be more easygoing. There's no need to be so uptight all the time.
 Read books and novels that interest you, watch amazing documentaries, indulge in science, learn about outer space and the stars. Pick up a new hobby, such as painting on glass or some simple acrylic paintings, start knitting, or even explore with charcoal and pastel. Do artistic things you don't understand or are uncomfortable with. Do not care if your art doesn't look 'good'; find your own style. Watch movies with strange and amazing plots, and be as open-minded as possible.
 It will entertain you and activate your imagination, which will make you mentally younger.
 Listen to more music, more genres, or even pick up an instrument. Remember, you're never too old to start living. Music is just about the epitome of magic a human can create. Indulge, my friend.
 You as a human are as much a part of nature as a tree or a kangaroo. Go to a forest or even the beach, preferably alone, but you can bring a very close friend/your significant other along. Bring a book of Romantic poetry or something scientific, a sketchbook or a notebook, or nothing at all. Keep your phone away from you. Roam around the place you choose, sit down in a peaceful place and meditate. Take your time and observe animals and insects, feel in touch with nature. That will help you feel as young as a child.
 If you're not that fit, all the more reason to become healthy and exercise. Begin eating cleaner and drop a few pounds. Losing weight and eating better helps A LOT.
 If you can, do it. Explore the amazing world of the oceans, and let it inspire you. That alone can make you feel younger.
 Buy a telescope, go outside late at night and observe the stars. Do the fun activity of finding constellations. Learn astronomy through reading or even online courses-but make sure you keep it fun. The universe is so fascinating and enchanting, and those are two things that can make you feel very young.
 Redecorate your study, bedroom, or even your whole apartment/house. Paint the walls, make it a fun activity. Buy wall stickers and make your place artistic. If you love map, buy those. Heck, make your own things if you want.
 Do something more fun and creative. Do something you've always wanted to do. Take chances and stop being in a place that makes you miserable. There's nothing stopping you.
 Sure, life can get hard and discouraging, but don't let it get to you. Nothing is black and white. Heck, even in monochrome photographs, there's grey and even brown sometimes. If something bad happens during the day, it doesn't mean you're 'having a bad day'. Just let it go and move on. Stop caring about as many things as you possibly can. What others think doesn't matter. Time doesn't matter. Heck, life doesn't matter. This is the only life you'll get. So, live it to the fullest. That might sound cliché, but its true. You are not god. Nothing other than you and your family or whatever you have going on is your responsibility. You don't have to control everything. You CAN'T, and you must accept that. Just let go. Spread your wings and be free. You deserve it.
 Stop holding back from doing things. Stop doubting yourself. Stop questioning your abilities. I believe in you. Now, you should believe in yourself, too.

