 Your natural sleep clock works a lot better if you go to sleep and wake up at the same time each day.Try to keep your schedule fairly consistent, so your body will get used to going to sleep and waking up at a set time.


An hour or two before your bedtime, turn the lights down lower and go about a relaxing routine. Brush your teeth and do any nighttime grooming that you usually do, keeping your space quiet and as soothing as possible.
 TV glare and the bright lights of mobile devices can make it more difficult for you to settle down and sleep.Although we all like to check our phones frequently throughout the day, give yourself a break as you're getting ready to go to sleep, to allow your eyes and your brain a chance to settle down.


Reading before bedtime can be a great way to settle your brain down and coax yourself to sleep, but try to avoid using an e-reader. Use an old analog book or magazine instead, and read in low lamp light.
 Even though turkey makes you sleeping, it's never a good idea to eat or drink anything for a few hours before you go to bed, especially if you wake up in the middle of the night regularly. This is because your body needs to work to enter its digesting phase, which can interfere with sleep.Avoid caffeine and alcohol specifically, which can make it more difficult for you to sleep soundly. Alcohol has a reputation for making people sleepy, but it's usually fitful and poor-quality sleep. Any liquid taken an hour or two before bed might make you have to use the bathroom in the middle of the night, interrupting your sleep., Some studies show that a warm (not hot) bath or shower before bed can help you settle down and get in the mood for resting. When you transition between a warm shower and a cold room, your body temperature will drop in much the way it does when you fall asleep. A short shower, between 5-10 minutes, at about 104° F is optimal., If you struggle to sleep through the night, betting more exercise can improve your sleep significantly. Exercise can increase your body temperature and release serotonin, helping to reduce anxiety symptoms that may be keeping you from sleeping.If you struggle to stay asleep through the night, try doing some moderate exercise. Try doing 15-20 minutes of light cardio in the evenings, 4-5 hours before you go to bed for the night.
 If you're waking up in the middle of the night more than once or twice a week, you may have a more significant sleep disorder that can be corrected with treatment or medication. If this is a regular problem for you, it could be a sign of any of the following problems:


Insomnia
Sleep apnea
Stress-related wakefulness
Restless leg syndrome
Other sleep disorders
Enlarged prostate or other health problems

