 Every woman’s foot is a little different. You may find a pair of shoes in your size, but that does not mean it will fit your feet correctly. No matter how perfect a shoe looks, if it does not fit your foot well, it will not work.
 You will be on your feet the majority of the day, from your first step down the aisle to the moment you make your getaway at the end of the reception. Flat shoes may feel more comfortable on your foot than heels, especially if you are unaccustomed to wearing heels for prolonged periods of time.
 While platform heels can be a little difficult to find in bridal shoes, the extra width may offer your foot the right support it needs to keep you standing steady and strong throughout the entire affair.
 If you do opt for heels, make sure you go for a heel height that you feel confident about walking in. Now is not the time to experiment with three-inch heels if the highest you have ever worn is only an inch. Stick with a height you feel familiar and comfortable with to avoid any wedding day mishaps.
 Slender heels do not work well in grass, stones, sand, soil, or other unsteady terrains. If you know your foot will never leave the pavement, however, you can still opt for a slender heel.
 If you fall in love with a perfect pair of heels but would rather dance at your reception in flats, consider getting both. Swap out your fancy shoes after the ceremony and switch into something more comfortable for the reception. Just make sure your dress can account for the difference in heel height. The last thing you want is to trip over your gown as you head out for the dance floor.
 This breaks your shoes in, allowing them the chance to adjust to your feet. Moreover, doing this also gives you a good idea about how long you can last in your shoes. Wear them around the house, but avoid taking them outside where they can get dirty. If you decide to take dancing lessons before your wedding, wear them there, as well.
 Stock up on gel pads, bandages, and other foot care necessities. Look for products designed for your toes, heels, ankles, and the balls of your feet. With any luck, you won't need them, but at least you'll have them just in case.

