 Manga, as an art style, is simply a simplistic, exaggerated version of realism - developing your own style is simply a matter of which proportions to change and which details to forget. If you don't know how to draw realism, then you don't really know what you're exaggerating or why.;
, Find out the genre and target audience of the manga that you're studying, and compare the styles of those which have a similar genre and target audience. With that in mind, try to figure out why the artist has decided to exaggerate and simplify certain features, and why those styles are popular amongst their target audience. The manga that you are studying do not necessarily need to be manga that you like - only manga that's popular amongst others.
 Whilst you shouldn't use this as an excuse to neglect improvement, a style that simplifies or even removes certain hard-to-draw features may prove to be an advantage to you.
 As you should have figured out from step 2, realism won't win you any points in a child's comedy, but it will if you're making an adult's horror manga. Acceptable levels of detail and exaggeration will vary between audience and genre.
 The more you simplify, the more difficult it will be for the appearances of your characters to vary without going to extreme measures. Physical features are important for distinguishing your characters and also for characterisation, so ensure that your style doesn't require everybody to have the same face.
 For example, nobody will mind surreal elements if you're writing a zany fantasy manga, but outlandish appearances will strain your readers' suspension of disbelief in a realistic manga.
 The more you practice drawing, the more your style will develop. This is probably the most important step. You need to tune your style before you go on to make any actual manga, otherwise stylistic inconsistencies (from where you've changed your mind) will start cropping up - and your readers will definitely notice if your style undergoes drastic changes, even if it's gradual.

