 In addition to making sure your plants have the correct growing conditions, you've got to plant them at the right time of year. Some seeds won't germinate until after the last frost, for example. Others thrive when they're planted while it's still cold, and still others must be planted in the fall so they have all winter to get ready to sprout. Know your plants, and create a schedule so you make sure you plant at the right time.


If you're starting plants from seed, you might need to start the seedlings indoors a few weeks or months before it's time to put them in the ground.
Seedlings should be purchased a few days before you're ready to plant them. The sooner you can put them in the ground, the better. If it will be more than a week before you can plant them, wait to buy your plants.
 Go outside and mark the corners of where your garden is going to be with stakes or survey flags. Clear away rocks, sticks, yard decorations, and any other objects in the garden area. Pull out large weeds and make sure the grass is mowed short. Use the soil tiller, a shovel, or garden fork to break up the ground, and toss away large clods of dirt and grass. Till the soil again, to a depth of about 12 inches (30.5 cm).


Clear away rocks that are buried in the soil as you till.
Till compost or fertilizer into the soil if necessary for the types of plants you're growing.
 Beds and rows allow you to organize your garden to help with tilling and caring for the plants. Raised beds can even help drain the soil more efficiently. Measure out your garden beds and pathways, and mark them with survey flags or stakes. For a more precise outline, run a string between stakes. Shovel soil from the pathways onto the beds to create raised beds.To mark the pathways, line the pathways with mulch., Dig holes at the appropriate depths for the plants you're growing. Make sure they're spaced about 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart, or more for plants that require a lot of space. Place the seedlings in the ground so that their roots are inside the holes you've made, but the stems and leaves are above ground. Fill in the area around the roots with extra dirt or topsoil, and pat it gently around the stems to hold the plants upright.


If your plants require special fertilizer, scatter it in the holes you dug before you place the plants in the ground.
If your plants require a top cover, scatter mulch, straw, or topsoil around the roots to keep them safe from low temperatures and wind.
 After planting, the first thing you should do is lightly water the garden, making sure it is saturated with water but not soaking wet. A newly planted garden should never dry out, so check it every day to make sure it stays nice and damp. Water the garden in the morning, rather than at night, since unevaporated water could cause mold to grow in the garden.

