 Once you know you've been cheated on, you want to flee. If your spouse is truly sorry, and if you want, in any way, to repair the relationship, you need to try to work it through together.;
, It won't be useful to simply blame your spouse and hate the person s/he cheated with. If there were problems or signals before the infidelity, they will probably come sharply into focus now. If your marriage is to truly mend, you will need to examine whether or not your behaviors contributed to the loneliness in your marriage. This is not to say that you are responsible for your partner's decision. It is only to say that what is most useful now will be an honest and unsparing evaluation of your entire marriage - including your own behavior. There are a lot of things to consider in the wake of this awful revelation:


Did you behave in ways that could be considered "unlovable"? Not occasional grumpiness. We all do that. But real, unkind, uncaring, unlovable behavior could cause, even someone who loves us, to go look elsewhere for kindness, compassion, and a tender touch. If you're cold and withhold yourself from your mate, realize that your spouse got into this relationship for your companionship. If you withhold kindness, tenderness, or sex from your mate, s/he may seek it elsewhere, or end the relationship. It's not reasonable to believe your spouse would take a vow of celibacy indefinitely. Being kind, tender, and/or sexy with your mate can make a real difference in your relationship.

Trust your judgment. This is very hard to do after you've discovered your spouse has been involved with someone else. When you find your spouse has been unfaithful, it makes you feel embarrassed, foolish, ashamed, and afraid. It undermines your confidence. It rattles your ability to make even the smallest decisions - where to eat, what to wear. You second-guess every little thing. It's a terrible time for most people in your situation. You wonder if your whole relationship has been a lie. The good news is, it probably hasn't been. Think about your relationship and the person you believe your spouse really is. If you believe in him or her, rely on your judgment; believe in yourself and your own ability to make a good decision. Recognize now that you will be unlikely to trust him/her at this point. They have just proven themselves through this action not to be worthy of trust. But in time, this trust may, again, be earned.
 If necessary, get a therapist to help you through it. Understand that you can't fix "normal" - the normal response to learning of a spouse's affair is all of the aforementioned emotions. It takes time to sift through and make sense of all of it. You'll need to talk it out. You'll need a partner willing to allow you that space and time.
 If you can forgive your spouse, you will also need to see effort to demonstrate that s/he is really trying to show you that you are loved, that s/he is remorseful, and that they sincerely want to rebuild a trusting relationship with you again. While it is natural to feel that you can't fully trust him or her, you don't need to feel stupid for loving your spouse - allow yourself to love your partner, even though you still feel hurt.

