 This does not have to be within a hospital or care setting (although this is useful). Any volunteering which shows that you are a compassionate and caring individual will impress admissions tutors. Examples could include working at RSPCA shelters, with disabled adults or children, at homeless shelters, food banks, with the girl guides. Try to get as many different experiences as possible.
Work experience. Try contacting local hospitals, health clinics, care homes etc to ask if you could attend for a week or even a couple of days of work experience. Even if this is sitting in an office doing admin work, it will still give you an insight into the workings of the organisation.
Taking extra short courses. Sites such as Coursera have free online healthcare courses delivered in a university-style format and run by universities worldwide.
Reading nursing books and journals. Finding something through a course or volunteering that particularly interested you and researching it is an important skill to have. Choose a particular topic and read about it. Look in publications such as the Nursing Standard to get inspiration from current events in nursing.
 Avoid listing your characteristics. This is a good example of how you can expand your points: 'Volunteering in my local homeless shelter this summer has increased my awareness of the different factors which can result in a person living in poverty and having a poor quality of life. Research published in X, by Y, concluded that prejudice towards patients is still apparent in hospitals in the UK. It is, therefore, vital for nurses to be non-judgemental when delivering care, which I hope my time at the shelter will help me to demonstrate.' Always make sure to link your experiences to the qualities you have developed in that situation, and then remember to explicitly show that you are aware why this is an important skill for a nurse to possess. Another example would be: 'After reading the July 26th edition of the Nursing Standard, I was particularly interested in an article which-which scrutinised the Liverpool Care Pathway. Research at my college library showed that the Liverpool Care Pathway had been the subject of 12 complaints of abuse and negligence. It is important that nurses are vigilant in reporting cases of negligence and that these are investigated fully, and also that nurses assess the most recent evidence to ensure that they are aware of the best practice to use'. This example clearly demonstrates that the applicant is keen to learn more about current issues and will take initiative and can complete basic research, but shows this in a way that is much more professional and interesting.
 Ask your parents and teachers to look at your personal statement and suggest improvements. Most colleges have a system in place to ensure that your personal statement is reviewed by a relevant staff member. You can also go to The Student Room which has a team of Personal Statement Helpers - people who are already on a nursing degree and who will suggest changes in grammar, structure and content for free. This is particularly useful because these people have been trained and approved, and have undergone the UCAS application recently.
 Tips for interviews:


Be aware of a handful of current issues. Read the Nursing Standard for ideas.
Dress smartly and professionally. It is better to be overdressed than looking scruffy (avoid jeans, trainers etc). It doesn't matter what the other applicants dress like or what they think of you - you only need to impress the admissions tutors by being professional in your appearance.
Don't be afraid to speak up in group interviews. You need to stand out, but remember to let others speak. It's also important to show that you are a good listener.
Don't be afraid to (respectfully) disagree with another applicant in group interviews, as long as you can back up your point with solid reasoning.
Remember to consider all sides of the story when completing a situation task. Consider how a condition would affect a patient's social and family life, work and money as well as direct symptoms such as pain.
If you have a maths test, ensure that you can do basic multiplication, division, addition, and subtraction with and without a calculator. Practice unit conversions and also working with fractions.
If you have a one on one interview and suffer from nerves, consider questions you may be asked and mentally prepare answers. Popular questions include: Why do you want to be a nurse? Why do you want to study at this university? What is the most important quality for a nurse to have?
Be sure to be confident and smile! Body language is very important.

