 Your first step is to measure your dog so you can choose a ramp that will accommodate your dog’s overall size. After all, without appropriate measurements you won’t be able to choose a ramp that will suit your needs.


Consider your dog’s legs. Dogs with very short legs, like corgis, may need ramps without steps and with a gradual incline.
Measure the length of your dog. You’ll need this in order to figure out the incline of your ramp.;
, Another element you need to consider before choosing a furniture ramp is your dog’s weight. This is extremely important as the ramp you pick will need to be one that can accommodate your dog safely.


If your dog is a puppy, consider what their full grown height will be.
Add 10% or 20% to the weight of your dog to ensure that if your dog gains weight, the ramp will still accommodate them., You also need to consider if your dog has any special needs. This is important, as most ramps are designed for dogs without major medical problems. Consider if:


Your dog has sight issues. If so, you may need a ramp with rails or sides.
Whether your dog has arthritis or other skeletal-muscular problems. If so, you may need a ramp with a very gradual incline., Perhaps the most popular type of furniture ramp for dogs are bed ramps. Ramps for beds allow dogs to easily access human beds. Ultimately, without a bed ramp, your dog won’t be able to join you for sleep or snuggle time.


Measure the height of your bed.
Consider the amount of space you have for your ramp. Depending on the size and incline of the ramp, you may or may not be able to accommodate it in your bedroom.
Take note of the floor around your bed. Carpeted areas work well. If you have hardwood or tile, you may need to purchase a rug or use an adhesive aid to prevent the ramp from slipping when your dog walks up it., Couch ramps are an increasingly popular way for dogs, especially senior dogs, to access couches. Couch ramps make it easier for dogs to get on and off couches without jumping or struggling.


Make sure to take a measurement of your couch.
Consider the material the couch is made of. You may need to drape a blanket over the part of the couch the ramp connects with in order to prevent damage to the couch.If your couch is on hardwood or tile, you may need to purchase a rug or some sort of adhesive aid to prevent the ramp from moving as your dog walks up it.
 You may also consider a ramp for your dog’s favorite recliner or chair. Chair ramps are very often smaller than couch or bed ramps. Ultimately, they’re very important in making sure your dog doesn’t hurt themselves when getting on or off a chair.


Recliners or chairs may require smaller, custom made ramps.
Make sure to measure the height of the recliner or chair before purchasing a ramp.
Take note of the surface below the chair or recline, as you may need to take steps (such as providing a carpet or purchasing adhesive tape) to make sure the ramp does not slip., You should also put in a little time searching for your ramps online. This is a must do, since the variety of online pet retailers will ensure you a much larger selection than will be available in your region.


Consider websites of major stores like Pet Smart, PetCo, Pet Supermarket, and Amazon.
Consider specialty retailers like Jeffers.
Look on auction sites like eBay., If you want to solve your pet ramp problems very quickly, you should consider visiting a local store. While local stores won’t offer you the same selection as online retailers, they may have a few solid products that could meet your ramp needs in a pinch. Consider:


Small and/or local pet stores.
Large box specialty pet retailers like Pet Smart, PetCo, and Pet Supermarket.
Large general box stores like Walmart and Target., Depending on your circumstances, you may just need to build a ramp or have one custom built. After you’ve measured your dog and determined what furniture you need the ramp for, you’ll have the information you need to determine if you have to have the ramp built or not.


If you can’t find a suitable ramp online, you’ll likely have to have a ramp built.
Look for plans or designs online. If you can’t find a suitable one, spend a little time sketching the ramp you want to build.
Buy wood at a store like Home Depot. Try to have it precut, if possible, to the specifications of your design.
Assemble your ramp and cover it with inexpensive carpet to make it pet safe and comfortable.