 Stellar is about individuality, not dressing like everyone else and claiming you are non-conformist.


If you like something, then wear it, but if the style doesn't appeal to you, then you don't have to wear that. If you love that t-shirt in the Abercrombie store, then don't be scared to buy it. On the other hand, if you don't really think that all-natural wool scarf from a non-chain store fits with your style, then you're not obligated to buy it.;
,


Don't worry if you get teased about not wearing something everyone else is sporting.
If your friends are as shallow that they will reject you for your clothes, then they weren't good friends in the first place. #*However, there are some clothing items that every stellar kid can find as a staple of their wardrobe, and will get you recognized as such.
 Look for details that you like. Maybe nice buttons or pockets on the sides, or a belt to go with it. Remember: "If the shoe fits, wear it!"

, A lot of old fashions can be incorporated into any stellar kid's wardrobe. #*Try long graphic tees. They can be in any colour with a simple picture. They should be long (but not baggy) enough to go past your waist, especially with a wide-necked collar.


Wear any top that is cute, even if it seems mature for your age group, like buttoned-up shirts. Reject people who jump on you (figuratively) calling you a tired, dead stereotype because of one clothing article you're wearing.
Another vintage trend is vests. They are like the ones you see on a waiter in a tux, but tailored to fit a girl. These can go over a t-shirt to give you a laid-back look, and they can come in a few colors like brown and black.
A lot of stellar girls wear leg-warmers, but you should make sure that the wool (or other fabric) is made from an environmentally friendly producer. Remember, being stellar is part of a lifestyle as well as the fashions. These can be worn over basically any type of shoe except sandals and boots, but that is just basic fashion sense.
 These types of clothes look as if they have been already worn by someone, or made by an amateur. The thread might be purposely shown in the stitching in a different color, or there could be different patches of colours or patterns. You can get these from many brands, such as Old Navy. Ask the store manager first or check the label to see what country it was made in to avoid buying sweatshop labour-made clothes.
 A lot of this clothing is made without chemicals in the cotton that speed up the growing process. The chemicals used to do this can be harmful to you, which is another reason to try environmentally friendly clothes.

