 Think how someone would hold a die when playing a dice game. This is the first step to limbering up your fingers.







;
, The bottom ones should be easiest to crack, but the top knuckles can crack, too. That force should generate an immediate crack.










Sometimes knuckles just won't crack. If your finger starts to hurt and no pop! is heard, just move onto the next finger.
 Then, clench your other hand around and push. This way you can do an entire row of knuckles at once.










You can also rotate your hand and then push down on your top knuckles, too. This can take a bit of getting used to and can be painful at first.
 Make a fist like you did in the other methods, but then concentrate on just one finger. You may be able to get a louder pop if you dedicate all the pressure to one finger.


With the thumb of your other hand on the finger you're going to crack, hold the hand you're cracking with your other hand. Press down one at a time with your thumb either on top of your finger or pressing down near the tip to crack the top.
 Instead, put your hands together like you're clapping, similar to a praying position. Your fingers and palms should be touching, mirroring each other. Then, move your palms apart, keeping your fingers pressing together. Press them harder and harder together, moving your palms upward, until you hear your knuckles cracking.


You may need to rotate your hands a bit. Dead on your middle and ring finger should crack, but with a little twist, you can focus on your pointer and pinky fingers.
 There's two ways you can do this:


Take one hand and wrap it around the finger you want to crack. Then swing that hand while you hold the finger stable. It takes a little time to perfect, but you can get a good crack out of it.

You can do it for the top joints, too; just grip a little higher.


Grab the top part of your knuckle with your opposite hand and give it a twist. Basically, instead of twisting your cracking-hand, you twist the hand doing the cracking.
 You just stiffen your fingers and slowly try to bend them forward; if your knuckles are particularly bubbly, this can work. However, for most people it's just a lofty pipe dream.










And even fewer people can crack the same finger immediately after they have already popped it. This may not be the case for you, but if you're having problems, consider waiting 5-10 minutes and crack again.
 The noise is believed to be gas bubbles popping inside the fluid in your joints as you move them just so.Given varying joint sizes in different people, some people can make more noises than others. Some will not be able to crack their knuckles at all. Which ones can you do? The top and bottom knuckles, too?










All of our joints (where bone meets bone and attached by tendons and ligaments) are surrounded by synovial fluid. By stretching your finger, you create an increase in volume which, in turn, creates a drop in pressure. That starts the gases dissolving, forming bubbles. Those are the bubbles that are popping in your fingers; the process is known as "cavitation.", Once you have cracked your knuckles, it will take some time for the gas bubbles to re-dissolve into your synovial fluid. This prevents you from cracking them again right away. But the fluid should be ready to go in 10 to 15 minutes or so. Try timing yours!







, Your mother probably told you that cracking your knuckles leads to arthritis or some other bad effect on your hands. Is it true? Well, probably not.Some studies have been done, and none have been conclusive. It's mostly just an old wives' tale.










Some say that yes, it can lead to joint pain while others say there's no connection whatsoever. And then there's the fact that those who crack their knuckles may already have pain, so how can you account for that? But as with anything, don't overdo it just to be safe.

