 Another acceptable way to address the Pope in writing would be "Most Holy Father."


Note, however, that on the envelope, you should address the Pope as “His Holiness, ________” with the Pope's name in the blank. For instance, if writing to Pope Francis, the envelope would read, “His Holiness, Pope Francis.”;
, Throughout the body of the letter, your tone should be polite and gracious. You do not need to write in flowery language, but your language should be on par with how you would speak or be expected to speak inside a Catholic church.


Avoid swearing, slang, derogatory language, or any other forms of impolite speech.
Write out everything you need or want to say, but keep in mind that the Pope is a busy man. Instead of dragging on and spending extensive space on flattery, it would be better for all parties concerned if you kept the formalities basic and went directly into the purpose of your letter.
 As a Roman Catholic, you should conclude the letter with a sentence along the lines of, "I have the honor to profess myself with the most profound respect. Your Holiness' most obedient and humble servant," before signing your name.If you are not a Catholic, you can change the closing to something along the lines of, "With every good wish to Your Holiness, I am, Sincerely Yours," followed by your signature.
Something as simple as "With every best wish. Sincerely yours," with a signature after it would also work for a non-Catholic writing to the Pope.
Regardless of the exact wording you choose, the level of respect you demonstrate should correspond to the minimum level of respect you should have for someone in the Pope's position, at the very least. Someone who does not follow Catholic teaching or who disagrees with the Pope should still recognize his position of authority and close in a respectful manner. Anyone who does follow Catholic teaching should demonstrate the respect expected from one addressing the leader of his or her faith on Earth.
 If you plan to send your letter by traditional mail, you should write the address on the envelop as: His Holiness, Pope Francis / Apostolic Palace / 00120 Vatican City.


Note that you should separate the address onto separate lines according to the placements of the slashes, /.
Other ways to write the same address include:

His Holiness, Pope Francis PP. / 00120 Via del Pellegrino / Citta del Vaticano
His Holiness Pope Francis / Apostolic Palace / Vatican City
His Holiness Pope Francis / Vatican City State, 00120


Do not write "Italy" on the envelop as the country. The Vatican is considered its own independent nation, completely separate from Italy.
 If you would rather send the letter by e-mail or fax, you must go through the Vatican Press Office. The Pope does not have a personal, public e-mail address or fax number.


The e-mail address is: av@pccs.vaThe fax number is: +390669885373
Note that neither form of contact goes directly to the Pope, but correspondence you have for the Pope will get to him eventually when sent through either of these means.

