 Stretching increases your flexibility, making it less likely that you will injure yourself. It also helps your body warm up before exercising and cool down after exercising.For instance, try doing push-ups before you exercise to get your body going.You can also do things like bending over to touch your toes. Another option is to stand with your arms over your head and your hands touching. Lean over to one side, and then lean over to the other, stretching your arms as you go.;
, To be physically fit, you should get at least 150 minutes of aerobic exercise a week or 75 minutes if your aerobic exercise is more intense.Aerobic exercise helps your body absorb more oxygen, and it improves the function of your heart and lungs. You'll also find that you have more energy, and it can help with high blood pressure. This is true whether your goal is to lose fat, gain muscle or both.


Examples of aerobic exercises include jogging, swimming, dancing, and riding a bike., You should do strength-training exercises at least two times a week.This is also true, even if your goal isn't to bulk up. Losing weight requires replacing some of that weight with muscle to get a toned look. Strength training helps you build up your muscles over time.Try chest presses. Lay on your back on a flat surface. Bend your knees. Hold a weight in each hand. Start with them at chest level with your elbows bent, and then push the dumbbells into the air. Return them back to chest level. Repeat for 6 to 8 reps and then take a break before starting again.Use bicep curls. Standing up, hold a dumbbell in one hand, palm up. Your arm should be bent at the elbow. Lift the dumbbell up to your shoulder by bending your arm up, and then bring it back down slowly. Lift it back again. Repeat 6 or 8 times, then take a break. Do the same for the other arm.Practice knee extensions. Sit on a solid bench or table where your feet don't touch the floor. Put on ankle weights. Lift your knee up until it's fully extended, then bring it back down. Repeat 6 to 8 times and then rest. Build up sets of repetitions over time. Do the same with the other leg.Do calf raises. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Slowly push up until you are standing on your toes or at least the balls of your feet. Lower yourself back down. Repeat 6 to 8 times, and then rest. Build up the number of sets over time. This exercise works your calf muscles., Balance exercises help improve your balance. Try doing balance exercises several times a week. One easy way to improve your balance is to try balancing on one leg. After a time, move to balancing on the other leg.Balance and core exercises are some of the most neglected types of exercises. Remember that everything starts from your core - even your posture during everyday life! Your core must be strong and so must your balance.
 Flexibility helps protect you from injury, as it's often tight muscles that are injured.It can also help you increase your muscle size, as it stretches your muscles out.To improve your flexibility, try activities such as pilates or yoga. Both of these incorporate slow movements to help stretch your muscles over time. They can also improve balance. Try joining a class at a local gym.Stretch everyday or at the very least, several times a week. Stretching regularly helps stretch out your muscles, increasing flexibility the longer you do it.You can use some of the same stretches you use before workouts. However, you can also do exercises such as laying on your stomach and pushing your chest up at your shoulders, holding it for about 10 seconds. Another stretching exercise is to sit on the floor with your legs outstretched. Pull a leg up, using both your hands, and bending your foot back while you do. Hold in position for a few seconds. Move to the other leg., If you haven't been exercising much, don't jump into an intense exercise program. Instead, slowly increase how much you exercise over time. If you do too much too fast, you could injure yourself.As with anything new, the body needs time to adjust and gradually get up to speed. Adding too much to soon can cause injury or illness. Listen to the limitations of your body.
 Your body needs proteins to rebuild many parts of your body, from your muscles to your blood. They also provide essential nutrients your body needs to survive. For instance, many proteins are high in iron, which carries oxygen in your blood.The U.S. Government recommends that women 19-30 get the equivalent of 5 1/2 ounces of protein a day while women 30 and older should limit themselves to 5 ounces of protein daily based on a moderate lifestyle. Men 19-30 should get the equivalent of 6 1/2 ounces of protein a day while men 30-50 should get 6 ounces; men over 50 should limit themselves to 5 1/2 ounces., It's important to choose lean proteins because proteins high in saturated fat can be detrimental to you health over time.Some good options include chicken, fish, and turkey. However, you can still eat beef, especially if you buy leaner varieties. For instance, choose ground beef that is less than 10% fat.Beans, nuts, and seeds can provide the protein you need if you are a vegetarian. Eggs are also a great source of protein if you choose to eat them on your diet.One way to make proteins leaner is to cut off any fat you see before you start cooking, such as cutting the fatty edge off a pork chop., Vegetables help you get the right vitamins and minerals in your diet. They also provide you with fiber to keep your digestive tract healthy. They should make up a large portion of your diet, especially since they keep you fuller with fewer calories than many other foods.Women aged 19-50 should eat 2 1/2 cups of vegetables daily. Over age 50, they should cut back to 2 cups, based on a moderate exercise level.Men aged 19-50 should eat 3 cups of vegetables daily. After age 50, they can cut back to 2 1/2 cups daily, based on a moderate exercise level., Fruits should be an important part of your diet, as they provide important nutrients, as well as fiber. Some also help keep you hydrated.The government recommends that both men and women from age 19 to 30 should get 2 cups of fruit per day. Past age 30, men should still eat 2 cups while women should eat 1 1/2, based on a moderate to light exercise level.To put it more simply, half your plate should always be fruits and veggies.
 When eating bread or pasta, it's best to pick ones that are made with whole grains. Also, incorporate other whole grains into your diet, such as oatmeal, quinoa, and brown rice. The government recommends that 50 percent of your grains should be whole grains.Adult women should eat 6 ounces of grains per day until age 50 when they should switch to 5 ounces. Adult men should 8 ounces until they are 30, 7 ounces until they are 50, and 6 ounces a day after that.One ounce is basically equivalent to one serving. For instance, 1 slice of bread is an ounce. Similarly, 1 cup of cereal is an ounce while 1/2 a cup counts as an ounce for cooked pastas and rice., Though the government doesn't make a recommendation on how much dairy an adult should eat, dairy can provide calcium and other nutrients in your diet. Pick low-fat versions of your favorite dairy products to keep it healthier.If you don't eat dairy products, canned fish, such as salmon with the bones still in, is a good option for getting your calcium in.If you're vegetarian, try fortified foods. For instance, fortified cereals and juices have calcium. You'll find calcium in milk alternatives, such as rice or almond milk. You can also eat certain beans, soy foods (such as tofu), and some dark greens to get your calcium (such as kale, collard greens, or bok choy)., Oils are important of your diet. They do provide nutrients you need. However, they are also high in calories, so you should limit your daily intake.Women age 19 to 30 should limit themselves to 6 tablespoons. After that, they should only eat 5 tablespoons a day. Men should eat 7 tablespoons until age 30, but limit themselves to 6 tablespoons after that.Though you do need some oils, it's best to limit other types of fats, as solid types of fat are generally worse for you. They tend to raise your bad cholesterol because they have more trans fat and saturated fat., Water is essential to how your body functions; in fact, water makes up about 60 percent of what you weigh. Your body cannot function properly if you don't give it enough water every day.Though the standard recommendation is 8 glasses of water a day, the Institute of Medicine actually moves that recommendation a little higher: 9 glasses a day for women and 13 for men.When exercising, the body is sweating more and more water is needed to replenish those stores.
 If you are exercising, you need to up your water intake. Similarly, if you are doing an activity that causes you to sweat a great deal, you also need to up your intake. For a small amount of exercising, you may only need a couple of cups. However, when you are doing hard work for more than an hour, you need even more.You also need extra water at other times, such as if it's particularly hot outside. You'll also need to increase your intake if you're sick or breastfeeding, as you lose more water during those times., If you are getting enough fruits and vegetables, that can help your water intake, especially if you choose ones high in water content. Examples of fruits and veggies with a high water content include leafy greens, watermelon, and cucumber., Your water intake doesn't need to come solely from pure water; other drinks count towards your total. However, you should skip drinks that dehydrate you rather than hydrate you.For instance, juice is hydrating, but it adds extra calories.However, you can cut it with water to help keep the calorie count lower. Milk also falls in this category.Drinks with caffeine can provide hydration, but they also tend to cause you to go to the bathroom more. Therefore, though they can be part of your daily total, you should limit them.Alcoholic beverages are generally not very good at keeping you hydrated., If you're not a huge fan of drinking plain water, you can spice it up a bit. Add a slice or two of citrus to give it flavor. You can also add other fruits and even veggies to your water for better flavor. Try muddled berries or cucumber., While it's tempting to stay up late finishing a great book, getting enough sleep is essential to staying healthy. It also keeps you happier and more alert.Make sure you are getting the required 8 hours of sleep a night.


To help yourself get your sleep, make sure you stick to a schedule. Always go to bed at the same time. If you have a hard time sticking to it, try setting an alarm to remind you to go to bed. Your body likes routine, and once you get on a schedule, it will know it's time to get sleepy when bedtime rolls around.Also, take 30 minutes to 1 hour before bed to relax. Turn off the screens, and start getting ready for bed. Giving your self time to relax before it's bedtime ensures you'll be asleep when you need to be, rather than just heading for bed at that time.It is interesting to note that a body that is sleep deprived tends to crave more carbohydrates and eat more throughout the day. This is your body's way of trying to get energy, which is what it should have gotten from adequate sleep.
 It's important to have yourself checked out at least once a year by a doctor. That way, the doctor can monitor you for any conditions you might develop, such as high cholesterol or high blood pressure, and get you started on treatment early.Don't forget to ask your doctor about the appropriate level of exercise for you. Also, your doctor can advise you on the right diet.
 Recent research has shown that some alcohol may be beneficial, especially wine. It may help reduce your risk of heart disease and stroke.However, too much drinking can lead to a slew of health problems, from higher risk of cancer to liver disease and high blood pressure.Drinking in moderation for women means only one drink a day. For men, two drinks is considered moderate, until age 65, when they should switch to one drink a day., Smoking affects all parts of your body. It decreases your lung capacity, making it harder to exercise. It increases your blood pressure, putting you at risk for heart disease. It can also make it harder to increase muscle size because not as much oxygen is reaching them.Get your loved ones involved. They can help keep you from smoking, as long as you tell them how you want them to help. For instance, maybe you can ask them not to smoke around you for a month or two.Stay busy. The busier you are, the less you'll think about smoking. Try to think about activities that take you away from cigarette smoke, such as hiking or going to the movies, rather than to it, such as going to a club or bar.Skip your triggers. If you always smoke while doing a certain activity, try not doing that for awhile so you won't be tempted., Increasing how much you move overall, even if it's not aerobic exercise, will make you more fit. For instance, park your car farther out in the parking lot when you go places; you'll need to walk more to get inside. Choose to go up the stairs, skipping the elevator. Instead of sitting while you're on the phone, walk around. All of the little things will come together to make you a healthier person.