 Consider this the collection of personal attributes that give you a warm and fuzzy feeling. Actively fight your insecurities by writing down and reflecting on all the wonderful things you and others have said about you.These traits can be about your appearance - "You have gorgeous eyes" or "Your clothing choices are always well thought out" - or about other personal characteristics like being a good listener or always anticipating when others need a helping hand.
Supplement your own ideas with the suggestions of a few friends. What are some positive traits they admire in you?
Read your self-esteem file regularly to fend off insecurities.
 Go out of your way to invest time and energy into the relationships that have a positive influence on you. Whether it's one or two close friends or a large group of supporters, be sure to regularly meet up with or talk on the phone to these individuals who make you feel good about yourself., Society's perceptions for what body shapes and sizes that are supposedly most attractive vary by generation. Several decades ago, TV and film worshiped curvy, medium-build women like Marilyn Monroe. Today, many actresses and models are incredibly tall and slender. You can't change your body type, but you can choose to not let the media dictate what you think is beautiful.Avoid comparing yourself to actresses or models in magazines or on TV. Stop thinking that you have to live up to these unrealistic, often Photo-shopped images. Instead, look for individuals around you in your life who are confident in their own skin, no matter what their shape or size. Use them as your role models.
 Your body is not your enemy. It carries you to school or work. It allows you to hug your mom or run and play with your dog. Make a commitment to treating it better.


Treating your body better can start by eliminating the negative things you say about it. Other ways to become your body's friend include eating well-balanced meals, staying active, and participating in activities that allow you to pamper your body, such as getting a massage or taking a rejuvenating nap., Many things can affect your libido, but feeling no so great about yourself due to extra pounds can leave you feeling not interested in the sexual department. Research even shows that gaining or losing weight can set your hormones off-balance and screw with your sex drive.You can overcome your lackluster sex drive by getting comfortable being nude. Before or after a shower, spend some time just walking around naked. Purposely check yourself out in the mirror, paying attention to your entire body rather than your thighs or tummy. Doing this regularly can help you tune out the negative self-talk that comes along with getting undressed.
Another way to feel more confident sexually after weight gain is to pleasure yourself first. Caress your whole body with appreciation like your partner would. This little self-pleasuring exercise will help put you in the mood and improve your self-confidence.

