 Accutane is notorious for drying out the skin.Cool water showers will dry your face out less than hot showers and can keep the side effects at bay. Keeping the shower short likewise ensures your skin is not stripped of essential oils and does not dry out. Long showers and baths dry out your skin, so try to limit them to 5 to 10 minutes.


If necessary, you could take one warm (not hot) shower per day.In this case, do not take any additional showers on that day.
Pat your skin dry. Do not wipe your skin with the towel to dry it.;
, Regular shampoos will leave your scalp dry and itchy. Many people report that they don’t need to shampoo at all while on Accutane, so evaluate the condition of your hair before using shampoo, then use it only as needed.
 Mild soaps should not use any artificial fragrances or chemicals, and be free of antibacterial agents. You can also use a cleanser meant for sensitive skin. Read your labels and make sure soap is for sensitive skin, fragrance-free.


Make sure to use soap as directed. To use the soap, take the bar between your hands and wet it with water. Rub the soap back and forth until suds form. Then, apply the soapy suds to your washcloth or loofah. You could also choose to apply the soap directly to your washcloth or loofah and scrub one against the other until suds form. Then, use the sudsy washcloth or loofah on the areas of your body you wish to clean.
 Like the mild soap, any cleanser you use should be relatively free of chemicals and preservatives, and include natural oils and herbs among its main ingredients.


Specific directions for use will depend on the non-soap cleanser you use. Most come in the form of lotions. To use lotion-type cleansers, squirt a little on the fingertips, then rub it gently into the skin of your face, arms, and hands. Work it into your pores for a few seconds. Rinse excess off with water, or wipe it away with tissue.
There are many mild soaps and cleansers available from your local bath and beauty specialist. Find ones which works for you.
There are also soap-free shampoos available as well.
 Look for one which uses natural ingredients and includes a minimum of chemicals. Natural ingredients in your moisturizer might include brown sugar, macadamia nut oil, shea butter, and oatmeal.


Read labels and make sure there is no perfume added and that the moisturizer is alcohol-free.
Moisturizer can be applied to dry or cracked skin as needed by dabbing a bit on your fingertips and working it into the affected area with gentle, circular motions.
Read the directions on the back of your moisturizer to use it properly.
If you are flying, then make sure to apply a double layer of lotion before boarding the plane. The air is recirculated in planes so your skin will be more likely to dry out.
 If the weather allows, exposing your skin to fresh air can keep your skin from drying out and cracking. Do not open your window unless you have a screen over it or you might allow bugs or other critters in your home.
 Get one for your home and smaller one for your workspace, if possible.
 It is important to keep yourself hydrated, so make sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day. Try keeping a water bottle with you and aim to refill it a few times during the day.