 Make the coil start on the border and end 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) from it (the coil would be 2-3 inches long). If it doesn't stay still, use glue to glue it in place while you coil it. Make it thick (half an inch is quite enough, but the larger the coil, the more powerful the projectile will be when fired). Be sure to leave the two copper wire ends of the coil easy to use and not insulated (while the rest of the coil should be insulated).






;
, Turn the coil on by hooking it up to a battery. Cut a piece of the steel wire. Put the steel next to the coil and see how far it can be while still attracting. Cut the PVC pipe at that distance.
 It should fit well inside the pvc pipe, but not too squeezed.
 Take out the flash circuit. IMPORTANT: There is a battery in this circuit. Take it out and don't touch any metal parts (especially the two ends of the capacitor). Then, touch the two ends of the capacitor with a screwdriver to discharge it. if there is a spark, then it was charged but now safe to touch, if not then it wasn't charged. This is to avoid getting shocked. When this has been done, find the capacitor, which would be a cylindrical thing, larger than most of the components in the circuit. Cut two more copper wires. Insulate the ends and attach them to each wire protruding from the capacitor. Attach the other end of one of these wires to one end of the coil's wires. The other two wires (the other capacitor wire and the other coil wire) will be connected whenever you turn on the coilgun. A fly zapper can also do the job well.
 then put the coil and the pvc and put a tube larger than it in. put the foam filler in the body cast and your set.
 then put the foam filler in so that the electrical parts won't touch the metal so that you won't get shocked and you're all set








, Put the battery you took out in the previous step back where it was. Find a sort of button in the middle of the flash circuit. Press it and wait a minute. After that, load your projectile (the steel ring) and connect the two wires left unconnected. There should be a spark, and the projectile should get shot. When you're done, take out the battery and touch any metal endings (especially those of the capacitor) with a screwdriver to release any charge.








