 For the most basic cushion, you’ll need fabric, a foam pad (or pre-existing cushion), cotton batting, a zipper, sewing machine, and matching thread. Pretty simple, right? You’ll also need a few basic tools, including scissors, a measuring tape, a ruler, an iron, and straight pins.


Be sure to choose a sturdy upholstery fabric; cushions suffer a lot use and damage, meaning that not just any fabric will hold up.
If you’re not reupholstering a cushion you already have, choose a sturdy, heavy-weight cushion that is comfortable for sitting (not just what’s on sale). Your bum will appreciate the extra few dollars.;
, If you’re reupholstering a pre-existing cushion, start by removing the cover and cutting the seams. Measure the original piece of fabric, and get the same amount of your new fabric to reupholster it. You’ll need two pieces of fabric: the top piece (just the length by the width) and the bottom piece (the length, width, and depth - or sides -). If you’re making a cushion from scratch, you’ll need three basic measurements: the length, the width, and the depth.


To find the length, measure the longest side and add 1 extra inch.
To find the width, measure the shorter side and add 1 extra inch.
To find the depth, measure the height, double this measurement, and add 1 inch (2.5 cm). For example, if the height is 4-inches, double this to get 8-inches, and add 1 additional inch for a total of 9-inches.
 If you’ve bought brand new fabric that is not pre-washed, you should wash your fabric (according to package instructions) to prevent it from shrinking later on. Lay your fabric out flat, and cut it to size according to your measurements. If necessary, use your iron to remove any wrinkles that might exist.
 Place your cushion/foam in the center of your fabric with the pattern side of the fabric facing down/out, and use a pencil to outline it. Take the fabric at the corners, and fold it diagonally to create a mitered corner. Use your sewing machine to stitch in 1-inch along the diagonal fold, perpendicular to the edge of the fabric. When the corners are finished, cut the excess diagonal strip of fabric off within ½ inch of the new seam.
 The zipper is sewn in first, prior to stitching closed the sides of the cushion. Pin your two pieces of fabric together in the center of each side, lining up the fabric so that the print-sides are facing each other. On the side you’re going to sew the zipper, measure outwards from the center (where the pin is). Sew a seam along the whole edge, from corner to corner using a ½ inch seam allowance and a basting stitch. Repeat this for both sides. Place the zipper between the two sides, pin it in place, and sew along the fabric band attached to the zipper.Make sure your zipper is centered before you pin or sew it.
 Work along the rest of your fabric, pinning the sides together (with the fabric inside-out still). Sew along each of the seam sides with a ½-inch seam allowance. When you reach a corner, pivot the fabric on the sewing machine so that you may continue stitching without moving your fabric. Use a reverse stitch at the end to secure your final stitching in place.


Finish your cushion. Turn your cushion cover inside-out with the zipper left unzipped. Cut your batting to size, and wrap it around the foam cushion. Insert the foam cushion through the open zipper hole, and position it to fit inside the cover. Adjust the cover accordingly, and your project is finished!