 You can use any flavor of donut holes that you’d like, though plain cake is a safe option. Place the 48 donut holes in the refrigerator for 2 or 3 hours. You can also place them in the freezer for 15 minutes if you’d like to speed up the process.You can buy donut holes at many supermarkets, or at places like Dunkin’ Donuts.;
, You can use candy coating, chocolate chips, or white chocolate chips. Place the candy in a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave the candy for a few minutes. Stir the candy every 30 seconds. You can begin with a smaller amount of candy and add more as you stir., Set an upside-down colander or block of Styrofoam on the counter. You will use this to hold up the cake pops. Then, place the donut holes onto the paper lollipop sticks. The donut holes should fit snugly and not fall of.You can dip the lollipop sticks into the candy coating first if the donuts do not fit snugly.
 Going one at a time, dip the donut hole into the melted candy. Dip the donut hole until it is completely covered and then remove it quickly. Drip the excess candy over the bowl. You can use a spoon to scrape the excess coating from the bottom of the donut hole., You can choose from toppings like nuts, sprinkles, and or other candies. Don’t add the toppings until all of the donut holes stop dripping, but they should still be wet. Gently roll the cake pops into the toppings. You can spread the toppings out on a baking sheet or tray.You can also choose to sprinkle the topping by hand.
 Put each cake pop back into the colander or Styrofoam. Make sure each cake pop is completely separated and upright. Wait until the coating has hardened to eat or to add a candy coating drizzle. The coating should harden within ten minutes., If the cake pops won’t be eaten immediately, store them in an airtight container. You can store them in the refrigerator, or set them out on the counter. The donut hole cake pops will be good for up to three days.Store the donut holes in the refrigerator instead of on the counter if the temperature in your kitchen stays warm.
 To make tiramisu cake pops, you can use plain, glazed, or chocolate donut holes. Dip the donut holes in melted vanilla candy coating. Sprinkle cocoa powder over the tops of the cake pops. Place one chocolate-covered espresso bean on each cake pop., You can use plain or glazed donut holes. Melt white vanilla candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl. Sprinkle the cake pops with shredded coconut once they have been dipped in the candy coating., Topping your cake pops with toasted almonds adds a salty element in with the sweetness. Gently cover each cake pop in icing once they have been dipped and dried in the coating of your choice. Then, sprinkle on the toasted almonds., Use plain glazed donut holes. Spread each donut hole with glaze after it has been dipped and dried in the coating. Put chopped up peanuts and crumbled bacon onto a shallow plate. Gently roll each pop in the toppings.You can make your own coating by melting ¼ cup (57 g) of maple syrup and a ¼ cup (57 g) of butter in a saucepan until it begins to boil. Then, remove from heat and add in 1 cup (200 g) of powdered sugar, and stir it until it dissolves.

