 Popular culture may not paint guys as being as appearance-conscious as women, but, in reality, some guys can be just as image-conscious (if not even more so). If you're looking to flat-out compliment a guy's looks, try telling him he has a nice smile, eyes, hair, or face. If you want to be more "forward", you can also compliment him on physical features like his arms, abs, and so on, but this is usually seen as an open acknowledgment of your attraction to him, so be careful about using this on platonic friends!


Research shows that women are much more likely to compliment men and other women on their appearance versus other attributes.The way you compliment a guy's appearance can also substantially change the meaning of the compliment. For example, if you're complimenting a platonic guy friend, it's probably best to keep things light with comments like, "You have crazy eyes! There's a million different colors in there!" On the other hand, comments like, "Your eyes are like twin oceans... I feel like I could get lost in them" are probably best left for romance novels or people you're already very close to.
Be aware that it may make their partner feel insecure. Studies show that women are much more likely to feel threatened when someone compliments their male partner's physical appearance., Sharply dressed men are practically begging for attention, so don't be afraid to give it to them. Complimenting someone's dress sense can be especially smart if you know the guy receiving the compliment is self-conscious about the way he looks. While it's fine to simply compliment someone's entire outfit, it's also acceptable to pick one specific part or aspect of the guy's style and focus on that instead.


Take note that men may not appreciate compliments on their fashion. Because it may violate gender norms for a man to care about being fashionable, he may take it the wrong way. By not accepting this kind of compliment, he could be trying to save face.Compliments that reinforce gender stereotypes can cause bad relationships. Research shows that these comments can be depersonalizing.For example, if your guy friend just got a new haircut but is still a little embarrassed to show it off, you might say something like, "Whoa, check out your new look! Frosted tips will never go out of fashion." At the same time, this could embarrass him.
 If a guy is really fit, he might want you to notice. If he has been working really hard to improve his health or maintain it, it can be nice to get some feedback. It is nice to hear that other people can tell you're trying to be healthy. Give him some support by giving him a compliment on it. You can even choose to focus on a particular aspect of his health, as opposed to his overall health.


Complimenting a man's level of health can be a good way to avoid making them seem less manly. Health is something most people have to work hard for. Compliments about their body can be redirected in this way to subtly say, “You worked hard.”
For example, if you notice that the guy is no longer winded after climbing up flights of stairs, say, “Hey, you got a lot better at that! I'm still wheezing!”

