 Look for the USDA Organic label to be sure that foods were grown according to proper standards. Organic foods are free from dangerous pesticides and chemicals, which can harm your health and the planet. If you don’t have the budget to buy all organic foods, switch out a couple of items like grapes or spinach that are known to have a high pesticide content., This is a great way to ensure they will be chemical free. Try growing a few pots of herbs in your house. They will taste great and also help keep your air clean. If you’re feeling ambitious, plant a small vegetable garden outside. There is nothing quite like fresh produce or the satisfaction of enjoying the fruits of your labor., If you don’t have a green thumb, you can benefit from those that do. Buy your food from a local farmer’s market to support farmers and good agricultural practices. Fresh food tastes better, is healthier, and helps the environment by eliminating shipping the food which causes a lot of pollution., Try to avoid foods filled with chemicals and instead opt for natural ingredients such as whole grains, beans, nuts, fruits, vegetables, and spices. If you can’t pronounce it, you probably don’t want to ingest it! Take the time to read the label. Just because it is advertised as natural, doesn’t mean it actually is.


Try to limit your meat consumption. Raising meat takes a great toll on the environment. If you currently eat meat daily, try to choose one day a week to go vegetarian. Every little bit helps., A lot of cleaning supplies are filled with toxic chemicals. You don’t want to kill germs by exposing yourself to another harmful element! Instead choose cleaning supplies with natural ingredients. These are much better for the environment by greatly reducing toxic waste. Try a simple Castile soap or use baking soda and vinegar. These will keep your home clean, safe, and will also save you money.Check the ingredients of your hygiene products. A lot of makeup, deodorants, shampoos, soaps, and toothpastes are also filled with harsh chemicals. Since these are used daily, it is especially important to use quality ingredients. There are many ingredients to look out for, but a good starting point would be to avoid parabens, fragrance, synthetic colors, and phthalates., When in doubt, make it yourself, that way you know exactly what is in it and can tailor it to your specific needs. Whether it is enjoying a home-cooked meal or making your own deodorant, when you make it yourself it is generally healthier, less expensive, and better for the environment.


Start by choosing one item you’d like to try making for yourself. It might take a couple of tries to get the recipe just right. Don't be discouraged if it doesn't go perfectly the first time. Once you master one recipe, try making something else.

