 You want to make sure your car is in the best shape possible during the winter. You don’t want to break down when it’s snowing or below zero. That can be stressful! Take your car to the mechanic for a checkup, or do your own maintenance on your car.Common things that break during the winter include hoses, belts, water pumps, and spark plug wires. You should also check the tire pressure.
 Dead batteries are not a good thing to wake up to on a cold morning. Another thing that you should check at the start of the winter is your battery. Old batteries may give out in the cold, or the charging system may not be working correctly. While you are checking the other parts of the car, you should check your battery.If you need to get a new battery, make sure it is powerful enough to start your car in the winter. During the winter, your car will have more difficulty starting than in the summer.
 Antifreeze is important to keep your car running during the winter. Most cars will do best with a mixture of water and antifreeze. For most winter weather, 60 percent antifreeze and 40 perfect water will be fine. In extreme winter conditions, use 70 percent antifreeze and 30 percent water. This helps keep the engine cool while having a low freezing point.Check your manual for specific antifreeze type recommendations.
 Having your wipers going out while on the road is no fun. If you live in an area with a lot of ice and snow, you should put winter wipers on your car. These wipers are heavy and are specially made to keep ice from collecting on the wipers.Before you turn off the car, make sure to turn off the wipers. Your blades can freeze on the windshield, which can mess up the motor of the wipers when you try to use them again.
 If you live in an area where it snows often every year, you put snow tires on your car. Snow tires can be difficult to put on your car, so permanently mount them on steel rims that a tire shop can easily put on your car in winter.You can store the tires during the winter, or many tire shops will store the tires and rims for you.
 Snow and icy conditions can make seeing out of your windshield difficult. If you drive behind a car, you may also get salt and road grime sprayed on your windshield. You need to put washer fluid in your car that is made for snow and below freezing temperatures.Winter formulas of washer fluid help remove snow and ice and doesn’t freeze.

