 In this day and age, the average author makes less money than ever before from book sales. For every J.K. Rowling or Christopher Paolini out there who strikes it rich, there are a hundred, perhaps a thousand authors who scrape out a second income on residuals from their books while paying the bills with an unrelated job. When you pirate a book, more so than in the case of pirated films or music, you're taking money away from the authors (after all, they can't go on tour and charge $10 a head to make up the difference). If you like a pirated book, be sure to go and buy a new copy as soon as you're able.
 Since eBook files tend to be fairly small, one of the most efficient ways to download them is over a peer-to-peer network such as Soulseek or Ares Galaxy. Simply download and install one of these programs (or a similar program) and perform a search for the title or author you want.









Be sure to figure out where the program saves your completed files, so you don't lose track of what you've downloaded.
 You'll need to download a BitTorrent client such as µTorrent first, and then search for a torrent online. Torrent files themselves aren't illegal, so they aren't usually very hard to find. Torrents are a great way to download large bundles of books all at once, but if you're searching for a specific title, you might have less luck. Once you find a torrent file you like, download it and it should open in your client program automatically. Torrenting is generally faster than using a peer-to-peer network.









Once you've finished downloading a torrent, you can choose whether or not to keep sharing it. Sharing it allows other people to download it more easily (and without others sharing their copies, you'd never have gotten yours), but it also puts you at higher risk of getting into trouble for illegally sharing files. Canceling the torrent once you're done is considered bad etiquette in the torrenting community, but that's the only repercussion you'll face if you do it.

