 Skincare products face much less governmental regulation than food products, so an item's availability on the market doesn’t necessarily mean it's safe. Because of this, it’s important to check the ingredient list on the labels of your current skincare products as well as any news ones you’re interested in. Look for organic, herbal ingredients such as green tea extract, Vitamin C, acai oil, olive oil, and aloe vera.Be sure to avoid chemicals such as parabens, propylene glycol, fragrances, and formaldehyde.There are multiple nonprofit watchdog groups that maintain useful websites to help consumers decipher long and complicated ingredient lists. Take a look at safercosmetics.org, ewg.org, and breastcancerfund.org to learn about which products and ingredients are best and which are most harmful.;
, Phrases like “all natural” and “hypoallergenic” emblazoned across the label may seem promising, but they’re essentially meaningless.Opt for products with “organic” on the label instead of “natural,” as the term ‘organic’ actually denotes that the product meets stringent federal guidelines. You can also look for the European Union Compliance Seal, which means that the product contains no chemicals suspected to cause cancer or birth defects.
 The skin on your face is different from the skin on your body and thus requires separate, specialized products. For example, since it's thinner than the skin on your body, your facial skin needs retinol in order to preserve elasticity. The skin on your face is also more exposed to the elements and prone to oiliness, so make sure your face products contain SPF, oil-fighting ingredients, and blemish-fighting ingredients.Use your facial lotion on your neck and upper chest as well, as this skin is thin and exposed to the elements just like your face is.Opt for organic, gentle lotions and cleansers designed specifically for sensitive skin if you find that your skin gets irritated easily. They’ll be more expensive than your run-of-the-mill drugstore brands, but the vastly reduced chemical components will make your skin a lot less prone to rashes and flare-ups.
 Unlike your facial lotion, your body lotion only has one purpose: to moisturize dry skin. Since the skin on your body is thicker and less sensitive, these lotions can use more heavy-duty moisturizers like petrolatum which, if used on your face, would clog pores and cause pimples. Similarly, body washes and soap bars can use harsher cleansers and have a higher pH, which would parch and strip the delicate skin on your face.Just make sure that your body lotion is fragrance-free, as artificial fragrances are one of the most common allergens included in skin products.


While your body can tolerate these higher pH levels and harsh cleansers better than your face does, you might still want to go with a body soap that has a neutral pH in order to avoid drying out your skin.
If you have a history of eczema, use a body lotion containing tea tree oil or colloidal oatmeal in order to soothe existing rashes and prevent more from developing., If your skin seems to react poorly to even the mildest store-bought remedies, you could consider pursuing a nontraditional approach such as the oil cleansing method. In this method, you apply a mixture of botanical oils to your face and rinse it off afterward. The cleansing oils blend with the naturally produced oils on your face and flush them out when you rinse. Using as little as two ingredients and preserving the pH balance of your skin, this method is a great and cost-efficient way to remove natural oils without irritating your skin.One of the most popular mixtures includes two parts castor oil and one part sunflower seed or grape seed oil, among many others. Browse recipes on holistic beauty blogs such as crunchybetty.com or wellnessmama.com and experiment in order to find out what blend works best for you.
 Many hygienic products like deodorants and hair conditioner contain parabens, sodium laureth sulfate, and ethanolamines which can irritate your skin. Even household solutions that you don’t apply directly to skin can cause allergic reactions and contact dermatitis. Check your laundry detergent and dryer sheets to make sure they are “free and clear” of all dyes and perfumes.Consider switching to all-natural household cleaners, or be sure to wear gloves when handling all-purpose cleaners and disinfectants., Many of the cheapest foundations with the heaviest coverage contain oil and clog pores, ultimately putting you at risk for increased acne. Lipsticks also frequently contain mineral oil—a known carcinogen—and petrolatum, so check that your cosmetics are oil-free and contain minimal chemical additives.Purchase your products from a manufacturer that eschews animal testing if you also want to support ethical production.