 Facing your fear can help you realize that the situation isn’t as bad as you imagined, and it builds your confidence when you show yourself that you can handle it.Before you jump into the deep end of the pool, however, you need to learn to swim:


Practice relaxation techniques to help you through frightening situations. Don't force yourself too far out of your comfort zone until you have practiced these techniques many times.
Ask a friend to accompany you to scary situations and prompt you to use your relaxation techniques when you start to get nervous.
 You don’t have to try to tackle all of your fears and even fears that distress you the most.Instead, try challenging your fear a little at a time. Starting small can help build confidence in yourself as you overcome each new challenge. It can also help you learn what strategies work to help you deal with your fear. This way you can use those strategies and confidence when you face larger fears. A therapist who specializes in "systematic desensitization" can structure this process for you.For instance, if you fear moving to a new town, it may also make you afraid of even searching for homes. Instead of tackling your big fear of moving, challenge your smaller fear of home searching.
Or, for example, you may fear handling the next grade because you don’t know how you’ll make friends and do the work. Focus on challenging your smaller fear of doing the work.
 One way to deal with your fear of the unknown is to lighten up in general. Taking a more relaxed perspective on life and what it may bring can help reduce stress related to specific situations. Try doing things that put a smile on your face and a laugh in your throat.


Spend time with people that make you happy. For instance, take your younger siblings to park.
Take a couple of minutes to browse a funny website you enjoy or check out the latest memes on social media.
Subscribe to a joke of the day app or site or download a humorous e-book.
When you start worrying about the unknown, imagine the funniest, most-outlandish outcome possible. For example, if you’re afraid of switching schools, imagine that on your first day everyone has on clown shoes.
 In some cases, fear of the unknown can cause panic attacks or even develop into a phobia or anxiety disorder. If your fear is causing you significant impairment in your life, you may want to consider speaking with a mental health professional. They can provide you with strategies to help you cope, treatment options, and address any deeper issues you may be having.


For example, if you’re fear of what might happen is keeping you from leaving your home, you may want to contact a therapist or counselor.
Talk to someone you trust like a parent, your physician, school counselor, or human resources representative for information about therapists in your area.

