 If you previously did cardiovascular exercises and your doctor says it is ok to continue, you may find it easiest to just adjust the intensity of your activities. Possible activities include:Walking. Walking is an excellent way to get your heart rate up and maintain your leg muscles. Take care to wear shoes that support your feet and your ankles. Invest in a good sports bra which will continue to support you as your breasts enlarge. Walking will get you outside in the sunshine and can be done with your partner or friends.
Swimming. Swimming is excellent during pregnancy because it takes the weight off your joints while you move. Purchase a good pair of goggles so that you can swim with you face in the water. This will reduce the stress on your back. Avoid the butterfly stroke because of the extreme spinal movements it requires. If you have any pelvic pain while doing the breaststroke, switch to a different stroke. Even if you don’t swim well, many community pools have water aerobics courses for pregnant women.
Biking. If you biked a lot before your pregnancy, you may want to switch to using a stationary bike. This has the advantage that it is stable and you won't fall.
 This means that you should avoid activities in which you have a risk of falling or being hit, bumped, or jostled. Activities to avoid include:Yoga poses that require you to lie flat on your back after 20 weeks. This can reduce the blood supply to you and the baby.
Contact sports like football, soccer, boxing, rugby, and basketball
Sports like tennis or volleyball which require you to make sudden changes of direction
Activities in which you are in danger of falling such as climbing, horseback riding, skiing, or skating
Activities that involve exposure to heat like exercising during hot weather, Bikram yoga (hot yoga), steam rooms, saunas, and hot tubs

, Engaging in a safe, moderate amount of exercise will benefit both you and the baby by:Relieving backaches, leg cramps, constipation, bloating, and swelling
Lowering your risk of having gestational diabetes
Improving your mood and giving you more energy
Making you sleep better
Getting you in shape for having an easier birth and faster recovery

