 There are many good reasons to become vegan and there are some bad reasons. Bad reasons include wanting to impress a crush or keeping skinny. Good reasons include:


Caring about animal welfare
Caring about world poverty and the use of grain for feeding livestock over people (a highly inefficient transfer of energy), plus additional methane output from beef cattle etc.






Caring about your health; some diseases are thought to be put into the fast track by meat consumption and some illnesses are exacerbated by meat and animal product consumption






Being a compassionate, sensitive person who simply cannot abide the thought of eating meat.





;
, Rid yourself of one thing every week. For example, week one, no pork. Week two, no beef, and so on. Continue from meat to eggs to dairy to honey until you have reduced the non-vegan elements to nothing.*tip* Buy frozen vegetables for when you're running low on time. Lots of different options, but read the ingredients to be sure!

, It is really important to replace the items that you are removing from your diet with healthy and delicious alternatives. Meat analogs are one example, as are non-dairy milks such as nut, soy, and oat milks. There are soy and rice cheeses, soy whipped cream and egg replacements made from grains and vegetables. There is pectin to replace gelatin and many other things that you can still have, just different versions.
 Perhaps elements of health problems that you have been experiencing have eased too. Consider good things rather than bad things about your lifestyle change.
 In fact, it is just the beginning, as you start to try new foods and open your mind to a new range of possibilities. If you do error, apologize to yourself and move on to the original plan to keep veganizing your way of life. Just enjoy your food and start again each time. Also realize that sometimes there is a real need to err, such as for the sake of being diplomatic in family or other relations, when traveling, when sick, pregnant, etc. Always considering falling back on the hierarchy of vegan -> lacto-vegetarian -> ovo-lacto vegetarian -> pescatarian -> omnivore choices in that order if you have to err for any good reason. And don't beat yourself up; tomorrow is always a new day.
 It is important to see thriving, healthy and happy vegans doing what you are doing. Join a club, get to meet more vegans and share stories, recipes and ideas.
 Every day. Even on days you cheat. Realize that a vegan diet, although kinder, is extremely difficult but it is possible and soon becomes so second nature that you will wonder why the transition felt difficult. You'll survive, along with the 90 animals a year that you are choosing not to eat.
 Just because you aren't eating animal products doesn't mean that you have to deprive yourself. There are many delicious vegan foods out there, so use going vegan as an excuse to expand your palate and try new (vegan) foods and see which ones you like best. You may just be surprised.

