 Try pavlova. Pavlovas are a work of art when they're made well and decorated with all the delicious fruits you've got in season. For those lucky enough to experience Christmas in the southern hemisphere, berries, stone fruit and kiwifruit are the go for pavlova toppings. For those in the northern hemisphere, apples, bananas and imported or canned fruits work well. See How to make pavlova.;
, There are some wonderful Italian alternatives to the Christmas pudding, such as cassata or panforte. Some choices include:



Panforte.

Tiramisu, individual tiramisu pots, green tea tiramisu, oreo cookie tiramisu and vegan tiramisu.

Berry and cream panettone.
 French cuisine has some tasty choices available that are delicious, such as bûche de Noël or yule log. Or, try a Christmas themed croquembouche. A sweet ice cream based terrine with a few candied fruits can also be a delicious choice. Some choices include:



Yule log and vegan buche de noel.

Croquembouche and profiteroles (cream puffs).

Strawberry terrine.
 Apart from the Christmas cake, some other British traditional foods can prove lighter fare at Christmas time, such as:



Chocolate trifle, sherry trifle, peach trifle, double chocolate mocha trifle, brownie trifle and simple trifle.

English custard, vanilla custard and strawberry custard.

sticky toffee pudding.
 Make some delicious sweet fondues or melted chocolate fondue for dipping fruit pieces into. Complete with a chocolate fountain, this could be a rather exciting Christmas dessert choice! Some choices include:



Chocolate fondue, chocolate fondue with chocolate chip biscotti and chocolate fondue in the microwave.
 After a heavy meal, fruit is an excellent way to finish the meal. It's light, easy-to-digest and tasty. Here are some suggestions:



Fruit salad.

Poached pears, poached pears in wine and poached pears and chocolate sauce; stone fruits such as nectarines, plums and peaches are also delicious poached, as are citrus fruits such as tangerines or oranges.

Fruit kebabs––great for southern hemisphere Christmas barbecues.

