 After your initial conversations, continue talking to your friend regularly. Call and text them at least weekly. The amount of contact you have will depend upon your ages as well as the frequency with which you use to communicate. For instance, if you are in high school, it is normal to talk to your best friends every day. However, if you are older and working, you may speak less regularly as you will have other responsibilities to manage.


Make sure not to be the only one initiating contact. If you find that nine times out of ten, you’re the one reaching out first, give your friend some space to breathe. If they reach out first, it will make your friendship stronger and more mutual.
 Take some time with your friend to reflect on the great memories that you have shared with one another. This would be a great time to bring out your photo album or look at your mutual photos on social media. Sit and reminisce with your friend to remind each other of these times and the good times to come.


You might want to say something like “Remember that time we went to the movies and we laughed so hard we were crying? We really had so much fun together.”

, In addition to reflecting, go out and recreate those fun memories! If you and your friend love to go to the beach, play sports, or go out to the movies, do all of those things again. This is a great way to remind each other of why you became friends in the first place and to move on from your fight.
 One other way to strengthen your newly rekindled bond is to further develop your trust. Though you and your friend may feel that you have not skipped a beat since your reconnected, your sense of trust may need to be reestablished. Work on communicating with them regularly to develop a mutual sense of dependability.


One way to develop trust is to share secrets with each other. As your friendships progresses, begin divulging new information about yourself that they didn’t know before, and asking them to do the same. You can even make a game out of it.
 In addition to doing things with them that you used to enjoy doing together, you can also try new things! Trying something new is a good way to get both of you out of your comfort zone and even to face your fears together.


Bond over cooking a new dish together or trying out a new sport.
You can also conquer a mutual fear like a fear of heights together by riding a rollercoaster or something similar.
 Perhaps things will fall back into place and you’ll feel that you haven’t missed a day together, which is wonderful. But things can feel different as well, and that’s okay, too. Enjoy your new, stronger and more mature friendship and celebrate having your best friend back!

