 People who are recovering from an addiction need guidance and treatment. Counseling can offer you the support you need to remain drug free when giving up or recovering from an addiction.Behavioral treatment, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, is very effective in helping people who use drugs manage their urges and stop their drug use.
Family therapy can also be helpful, particularly if your family dysfunction is contributing to your drug use.
Contingency management uses positive reinforcement, such as rewards, for staying off drugs.
 There are benefits and drawbacks to inpatient or outpatient facilities. Inpatient facilities enable close monitoring, remove the potential for drug use, and the detox process is fairly accelerated. However, these can be quite expensive and may limit other activities, such as work. Outpatient treatments cost less and have less of an impact on the individual's life, but may not be as effective due to the potential for access to drugs due to being outside of the facility.This has the advantage of being less disruptive to the patient's life and less expensive. The best setting depends on a variety of factors, including the drug of abuse, the drug user's amount and length of history of abuse, the patient's age, and co-existing medical and/or psychiatric conditions among others. To find a detox center, search here: https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/

People with serious drug use problems, a long history of drug use, involvement in criminal activity, or trouble with social functioning due to drugs are often helped by residential treatment at a detox facility., Many peer-based support groups assign sponsors to new members. The sponsor is a recovering addict who will help you through the steps of the recovery program. A good sponsor will:


help you to grow, to become more productive, by your definition.
help you become more autonomous, more loving of yourself, more excited, less sensitive, more free to become the authority for your own living.
not be a crutch or be around you if you fail to make progress.

