 If you want to eat more mindfully, create the right atmosphere. You're more likely to slow down and enjoy a meal if you've set up a nice atmosphere for yourself. Sit down in a dining room or kitchen and eliminate distractions before eating.Set the table. Even if you're eating alone, having the table set can set a calm environment for eating.
Dim the lights. This will help you stay relaxed and enjoy your meal.
You should also keep food out of sight to avoid eating in the kitchen between meals. Keep snacks in high cabinets so you will have to work to get them.
 If you make meals each day, this can reduce the amount you eat. Preparing food at home means you control the portion size, helping you eat less by making smaller portions for yourself. This can also help you transition into mindful eating, which slows down eating habits in general. You will learn to appreciate the food and the work it takes to prepare it, slowing you down while eating. Take time to peel, chop, and prepare your food.As you prepare your food, notice the sights, smells, sounds, and textures.
 When you sit down to eat, keep electronics out of the room. Turn your smartphone off and do not eat in front of the television. Give your full attention to the food., Eat your food slowly and focus on the tastes and textures. Chew each bite multiple times and savor the flavor. Be aware of what you're eating the entire time, focusing all your energy on your food. If you slow down the pace of your eating, you will feel full faster. This will result in you eating less overall.It can help to set down your spoon or fork between bites.
 Your stomach can take up to twenty minutes to tell you that you are full. To avoid overeating, stop when you are feeling about 80% full. This is a Japanese method known as Hara Hachi Bu., Whenever possible, eat your meals with other people around. Having company while you eat may help you maintain a healthy weight and encourage you to eat less.Sharing meals with your family can also help strengthen your relationship.
Try to eat lunch with your coworkers whenever possible.
If you live alone, try to invite your friends over for dinner.

