 Maybe 2 or 3 thugs slightly stronger that are UNARMED is okay.;
, You can't triple your strength overnight, can you?

, Don't provoke one, just do this if they provoke you, not the other way around.
, You need the basics, because a fight will last a little less than 5 minutes.
, That is how long a LONG fight is, because, 10 minutes is hard, and most fights are powered in adrenaline AND the initial strength.
 No more though, and punching the bag counts.
 If things go well, 2 weeks passed by now. You have the stamina, and the strength, knock the bag down, and it proves you have more.
 You need more stamina, a fight is very tiring AND painful.
 That is all you need, a fight is nowhere near 20 minutes, 10 can be supplied with adrenaline.
 You can now knock the first bag, so get another, and master this one too. Your strength has improved a bit.
 This tells me that your strength has increased by 2x. If things go well, you should have 3 months and a half left.
 You still need to not be tired, because your strength will lower. 3 months and a week left. Stamina should be 6x as before, so tiring won't be a deal.
 You need another bag, the old bag is too weak. Congrats!

, If you can, your strength is x3 from the start. Maybe you can defeat one guy you fight. 2 and a half months left.
 Your punch needs to be stronger.
 Then fill it with sand, and guess what, 4x strength power. 2 month left.
 Then get a new bag or so, 4.5x strength. 1 and a half months left.
 Your punch is now 6x stronger, and spend a month or so on it. You can knock a sixth grader down! You are not anywhere near stronger than an adult!

, Hit the bag with a "almost knock you down punch" then block it, you have the strength and endurance, now you need to block it, for a week.
 Dodging is a lot harder than blocking, and consumes more energy, and your ready for the fight, practice for a week.
 The dude and/or his gang still bullies you? The next time he does it, tell him to stop, and if he doesn't say something like "dude, lets just be friends", and if he still doesn't stop, keep calm and say "I really hate it when you harass me", and if he still doesn't stop, go to the next step.
 Telling on him is not a good idea, and doesn't get them busted. Use it as a last resort. Teachers in my experience don't do anything, except talk to them, so they keep on doing it. This is called not learning.Some people don't learn, so if they don't learn, continue.
 Tell him to do it 1 on 1 if he is a real man, but probably he will bring his gang with him. Do not act dirty, it will make you lose respect, and you shouldn't depend on a teacher to come, although it is better if they do, before someone is hurt.
 If he doesn't come, he's scared of you, a bully usually doesn't fight back, plus you got muscles, not many elementary people can punch 110 lb. If he apologizes, then accept it. If he fights, then go to the next step.


If he comes alone, just use this tactic: dodge, rapid strike, many strikes, finishing blow, do not injure him, just make him too hurt to be aggressive, and help him get up and wash him or something.






If he comes with a gang. Fight them like a one on one, but pay attention to the gang, and focus at one guy at a time, so they don't recover, then watch them.
You fight, gang or alone and are getting pummeled, then run. Run and try to go somewhere, and even though your reputation is low, you still shouldn't avoid the hospital.
, It will be "talking" 12 or so times, to "detention" to "suspension" finally to "expelled", if he doesn't stop.

