 Before beginning the process of dating, think about what kind of relationship you want and what kind of person you want to date. Most relationships are best when you start out as friends because it gives you an opportunity to figure out if you are compatible and if the person has the characteristics that you desire in a mate., While some people do not like being single, sometimes you have to think about everything that you have going on in your life and decide whether or not you even need to be in a relationship. If you need to focus on school, work, or family matters, the answer may be no, for the time being. There is nothing wrong with being single.
 If you are part of the LGBTQ community, you may have a circle of friends that you hang out with, and there is a chance, perhaps just a small chance, that you may already know someone that you want to date in that circle. If this is not the case, you can find a potential boyfriend while going to school, work, and even while traveling. The opportunities are endless.


If you meet someone and you know that he has a same-sex preference and you also know that he is public about his sexual preference, then you can be cautiously public about expressing your interest in getting to know him.
If you meet someone and you are not sure about his sexual preference, hold off on publically expressing any feelings that you may have towards him because this could create an uncomfortable situation for both of you.
There are LGBTQ clubs and organizations that provide a wealth of programs in communities around the world. There are also awareness centers and resources focused on assisting and celebrating the LGBTQ community., Many long-term relationships, and even some marriages, have started with an introduction by a friend or co-worker. Do not be afraid to ask the people from these groups to introduce you to someone. Often, those you spend the most time with know you best and can serve as great matchmakers.
 You can use social media to get connected and meet new people. While you do not want to be aggressive when sending non-private messages, social media platforms, such as Instagram,Facebook,and Twitter,can be used to expand your network of acquaintances. The more people you meet, the greater likelihood you have of finding a boyfriend.
 There are online dating websites that offer a same-sex option, such as OurTime,Match,and Zoosk. As with anywhere else in life, you have to be cautious when meeting people that you do not know. This rule applies if you meet someone at a grocery store or at a nightclub. It applies across the board.

