 In order to figure out what kind of practice schedule, policies, and performances your group will have, you need to determine what your a cappella group wants to accomplish. Have a meeting with all members and ask everyone what they want out of the group. Do you want to win a prestigious competition or eventually make money as performing and recording artists? Or is this mainly a recreational venture in which you're aiming to perform a few times a year?;
, As the leader of your group, you need to make sure that all members know what the group does, what it’s striving for, and what is expected of each member individually. Make a schedule and general list of guidelines that includes rules for participation, rehearsal and gig calendars, arrangements, and contact information for everyone in the group.Remember to keep all of this information up to date, and also to repeat this process every time you take a new member on board.
Also be sure to include clear policies about the consequences for violating these rules or missing rehearsals. If there are no repercussions for shirked responsibilities, members won’t take your group seriously.
 In order to assign roles and coordinate arrangements effectively, you need to know the vocal range of each of your members, what kinds of things they do best, and what assignments are probably best left to someone else. Listen to each member do some solos and schedule some one-on-one time with each member during every rehearsal.
 While you’re still new at leading an a cappella group, you can start by using written arrangements that others have made. You’ll be able to get some valuable experience under your belt as well as provide the group some practice using established, sound arrangements.


There are several resources you can use to find arrangements for your group. Check out the CASA arrangement library online, a cappella listservs, and a cappella sheet music from such publishers as UNC Jazz Press and Hal Leonard., As the leader of a group of musicians, your own musical skills should be on the top of their game. Make sure you can sing on pitch and in rhythm, even if others around you aren't. Also, be sure that you have at least basic music theory skills, such as which key signature has two sharps, and how the tenor note on beat three fits into the chord.


It’s an added bonus if you have some basic piano skills, as these will help you lead rehearsals.
 The most essential element of building a solid a cappella group dynamic is practice time. If your group is striving to become a professional ensemble, you should sing together every day or every other day for at least the first year.If your group is more of a hobby than a serious commitment, take a poll of your members as to how often and for how long they'd like to practice. For example, ask everyone if they'd like to practice weekly, biweekly, monthly, or only in a seldom, ad hoc fashion.


If you have to meet less frequently, that’s okay. Just know that your group won’t gel as quickly and it will take more time to prepare for performances.
 You want your group to look to you as a strong leader, but you don’t want them to foist all responsibility onto you. The best way to make every member feel invested in the group and accountable for its success is to share responsibility amongst everyone. Take turns picking and leading songs or, if your group is more advanced, have different members contribute their original arrangements., Your group might be chock-full of natural talent, but everyone should know at least some basic principles and techniques, such as the six vocal resonators, proper breathing, and the Alexander technique. This will make it so that each member can practice individually without developing any bad habits.Don’t assume that it’s enough to provide some print-outs or other educational materials. Rather, devote a chunk of each rehearsal to musical education so that you can be sure that everyone learns the pertinent content.
 While your group should spend the majority of the time together singing, going over arrangements, and learning musical concepts, you should also set some time aside to just get to know each other. Schedule a half hour after every other rehearsal to sit around and chat, or arrange a separate get-together for everyone to meet and see a movie or do something else fun.This is particularly important if your members are from disparate circles and don’t know one another very well. Building trust and solid interpersonal bonds will improve your group’s morale and even sharpen your performances.
 In order to book gigs for your group, you need to get some momentum going. Hang some flyers on bulletin boards at local coffee shops, post information about upcoming appearances on the personal social media accounts of your members, and upload videos of your performances to personal YouTube accounts.You should also take advantage of any local talent shows, competitions, or events sponsored by organizations to which one or more of your members belong. For example, if you all go to the same college, sign up for the school’s yearly Battle of the Bands, or see if you can take part in the annual holiday caroling event or final exam study break.
 While posting group information on personal social media accounts is helpful in that it reaches friends and acquaintances, you should also set up a separate account for your group. This will create a centralized virtual presence for your group and help you develop a fan base, something particularly important in the recent, tech-savvy revival of a cappella popularity.If you’re struggling to garner views of your group’s uploaded videos, try a new angle that will attract more than just hardcore a cappella fans. Gather for an impromptu, flash-mob like sing-along in a crowded mall or cover a particularly popular pop song that will appeal to fans of the original artist.
If all else fails, you might want to consider paid advertisement options on Facebook or Twitter or hiring an email marketer in order to reach a wider audience., It would be nice to get paid right away for your group’s smooth vocal stylings, but chances are that you’ll need to sing for free at least a few times before you land a paid gig (if that's what your group is looking for).After all, bars, dance halls, and other musical venues want to know that you’ll bring a fair amount of business into their establishment. You can persuade them of your group’s viability by providing a video reel of your group’s performances that shows large, enthusiastic crowds in attendance.


Your social media stats will be helpful in this process as well. If you can show a venue promoter or booking manager that your group’s Facebook page has been visited and Liked a few thousand times in the past month, you’re much more likely to convince someone of your group’s popularity and potential.
 Before your group’s first performance, you should gather all your members to figure out what kind of look your group will have. Ask if everyone wants to dress in matching outfits for a coordinated effect, or if they’d prefer to wear different outfits for a more casual style. You want everyone to be on the same page, otherwise your group will look unorganized and unprofessional.


Even if your group decides to go with casual, uncoordinated outfits, make sure that you enforce some basic guidelines. For example, ban ripped or frayed items, graphic tees, or other outfit elements which can distract from your group’s singing.
 Whether you’ve booked a paid gig or a free spot on open-mic night, you want your group’s performance to be technically flawless and memorable. This means that you should opt for simple, cleanly performed arrangements rather than complex arrangements which contain more than a few hiccups in the execution.


You can make your performance memorable by prioritizing originality. If you’re advanced enough that you can make your own, original arrangement, do it! If not, you can still pick a fresh song and arrangement rather than singing a tried-and-true a cappella classic like Africa or Pompeii.This rule also applies to your group’s styling and stage moves. While some choreography, joking around, and special effects can enhance your performance, you should focus first and foremost on the music.
 Whether you’ve just performed at a small coffee shop, in a long festival. lineup, or at a tough collegiate competition, remember that your group’s success depends just as much on what you do after the show as what you do during. There are many online and in-person organizations and events which are perfect for networking in the a capella world.Talk to other groups and musicians, chat up the club owner and get their contact information, and join an online listserv or Facebook group that will get you involved in the a cappella community.

