 Go see a movie, watch or play a sport, see a concert or play, or another activity your date would enjoy. Try for an activity that you don’t get to do together often, or that your date has been wanting to do for awhile.


Check event locations for special Valentine’s Day parties, activities, or discounts to take advantage of. Choose activities perfect for two to create an intimate date.
Go ice skating, skiing, or another fun activity that takes advantage of the last of winter if the weather is still cold and snowy in your area.
If the weather is warmer, go out and do something in nature that you and your date love to do together, like hiking, camping, or just walking around town. Or try something special like sailing or a hot air balloon ride., Have your date right at home, where you can have privacy, intimacy, and plenty of fun for free or very little money.


Try building a blanket fort like you did when you were a kid, playing board games or video games, watching movies or binging on a new TV series. Cuddle up and enjoy each other’s company!
If you planned an outdoor date that got ruined by weather, just go with the flow and bring it indoors if you can. Try an indoor picnic, for example, by laying out a blanket on the floor with some treats in a basket., Go for an element of surprise for any activity you have planned, even if it’s simply an evening at home. Set something up before your sweetheart comes home, or present a gift or activity to them in a creative, unexpected way.


Try a sweet scavenger hunt or romantic treasure hunt by leaving notes or clues for your date to find around the house or all over town.Leave a simple love letter, or a romantic note written with chocolates, candles, or flowers, for your date to find., Get out of town and stay in a hotel, bed and breakfast, or go camping somewhere you’ve both never been or where you and your date love going.


You don’t have to make a big, expensive trip to a faraway place. You can even have a “staycation” where you stay someplace new within your own city! Or, check out a nearby town that you and your date have never had the chance to go to.
Try heading back to the place that you and your date first met, or another spot that’s romantic and significant to your relationship.

