 If you are neglecting your health, it can be hard to enjoy life. Failing to eat, sleep, and be active can obviously result in poor physical health and obesity, but neglecting your health can also lead to depression, anxiety, and even premature aging. Make positive changes to your health in order to improve your well-being and life satisfaction. Strive to do the following:Eat a balanced diet
Get regular exercise and sleep
Maintain a healthy weight
Stop smoking
Limit alcohol consumption
Go to the doctor for regular check-ups

, Substance abuse, gambling or sex addictions may be incredibly difficult to overcome without professional assistance. Take the first step in removing these unhealthy behaviors by consulting with a psychologist., If every morning you wake up and think that your life sucks, then you will believe it after time. Create a shift in how you view the world and your life by making these small changes:Congratulate yourself on every success (no matter how small). Be your own biggest fan. Instead of saying “I can’t” aim to say “I can” more.
Be patient. You create a self-fulfilling prophecy when you expect results in an unrealistic time-frame. Give your life time to take shape. Focus on the positive changes you are making daily.
 Negative thoughts result in a negative mood state, while positive thoughts lead to a positive mood. Take note when you are engaging in negative thinking and attempt to transform these thoughts into more realistic and positive ones. Reframe your thinking by doing the following:Listen for negative or unhelpful thoughts by monitoring your self-talk.
When you catch yourself thinking negatively, alter your thoughts into more realistic or helpful self-statements. For example, "I screwed up the interview! I will never get a job!" can be reframed into "I won't know how I did on the interview until several days. I may have performed better than I think; I'll have to be patient and see."

, Rather than focusing on what’s going wrong, or what you are not happy about in your life, notice those things that make you fortunate, such as having a home, friends who care about you, and a secure job.


Start a gratitude journal.This can be a traditional journal or in a cellphone app. Make a commitment to writing about what you are thankful for several times each week. These may include things you thought would go wrong but didn't in your day, things you can't imagine living without, or people who have been helpful in your life.
 Regularly take time out for yourself. Life can seem unfulfilling when we spend every moment of every day in a hamster wheel, performing. Schedule in your own “me time” and do something that brings you peace.


Staying in touch with your state of mind is integral to emotional health.Make the effort to engage in stress-reducing activities on a regular basis. These activities might be reading a novel, playing with your pet, meditating, doing yoga, or painting.
 Strive to maintain healthy interactions with people who make you feel good about yourself and your life.If you do not currently have many people like this in your life, go out and find some. You can connect with new people in a variety of ways – through your work, school, church, volunteer position, or in a club or group relating to a hobby. step out of your comfort zone and strike up a conversation with someone you see in your day-to-day routine but know nothing about.

