 Regular visits to the dentist will help you to be proactive in the fight against enamel loss; however, if you notice any of the signs of enamel loss in between visits, make an appointment right away.


Try to visit your dentist at least once a year. Though some dentists will want to see you every six months; going at least once a year will help with early detection of enamel loss.
If you think you may have a cavity, point it out to your dentist at the beginning of the appointment. Mention any other symptoms you may be experiencing, as well.
 You may not realize it, but brushing your teeth too hard can negatively impact your enamel.Using a hard brush and harsh strokes can similarly contribute to enamel loss.


Always use a soft bristle brush, along with gentle strokes when brushing.
Don’t forget those hard to reach places such as your gums and back teeth. Try to spend at least two minutes just on those areas, but brush gently.
 Habits such as teeth grinding and jaw clenching can be harmful to your enamel, as the friction causes wear and tear.If you think you may be harming your enamel at night, speak with a dentist about solutions for teeth grinding and jaw clenching.


Getting fitted for a custom mouth guard or purchasing an inexpensive option online will help to protect against those harmful grinding and clenching habits.
 Mom always yelled at you for biting your nails, but did you know this seemingly harmless habit is anything but harmless when it comes to your enamel?


In addition to biting your nails, refrain from chewing on bottle caps and pens as doing these things can also contribute to wear and tear of the enamel.
Chewing ice or tobacco is another stressful activity for your teeth and can result in chips and fractures, which contribute to enamel loss.
 Consuming acidic drinks temporarily softens your enamel, which leads to its eventual breakdown. This is particularly worrisome if you’re consuming these products frequently.Ditch carbonated beverages such as soda and fruit juices that are high in sugar. If you do choose to drink soda or juice, get in the habit of rinsing your mouth out with water afterwards.Sports drinks, wine, and beer are also high in sugar and should be avoided as often as possible. Just like with soda and juice, try to rinse with water after consuming these beverages.
 Sticky food, as you may have guessed, stick to your teeth for a longer duration than other foods. Additionally, they often contain a high sugar content, which promotes the production of acid.Foods like candy bars and toffee can do a number on your teeth, as can starchy foods such as bread.
You don’t necessarily have to give up these tasty treats. Simply limit your intake and space out your sticky foods. For example, if you consumed a lot of bread with dinner, try not to eat toffee for dessert.
 Aspirin, antihistamines, some asthma medications and chewable vitamin C can all cause enamel loss, due to their acidic nature.


Because these medication are acidic by nature, damage can occur when they come into contact with tooth surfaces. Corrosion is one of the damaging side effects.
Know that you don’t have to abstain from taking these often beneficial medications. Always take oral medicines, such as aspirin, with a glass of water. For chewable medicines, rinse your mouth out with water, then wait a few minutes before brushing your teeth.
 This is primarily true for health issues, which result in frequent vomiting, as acids from the stomach enter the mouth and cause tooth enamel loss.There are many illnesses which affect tooth enamel loss. Acid reflux, gastrointestinal problems, peptic ulcers, bulimia, alcoholism, and pregnancy are just a few examples of such illnesses.
Despite what you may think, it’s better not to brush your teeth right after you’ve vomited. The acidic environment softens your enamel and brushing immediately can harm your teeth. Instead, simply rinse with water, wait for a half hour or so and then brush your teeth.