 Also, Lupita doesn't have bangs, so if you do, grow them out. Her haircut is slightly layered, not too much though. In some point of the soap opera, Lupita gets a few blue streaks on her hair.;
, Lupita has really nice skin, so make sure you have a great hygiene routine to maintain a clear complexion. Use a good face wash and massage your face in round motion in order to deeply cleanse your skin. Also, pat-dry your fat with a towel (never rub, or else your skin might get blotchy).
 She has really nice eyebrows too. Make sure you tweeze your eyebrows well, but don't overdo it or your eyebrows will be too thin and it will look weird. You can have them professionally plucked and tweezed at any local beauty salon for a low price. Make sure you keep your eyebrows in place, too, brush them well.
 Lupita's makeup is very natural and minimal. Just go for:


A light beige or light brown eye shadow. Choose the one that is the closest to your skin color.
One coat of black or brown mascara.
One or two soft sweeps of a rosy blush on the apple of your cheeks.
One coat of light pink or clear lip gloss.
 If you want to resemble Lupita's school look in a more street-like way:


Wear a white oxford shirt. Lupita's shirt is not too tight and not too large, it just is her right size without being too tight-fitting. You can undo one or two buttons, but do not let any cleavage shows. Lupita doesn't ever show cleavage. Also, do not fold the sleeves, we've never seen Lupita wear her sleeves folded. Maybe that's just how she likes it.
A denim mini-skirt or black mini-skirt. Not too short, but make sure it's between mid-thigh and above knee.
And mid-calf boots. Put it all together and you have a Rebelde-esque look, the way Lupita wears.
 When Lupita is not in uniform, she likes to wear cute clothes that are not too revealing, but fit her well. If you want to achieve this style:


Wear polo shirts and T-shirts in light and bright colors. Lupita rarely wears dark colors, and she definitely goes for whites, blues, yellows, greens, pinks, but her clothes never look too dark. Also, make sure it has a good fit that suits your body forms yet doesn't show much belly nor cleavage.
Go for bootcut jeans. In 2004 and 2005, when the soap opera was shot, it was very in style, and nowadays the bootcut is being seen a lot in stores, fashion magazines and websites, TV and runways, and Lupita always wore those. So go for a bootcut jeans that also has a good fit around your hips, butt and thighs.
Flats. Lupita is a sweet girl, and flats really resemble her.
 Lupita wore very small stud earrings, but she loved colorful bracelets and wore lots of them wrapped around her fist. It really added a lot of fun and color to her look.

