 The beauty of baking or cooking is that the act itself helps you pass the time and you get to eat something delicious (one hopes) at the end of it. Dust off your cookbook or look up fantastic recipes online and try one out.
 Try out different kinds of make-up styles to see how they look. Go through your clothes and put together outfits that you can wear for the next few days. Match up jewelry with the clothes and make-up and figure out accessories.



Do your nails. Make funky designs with nail pens or paint each nail a different color.
 You can find a movie online, watch a movie that is on TV, or go to a movie store and rent one to watch at home. You could even make a trip of it and go to your local movie theater. Maybe see something you wouldn't normally watch like a documentary or a mystery.
 When you have nothing better to do, that is the perfect time to work on skills you're perfecting. If you play soccer, take a ball out to your backyard or nearby park and practice dribbling or shooting goals. If you play the piano, you can sit down and play a few pieces. You don't even have to practice scales, you could try out a favorite piece/song instead.
 Make sure everything is looking nice and tidy. Having a clean room can help you feel accomplished and tidy. A clean room can help give you energy to get over your boredom and do other things.



Organize your wardrobe. When you're bored is a great time to do tasks you might not normally do, like organizing your wardrobe. Go through your clothes and see what you've outgrown or don't wear anymore. You'll feel good clearing out space for new things.
 Go through your attic or garage and see what you can get rid of or clean. You might find something you've lost while you're cleaning.


The places that people often forget to clean are their remote controls, behind the refrigerator, the toilet roll handle, light switches, and the dishwasher. Grab a cleaning rag and give these places a good wipe-down.
 When you have a little time on your hands, that's when you can do one of those household projects that you've been putting off. If you turn on some music, that'll make it fun and allow you to accomplish something!



Decorate. Hang up that picture that's been in your basement for half a year. If you're allowed to, redecorate your living areas. Move your furniture around, or repaint your walls.
Fix your household objects. Maybe your sink leaks and needs fixing, or the front steps sag. Take this time to fix that squeaky door and you'll feel accomplished instead of bored!

, If you have an animal, pamper them by giving them a bath, or clipping their nails. Teach your pet a new trick to impress your family and friends.

