 There are plenty of resources on the net, with all the hows and whys of emeralds. Here are some basics:


Basics: The Four C’s, as in diamonds, are applicable to emeralds as well. These are: Color, Clarity, Cut and Carat. Unlike in diamonds, color in emeralds is the most relevant feature. The only gemstone which has a color named after it is emerald: emerald green.
Emeralds are known to vary in hue and tone and saturation; three color qualities. An even tone, medium saturation and deep hue are the best. With variations in color tones and saturation, prices are affected.
Clarity feature in emeralds refers to the inclusions or flaws in an emerald. Sometimes invisible to the naked eye, these are the ‘unique fingerprints’ of a gemstone. Emeralds are naturally heavily included, and clearer ones can sway banks literally.
Cut refers to how well the shape of an emerald has been executed, to optimize its beauty. A very good emerald can be enhanced only by the expertise of the cutter, so this is another vital C.
Carat is the weight of an emerald, and naturally the larger an emerald, the higher the cost. However, if the caratage is high, but other features like color tone and cut are not the tops, even a large emerald maybe quite affordable.;
, Emeralds are also valued by their place of origin. The best known emeralds in history have come from Columbia. Some other sources of better emeralds are in Zambia, Africa.
 Treatments have been a part of the gemstone industry for centuries together; if it weren’t for these, we wouldn’t know our gemstones as we do, but wear them as amulets and rocks like the Incas. However, recently the industry has witnessed some malpractices, and now the jewelers are required to disclose treatments that a gemstone has undergone. Also known as enhancements, there are a range of these, and mostly permanently enhance the beauty of a gem.
 Metal preference can also affect the cost. Usually, 10K gold is lower priced than 18K gold; both yellow gold finish, as well as white gold. The color of an emerald is better enhanced by the yellow gold, though.
 This is most relevant to you when buying an emerald online. You don’t want to make the expensive error of buying an emerald that looked better in the catalog, and is a tad lower in your hands. Study the return policy of the jeweler carefully before buying.
 Most online retailers offer free shipping on orders above a certain sum. Check this.
 Be sure this is exactly what you want.
 A fun way to buy jewelry online is to build your own. Most sites offer to customize jewelry, and you can choose the emerald according to your budget.

