 A cold compress can be an effective way to soothe and relieve stress hives.To make a compress, take a clean, cotton towel and soak it in cool — not ice cold — water. Then, squeeze out the extra water and place the compress over the affected areas.


Avoid using very cold water because this can make the hives worse for some people.
Use the compress for as long as you want.
 An oatmeal bath may also help to soothe stress hives.To prepare an oatmeal bath, place a cup of rolled oats in a clean nylon knee-high sock. Then, pull the sock over the water tap so that the water runs through the oats as it enters the tub. Run cool water through the sock and soak in the oatmeal bath. Repeat as often as needed.


You will probably need to hold the sock to keep it in place as the water runs through it.
 Calamine lotion is a mixture of zinc oxide and zinc carbonate. You can apply this lotion to your hives to help relieve the itching as often as needed. Follow the package instructions for use.Rinse the calamine lotion off with cool water when you want to remove it.
 Bromelain is an enzyme found in pineapples and it can help reduce the swelling of hives.You can place pieces of fresh pineapple on the hives or place crushed pineapple on a thin cotton towel to use as a compress.


If you are using crushed pineapple, then pull the four corners of the towel together and tie them off with a rubber band. Then, place the damp towel over the hives. Keep the pineapple in the refrigerator when you are not using it.
Avoid taking bromelain before surgery or if you are on blood thinners as it may increase the risk of bleeding.
 Cream of tartar and baking soda may also help to get rid of stress hives. Mix one tablespoon of cream of tartar or baking soda with enough water to make a paste, then spread the paste over your hives. Use the paste as often as needed and rinse it off with cool water after it dries.
 Nettles have been used to treat hives for a long time. To use nettle tea for stress hives, make a cup of nettles tea by steeping one teaspoon of dried nettles in one cup of hot water for five to 10 minutes. Then allow the tea to cool down to room temperature and pour some over your hives.


You can pour the nettles tea over your hives or soak a cotton towel with the nettles tea and then wring out the excess tea over the hives. You can also place the damp towel over the hives.
Wear loose cotton clothing. Avoid wool which will irritate your stress hives and make itching worse.
Do not use nettle tea if you have a known allergy to it. Some people develop hives after drinking this tea.