 These must be fixed, not movable, as you be pulling and tugging while braiding. Place or fix these anchors at a distance of 45–50 inches (114.3–127.0 cm). Hence, if you've chosen to work from a door handle, you need another handle or hook at this distance away from the first handle.


Alternatively, you may use two chairs having weight on them in front of each other at a distance of 45–50 inches (114.3–127.0 cm). This may be easier, as you can place the chairs precisely where needed.;
, One must be dark in color and the other two jute rolls two shades lighter.
 Tie it firmly to the handle, hook or chair back that you've chosen to work from.
 Then take it back to the first handle. Repeat this procedure until you have 25 to 30 rope lengths.
 Start by making a knot between end of lightly colored rope and the darker colored rope. Keep the other lightly colored rope aside for now.
 Make a knot off the second (darker) colored rope, forming equal lines, as you have made in first one 25 to 30 rope lengths.
 Hold them in your hand.
 Cut the rope at one end. Take off the hanging lengths.
 Cut the jute lengths so that all lengths are equal.
 Curve one end into a loop. This will serve as a hanger. Keep in place by wrapping one jute length around all the jute lengths to form a tight holding knot.
 Use a single colored length to wrap around the lop. Twist it all around the hanger loop tightly. Vary the colors used if wished, as shown in the image. Once it has been completely wrapped, finish off by knotting the loop length firmly, to prevent it from unraveling.
, Ensure that a good mixture of colored ropes is found within each of the three divisions you're making.


If wished, tie the ends of each portion loosely, to keep the portions together during braiding (see image).
 Knot the end of each completed braid piece using a single jute length. Tie firmly and tightly to prevent the braids from unraveling.
 This ensures that they will remain in the right place, aligned neatly alongside each other.
 Aim to make the same size of wire to ensure that each of the petals is even.
 Wind the excess wire at the ends together, to prevent unraveling. Repeat to make five to six petals per flower. Thus, if you want more than one flower, make enough petals to form each flower. It's recommended that you make six flowers for this wall hanging.


The finished wire products:

, This will cover the wire and forms the pretty colors for the flowers (select colors of your preference). Use glue to help keep the wound-on rope in place, and tie off firmly at the end, plus add some glue for additional strength. Then, glue onto the jute fabric as background and allow to dry fully. Once dried, cut out the petal shapes, keeping the jute fabric in the center as part of the whole petal.
 Do this by turning each petal slightly downwards. See image for the result.
 Tie five to six stems together, twisting to hold, thereby forming a flower.
 This neatens the look, prevents the wire from snagging and finishes the flower. Shape the flower again and it is ready for use on the wall hanging.


Repeat for the other flowers. Make at least five to six flowers.
 These can be purchased from florists or craft stores or you can find items in your own garden, such as gumnuts, flowers that have dried naturally or flowers you have dried.
 This is optional but makes for a nice touch to the final appearance of the hanging.
, Try out different arrangements and choose the one you like best.
 A glue gun makes this easier to do.
 Your jute wall hanging decoration piece is ready to display.

