 Infernal Abyss is located in Ventos Prairie; it has a level requirement of 55. You can teleport into the dungeon just like you would with your regular dungeon instances.


Infernal Abyss is available during Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays, with an 8-hour reset time.
You only have 20 minutes to beat the dungeon floors with your team.
Before starting, you or any party member has to touch the fire crystal start the timer. As long as one of the party member touches the fire crystal, the entire team's flame clock is activated.
If a member is still outside the dungeon after touching the crystal, he or she will unable to join the rest of the party, so make sure that everyone is inside the dungeon before proceeding.;
, To successfully progress through infernal abyss, you need to team up with the right party members.


Have a tank—This is preferably someone with high malice percentage, provoke skills, and strong attack power. This position is usually taken by the Guardian class.
Your tank member also has to deal enough damage output to keep the aggro of the boss.
Have a Bard—A Bard with high speed stat and strong health from equipment is preferable.
Have boss DPs—These could be a Gunslinger, Duelist, or Katar; the latter is preferred, but a Sorcerer can work as well to debuff Zaahir for faster kills.
Have an AoE ranged DPS—One or two Wizards is good. If only 1 Wizard is available, you can add 1 Grenadier or 1 Ravager.
If anyone in the party has high-level gear to survive Zaahir's attacks, they can act as a tank as well.
The key to this fight is to have at least one person alive to prevent the boss from resetting its health.
 The best way to reduce the damage you receive is by wearing a fire elemental armor. It can reduce the amount of fire damage taken from mobs. Since Infernal Abyss is filled with monsters that inflicts fire, equipping a fire element will halve the additional damage to low.


Tanks should also consider wearing the HP orange gear for both top and bottom as their roles are mainly supportive.
DPS should consider wearing defensive gear for the top set and offensive gear for the bottom.
Use full-damage sets during the first couple of floors to quicken the pace and then switch them to defense at a later time to avoid one-shot kills.
EVA equipments are found useless in this dungeon since Zaahir is reincarnated every 5 floors, which can make him much higher level than you. So no matter how much your EVA is, the boss still lands hits on you.
 Blue weapons are the best weapons for this dungeon. They can have stats buff that deal an additional 30% damage to certain elemental monsters.


You can consider using a subweapon with the enchantment that deals +30% to flame monsters too. You can buy this from auctions at a cheap price.
Secret Stones is one of the best way to deal additional damage. It will give you 6% crit damage + damage % toward flame monsters.
If you have a Beirut Card, a boss card obtained from the Beirut bunny boss in Other world: Port Skandia, this lets you deal an additional 18% damage toward flame monsters. Use this card to your costume hats.
 Eidolons will help you clear dungeons faster. Your team should have at least 1 of the following Eidolons while the other two can be random.


Tigerius Caesar is a good choice since it increases the move speed of the party members. Keep in mind that we're racing time here, so an additional speed is a plus.
Bel-Chandra or Uzuriel gives Crit Damage buff, which adds additional damage to your attack.
 In the game, you can use food or drink for additional buffs, and the best buff to get for this dungeon is the one that deals double or triple damage against the enemies.


One of the keys in reaching the highest level is to dish out as much damage as you can to clear the dungeons fast. Movement speed food is ideal to cut the wasted time on walking.
 Elixir of Flame deals additional 10% damage to flame attribute targets for 20 minutes. The potion requires 5 Crest of Flame and 1 Alchemical Powder to make.


Keep in mind that you need to be level 60 or higher to use this potion.
 Each class members can cast their class party buffs, which will buff the entire party. Coordinate your party mate to make sure that no one will cast overlapping buffs.


Note that you need to recast the party buff every time you pass the next hall after defeating Zaahir, since the buff disappears every time you go through the portal.

