 There are several yoga poses that can help you fall asleep as they tend to be relaxing in nature. Sit down on the bed first and do some poses before moving into the lying down position.


The "Janu Sirsasana" involves sitting without slouching and extending both legs straight in front of you. Move the right knee inward and then, inhaling, lengthen your spine. Bend forward and hold onto the left leg, focusing on the big toe to help clear the mind. Focus on your breath moving in and out, holding the pose as long as is comfortable. Then, repeat on the other side.The "Bound Angle Pose" involves sitting with the soles of the feet touching and knees spread to the side. Bring your feet inward, as close towards the groin as is comfortable for you. Inhale and lengthen the spine. Exhale, while bending forward slightly and keeping the spine as straight as possible. Relax your muscles as you do so.The "Wide Angle Seated Forward Bend" Sit with your back straight and spread your legs to the side in a vee position, keeping them as straight as possible. Lengthen the spine as you inhale and then bend forward when you exhale. Place your hands in front of you for support as you bend. Hold the pose for several moments as you focus on your breaths., Once you've done a few poses sitting upright, you can shift into the lying down position. There are a variety of poses you can try lying down to relax the body before sleep.


The "Thread-the-Needle" pose involves lying on the bed with your knees bent and the soles of your feet flat against the mattress. Bring the right knee towards the chest and place the right ankle below the left knee. Flex the foot to keep the muscles engaged. Lift your left foot off the floor and move it slowly towards the chest. Breath out slowly. Then, repeat on the other side.The "Reclined Twist" can help you move around a bit before bed to relax your muscles. Bring your knees to your chest and move your left arm to the side. Using your right arm, pull both knees to the right side of your body. Hold the pose for as long as is comfortable and then repeat on the other side., Much like the morning yoga poses, feel free to use the wall if your struggle to maintain any positions. There is also a pose you can do that specifically uses the wall for support.


In the "Viparita Karani" pose, you would sit sideways with your legs spread straight against the wall. Spread your arms to the side, palms facing upward, and then close your eyes. Breathe in and out, focusing on each breath. Hold the pose for as long as is comfortable.