 Your apple tree should be slightly conical in shape, with more volume near the base than at the top. This will allow sunlight to reach more of the branches. Before you begin pruning, keep in mind that you want to create a pyramid-shaped framework of branches on the tree.
 Apple trees grow with their trunk connecting to a central lead branch, and then with scaffold branches (the next largest branches) connecting to these. Viewed from the top, your tree should have only a few scaffold branches that don’t cross and allow even spacing between each. Depending on the size of your tree, it should only have 2-6 primary scaffold branches. The rest should be removed.








The angle of scaffold branches is very important. Good scaffold branches will have a 45 to 50 degree angle from the trunk. If the angle is any smaller than this, the branch will likely break off from the weight of the fruit. If the angle is any larger than this, then the tree won't bear as much fruit.
Seen from an aerial view, the scaffold branches of the tree will look similar to a star or the spokes on a wheel., Suckers are the unwanted shoots that grow near the base of the trunk. Remove all of these shoots up to the base of the main canopy of the tree to encourage a good shape. Suckers are the only part of the tree which can be pruned or removed even near the end of summer and beginning of fall.
 Remove any dead, diseased or damaged wood which is flaking or discoloured. You can remove diseased, dead, or damaged wood any time of year and you should do this as soon as you notice it. Remove the whole branch if it doesn't have any buds. If it does have buds towards the base of the branch, make a cut just above an outward facing bud. Angle each cut so rain can drain off the stem rather than sitting on top and rotting the plant.
 If there are any branches on your apple tree that grow downward, they will need to be removed. These will not be able to bear large and healthy fruit, and will take up valuable space and sunlight that other branches can use more effectively.
 Especially common in more mature trees, whorls are locations in which three or more small branches originate from the same location. Because so many limbs are growing from the same place, the branch is weaker and unable to support the branches as they grow. Determine which is the largest and healthiest of the smaller bunch, and then cut off the remaining branches from the whorl.
 Cut back the rest of the branches by about 1/3 of their length, to encourage the stems to thicken and develop flowers the following season. Make each cut just above an outward facing bud to encourage a healthy shape.








