 Jailbreaking can create problems, so it’s a good idea to back up your device before attempting to jailbreak it. To do this:


Connect the iPod to your computer.
Launch iTunes. Select your iPod.
Under Manually Back Up and Restore, select Back Up Now.;
, The jailbreak process will vary slightly with different software, and you may need to know your specific model and the operating system it’s running. On your iPod, select Settings > General > About. Under Version, it will tell you what firmware you’re running and the model in brackets.


An iPod Touch 2G will likely be operating iOS 4.2.1 or 4.1, but it’s possible that it may be running something from iOS 3.
The model should either be MC or MB., Have your device ready by keeping it on, locked, and not connected to your computer.
 Some of the most popular programs for jailbreaking an iPod Touch 2G are limera1n (Limerain), Redsn0w (Redsnow), and GreenPois0n (GreenPoison), which can be downloaded from Guide My Jailbreak.


Note that Redsn0w is compatible with iOS 4.2.1 and the MB model of the iPod Touch 2G only. If you are running a different iOS or have the MC model, you will have to use different software.Make sure you download the appropriate version depending on whether you’re using Mac or PC.
 After downloading Limera1n, open the file and run the software if you are prompted (on a PC).
 When prompted, select Make It Rain. Your iPod will then enter recovery mode.
 The sleep/power button can be found on the top of the iPod, and the home button is the center button. Hold them both at the same time.


Be sure to watch your desktop during the process, as the Limera1n program will provide you with prompts.
 When the Limera1n program prompts you, release the sleep and home buttons. Your iPod will now enter DFU (device firmware upgrade) mode. Select OK on your computer, and your device will restart. When it reboots, the jailbreak process will be complete., After downloading Redsn0w, open the file and run the software if you are prompted (on a PC). Remember Redsn0w will only work with iOS 4.2.1 and an iPod Touch 2G that isn’t the MC model.


Make sure your device is turned on and not plugged in.
 To jailbreak your iPod using Redsn0w, you will have to supply your computer with information from the iOS you’re running. You can download it from here.
 When you downloaded iOS 4.2.1 on your computer, it will have created a folder. Open that and select Browse. Find the firmware file, click Open > Next. Give it time to load.
 When the box pops up for you to customize your installation options, make sure Install Cydia is checked, and check any other options you want as well. Click Next.


Cydia is essentially an app store for jailbroken Apple devices that you can use to purchase new applications and extensions. It gets installed on your device during the jailbreaking process., Then, power it off by holding the sleep button and sliding it to power off. Keep your iPod in your hand and be ready to hold down some buttons.
 Immediately afterward, hold the sleep button on the iPod for three seconds. After three seconds, press down the home button while continuing to hold the sleep button. Hold the two simultaneously for 10 seconds. After 10 seconds, release the sleep button, but continue holding the home button. Release the home button after eight seconds.
 Once it has restarted, check to see if Cydia has been downloaded onto your iPod. If it has, the jailbreak was successful. If it hasn’t downloaded, repeat the process and try again., After downloading GreenPois0n, open the file and run the software if you are prompted (on a PC). When prompted with a question about Apple TV, click No. Plug in your iPod and power it off.
 Then, press down the home button while continuing to hold the sleep button. Hold the two simultaneously for 10 seconds. Release the sleep button, but continue holding the home button for another eight seconds.
 You can watch the jailbreak countdown on the computer. When it’s finished, your iPod will restart and reboot, and when it does, the jailbreak process will be complete.