 When you have no choice but to talk to the person, make sure you are in control by setting the tone for the conversation. Be the first person to speak and choose your words and how you say them carefully.You can use a tone that is friendly, bored, tired, or busy. Use which ever tone will help you control the conversation and avoid difficult subjects.
For example, if you want a potentially hostile confrontation to be peaceful, then greet the person calmly but briefly. A simple, “Hello, how are you?” sets a neutral tone.
Also, consider what time of day to have the conversation and what medium to use. For example, you might decide to have a phone conversation with the person during the day. Or, you might decide to send them an email. This will allow you to keep the conversation as brief as possible.
 You can control the conversation by thinking about what you are okay talking about, as well as what you want to avoid. Bring up the topics you choose and ask the person questions about them.When necessary, relate what they are saying to what you want to talk about.


Try to ask open-ended questions that will keep the person talking about the topic longer.
For example, instead of saying, “Do you like the car”, you might say, “How do you think this car compares to the other one?”
If you want to only talk about work and they start talking about weekend plans, you could try saying, “Before I can think about the weekend, I have to finish the big report. What is your approach to the sales plan?” To maintain a business only relationship, smile to project warmth, but do not ask personal questions, such as how they are doing or what their plans are for the weekend. Keep your questions work related.
You may also just need to say, “I don’t want to talk about that. Let’s talk about something else.”

, One way to control the conversation is to subtly change the topic when it turns to something you don’t want to talk about. Have a few safe topics I mind before going into the conversation, such as sports, the weather, or how the person’s spouse or kids are doing. This way you can avoid the touchy topic. There are several ways to do this without the person even noticing what you are doing.


If you notice they are getting close to a touchy topic, then excuse yourself briefly. When you return start talking about something else.For example, if you didn’t get your driver’s license and your friend is starting to talk about a cross-country trip, go to the restroom for a few minutes. When you return start talking about the weird graffiti you saw on the stall.
 Doing this will make it easier for you to avoid talking about anything you want to avoid. If the conversation turns toward a sticky topic, comment vaguely about it and then draw someone else into the conversation.The additional person will take some of the attention of off you.


It will also keep the conversation from becoming too personal and it may give you the opportunity to escape!
For example, if your girlfriend asks how you define cheating, you might say, “It could include a lot of different things.” And then turn to someone else and say, “Will you help me and my girlfriend out? What do you consider cheating?”
This might not be a good if it’s your parents. They could team up against you and force you into the conversation you don’t want to have.
 Sometimes you just can’t control the conversation no matter how you try. If you aren’t required to respond (for example, if it’s a co-worker just prattling on and on) then let your mind drift to more important or interesting topics.


Remember to give a small nod or “mm-hmm” every now and then or the person will catch on that you aren’t really listening.
Think about your to-do list or make a mental want-to-do list. Brainstorm ways to avoid being in this situation again.
This won’t work if the conversation you want to avoid is one that regards some issue you and the other person need to work out of if they are angry with you.
If you start to get irritated, take a few deep breaths and focus on relaxing your body to help calm yourself down.

