 White will create a sense of height and expansiveness and it will reflect a lot of light, giving rise to the sense of increased height. There are two schools of thought as to whether or not a matte or high gloss finish is better for making a ceiling appear higher, so both are provided here for your own assessment:


Apartment Therapy states that high or semi gloss paint is ideal because it will create a reflective sheen and the reflection will give the impression of height and additional space.On the other hand, Art & Home states that a matte finish is better because it allows the ceiling to "disappear", with all of its faults being subsumed under the matte finish.;
, White isn't always the ideal color for a room and it isn't necessary to stick to a plain white where you'd prefer a color. Choose cool colors, especially from the pastel shade range. The important thing is to ensure that the color chosen is lighter than the wall colors., Focus on the walls in this instance; the sensation of increased height can be created by the use of vertical stripes on the walls. Paint vertical stripes or use wallpaper that has a printed vertical stripe pattern. The vertical stripes will help provide the appearance of height., A low ceiling benefits most from being very flat. Features that protrude tend to make the ceiling feel closer. This includes not using ceiling fans, moldings, and overhead lighting.


Keep crown molding thin. Any wider than 2–3 inches/4-6cm will be too thick., Be sure to keep the light sources even across the ceiling. It is recommended that you avoid using recessed can lights because the light distribution will be uneven and can make the ceiling seem more closed in.
 Hang full-length curtains or drapes as high to the ceiling as possible, preferably from ceiling height. Doing this will draw the eyes straight up the long, vertical line, creating a sense of height. , This tricks the eye into looking upward and gives more impression of height. Prefer artwork and photos with vertical lines and features over horizontal shapes. Note that the artwork is hung high in the introduction image.
 These tend to make the ceiling seem higher and work really well to do the trick!

, Paint the room two shades using a "sponging" or "bagging" technique, with the darker shade at the bottom, gradually moving to the lighter shade near the ceiling. This creates the visual effect of more space up high.

