 Preserved lemons are made by adding salt to lemons and letting them sit in the salt for several weeks. Preserved lemons are ideal for making salads, dressings, soups, sauces, for cooking with vegetables, and for other dishes. To make them, you will need:


Your ingredients
Some fresh lemon juice
Knife
A one-quart (946-ml) canning jar with lid

, Run your canning jar through the dishwasher, and leave it in there until you're ready to pack the lemons. Wash the lid and ring by hand in hot, soapy water.


If you don’t have a dishwasher, wash the jar by hand in hot, soapy water. Then place it on a baking sheet and into a 225 F (107 C) oven until you're ready to use it., Wash and scrub the lemons with a vegetable brush to clean the rinds. Pat the fruit dry. Cut off the stems and tops (where the stems were) from each of the lemons, but leave the bottom nub intact.


When you cut the lemons, you won’t quarter them the entire way, which is why you leave the bottom nub uncut., Cut each lemon in half, starting at the top. Stop cutting about a half inch (1.3 cm) from the bottom, so that the two halves are still joined at the bottom of the lemon. Then cut each lemon in half again to quarter it, leaving the bottom half-inch of the quarters joined as well.Keeping the lemon quarters attached will help to keep the salt packed inside evenly, and this will ensure they preserve properly.
 Reserve 4 tablespoons (72 g) of the salt. Peel open the lemon quarters and sprinkle the remaining salt over the juicy flesh. When all the lemons have been salted, press the quarters back together.


Salt works as a preservative because it doesn’t allow microbes and bacteria to survive, and these are what would cause the fruit to rot., Remove your canning jar from the dishwasher or oven. If there's any leftover water, dry it with a freshly cleaned towel. Sprinkle about 2 tablespoons (36 g) of salt into the bottom of the jar, enough to create a generous layer., Place two or three salted lemons into the canning jar. Press them down firmly so they release their juices. Continue adding more lemons, packing them down as you go to make room, and to juice the lemons.


When you’ve added all your preserved lemons, make sure that the lemons are covered with juice. Add the cup of freshly squeezed lemon juice to the jar if you need more juice to cover the lemons.Sprinkle the tops of the lemons with the remaining salt and put on the lid.
 Transfer the jar of lemons to a warm place, such as a countertop, and let them ripen for 30 days. Turn the jar upside down once or twice every few days to shake up the salt and juices, and prevent everything from settling on the bottom.


After 30 days, the preserved lemons are ready to use., When the lemons are ready, you can remove individual wedges or whole lemons and use them for cooking. Remove a wedge or lemon and rinse off the salt. Remove and discard the seeds and pulp, and use the rind and juices in salads and other recipes.


Preserved lemons will keep for up to a year, unrefrigerated.