 Open communication is key. If your friend is single and looking for a relationship, it is important to know this. Likewise, if you or they are in a committed relationship, it is important to know one another's boundaries. If you clearly understand one another's intentions and goals, you can be aware of potential missteps.;
, According to researchers, men and women share 99% identical genetic code. However, this 1% difference can cause differences in perception and communication. For example, on average, women talk faster and use more words daily. Being aware of differences in conversation pace and your volume of words can help bridge a gap between inter-gender communication styles. This can also help your friend feel more at ease.
A recent study showed men and women viewed their inter-gender friendships differently. For example, men are more likely to be attracted to a female friend, and think the attraction is mutual. Knowing these perceptual differences can help avoid unwanted advances and create awareness that each friend may potentially view the relationship differently.
 If your friend is using language or gestures that make you feel uncomfortable, make sure to tell them. This sort of open communication can do wonders to saving your friendship over the long term. , Although you want to communicate open and freely with your friend, be aware that friendships with the opposite sex have added complications, such as potential tension or physical attractions. In order for it to work, both friends need to be aware that you see one another as siblings or good friends and nothing more. Do not put anything in your letter that might be suggestive of physical attraction or any other lines that cross friendship lines. Avoid flirting. Although many guys and girls flirt with one another, for the good of your friendship you should avoid this.
 Filling one another in on what is happening in your life will not only help you forge a closer friendship, it will also help avoid any miscommunications about your intentions. This sort of exchange also helps build up your friendship and reaffirm the value of platonic involvement in one another's lives.


Let them know if you've met someone special. One way to create an awkward moment is for you to keep a new romance from your friend. Let him or her know that you're going on a date, or that you had one that was successful and hope this one will be a keeper. Not only does it keep your friend in the loop of your life, but it also cements the notion that you are friends and only that.
 You and your friend no doubt have built your relationship on a history of interactions. It will make for a nice letter if you reference things you both have in common, whether it is a hometown, college, or anything else. It will also be helpful in reminding them why your friendship has lasted and show an intimacy only friends can have.
 If there are any doubts about your intentions, you can clear them up by communicating why you are happy to be friends. Tell them they give great advice, or that you feel comfortable telling them things so that they know what aspects of your friendship you value.


Inter-gender friendships can have benefits that intra-gender friendships do not. You may talk to your girl/boy platonic friend about things that girls or guys do not typically talk to one another. For example, maybe you and your guy friends talk a lot about sports; but not feelings. Your letter is a chance to focus on things that make your friendship special.
 If you have a significant other, try to keep complaints about them to a minimum. While relationship griping is part of a normal friendship, inter-gender relationships should be aware of potential implications. Your friend may interpret your relationship as unhappy and mistake your availability.If you're having relationship problems, talk to one of your same gender friends about it and leave it out of the letter. If you do talk about it with your friend of the opposite sex, it would be best to do in person where you are less likely to miscommunicate.
 Language is very important. Do not use language that is reserved for relationships such as terms of endearment like "honey," or "dear". Also avoid any suggestive or sexual language that may make your friend think you have interests beyond platonic friendship.
 After saying hello to your friend, you should be sure to fill your letter with interesting tidbits about your life. This will help keep your friendship strong by creating a bond on involvement in one another's life. Be sure to avoid ambiguous language and also ask questions and make comments showing you are interested in their lives.
 Don't gush or get overly sentimental, even if you are really missing your friend - keep it positive and light. "Miss you, buddy," is great. Or "XOXO," even, but just make sure you don't leave the letter ambiguous with a sign-off of affection that could be interpreted the wrong way.

