 You may find that your older dog is struggling to learn some of the basic commands, such as sit or lie down. This may be a result of mobility issues, such as hip dysplasia or arthritis. The dog is not following the command because it is too painful. If your dog has mobility issues, you may need to modify training to avoid painful positions. For example, work on the “stay” and “come” commands, instead of “sit”., Older dogs may also suffer from hearing loss, which makes vocal commands impossible to teach. Do not give up on training, instead, try using hand signals to teach your older dog basic commands.For example, teach your dog to sit using a hand signal. Simply place a treat in your hand, stretch your arm out in front of you (palm facing up) and then move your arm downwards to the side of your leg.
At first you may need to give the signal and physically adjust your dog into a sitting position.
Once sitting, give the dog a treat. Repeat this until the dog learns the signal command and no longer needs to be adjusted.
You can teach other hand signals either by following standard dog obedience commands or by following American Sign Language commands.
 In order to teach a blind dog basic obedience commands, you will need to rely more on vocal orders. Always work in a quiet and familiar space. Teach basic commands to a blind dog in the same manner that you would teach a dog with full vision. The only difference is that you may need to provide more vocal directions. For example, if you are teaching your blind dog to "come" they may get disoriented or lost trying to reach you. As a result, you should continue talking to them and providing encouragement. That way they can follow your voice in order to locate you., Other factors that may impact your older dog’s ability to learn, are cognitive disorders such as “doggy alzheimer's.” For example, your dog may start to display signs of aging, such as disorientation, clinginess, increased sleeping or restlessness, etc. Take your dog to the vet in order to determine the cause of the change in behaviour.Ask your vet what, if any, training can be accomplished with your dog.

