 You will get tons of inspiration from her, the attitude, the makeup, and the clothing.;
,, Remember that you do not need to be rich to be like Audrey Horne. You just have to have her attitude. She is spunky and gets what she wants and sometimes bites off more than she can chew. but usually she has a good motive for her actions. She is very confident, flirtatious, and persuasive. We could all benefit from being like Audrey Horne.
 I notice the closer you look into the detail of clothing and furniture of this show, the more you can appreciate how beautiful it is. It's really just one of those shows you could watch over and over and not even be mad about it.
 Audrey Horne has a very Pin-Up girl/ 50's style makeup.
 Pluck them like so or however you see fit. Then you will need to apply your reddish brown or taupe eye-shadow and apply it to the creases. do a thin liquid liner on your lids. Then apply the lipstick, and you're pretty much done.
 Her clothing mainly consists of school attire, and later on, business attire, besides the occasional dress and the one time thing with the one eyed jack lingerie. Her school look would consist of a quarter sleeve shirt, or cardigan, tucked into a pencil skirt. with oxfords/heels. Her Work attire consisted of a pencil skirt suit. not much there but a really classy look. Her dresses were very 50's, Marilyn Monroe style dresses in classic colors like red and black. And I'm not even going to bring up that amazing, detailed lingerie because it would be impossible to get anything like that. unless you totally hand sewed a deck of cards to some really cute white and red lingerie. But besides that, her look is a classic one, and serves her well.
 Her hair is short and curly. You don't have to cut your hair, it's not necessary unless you want to, that's cool too I guess. Anyway. It's shorter, and curly, and a dark brown. I would suggest using some of your grandmas rollers from the basement, get the classic experience. If you have a totally different hairstyle going on right now, no biggie, just look up pin up girl hairstyles and get some inspiration from that.

