 Don’t try to hide your friendship from your parents.They’re parents, after all, and they will find out anyway. When they find out, they may have problems with the friendship because you weren’t upfront with them. Also, it may hurt your friends’ feelings to know that they are a secret from your parents.


Lying about your friends will just cause your parents not to trust you.
Remember that your parents just want to make sure you’re safe. The more your parents know, the more comfortable they will be with your friends in general.
If you are hanging out with your friend Dean, who happens to be White, and your mom asks who you’re with, then tell her.
 You probably want your parents to immediately like your friends, regardless of their culture. But your parents may need time to get used to the idea of you having friends from other cultures.Don’t just surprise your parents and bring your friends over for a sleepover. Gradually introduce your parents to your friends.


For example, you might start out just mentioning that you have some new friends without bringing up culture. You might say, “Hey, mom, I made new friends at work today.”
Talk about your friends a little more each day. Then you might let your parents talk briefly with your friends on the phone, and then have an in-person meeting.
Slowly work up to your parents actually meeting and spending time around your friends.
 If you make your friends’ cultures seem like no big deal, it will help your parents accept your friends better. Instead of making a big deal about having a friend of a different culture, mention it to your parents calmly and in a matter-of-fact way.


Telling your parents, “I have a new gay friend” will have your parents focusing on the cultural differences and not the other good qualities about your friends.
Instead, try saying, “One of my friends is great at singing! He performs publicly, he’s gay, and he might perform at the talent show next weekend.”
You could say something like, “I met a girl at soccer practice that’s really nice and cool. She’s Jewish, a great goalie, and her mom makes jewelry.”

, It might help your parents to accept your friend if they get to know your friend's parents as well. Try introducing your parents to your friend's parents in a casual environment, such as at a school function.

For example, you might introduce your parents to your friend's parents at a soccer game. Try saying something like, "Mom, dad, these are Joey's parents." Then, allow them to chat on their own.
Over time, your parents will have other opportunities to get to know your friend's parents and this may make it easier for them to accept your friend.

