 It can be difficult to find motivation to eat when you have to go to the grocery store for every meal and do not have ingredients on hand. Prepare for your meals by creating a meal plan so you know what you are going to eat for the week. You may collaborate with your partner, your caretaker, or your doctor on the meal plan to ensure you get enough nutrients and variety in your meals. You should then create a grocery list and go shopping at the beginning of the week so you have the ingredients you need on hand.When you make the meal plan, be sure to include foods that you enjoy eating, even if they are not the most healthy. Often, having any food at all while on chemo is better than not eating. Having foods on your meal plan that you like can also make it easier for you to eat when mealtime comes.
 You can also make it easier for you to eat when you want or when you feel hungry by preparing meals ahead of time for the week. Perhaps you make a big batch of food like soup, curry, or chilli and freeze it so you can defrost it and eat it for the week. Or maybe you prepare several meals at once and keep them in your fridge to eat as leftovers.


You can get a friend, family member, or caretaker to help you prepare meals ahead of time if you are not able to on your own. Have a meal prep get together at your home and work together with someone to prepare food for the week.
 Rather than try to sit down for three big meals a day, break them up and have five to six small meals a day. This can help your digestive system ease into eating on a regular basis and ensure you are getting enough nutrients and energy for the day. You may even write out a schedule where you eat small meals at a set time so you know exactly when you are eating.Go for smaller portions when you eat. Put your food on a large plate and make sure you add small portions from several different food groups on your plate. Having a larger plate can make your food feel less overwhelming when you sit down to eat.
 We tend to eat more when we eat with others in a social setting. Make your mealtimes a social event by having dinner with family or friends. You may set up a comfortable, cozy setting for the meal with nice silverware, centerpieces, and big sharing plates to make eating more appealing in a big group. Having a social element to eating can help you eat more often and with more gusto.You may try planning a dinner party once or twice a week with friends and family. This can add a social element to your eating habits and motivate you to eat.
 Your nausea and lack of appetite may be triggered by certain smells in your environment as you eat. Try removing any smells that make you feel sick so you can focus on your food and enjoy it.For example, you may be triggered by the smell of a certain food or the smell of perfume. You may then remove the trigger, particularly around meal time, so it does not affect your appetite.
 Light exercise like a 20 minute walk around the neighborhood or a 15 minute ride on a stationary bike can help to stimulate your appetite and get your body ready to eat. Try adding in light exercise into your routine, such as before a meal or in the morning at the start of the day.Sign up for an exercise class that is tailored to those undergoing chemotherapy at your local gym or at your treatment center.

