 Swelling in the soft tissue of the arms or legs is one of the most common signs of lymphedema. In early stages, the skin remains soft. Pressing on the swollen area may leave a dent.Your doctor may want to measure the affected area using a tape measure in order to monitor swelling.
In later stages of lymphedema, the swelling will become firm and hard. Pressing the swollen area won't leave a dent.
 In addition or before noticing swelling, you may feel the weight of fluid buildup in the arms and legs. Your limbs may feel difficult to move. If you are at risk for developing lymphedema, this may be an early symptom.If you’ve had any type of surgery, radiation treatment, or lymph nodes removed, take a close look at your body in a full-length mirror and check for swelling.
Compare both sides of your body, and check for differences.
 Stiffness in your fingers, toes, knees, elbows or other joints can be a sign of increased fluid buildup due to lymphedema. While there are many reasons for stiffness in joints, pressure on joints due to buildup in body fluids can be a sign of lymphedema.Symptoms of lymphedema may occur gradually, or they may come about all at once.
Get to know your body well, and notice what's normal for you.
 This may be a sign of cellulitis, a non-contagious infection of the skin. Because of the way lymphedema affects the immune system, it's important to see your doctor immediately if you notice symptoms of cellulitis.Cellulitis may be triggered by insect bites or scratches.
Your doctor will treat the infection with antibiotics. Do not delay attending to the infection, because it can quickly become life-threatening.
 Fluid retention can cause thickening of the skin. If you notice thicker skin developing on your arms, hands, legs or feet with or without other skin changes such as blisters or warts, this can be a sign of lymphedema.Keeping your skin meticulously clean is essential for people with hyperkeratosis.
Use a therapeutic-based moisturizer daily, and avoid lanolin-based or fragrant lotions.
 Many people with lymphedema report feeling uncomfortable in their bras, even though they've not gained weight. If your rings don't fit, or your watch and bracelet feel uncomfortably snug, this may be a sign of lymphedema.You might notice that you have trouble fitting your arm into your sleeve on one side of your body.
Because symptoms of lymphedema may develop gradually, you may not notice swelling in your shoulders or arms until you have difficulty fitting into your clothes. If your clothing starts to feel tighter on one side, or if you have trouble putting on a close-fitting shirt or jacket, look for signs of lymphedema.
 The skin might appear "glossy" or "stretched". This may be a sign of cellulitis. If your skin coloration or texture changes in this way, see a doctor immediately.The affected area may spread rapidly once observed.
You may also notice fatigue, fever, aches and other flu-like symptoms. Or, you may not experience any of these other signs.

