 If you are diagnosed with MS and have any breathing complications, it’s important to closely follow the treatment program your doctor prescribed. This includes getting regular checkups, taking medication, and making lifestyle changes. Doing these can not only help you manage your breathing complications, but may also slow the progression of MS.Follow your doctor’s instructions on how to take your medication. Ask your doctor or pharmacists any questions you may have about the medication or its dosing., Certain medications for MS, such as muscle relaxants, can depress respiratory function. Talk to your doctor about any breathing complications you are having. Ask if any of your medications may contribute to them. Your doctor may prescribe a different medication or monitor you more carefully. Some medications that can cause breathing problems include:Tranquilizers
Muscle relaxants
Opioid analgesics

, Therapy programs can strengthen respiratory muscles and enhance your breathing. If your doctor diagnoses you with breathing complications as a result of MS, schedule an appointment with a respiratory therapist. The therapist can help relieve and manage your symptoms.Ask your regular doctor to recommend a respiratory therapist. You can also locate a respiratory therapist near you at https://www.healthgrades.com/respiratory-therapy-directory.
Take relevant medical records to your appointment. You should also tell the therapist about your specific symptoms. This information can help the therapist develop an effective plan to manage your breathing issues.
 In rare cases, your doctor may prescribe oxygen therapy to help manage your MS breathing complications. This is often done if you have other conditions such as Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Follow your doctor's recommendations as outlined to prevent further complications or issues from oxygen therapy., Oral cannabis, or medical marijuana, is increasingly used to relieve the symptoms of many diseases. Multiple sclerosis is one of these illnesses. There are more effective treatments for MS available, but you may still experience symptoms that make it hard for you to breathe. If this is the case, discuss using medical marijuana to ease your symptoms with your doctor. Keep in mind that smoking oral cannabis may have side effects, including making it more difficult to breathe because of its impact on your lungs., Acupuncture is a practice used in Western as well as traditional Chinese medicine. Acupuncture involves inserting small, thin, disposable needles into the skin. Consider trying acupuncture, which may help relieve some of your MS-related breathing complications.Recognize that it may take 6-10 acupuncture sessions to figure out if the treatment will help your breathing complications.
Find a local acupuncturist worldwide at https://www.acufinder.com. Make sure that the acupuncturist is credentialed by checking for a National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine certification.
Make sure you let your practitioner know that you have MS. This can help the person tailor the acupuncture sessions to your specific needs.
While generally considered safe, keep in mind that the efficacy of acupuncture for people with MS has not yet been evaluated in depth or confirmed. When in doubt, consult with your doctor first before trying alternative medicine therapies such as acupuncture.

