 What does that mean? Take the time to remove all trash and throw away, clear off furniture and dust, strip the bed of sheets and launder them,make the bed and change the towels, scrub your sink,shower and toilet. Wash the floors and vacuum. Wipe down the walls and counters with hot water and soap. Windex the mirrors. Toss the dirty laundry in a hamper in the closet. Dust bookshelves. The biggest turn off to many women is filth. The room should look and smell fresh. Toss the clutter.;
, Make it spotless. Toss out any thing that smells bad. If you have pets-really clean after them and remove any pet hair.
 Some examples are outdoor living, sports, bikes, books, boats, art, skiing, film, travel, wine, photography, music, cars, cooking and nature.
 You don't have to spend a fortune, go to a used bookstore or a library sale. Books are an insight into who you are and a great conversation starter.
 Include some romantic music and films.
, Try to avoid leaning them on the walls-actually hang them. Get rid of naked women posters-its tacky. Hang a poster or art that reflects your interests. Cheap art can be found at local art shows.
 They can be corny. Also try to pare down on excessive collections. If you have 5,000 comic books-pick a few and box up the rest. Try to show varied interests.
 If you always wanted to go to Italy or ski on the Alps. Get books on Italy or posters of the Alps to remind you to keep the dream alive. It is very romantic to see a man's future plans.
 She knows you like sex, so you don't have to prove to her you are a stud. It makes you look like an idiot and too eager. Throw away any ex-girlfriend's pictures or items.
 Always have toilet paper and Kleenex on hand.
 Have some fresh fruit and bread on the counter. Invest in a coffee maker and coffee bean grinder. Have milk and sugar in fridge for coffee.
 Don't let your date get bored because you have nothing interesting to look at or talk about. Also keep your place updated, don't keep old magazines and newspapers-buy new ones and change things around from time to time.

