 A putative father is an unmarried man who claims to possibly be a father. In other words, your paternity has not yet been legally established, but you think you might be the father.Because you haven’t established your legal relationship, you don’t have full legal rights. However, by registering as a putative father, you potentially preserve some rights.
For example, registering will guarantee you notice of any child custody proceedings or petitions for adoption. In several states, registering with the putative father registry is the only way you can preserve those rights.;
, At least 24 states have a registry where you can register your status as a putative father. You should check to see if your state has a registry. Below is a partial list of states that do:Alabama
Florida
Illinois
Louisiana
Missouri
New York
Texas
Wyoming

, You can find the registry by visiting the Adoption Attorneys website, which has a link to every putative father registry in the U.S.You can also search the Internet for “your state” and “putative father registry.”

, Some states, such as Illinois, give you the option of applying online. Each state requests slightly different information. However, you generally will be asked for the following:your full name
your physical address and mailing address
your previous addresses
your phone number
your Social Security Number
your date of birth
your employer’s information
physical details, such as race, height, weight, hair color, etc.
all of the above information about the mother
information about the child, including name, date of birth (actual or estimated), and place of birth
your signature under penalty of perjury

, There should be a phone number at your state’s registry which you can call in order to request a form. A mailing address and/or email may also be provided.You should make a copy of all completed forms and then mail them to the address provided.
 If you want to register with a putative father registry, then you must meet deadlines set by your state. In Minnesota, for example, you can register at any time during the pregnancy, but not later than 30 days after birth.