 To do this braid neatly, you need to have well-combed hair. You don't want your hair to get caught in a tangled mess as you are making your braid. You can also dampen your hair, which will help it twist into cleaner sections.








You can also spray your hair with a leave-in conditioner or smoother. This can help with fly away strands of hair and keep the braid looking tighter., If you want to make a tight, structured braid, start with your hair in a ponytail. Grab your hair, pulling it up to the height you want your ponytail. Secure it with an elastic band.









You can do a side ponytail instead of a traditional center ponytail. It just depends on what style you are going for. To make a side ponytail, just brush your hair to the side and secure it with an elastic band.It you want a messier look, then skip to this step and simply start the braid at the nape of your neck., Separate your ponytail into 2 equal sections. Taking one strand in each hand, twist each section around your fingers in a counterclockwise direction. Make sure to keep your fingers tight on the twists. If you let them go, they will unravel and you will have to start over.








If your hair is too long to twist all at once, you can pinch the top of the section, twist the hair, and then move down an inch to twist the next section of hair. Continue this for the entirety of each section.
 Holding one section in each hand, cross the pieces over one another in a clockwise motion. The twisted strands should switch hands. You should be crossing them in the opposite direction from the way you twisted your hair. If you twist and cross in the same direction, you braid will unravel.
 Twist your braid, crossing the sections over one another until you reach the end of your hair. If you find that your hair is unraveling as you are braiding it, just twist it tight again before you continue your braid.
 Once you've reached the end of your hair, you need to tie it off with an elastic band. If you want your hair to look fuller, you can gently fluff out the ropes in your braid to give it width. You can also add a barrette over the elastic or use a decorative band instead to add a little flourish to your braid.








You can dress this braid up or dress it down. It is very versatile. Add a beanie if it's cold outside, or add a ribbon or flower to the base of your ponytail to make it softer and more feminine.