 You should have it checked at the doctor’s office every two years starting at age 20 if it is below 120/80. If it is higher than that, your doctor may recommend coming in more often.If you have high blood pressure at the doctor’s office, you can buy a blood pressure monitor to use at home from most drug stores and pharmacies. Daily monitoring can help your doctor know if treatments or lifestyle changes are working.Chart your blood pressure readings to look for changes or patterns.
Don’t rely solely on a home monitor. These are made to be used in conjunction with screenings by your health care provider.
Do not adjust or stop taking prescribed medicines even if your home monitor shows a decrease in blood pressure without discussing it with your doctor first.
Pregnant women and the elderly should always monitor their blood pressure at home in addition to visiting their doctor regularly.



Walking is an excellent way to start an exercise program, as you can start out slowly. If you're a beginner exerciser or haven't exercised in a while, try walking for 10 minutes at a time. Slowly build up to walking for longer periods of time, from 30 to 50 minutes.
If walking is painful, try low-impact exercises like swimming or using a stationary bicycle.
Enroll in an aerobic or Pilates class to firm and tone your muscles.
Try kickboxing or Krav Maga to learn self defense while becoming more fit.
Include strength training two to three times weekly, as this can help build muscle and stability.
 People who are overweight have a higher risk of being diagnosed with hypertension, and even losing ten pounds can take some strain off your heart.Eat a healthy diet by following standard nutritional guidelines and exercise most days of the week to lose weight gradually and safely.


You may need to count calories everyday to make sure your intake is less than your caloric output, but ask your doctor before drastically restricting calorie intake. Eating just 500 calories less daily can help you lose one pound a week.Avoid crash diets and severe calorie or food group restrictions, since such diets cause added stress to the body instead of relieving physical stresses associated with being overweight.
Overweight individuals that used hypertension medication to control their blood pressure reported they were either able to stop taking or reduce the dosage after losing weight and decreasing sodium intake.If you aren’t sure if you are over a healthy weight, ask your doctor, or use an online Body Mass Index calculator.
 Do housework and lawn work yourself instead of paying someone else to do it. Park at the back of lots when you run errands to make yourself walk more. Take the stairs instead of an elevator. Stand up while on the phone and pace the room.Tracking your steps and activity is a great motivator and way to reach your goals Consider a pedometer, using your smartphone, or buying a device that tracks more details electronically, such as a Fitbit.

