 Logic games and puzzles are another great way to keep your brain in shape. Many use scenarios and ask you to work through a solution; others might be “word problems” that give you a mathematical problem to solve.


Most logic puzzles give a set of premises and ask for the solution. Take “Knights and Knaves,” for example. In this game, characters either always tell the truth (knights) or always lie (knaves). Your job is to figure out who is the knight and who is the knave.
Math word problems are another kind and make you analyze a set of circumstances to arrive at an answer. For example: “Jill's age now is four more than twice what it was 7 years ago. How old is Jill?”
You can sometimes find such puzzles in the games sections of newspapers or in large puzzle books from toy or games stores. Otherwise, try looking online or for apps like Puzzle Baron.
 Jigsaw puzzles are basically pictures that have been cut up into hundreds or even thousands of tiny pieces. Your job is to match the right pieces and put the whole thing back together. Not only will you need patience, but good spatial reasoning and memory.


Buy a jigsaw puzzle from a games store to work on. A beginner’s puzzle may have several hundred pieces, while advanced puzzles can have more than 5,000.You can also try online jigsaw puzzles, too.
Jigsaw puzzles are another great social brain game. That is, get a partner or a group of friends and work on assembling the picture together.
Naturally, there are apps for jigsaw puzzles, too. Download one and enjoy a challenge, without the hassle of cleanup or finding stray pieces.
 If you want to work on your visual and spatial memory skills, try a game like “Memory.” In this classic, you’ll look at cards face down and turn over two at a time, looking for matches. Non-matching pairs get turned over again. The key is to remember what each card is and where its match lies. This game is also sometimes called “Concentration.”


A closely related game asks you to “Spot the Difference.” In this one, you’ll see two or three seemingly identical pictures. Your task is to look very closely and try to pick out – and remember – small differences in the detail. This game sometimes appears in newspapers or magazines.
Look for apps, as well, like “My Personal Memory Trainer” and “Brain Workout” for Android or the Luminosity app for iPhone.