 A number of herbs can act as astringents, which help to dry out tissues and act as anti-inflammatory agents. You can apply an astringent directly onto pimples on your nose using a Q-tip or a cotton ball. Use these astringents sparingly because they dry out the skin. The following herbal astringents can be used to dry individual pimples:


Black or Green teaLemon juice
Chamomile teaYarrow tea
Sage tea
Apple cider vinegar, Facial masks can help clean, tighten, and heal the skin and minimize pimples. Astringent herbs tighten or tone the skin while the antibacterial herbs help kill off bacteria. You can treat just your nose or your entire face. Start by making a mask with one tablespoon of honey, which is antibacterial and astringent, along with one egg white, which is also an astringent.Add one teaspoon of lemon juice, which is another astringent.
Add ⅛ teaspoon of any of the following essential oils with antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties: peppermint, spearmint, lavender, calendula, or thyme.
Spread the mixture over your nose. If you want, use a q-tip to spread the mixture over specific problem areas. Allow the mixture to dry for 15 minutes, then rinse off completely with lukewarm water.
Pat dry and apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 You can also dry out pimples on the nose by using sea salt. Take one teaspoon of sea salt and stir it into three teaspoons of hot water. Stir to dissolve the sea salt. if you don’t want to use a full mask, take a q-tip and dip the tip into your mixture and apply where needed. Just make sure you avoid getting the mixture near your eyes.Leave the mixture on for 10 minutes. Don’t leave it on any longer. Sea salt draws water out and can dry your skin too much.
Rinse off completely with cool or lukewarm water. Pat dry.
 Vigorous exfoliation using a harsh exfoliant product often does more harm than good. Exfoliation can cause micro-scarring and more obvious scarring, and it can often make acne worse. The scrubs you buy which perform the exfoliation may pull off skin that is not yet ready to fall off. Instead, you can make your own gentle exfoliants to spot treat the acne on your nose. Use these treatments two to three times a week.To make a honey-baking soda exfoliant, mix ¼ cup of honey with enough baking soda to make a paste. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected area. You can also use a q-tip. Gently work the mixture into your nose for two to three minutes and rinse with warm water.
Grind ¼ to ½ cup of rolled whole oats in a food processor. Add enough olive, jojoba, vitamin E, avocado, or almond oil to make a paste. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas or use a q-tip. Gently work the mixture into the area for two to three minutes and rinse with warm water.
For a sugar-olive oil exfoliant, mix a teaspoon of sugar with ½ cup of olive oil. Using gentle, circular motions, apply this mixture to the affected areas or use a q-tip. Gently work the mixture into the area for two to three minutes and rinse with warm water.

