 Place six large eggs in a saucepan. Pour water over them until they are covered to a depth of 1 inch (2.5 cm)., Turn the heat to high. As soon as the water reaches a rolling boil, remove the pan from the heat and cover it.
 Leave the eggs covered in the hot water for about ten minutes to finish hard cooking. Continue on to the next step while you wait.


This method of making hard boiled eggs helps prevent tough egg whites.Large eggs typically take 12 minutes to finish hard boiling, but these eggs are going to get a little more cooking later.
Small eggs require less cooking time.
 Bring about 2 cups (about 0.5 L) water to a boil in a second saucepan, then turn off the heat.
 For the strongest flavor, choose a smoky black tea such as Lapsang Souchong, or another strong black tea such as Assam. Put in 2 tbsp (30 mL) of loose leaf tea, or two tea bags.A tea that brews to a deep red color is best for a beautifully marbled egg., Tea eggs get their flavor and color from soy sauce and Chinese spices. Mix these into the saucepan of hot tea:soy sauce


2 tbsp (30 mL) dark soy sauce
2 whole star anise or 1 tsp (5mL) ground star anise
1 small cinnamon stick or ½ tsp (2.5mL) ground cinnamon
1 tsp (5 mL) Sichuan peppercorn

, Once the eggs are finished cooking, pick them up and tap the shell with the back of a metal spoon. Crack the shell in a few places on the egg. The goal is a spiderweb pattern with a couple long cracks to help the marinade seep in.Losing a small piece of shell isn't a disaster, but tap gently to try to avoid this., The salt in the marinade can make the egg whites tough, so it's important to keep the temperature low to counteract this.It's best to cook the eggs around 190ºF (88ºC). If you're near sea level, this temperature is a light simmer: bubbles are visible, but do not rise to the surface in "ropes.".
 Check on the eggs occasionally. If the marinade drops below the level of the eggs, add a little more water.


If this is too finicky for you, cover the pot to prevent water loss. Cooking in a covered pot may make the eggs softer and less flavored., By now the eggs are lightly infused with flavor, and have a brown or red spider web pattern imprinted onto the egg whites. For a more striking color and flavor, turn off the heat and let the eggs sit in the marinade for at least another hour.Some cooks let the eggs marinate for at least another six hours, but move the container to the fridge within two hours of cooking., Let people peel the eggs themselves to discover the web of lines on the egg white and the darker pattern on the inside of the shell. The longer the eggs were marinated, the stronger this pattern will be.


Serve with sesame salt for extra flavor.Cooked eggs last for about a week in the fridge. Store in a cooler or wrapped with an ice pack if transporting the eggs at room temperature for more than two hours.