 As noted in the introduction, most stubbed toes are not serious injuries. Thus, a good indication that your stubbed toe is something more serious is if it does not seem to get better right away. Pain that doesn't get better in the same amount of time as an ordinary bruise is often a sign of an underlying problem that requires special treatment. Specifically, be on the lookout for the following signs:Pain that doesn't lessen within an hour or two
Pain that fully returns whenever pressure is put on the toe
Swelling and/or inflammation that makes it difficult to walk or wear shoes for a few days
Bruise-like discoloration that doesn't go away within a few days

, Especially-bad stubbed toes often result in a fracture (a break in the toe's bone). In this case, it's usually necessary to receive an X-ray, cast, or foot brace. Signs of a fracture include:An audible "crack" or "pop" at the time of injury
A toe that visually appears "bent," "kinked," or "crooked"
Being unable to move the injure toe
Prolonged pain, inflammation and bruising.
Note that many broken toes don't prevent the injured person from walking. Being able to walk isn't a sign that a toe isn't broken.
 Another injury that's common from a stubbed toe is for blood to gather under the toenail. The pressure between the built-up blood and the nail can lead to prolonged inflammation and swelling, making recovery a long, uncomfortable process. In this case, a doctor can make a small hole in the nail, allowing the blood to drain and relieving the pressure. This procedure is called a trephination., A toe injury that causes part or all of the nail to detach from the nail bed can be extremely painful. While treatment at home may be possible in some cases, seeing a doctor will give you access to treatments for reducing pain, protecting the wound, and fighting infection that may not be available to you otherwise.


In addition, if an injury is serious enough to break your nail, it is possible that it has also caused a fracture or another problem that requires a doctor's help.
 All of the problems mentioned above — toe fractures, hematomas, and nail breakages — are good reasons to see a doctor. A medical professional can use X-ray machines and other equipment to accurately diagnose your problem. In addition, doctors and nurses have the training necessary to instruct you how to protect your toe as it heals. Again, it's important to remember that most stubbed toes won't require medical attention. However, if you have reason to believe that yours is serious, don't be afraid to make an appointment.


Always follow your doctor's advice over advice you find online. If anything your doctor tells you contradicts something you've read in this article, listen to your doctor.

