 The doctor will likely physically examine your ears with an otoscope (a lighted instrument for inspecting ears). You may also undergo a hearing test, potentially some imaging tests such as an MRI or a CT scan. In some cases, more extensive tests may be necessary. In general, these tests are not invasive or painful, but may cause some discomfort. You may experience changes in the bones of the inner ear that can be genetically based. The inner ear includes three very small bones: the malleus, the incus and the stapes. These three bones are connected to each other and to the eardrum (tympanic membrane). They are also connected to the structures that translate sound vibrations into nerve impulses that we perceive as sound. If these bones are not able to move freely because of otosclerosis, tinnitus can result.
You may also have excessive earwax, which can cause tinnitus.
 Unfortunately, many times the exact cause of tinnitus cannot be determined. Many times, it may simply be due to aging, such as the following conditions:Age-related hearing loss (presbycusis)
Menopause: Tinnitus is one of the rarer symptoms of menopause and it may be actually due to age rather than the menopausal transition. Often, the tinnitus disappears along with other menopausal issues. Hormone replacement therapy with synthetic progestins has been associated with increased tinnitus., If you work in a constantly loud environment, or you have been exposed to loud noises, be sure to mention this to your doctor. This will help him diagnose your condition.
 Many disorders that impact blood flow can cause tinnitus. Talk to your doctor about the following disorders:


Head and neck tumors that press on blood vessels and change the blood flow
Atherosclerosis or the build-up of cholesterol-containing plaques on the insides of arteries
High blood pressure
Anatomical variations in the carotid artery in the neck that can cause turbulence in blood flow
Malformed capillaries (arteriovenous malformation)

, Many medications can cause or exacerbate tinnitus. Some of these medications can include:


Aspirin
Antibiotics, such as polymyxin B, erythromycin, vancomycin and neomycin
Diuretics (water pills), including bumetanide, ethacrynic acid and furosemide
Quinine
Some anti-depressants
Chemotherapeutics, including mechlorethamine and vincristine

, Tinnitus can be caused by many different conditions, so be sure to get your doctor’s opinion on whether you have any of the following conditions:


Meniere’s disease: This is an inner ear disorder caused by increased inner ear fluid pressure
Temperomandibular joint (TMJ) disorders
Head and neck injuries
Benign tumors including acoustic neuromas: These usually only cause one-sided tinnitus
Hypothyroidism: Low thyroid hormone levels

, If you get the symptoms of tinnitus after an upper respiratory infection (URI), suddenly and without any known cause, or you experience dizziness or hearing loss along with the tinnitus, make an appointment to see a physician right away.


See your regular physician first. He may refer you to a specialist such as an Ear, Nose and Throat specialist (ENT specialist or otolaryngologist).
Tinnitus can cause other problems, including fatigue, stress, insomnia, difficulties with concentrating and with memory, depression and irritability. If you are experiencing any of these, make sure to mention these to the doctor.
 Treatment for tinnitus will depend to a large extent on the discovery of an underlying cause, but may include the following:Earwax removal.
Treating underlying conditions: Examples of this might include treating high blood pressure or atherosclerosis.
Changing medications: If your tinnitus is due to a reaction to a specific medication, your doctor may change the medication or change the dose.
Try medications specifically for tinnitus: While there is no specific drug to treat tinnitus, some medications have been used with some success. These include antidepressants and antianxiety drugs. These, however, are also associated with a number of side effects including dry mouth, blurry vision, constipation, heart problems, drowsiness and nausea.
 Hearing aids may be useful for some people. Your physician might recommend a hearing aid after you have been examined by a licensed audiologist.According to the American Tinnitus Association, “hearing loss causes less external sound stimuli to reach the brain. In response, the brain undergoes neuroplastic changes in how it processes different sound frequencies. Tinnitus is the product of these maladaptive neuroplastic changes.”Essentially, this means that with progressive hearing loss, the brain tries to adapt. But sometimes, that adaptation doesn’t work and tinnitus is the result. In general, the hearing loss is often at and above the frequency of the tinnitus itself.