 What you add depends on the focus of your site. The content of your site is what will determine how popular your site becomes. It is what sets you apart from other gaming sites in your niche.


If you're writing articles, your writing voice will be incredibly important for developing your site's style. Good writing will attract lots of readers, so you should always be striving to improve your skills.
Proofread everything you write before you publish it online. Grammatical errors and other problems will lead to a less-professional site, which will drive away readers.
If you are using screenshots or video from a video game, ensure that you have the rights to use it, especially if you make a profit on the site.
 You need to stand out. You are competing with some of the most popular sites that cater to some of the most tech-savvy readers online. Not only are you competing against established sites, you're competing against YouTube channels, Twitch streams, and popular podcasts.If you're writing a guide on a game, make sure that your guide is clearer and easier to understand than other guides online. Consider adding unique content that can't be found elsewhere, such as the perfect screenshot or a hand-crafted map.
If you're going for the news angle, you'll be need to distinguish yourself from the heavy hitters. Getting interviews that the other sites don't and writing high-quality features about the more ignored aspects of the industry can really help separate you from the pack.
If you are doing reviews, you'll need to ensure that you cover all of your bases. When reviewing a game, focus on all of the individual aspects, as well as the sum of all the parts. Make note of issues or outstanding moments, and try to maintain a fair view. When reviewing, personal preference for genre or franchise should be set aside, and the game should be looked at as objectively as possible.
 If you want to compete with other sites, you'll need multiple contributors. The biggest gaming sites on the internet post over a dozen articles per weekday, all from a variety of contributors. Building a good staff with unique takes on your content will help make your site shine

, The gaming media world is constantly changing and reinventing itself. Try to stay on top of or set trends to ensure that your audience keeps coming back. Look for ways to improve or change the way the present your content, and interact with gaming in general.


For example, game review methodology and scoring is a very controversial and rapidly-changing area of gaming media. Finding new ways to express review scores and objectively review content will help you make a big name for yourself.