 In many cases you can buy goat meat that has already been cubed, or cut into bite-sized pieces. If your goat meat has not been cubed, use a sharp knife to slice it into 1-inch pieces that will break down easily in the stew.


Any type of goat can be stewed. If you can't find pre-cubed goat meat, consider stewing a goat leg or goat steaks instead. You can stew a goat leg without cubing it.
You need two pounds of goat meat, not including the weight of the bone.
 Combine the carrots, celery, onions and pepper in a bowl with the goat meat. Season the mixture with a teaspoon of salt and 1/2 teaspoon of pepper. Cover the bowl and allow the mixture to sit in the refrigerator overnight. If you don't have enough time to refrigerate it overnight, do so for at least two hours., Heat the oil in a saucepan over medium high heat. Add the marinated meat and vegetables and spread them out in an even layer. Cook on one side until browned, then turn the meat to brown on the other side.


There's no need to cook the meat through. Simply brown it on both sides and cook no longer than one to two minutes. Otherwise, the meat will come out tough.
You can transfer the stew to a slow cooker at this point if you'd prefer not to cook it on the stove.
 Stir it well, then cover the pot and reduce the heat to a simmer. If you want to flavor the stew differently try any of the following variations:


For curried goat meat: substitute a cup of coconut milk for a cup of stock. Add 3 tablespoons curry powder.
For spicy goat meat: add 1/2 Scotch Bonnet pepper, seeded and chopped, or 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper.
 Keep it at a low simmer for the duration of the cooking time. Check every fifteen minutes or so to make sure there is enough liquid in the saucepan to keep the meat and vegetables covered. If needed, add water or more stock in small increments to prevent the stew from drying out.
 After about two hours, the meat should be succulent and fall-apart tender when you poke it with a fork. This stew is delicious when served over rice. It tastes even better the next day.