 Before you begin any serious attempts to modify your cat’s behavior, make an appointment with the vet to eliminate any possible bodily causes. Your vet will ask you about your cat’s history and may request some blood tests as well. If your cat has only recently started to exhibit more fear, it is possible that there is a physical explanation, such as thyroid disease.Your vet may recommend placing your cat on some anti-anxiety medication. If this is the case, be sure to go over dosage instructions and any warnings.;
, If you have a kitten that is younger than 14 weeks of age, then you can still work on exposing and acclimating them to movement as part of their development process. This is a formative period where even small efforts on your part can reap large behavioral rewards.For example, hold your kitten securely in your hands and step outside to show them movement in nature.
 As you are walking around your house, try to keep your actions measured and controlled. This will build trust with your cat and they will feel comfortable relaxing around you. If they are less stressed overall, then they are less likely to overreact if you do make an unexpected sudden movement., Get a number of bouncy balls, feather strings, and other toys designed to entice your cat. Play with your cat multiple times throughout the day. Start by making slow movements with the toys and then increase speed and unpredictability as your cat gets more comfortable.As your cat becomes accustomed to these play sessions, move your body around as well. Walk, or even jump, while drawing designs with a laser pointer on the ground.
Take some time to simply sit quietly with your cat as well. Relaxing together helps to build trust., When you have people over, warn them about your cat’s movement fears. Ask that they just relax for a while after they first arrive in order to let your cat get used to having them around. If your friends are willing to sit on the floor, then this can give your cat a chance to approach them safely. You can also give your guests some cat toys and treats to offer, so that your cat associates their visits with positive benefits.Make sure to supervise all of your cat’s encounters with other people. This will allow you to intervene in a negative situation, such as if your cat begins to swipe at your guests out of fear., If your cat stays in a room during a busy period, such as when you have guests over, make sure to give them a few treats throughout the visit. You can also make a habit of using treats to lure your cat onto higher ground, such as their cat tree, if you know that sudden movements might occur. Pay attention to your cat’s body language to know when a treat might be most welcomed., Choose a certain type of movement, such as getting up from the couch, and gradually increase the speed and/or repetition of this action over a period of days. Start by standing up from the couch very slowly and then add speed until you are moving fast. Your cat will recognize the movement and will become increasingly comfortable with the speed of the action, too.You can also use this approach when completing everyday household tasks. For example, vacuum slowly and then build up speed.

