 Your credit score reflects how risky your loan is to the lender. Before you start shopping for mortgages, check your credit score through a credit reporting agency. If your score is low, you might try to improve it before you start looking for a mortgage.


The lowest score you need to get a mortgage is 620.The best interest rates and mortgages will be offered to people with a score of at least 740.If you notice any mistakes on your score report, you should contact the credit reporting agency and inform them. They can fix the mistake, which can potentially improve your credit.;
, There are many different types of mortgages available, and each type will offer different rates, fees, and payment options. Some may offer low rates for the first few years before increasing. Others offer a higher starting rate that is unchanged for the length of the mortgage. Decide which type of mortgage will be best for you.



Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM): a mortgage with an interest rate that changes from year to year. Typically, interest rates will be low for the first few years before increasing. This is ideal for people who are planning on selling their property after a few years.

Fixed Rate Mortgage: a mortgage where interest rates are decided at the beginning and do not change over time. If you are planning on owning the house long term, this may be a better option, as rates may start slightly higher but will not increase., When figuring out how much you can afford, consider that you will need to pay a down payment, monthly payments, and fees. Find a price range that you can afford. To help you figure this out, use an online calculator to determine what you can afford to pay on your current income.Try plugging in different rates into the calculator to see what you might be paying. Typical interest rates run between three and seven percent.
 The length of your mortgage will help determine your interest rate. Most mortgages are quoted at a thirty year interest rate. This means that you will be paying the mortgage over thirty years. If you take out a fifteen year mortgage, you will pay more per year, but your interest will be lower, saving you more money while helping you pay off the mortgage sooner., Every time a lender gives you an estimate on your mortgage, they check your credit. Too many credit inquiries can lower your credit score, unless they happen within fourteen days of each other. While this impact of these inquiries may be minor, it may still be a good idea to limit yourself.To make sure that your credit stays intact, you should limit your search to fourteen days.You may want to set aside a single day to contact all of your potential lenders. Rates can change daily, so getting all of your estimates on the same day will ensure that you are getting accurate information.