 The college classroom is full of adult students who should not need to be told how to behave. It is a good idea, however, to be very clear on your rules for your classroom.


For example, you might include rules about participating in class discussions. This might include speaking respectfully to classmates and refraining from personal attacks.
Also consider including policies regarding academic dishonesty, technology use, handing in assignments, and so on.
Check with your institution to get proper wording on college-wide policies.
 Set up the class from the very start with your expectations for classroom conduct. Give examples of how these rules are put into effect and how you will implement consequences.
 If you want your students to take you seriously, it’s important to look and act professional. Appearing too casual may make your students doubt your authority.


Although you should maintain professionalism, you don’t need to be completely inaccessible to students. You can reveal things about yourself that give you more of a human dimension, so that students understand where you’re coming from., Oftentimes, the college classroom is a huge nameless group of students. This creates and maintains distance between the students and the instructor, which can make students feel alienated. If you know students by name, you can create a collegial environment in which students feel invested.
 If a student is causing disruption by repeatedly arriving late to class, consider possible reasons for this. Pull the student aside at the end of class or talk with him during office hours. It may be that the student is commuting from a job to school and can’t get to class on time. In this case, you might make a special exception or suggest that the student take a different class to accommodate his schedule., If you encounter discipline problems, be sure to document every step that you’ve taken. Talk with your administrator or supervisor about your department’s appropriate procedure for handling discipline problems.

