 While the iOS version of Instagram recently received the ability to create multi-clip videos (see above), this feature is not yet available for Android. There is no date set for the Android rollout, but keeping your Instagram app up to date will ensure that you have access to feature as soon as it is available.


Instagram videos are limited to 15 seconds, but the company is updating the service to allow 60 second videos. This feature is currently very limited, with additional accounts being added all the time.
 If you want to string multiple videos together, you will need to download an app that allows you to edit and combine videos. Popular video editing apps include:


Adobe Premiere Clip
AndroVid
MP4 Video Merger

, The process will vary from app to app, but all of them should allow you to combine multiple videos together into one clip. Keep in mind that Instagram videos have a maximum running time of 15 seconds, unless your account has the new 60-second limit enabled.
 Many of the editing apps will allow you to select a song from your library to add to the video. The song file will need to be stored on your phone first in order to do this.
 Most video editing apps don't have Instagram sharing built in, unless the app was specifically designed for use with Instagram. You will need to save your combined clip to your phone's storage first.


If given the choice, make sure to save the video to a common location on your phone, such as Pictures, Downloads, or Movies.
 Photos and videos saved on your device will be listed here. You should see your new video at the top of the list.
 You'll see it start to play on the screen.
 Once you've selected your video, you can perform standard Instagram edits, such as cropping and applying filters.
 You can select whether to send it to all of your followers or to a specific user. You can also give the video a caption and add hashtags. Tap the ✓ button to share the video., You can use Instagram's built-in camera to record a multi-part video clip:Open the Camera tab in Instagram and select "Video" at the bottom of the screen.
Press and hold the Record button to begin recording the first clip.
Release the Record button when you want to end the first clip.
Press and hold the Record button to start the second clip in the same video.
Repeat for additional clips. You can tap "Delete" after recording to delete the last clip. You are still limited to 15 seconds, unless teh new 60 second limit has been enabled for your account.

