 The main reason you are looking for a grant is to help your business grow. It is important to consider exactly how a grant can help you do that. As you begin to learn about different grants, make a list of how each one would positively benefit your business.For example, maybe you need an influx of capital to get your business started. Look for grants that make a large initial payment instead of multiple small installments.
Perhaps your business needs some positive word of mouth. When you receive a grant, you can use this as part of your marketing strategy. Search for grants that have a good reputation for helping support successful businesses.
Remember that different grants fund different types of projects. Take this into consideration when searching for grants. For example, if you plan to hire multiple people, search for grants that focus on increasing local jobs.;
, Your first step towards securing a grant is to begin learning about all of the different opportunities available for you. The types of grants you will qualify for depends on many factors, such as whether you are a start-up, for profit, or non-profit organization. Start by looking at different grants to get a good sense of what is out there.There are many federally funded grants. Check the government website to see if your business qualifies for any of the federal programs, such as those that involve agriculture or scientific research.There are also private organizations that offer entrepreneurial grants. Do an internet search to begin gathering information. For example, you can search for "Grants for new communications business in California".
Visit your local library. The research librarian will be happy to help you find additional information on grants.
 Grants have very specific rules about which organizations can be funded. When you are doing your research, make sure that you are paying careful attention to all of the regulations and qualifications. For example, many grants apply only to certain geographic areas.Other grants are made available only to individuals, while others are made available to larger organizations. Look for grants that are applicable to your business.
If you have questions about the requirements, make sure to ask. It is better to spend a few minutes sending an inquiring e-mail instead of spending a lot of time applying for a grant for which you are not eligible.
 When you are researching grants, you should gather as much information as possible. It's a good idea to ask for ideas from your personal and professional network. Ask friends and family members if they know of any grants that might be applicable to your business.Reach out to current and former colleagues. People who are in the same (or similar) field might have some good ideas about potential funding sources.
Ask a local business for information. For example, if you are interested in opening a farm to table restaurant, contact a local restaurant. Speak to the chef or owner of the establishment and ask if you can take her for coffee.
Ask her questions about how she started her own business. Perhaps she will have ideas about funding that had not occurred to you.
 It is important to realize that applying for a grant can be a lengthy process. Be realistic about how long it will take you to find grants and to complete the applications. Take into account the requirements, and make a realistic timeline.Organize all of the information that you find. Make lists of grants that you will definitely apply for as well as those that might be a possibility for your organization.
Plan how long you will spend finding grants to apply for. For example, you could set a deadline of one month as the amount of time you will spend searching for possible funding sources.
Figure out how much time you will need to spend on each application. On your daily calendar, schedule time to work on your grant application each day, or several days a week.
Stick to your timeline. You don't want to rush your application and turn in a sloppy proposal. But at the same time, you want to make sure you work efficiently on the application.

