 A few days before you go back to school, take a pen and paper and write a list of personal goals that you'd like to accomplish during the semester. These goals might be social, intellectual, or physical, but by having something to work toward, you can relieve some anxiety about starting up again. Some goals you might consider:Making new friends
Joining a club (or starting your own)
Getting better grades
Getting in shape;
, Or, if you didn't have homework assigned over break, take some time to look over the last assignments you did in each class before leaving school. This will remind you of where you left off in class, and looking over homework can prevent you from forgetting to complete it.Take this time also to reflect on the way you've done homework in the past. If you can think of any improvements you might make to your homework routine, returning to school might be the perfect time to make a change.
 This might be a teacher of your favorite subject, or a teacher who sponsors a club to which you belong. Ask if you might join this teacher during lunch to tell him about your adventures over vacation, or if you could work on homework in his room after school.


If your favorite teacher is busy that day, see if he has time to catch up later on in the week.
 There may be a field trip in a week or two, or maybe your science class has a cool experiment planned - whatever it might be, chances are you have something to look forward to when you return to school. By making a list of these things, you can replace any fear you have of going back with excitement to return., There's no getting around it, you'll need some time before it feels normal going to school again. Don't be hard on yourself. This process can take a week or two, but coach yourself through your negative thoughts by saying things like:"It's normal to be a little nervous returning to something after a long break. Everything's going to be alright!"
"Most kids don't want to go back to school any more than I do. But at least I'll be able to see my friends! I can't wait to tell them about my adventures."

, Over the course of your vacation, you might have enjoyed sleeping in or staying up late. This might make it difficult getting back into your school routine. To reset your sleep schedule you should:


Return to your routine several days to a week ahead of time.
Open blinds to get natural light in the mornings.
Skip late night meals.
Limit your stimulants, like caffeine and energy drinks., It's likely you'll still be adjusting back to your school routine when break is over, and pre-packing school supplies and choosing your outfit the night before can save you time and stress. Grogginess in the morning can cause you to take more time than you need to do these simple tasks, so ready your stuff before to make your first morning back as easy as possible.


You might also want to pack your lunch the night before, if you take your lunch to school.
You might benefit from making a back-to-school checklist. Write down all necessary supplies, like books, a calculator, pencils, notebooks, and so on.
 Sleep deprivation is terrible for your body, and can result in breakouts of acne, weight gain, difficulty concentrating, and irritability. Protect your health and make the first day back to school after break easier on yourself by getting the sleep you need, which for most teens is between 8½ and 9½ hours, but this might be different for you., Your first day back to school after break, you'll be out of practice doing your normal routine, which will likely add more time than you expect. Try to wake up a little earlier than normal so that you have extra time to make sure you have everything you need to succeed., Foods like whole grain toast, eggs, yogurt, and cottage cheese can give you an emotional boost and keep you going throughout the day.


Regular healthy breakfasts might also improve your memory, daily energy levels, your sense of calmness, and even your mood!, A little bit of exercise before you head to school can put some pep in your step and make you feel better about the day.Light exercise will also help you wake up, and will get your blood flowing. This will provide more oxygen to your brain and give you more mental sharpness. Some light exercise to consider:


Cycling
Jumping jacks
Stretching

Walking, Even if you don't have any brothers and sisters, it can be difficult for your parents to keep track of all the things they need to and your schedule. Help your parents out by creating a family schedule on a calendar. You may want to include:Meet days for sports
Club activities
Important test days

, Consistency, as they say, is key, and by staying true to your routine it will become easier and less stressful with each passing day.A consistent routine will also help you readjust your sleep schedule, and can help you maintain discipline studying., Keep your parents up to date not only with your school activities, but also with your feelings. Your parents might have some good advice for beating the back-to-school blues, or might have an idea to cheer you up. When talking with your parents, you might say something like:"Dad, I knew I had to go back to school all break, but now that it's here I'm really bummed about it. Could we go to the movies next weekend, just you and me, as a treat for making it through the first week?"

, Even the best routines aren't safe from the randomness of life. Whether it's a looming test, like the ACT or SAT, or something fun, like a concert, there are always things that you'll have to adjust your routine around. Continue tweaking your routine until it fits your life well, and next time you have vacation, returning to school after break will be a cinch.

