 Add the three ingredients to medium to large bowl and stir or whisk them together until evenly distributed. Set it to the side as you prepare the syrup.






;
, Add the three ingredients to a medium pot and stir together. To combine the ingredients thoroughly, you will need to heat them. Heat the syrup over medium-high to high heat, stirring constantly, until it comes to a boil.
 After the syrup begins to boil, reduce the heat to medium and continue stirring for roughly five minutes.









You may want to use a candy thermometer to monitor the temperature of the candy as it cooks. Clip the thermometer to the side of the pot, positioning it so that the tip does not touch the bottom of the pan but dips into the liquid candy. The temperature at this point should be about 230 degrees Fahrenheit (110 degrees Celsius)., Remove the pot from the heat and pour in the vanilla extract. Stir the candy thoroughly using a heat-resistant, non-stick spatula, such as a silicone spatula, until it appears blended.
 Dump the powdered sugar, powdered milk, and salt mixture into the liquid candy. Use the same heat-resistant, non-stick spatula to rapidly stir the two mixtures together until the dry ingredients have been completely blended into the wet. The new mixture should be smooth and should not have any visible clumps.
 Line a standard half-sheet size baking pan with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Pour the candy into the pan, scraping the sides of the pot with your spatula to remove the sticky candy clinging to the side. Allow the candy to cool for roughly 15 minutes, or until it is cool enough for you to handle without burning yourself. You do not want it to cool completely, though.
 At this point, the candy should be solid enough to be the consistency of dough. Separate the candy into three equal parts so that you can create the three distinct layers for your candy corn. Place each piece of dough into a different bowl.
 Add 2 to 3 drops of yellow food coloring to one bowl and 2 to 3 drops of orange food coloring to another bowl. Leave one bowl of dough uncolored. Knead the dough that needs to be colored until the color is distributed evenly throughout the entire piece. There should be no streaking.









You may want to wear disposable plastic gloves to prevent your hands from getting stained. Do not wear the same pair of gloves to knead each colored batch. Instead, change your gloves in between each color. If you do not wear gloves, wash your hands after kneading the first color and before working on the second.
You may need to chill the dough if it becomes too sticky after coming into contact with the warmth of your hands. If you suspect that it has become too soft, chill it in the refrigerator for 20 minutes.
 Lay out a large piece of parchment paper or wax. Roll each batch of dough into a long, slender strand. Each strand should be approximately the same length and thickness. To create easy-to-work-with pieces, the strands should be about 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) thick and 22 inches (55.88 cm) long, but you can make the rope as thick or thin as you like. Thicker ropes will create larger candies and thinner ropes will create smaller candies.
 The yellow strand should be on the bottom, the orange in the middle, and the white on the top. Press the dough together. You can either use your fingers or you can apply pressure using a rolling pin. Lay a piece of wax paper or parchment paper over the candy strands to prevent them from sticking to the rolling pin. Gently roll the pin over the strands, just enough to press them together without flattening them.
 You can also try a pizza cutter or another smooth-edged cutting tool. Create a zig-zag pattern across the dough so that half of the triangles are colored traditionally, with a white tip and a yellow base, while the other half are inverted, with a white base and a yellow tip.









If you need help gauging how and where to make the cuts, you can measure out where to start your cuts using a ruler and a non-toxic pen or pencil. Decide how big you want each base to be and plan out your cuts. For instance, if you want a 2-inch (5-cm) base, use your ruler to measure 2-inch (5-cm) sections along the bottom of the candy rope, marking each spot with your pen on the parchment paper. Be careful not to mark too close to the candy. Along the top, measure out 2-inch (5-cm) sections, placing the marks so that they fall out in the exact center of the marks on the bottom row. Cut the candy into triangles by making connecting cuts between both sets of marks, alternating back and forth between the top and bottom rows.
 If it becomes gummed up with candy residue as you work, clean the knife off before you continue cutting.
 Separate the candies so that they are no longer connecting or touching one another. Do not stack them, since stacking them will cause them to stick together. Allow them to dry on parchment paper until no longer sticky. The process should only take one or two hours.
 Since only half of the candy corn has the traditional color pattern, you may want to make that half the candy corn you share with others. The other half will be just as delicious, though.








