 Choose loose, breathable fabrics to stay comfortable all day. Knit fabrics are great for traveling, as they wear well and can also be rolled up in your luggage. Spandex blend fabrics are also wrinkle-free and will keep their shape longer than 100% cotton. Synthetic fibers are a good choice as well, especially if you choose something that wicks away moisture.Avoid wearing linen, as it rumples quite easily.;
, Choosing one of your favorite outfits will help you feel confident when traveling. Your favorite outfit is also likely pretty comfortable, or it wouldn’t be your favorite.

For girls, consider a maxi dress paired with a cute jacket. They’re easy to move around in and are also chic. Alternatively, opt for leggings, a long top, and a fun scarf.For guys, consider dark jeans and a polo shirt. That way, you’re more dressed up than you would be if you chose a t-shirt but aren’t restricted by a suit or button-down shirt. Alternatively, choose a lightweight sweater and comfortable dress pants in a neutral color, such as black or navy., Layers are great for traveling, as they can be added or removed depending on the temperature of the car or plane. Layers are helpful if the temperature is significantly different between where you are traveling from and your destination. Add a scarf or sweater to your outfit and remove it if you get too warm.Bringing a jacket with you will keep you warm on the plane and also free up space in your luggage.
 Though you’ll want to choose comfortable clothes that wear well while traveling, you can still be fashion forward. Make your look a bit more bold by adding a printed scarf or fun handbag to your outfit. Layer a few necklaces to dress up your look, or add a stack of bangle bracelets. You could also add a printed headband or oversized sunglasses., Pick a pair of shoes that are comfortable and go well with your outfit. You should never wear new shoes on a trip. Break them in first to avoid blisters or other issues.Wear slip-on shoes or shoes you can take off easily. This is especially true if you are flying to your destination, as you may have to take your shoes off in the airport for security reasons.
Wear socks so your feet don't get cold. Choose socks that wick away moisture, such as those made from bamboo.
 No matter what climates you are coming from or traveling to, moisturizing your skin will help keep it healthy and looking great. Put lotion on your body as well as a moisturizer with an SPF on your face.Slather hand cream over your hands while traveling. Use one with a scent you enjoy, as the familiarity will help you relax.
 Some people prefer to wear their hair up, while others like it down. Choose what you enjoy the most, but keep it simple; don’t spend hours creating curls that are only going to be limp or crumpled by the time you arrive. To get hair off your face, a braid is a simple but stylish choice.


If you’re traveling to a humid region, apply anti-frizz serum to your hair before styling it.
 Many travelers opt to not wear makeup, as there’s no need for a full-on glam look while traveling. If you dread skipping your makeup routine, be sure to use a primer under your foundation to keep your makeup from sliding off. Choose a neutral eyeshadow, add liner if desired, and finish with a few swipes of mascara. Opt for a bold lip color if you want something a bit more dramatic.Keep blotting paper in your purse or carry-on for reducing oil and shine.
Don’t forget lip balm to keep your smile shiny and smooth.
 A little sleep along the way can do wonders for how you look and feel at the other end. Do your best to include some snooze while you're traveling, or take the time to rest. If you find you can’t sleep, put an eye mask on and meditate or simply relax.
 It’s important to stay hydrated when traveling, especially if you are on a plane. Drink at least one glass of water per hour to help you feel better and look more refreshed. Add mint or fruit to your water for flavor if you desire.Limit your alcohol when traveling. Stick to one drink, such as a glass of wine.
 It’s often easier to grab fast food while traveling or to pack your carry-on with junk food. Neither of these things will help you look or feel your best though, so avoid the temptation. Instead, prepare a healthy meal or snack for the trip. Consider:


Sandwiches or wraps with your favorite filling
Fruit that travels well, such as apples, oranges, and bananas
Nuts and seeds or trail mix
A small salad in a container
Carrot and celery sticks

, Brush your teeth, chew mint gum, or pop a breath mint to freshen your breath. You can also reapply deodorant and spritz yourself with perfume or cologne.


Carry a small spray bottle filled with water and a couple of drops of lavender oil. Spritz it onto your face to freshen skin.

