 In addition to putting yourself at risk of physical harm, you should avoid confronting the person you suspect of animal cruelty for legal reasons. In most jurisdictions, it’s unlawful to enter someone else’s property without their permission, even if an animal’s safety is at risk.In some areas, it is lawful to break into a locked car if an animal is kept inside in extreme heat. Contact a local animal shelter, vet, or search online for more information about your local regulations.
Keep in the mind any animals that you suspect suffer abuse or neglect are unpredictable and could attack you if you approach them, their territory, or owner.
 When you see evidence of abuse or neglect, write down all relevant details. Note the date, time, location, and a thorough description of the suspicious behavior or physical signs of cruelty. Keep a written record and if you believe that you’ve documented enough evidence, prepare a written report to present to authorities.Timing is relative to the type of behavior you witness. For example, if you see a person beating an animal, you’ll want to note the date, time, and location and either call your local animal control agency or emergency services. If you observe lack of cleanliness or an obvious lack of preventive care, you might decide it’s best to compile a written record over a period of days or weeks.
Keep in mind it’s important to report direct violence to animal control or emergency services quickly. If you see an animal being abused, not only is its well being at risk, but that violent act could indicate that the perpetrator is also abusing other animals or people.
 If it’s safe and feasible, photographic evidence can be helpful in reporting animal cruelty, especially if there is little physical evidence of violence. Cell phone footage has become an effective way of proving animal cruelty, so record direct violence if you see it.Record inhumane living conditions only if you can do so without violating someone’s personal property.
 There are plenty of ways to anonymously report any signs of animal cruelty that you’ve identified. The easiest is to call emergency services or animal control, but you should be aware that you might be asked to testify against the perpetrator.While you can report animal cruelty to law enforcement or animal control anonymously, providing your information and being willing to testify will help ensure the case will be pursued.
If you live in the United States and see evidence of abuse in farm animals or undomesticated animals, you can contact the US Department of Agriculture directly by calling (301) 851-3751 or filing a complaint using their online form: https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/animalwelfare/complaint-form.
 If you are concerned about a puppy mill, pet store, or inhumane breeder, you can contact the USDA using their phone number or complaint form. You can also contact them for help finding the right regional department to report inhumane breeding practices. You should be prepared to make a written statement in the same way you would if you witnessed other forms of abuse and neglect., It can be difficult to approach a friend or family member about animal abuse or neglect, whether they are a child or your elderly relative. Try to take a delicate and tactful approach: get support from other family members, talk to them about the situation, and consider anonymously contacting animal control.If your elderly relative owns more animals than they can properly care for, try to intervene with the help of other family members. Be gentle and understanding when you approach them. Say, "We know you really love your pets, and that they give you a lot of comfort. But we're concerned that there could be difficulty in offering them the best care. We need to find new homes for some of them so that they can be happier."
If your child has abused an animal, have a serious discussion with them about it. Let them know they should never intentionally harm an animal. Animal cruelty is not recognized as a natural stage of child development. Inform their teachers and guidance counselors so that they can also look for signs of displaced hostility at school. Consider taking your child to a therapist or other mental healthcare professional.
If your friend or family member disregards your concern, remember that animal abuse and neglect can often point to more significant problems, including child neglect and domestic violence. It might not be a comfortable thought, but if you don't believe you or another relative can make a significant intervention, consider notifying animal control or other authorities. Remember you can do so anonymously.

