 Remember that grooming that you've neglected over the winter? Remove that growth from your legs, armpits and bikini area before you do anything else.;
, You know that some sunbathing will give you back your summer glow, but you don't want to make your seasonal beach debut looking pasty.


Zap any acne or blemishes with a salicylic acid cream. Don't forget to treat your back and other hard-to-reach areas.
Treat yourself to a salon spray tan or apply a good self-tanning treatment at home to tide you over until the sun's rays take effect.
Exfoliate your skin and moisturize it to get rid of winter dryness before you apply a tanning treatment. Your skin will be healthier, and your tan won't look streaky and spotty.
Use a moisturizer with retinol to attack fine lines and to fight the aging effects caused by UV rays.
Drink a lot of water and take a daily multivitamin. Staying hydrated and nourished will keep your skin looking its best.
 You'll need flawless feet and gorgeous hands to go with that new bathing suit that you want to rock. Choose an eye-catching polish in coral or turquoise to put yourself in a summer frame of mind. Just remember: If you are swimming in chlorine, the polish will wear off.
 Play up your long lashes with waterproof mascara or even eyelash dye. Choose a tinted lip balm that's at least SPF 15, and trade thick foundation for a tinted moisturizer with sun protection.



Invest in a high-quality haircut to get rid of split ends. Talk to your stylist about the best ways to eliminate frizz, and consider getting some sun-kissed highlights to give your hair a healthy glow.
Loosely curl your hair so that it tumbles over your shoulders. Also, invest in a cute hair clip or headband if you want to keep your hair back and out of your face.
Try going natural! Whether your hair is bone straight or afro-curly, letting out your natural texture gives you the perfect, down-to-earth beach look. If you think your hair is too straight, spray some salt water (or simply jump into the ocean) to get some beach waves. If you think your hair is too curly, you can use moose to keep your curls in control or braid part (or all) of your hair.
Wash all of the salt out of your hair when your beach day is done. Choose a moisturizing shampoo and a deep conditioner to keep your hair lustrous.
 If you're insecure about how you look, choose a suit that cinches in your tummy, tames your large bust or tones down your thighs.


Choose a color that looks great with your complexion and hair color. Bright colors work for basically all complexions, especially tanned or dark skin, but even a simple black bikini can be pulled off with the right confidence. You can also pick a strong pattern to distract from figure flaws.
If you want to cover up your stomach, try a "tank-ini" (a bikini with a top that reaches around your belly button) instead of a one-piece. If you want to cover your thighs, get a long sash-like skirt that you can tie around your waist. They're summery and still cover you up!
Remember that rocking a bathing suit is a confidence game. Hold your head up, walk with good posture and put some swing in your hips as you stroll along in the sand.
You don't have to wear a bikini. One pieces are just as sexy, and if you feel more confident with a modest swimsuit, go for it. Don't take too much pressure to wear a bikini. It isn't required. Do what is right for you.
 These can include a beach bag, a cute swimsuit cover, some killer sunglasses, a comfy beach towel, gorgeous flip-flops and a tent or umbrella for some shade.


Don't hesitate to enjoy some sports while you're trying to look fabulous. Bring a volleyball or a Frisbee so that you can have some fun in the sun.
Keep jewelry minimal. A thin gold chain can add some shimmer without creating any visual clutter.
You also need to be entertained while you sunbathe, so bring along a good book or some tunes. Pack some nutritious snacks and water bottles as well.
 Don't throw your chest out or do the obvious "bend and snap." Instead, while lazing on the beach, tanning or reading a book, prop yourself on your elbows and watch the ocean. When you chat with a friend, occasionally brush your hair from your face. Or casually bend your knee, which will instantly give you a toned look.
 All of your effort to look fabulous will be wasted if your skin is burned and peeling.


Very pale skin that burns easily should get sunscreen that's SPF 30 or higher (don't worry, you will still tan).
Darker or very dark skin are fine with regular SPF 15 sunscreen, but very dark skin tones should avoid getting titanium-based sunscreen because it can show up white/ashy on your skin after being in the water.

