 Make sure that the baking rack is placed in the bottom third of the oven. If you have two baking racks, place one in the bottom third of the oven and one in the upper third.
 Place the flour, coconut, and salt in a large mixing bowl, and stir them together with a mixing spoon until they are evenly combined. To make your macaroons extra crispy, consider toasting the coconut on a baking sheet in the oven for 5 minutes. Let it cool before adding it to the flour, however!

, Keep stirring until everything is evenly combined. For extra flavor, add 1 teaspoon of almond extract.You don't need any extra sugar for this recipe because the sweetened condensed milk already containers all the sugar you need.
 Slowly pour the condensed milk mixture into the coconut mixture. Stir it with a large mixing spoon or spatula until it is evenly combined.
 You can use two tablespoons to do this or even a small ice cream scoop. They should be about 1½ inches (3.81 centimeters) wide. These macaroons don't spread like other ones, so you can place them closer together than you normally would.


If you don't have enough room on your baking sheet, start filling up another one. If you don't have another one, or enough space in your oven, set the remaining mixture aside and cover it with a damp towel.
 The macaroons are done when they start to turn golden.If you are using two racks in the oven, switch the baking sheets half-way through the baking time. At 6 or 7 minutes, move the top backing sheet to the bottom rack, and the bottom baking sheet to the top rack. This will allow the macaroons to bake more evenly.


If you have any leftover macaroon mixture, you can start forming it into more little mounds.
 Once the macaroons have finished baking, take them out of the oven and let them cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes. After that, you can transfer them to a wire cooling rack so that they can finish cooling off.


If you have any leftover macaroon mixture, you can start baking it now while the finished macaroons cool off.
 You can also dip them in chocolate. To learn how to do that, click here. Just make sure that they have finished cooling first.

