


Start with a site that is close to you. If you live on the East side of the Mississippi River, there's a pretty good chance there is a significant Civil War site or battlefield close enough to get to within a half-day's drive or less.
If you need help, visit the National Park Service web site to see a list of Civil War battlefields by States.;
,


For example, if you were interested in the Battle of Franklin (TN), Google the phrase (in quotes) "Battle of Franklin" and add the State designator "Tennessee" to the search too.
Go through the first 2-3 pages of search results and just serendipitously browse through the sites listed. Take your time. Take notes. Write down questions, ideas, etc.



Bookmark your favorite 3-5 web sites you can come back to later to evaluate.
Don't forget to look for blogs, Facebook Groups, Twitter accounts, government and State web sites, Google maps, You Tube videos, etc.
If a blogger of a Civil War battlefield site is in the top 10-20 of your search results, it's a pretty good bet s/he is pretty knowledgeable about that battle. Some Civil War bloggers have hundreds of pages archived on their blog, like the BattleofFranklin.net blogger does.
Local area convention and visitors bureaus (CVB) can be very helpful here (example).



Learn the lingo. Spend time in Wikipedia, other web sites, or even crack open a book or two, to gain a basic understanding of the vocabulary you're going to be exposed to.
Look at a Google map of the area you're going to visit, or at least examine a trustworthy map on Wikipedia or from a trustworthy site. Some bloggers have even created their own Google maps of a battlefield.
Check out a solid Civil War Timeline to better understand the major events that took place around the time of the battle you have chosen to focus on.
Check out You Tube or Netflix to see if there are any good videos or movies on your battle. Again, some bloggers post scores of You Tube videos on battlefields they are very familiar with (example).
Take advantage of photo tools like Flickr. Check out the thousands of pictures Civil War buffs have published on sites like Flickr (example).
Historical markers - all available online - are great resources to take advantage of.



Do you want to go alone, with someone else, a small group, or take an official tour? Guys, consider what a site or location has that will appeal to women like historic homes, gardens, etc. Some women don't care about all the 'battle detail'.
How much time do you have for your visit? A couple hours? Half a day? All day? A couple days?
Figure out your budget. What local sites will you visit at your battlefield choice that will involve spending money? Entrance fees? Museum fees? Restaurants? Lodging (if applicable)? Fun money?
Some CVBs, State web sites, etc., have online trip planners (example).
Request a 'Visitor's Guide' from a CVB or similar (example).
Look for events and activities in that community or location that might coincide with your visit dates (example).



Make RSVPs ahead of time for lodging, restaurants and even some historical sites. Some tours, for example, take place on the hour. Call ahead and RSVP your spot.
Learn when the 'peak season' is for a location. A novice would probably not want try to take on Gettysburg around the 4th of July since it's the peak season for the hard-core Gettysburg people. However, peak season for the Battle of Franklin is mid October to late November and this smaller venue is perfect for the novice.
Research what the weather will be like for your visit. Sounds simple enough, but nothing can ruin a small trip like lacking proper clothing for the cold or heat, and not having an umbrella if it rains.
Think through what gear you want to take to capture or enjoy your experience. Will you want your smartphone, digital camera, video camera, notebook, iPad, laptop, or GPS unit?

