 If your hair is curly, wavy, or coarse, you are good to go. If your hair is straight or very smooth, consider adding some loose curls or waves to it first. You can also spray your hair with some texturizing or volumizing spray.
 Start gathering your hair from your forehead and temples, just above the eyebrows. Pull it back into a half up ponytail and tie it off with a clear hair elastic. Make sure that you leave enough hair below it for a second half up ponytail.


You can also use a mini hair tie instead, but make sure that it matches your hair color.
This method will create a faux-fishtail braid using two ponytails.
 If your hair is very long, twist your ponytail into a bun, and clip it out of the way on top of you head.
 Gather more hair from the hairline between your eyebrows and ears. Pull this hair into another half up ponytail, and tie it off with another clear hair elastic, right below the first one that you made.
 You want your first (upper) ponytail to be divided into a left section and a right section. Leave the bottom ponytail alone for now.
 Clip the ponytail out of the way on top of your head. Leave the two sections from the split ponytail hanging loose.
 Bring the two bottom sections together to form a ponytail. They should be wrapped around the other ponytail that you clipped out of the way. Tie them together into a ponytail once more using a hair tie.
 Un clip the upper ponytail and split it in two. Bring the bottom ponytail up between the two sections. Clip it out of the way. Tie the two sections into a ponytail once more. Keep repeating this step until you are a few inches away from the ends of your hair.


Try to tie the bottom ponytail as close to the upper ponytail as you can.
 If you have enough hair at the end of your braid, you can wrap a section of it around the bottom elastic. This helps add a nice touch. Secure the wrapped hair with a bobby pin that matches your hair.
 This is where the magic really happens. Use your fingers to gently tug on the outer edges of each looped ponytail. Tug them just enough to loosen them up and give your faux fishtail braid volume.
 This ensures that your style lasts longer. If you want to, you can loosen some hairs around your temples for a more boho look.

