 Unlike the useful "proportionate" guilt that signals us to right our wrongdoings, disproportionate guilt usually comes from one of the following sources:Doing better than someone (survivor’s guilt).
Feeling that you didn’t do enough to help someone.
Something that you only think you did.
Something you didn’t do but that you want to do.

Take the example of feeling guilty for getting a promotion. If you spread nasty rumors about a co-worker in order to get it, this guilt is indeed warranted or proportionate to the action. But, if you simply got this promotion from having earned it and feel guilty anyway, then you are dealing with disproportionate guilt. This type of guilt serves no rational purpose., Also include those things you only have partial control. Blaming yourself for a mistake or incident that was only partially in your control means that you're angry at yourself for things that are beyond you.


Also helpful is to consider that you are not to blame for things you regret not doing, since you could not possibly have known then what you know now. You likely made the best judgment available to you at the time.
Remind yourself that you’re not to blame for surviving a tragedy that someone else, even someone close to you did not.
Recognize that you are not ultimately responsible for other people. Even if you have a great deal of love and concern for those in your life, they are charged with stepping up to ensure their own well-being (as you are with yours).
 Writing in a journal, ask yourself ask yourself if the behavioral ideals you set for yourself may be too high.Often times these standards are imposed on us from outside forces which may have helped us gain footing at an early age, but that now are so rigorous and unattainable that they cause great distress.


This also involves acknowledging the your right to protect and stand up for your own self-interests. Since we often feel guilty for not bending over backwards for others or sacrificing something we hold dear (like free time or our own space), this is a crucial part of overcoming guilt.Remind yourself to accept that people’s interests may conflict, and that this is natural. No one is at fault for earnestly seeking to fulfill their own needs.
 Guilt often stems from thinking that we are not being sensitive enough to others.And, since you only have so much of yourself to give, remember that the quality of your help will diminish if you are trying too hard to help all the time or help everyone you care about all the time, no matter what.


To avoid this type of guilt, be more aware of situations when it is truly you who must step in. Being discerning about the moments you offer help will give you a healthier sense of how much responsibility you have for others, diminishing guilt automatically. It will also improve the quality of your help, making you more aware of the good you are doing rather than what other things you could be doing.
 By seeing others treat you this way, it will be easier to develop this attitude toward yourself. However, you are responsible for self-acceptance and self-compassion, and this can be done with or without help.

