 The Sussex spaniel’s long coat attracts and traps burrs, leaves, and twigs. This may require additional time spent grooming. Before you start brushing or bathing your dog, remove these items from your spaniel’s coat. This is important as these can get tangled in the fur creating mats, or break into smaller bits while you brush or bathe the dog, making it more difficult to remove.Taking a few moments to remove foreign objects trapped in fur each day can save you a lot of effort and energy in the long run.;
, These brushes have numerous wire bristles that pick through mats in your spaniel’s fur, and the bristles are set at an angle in order to avoid scratching your spaniel’s skin. Brush in the direction of the grain of the dog’s coat to get rid of tangles. Do not brush your dog's head or ears., If you find any large tangles, try to gently brush them out with your slicker brush. If this doesn’t work, massage baby oil into the mat and brush the area again. When this method is ineffective, you may have to resort to clipping the mat out of your pet’s fur. If you need to do this, use a pair of pet grooming scissors or baby scissors. Place the blade beneath the mat, but leave space between the mat and skin so you don't cut your pet. Carefully clip the matted hair and debris out of the coat., Once you’ve gotten all the tangles out, brush the hair on your dog's body, head, face, and ears. Move the brush with the grain of the dog’s coat to smooth it out. You should completely brush your dogs coat and remove tangles at lest once a week., This may seem easy enough, but there are several challenges involved in selecting your dog’s bath location. If you have a walk in shower, you may be able to bathe your spaniel inside the house. However, it’s much easier to bathe your dog with a hose that can move the water around. If you have a handheld showerhead, this could be the ideal pet washing station. Otherwise, you’ll probably want to bathe your dog using a hose outside.


Make sure your dog is standing on a clean, solid surface to avoid getting the dog’s feet and belly muddy as you wash them.
Children’s wading pools make a great dog bath!

, As long as your dog does not have mange, fleas, or mites, just about any cleaning agent will do. Many people use baby shampoo to clean their spaniels because it is typically a safer formula that will not burn their eyes. Talk to a representative at your local pet store, a dog groomer, or your veterinarian to get advice about specific shampoos that may be beneficial for your spaniel., Start by soaking your Sussex spaniel’s coat from the head back. Make sure it is complete saturated by applying water to each area of your dog’s body. Don’t forget to wet your dog’s belly. Then, apply a small amount of shampoo. Start with a quarter sized dollop, and add additional shampoo as needed to completely clean the coat. Spend some time massaging the shampoo into your dog’s coat to ensure you’re removing dirt and buildup from the roots.


Clean just the dog’s body first. Then, wash their head and face as this makes it easier to control water and soap that could get in their eyes, mouth, or nose. Always use tear free shampoos on your dog’s head., Shampoo left on the fur can irritate your spaniel’s skin, lead to flaking, or even be a health hazard if your dog licks it off. Make sure to thoroughly rinse your dog to avoid these concerns. Keep rinsing until the water running off your dog’s body is completely free from suds., You’ll need to do this following a bath before you start styling your spaniel’s coat. Start by toweling off your spaniel, and then follow up with a blow dry. There are dog grooming blow dryers available, but you can also use a blow dryer made for people. For a Sussex spaniel, you’ll need to take special care to avoid tangling the coat as you blow dry. Use your bristle brush to control the hair as you go.


Drying your dog is especially important in cold whether since your dog could become ill if its body temperature drops too low., You can buy special pet grooming scissors or use baby scissors to clip off excess fur from the tail, legs, paws, chest, sanitary areas, and around the eyes and ears. This grooming makes it easier to keep your spaniel clean and free from mats and tangles. It is a good idea to have someone the dog knows and trusts hold them while you’re clipping and trimming. This protects you and your spaniel from accidental injury., If you’re planning to show your dog competitively, you will not be able to clip any part of their fur except around the feet to create feathering, as this is the breed standard. You will also need to style their coat in a specific way. If you’ve never groomed a dog for a show, it’s a good idea to ask a professional groomer to assist you, or watch a professional groomer to learn how to properly groom your Sussex spaniel’s coat to meet the breed standard., Moisten a cotton or wool ball with mineral or olive oil and gently wipe the visible areas. Repeat on a fresh cotton ball for both ears. You can also purchase prescription or over the counter eardrops that will help you remove dirt and buildup inside your Sussex spaniel’s ears. Don’t clean any further than the areas you can see, and never use cotton swabs to clean you’re your dog’s ears as you may cause unintentional injury., Use a toothbrush and toothpaste specifically made for pet use. Apply a small amount of toothpaste to the brush. Gently lift your dog’s lips and brush each tooth on top and bottom. To keep your dog from ingesting the toothpaste, you can use a damp rag to wipe their teeth after brushing. You may also want to offer your Sussex spaniel dogs chews made to stop tartar build up on teeth.If your dog has never had their teeth brushed, slowly introduce them to the brush and get a toothpaste flavored like his favorite food. When brushing your dog's teeth, make no sudden movements and be gentle or your spaniel may try to snap at you.
If you don't want to clean your dog's teeth yourself, you can take them to a vet, who can clean them.
Do not give your dog chews as a substitute to cleaning teeth, as this can lead to a build up of tartar and plaque in your dog's mouth and other dental problems.
 This will keep dirt and other foreign matter from building up and protect your floors, furniture, and lap from the hazards of long dog nails. Sussex spaniels have notoriously fast growing, hard nails, so it’s important to regularly trim them. Overgrown nails can also crack, split, or break, which can be very painful for your dog. Using dog nail clippers or large, durable human nail clippers, remove just the very ends of your dog’s nails, so they don’t reach all the way to the ground.Avoid clipping nail to the quick, the vein that runs through the nail. This is the darker pink part of the nail on dogs with white nails.
For dogs with darkly colored nails, you will not be able to see the quick. Instead, trim away small sections of the nail checking between clips for a gray oval in the end of the nail. This is the bottom of the quick, and you should stop clipping at this point.
If you do cut the nail to the quick, have styptic powder on hand. This powder is used frequently for shaving nicks and cuts and can be purchased in most pharmacies. Apply the powder directly to the bleeding toenail, and it will stop bleeding almost immediately. Styptic powder also helps to numb the area.