 The first thing you have to do is open the Skype program on your computer and sign in with your username and password.


NEVER set it to remember your name and password unless you are on your private computer.;
, After you sign in, look at your main menu at the top of the page. You will see a “Skype” dropdown right next to “Contacts.” Open that menu and go down to “Profile.”

, This will make a sub-menu pop up next to “Profile.” Below is the “Edit My Profile” button, click on it.


This will open up your Skype profile on your screen; you can see and edit a few things from here.
 However, if you want to get the most out of editing your profile, there is another clickable button about halfway down the window that says “Show Full Profile.” With this, you can edit anything on your profile; set everything up way that it should be.
 Located at the top of the page, below your profile picture, click on the “Change Picture” link. A window will pop up; click on “Browse” and choose pictures from the computer.


You also have the option to make your profile picture private.
 Directly across from your profile picture, you will see options for you to change your telephone numbers. The numbers are useful if you want friends and family to see your telephone number so that they can contact you outside of Skype if they want to.
 You can also add up to 3 email addresses just by clicking on the link that says “Add email address.” From here you simply type in your email address and select “Save” to save it to your profile.
 Below the email addresses, you can edit your city, state, and country.


The country is simply a drop down list; scroll down and find your appropriate country. For the city and state, all you have to do is click where your city or state is and you can instantly type in a new one. Just be sure to click the small checkmark next to it to make sure you confirm the change.
 Directly below your city, state, and time zone, you will see a place to enter a website. If you have a personal website or blog you want to share, all you have to do is click it and type in the address you want saved and then confirm it.
 Below that is your basic personal information such as your gender, birth date, and native language. All three are dropdown menus; click on what you want to edit.
 The last thing to edit on your profile is your “About me” section. This is to let people know a little bit about you and is a great way to express yourself.


To access this, click on the link that says “Write a few words,” then you are free to write a small piece about yourself. Just be sure to confirm it when you are finished!

