 Avocados contain an abundance of natural oils which can penetrate the hair shaft and leave the hair feeling healthy and nourished. Healthy hair is much less prone to breakage and damage, so a weekly application of this avocado mask will make hair appear thicker and fuller over time. To make:


Mash up two small, ripe avocados and mix with half a cup of honey, two tablespoons of olive oil and one egg yolk. Apply this mixture all over the hair from root to shaft, cover with a shower cap and leave in for one or two hours, or until the mask has hardened.
Wash out the mask with shampoo (you may need to wash twice), condition the hair, then dry and style as normal., Hair is made almost entirely of protein, so any treatment which contains this nutrient if going to positively benefit the hair. Egg is very high in protein and will leave hair feeling strong and thick. Simply beat two eggs well, then massage the beaten egg into wet hair. Leave in for 10 to 15 minutes, then rinse out and shampoo as normal.


Alternatively, you can mix one egg with some hair oil, such as argan or coconut oil, and use this as a hair treatment instead.
This treatment is good for the hair and can be used two or three time a week, if desired.
 A mixture of apple cider vinegar and lemon juice makes a volumizing tonic which gives limp, flat hair a boost. To make, add one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and one teaspoon of lemon to a mug of cold water. Stir to combine. Shampoo and condition hair as normal, then use this tonic as a final rinse., Flat beer has been used by women as a remedy for flat hair for a long time. The hair absorbs the beer, making the strands thicker and hair more voluminous. The beer also leaves a slight residue on the surface of the hair, giving extra volume.


To use, pop open a can and leave it for several hours to go flat. Bring it to the shower and use as a final rinse, after shampooing.
The best type of beer to use one that has been brewed traditionally in a hop, as this type of beer contains many nutrients., Henna is a natural product which is usually used for color, but can also be used to add thickness and volume to hair. Make a henna gloss by adding warm water to 100g of henna powder. Mix until it forms a paste-like consistency, then set aside for six hours somewhere warm.


Combine the henna paste with a cup of your favorite conditioner then spread the mixture through the hair. Cover with a shower cap and leave in for as long as your like. Rinse out with warm water, then shampoo and condition as normal., Castor oil helps to stimulate hair growth and prevent breakage, therefore promoting healthy, voluminous hair. Heat up some good quality castor oil until warm, then apply to the roots of the hair and gently massage into the scalp with small circular motions, using your fingertips. Shampoo to remove.,