 Use an eyelash curler to draw your lashes up and parallel with your lenses. Start at the roots of your eyelashes and hold the curler there for a few seconds. Then, crimp your way up to the tips of your lashes. Doing this opens up your eyes and makes them look bigger.


Curling your lashes prevents any mascara from brushing up against your lenses and dirtying them., As you apply mascara, brush most of the liquid onto the roots of your eyelashes. Just lightly brush the tips of your lashes with the remainder of the mascara that’s left on the wand. This will make them look fuller, keeps them from being weighed down, and will help keep the inside of your glasses clean.Have fun with colored mascara that matches or contrasts with your glasses to make a bold statement.
For fuller lashes, brush the wand horizontally across your eye.
For longer-looking lashes, hold the mascara wand vertically and brush upwards on your lashes.
 To keep your eyes from looking sunken in, use a highlighting cream to dab in inner corners of your eyes and the lower lids. A concealer that matches your skin tone will also help to light the under part of your eyes and keep them from being shadowed by your glasses.


Avoid doing too much with makeup on the bottom part of your eyes because this can draw attention to bags or crow’s feet that you might prefer to go unnoticed., Your glasses will help frame your face, and your eyebrows do the same job. Go to a salon as a treat or periodically pluck a few eyebrow hairs to keep your eyebrows from getting unruly. You want your eyebrows to rest right above your frames so that they don’t disappear.Hold your tweezers to the inner corner of your eye and line them straight up to your eyebrow. You want to tweeze your eyebrows so that they begin directly above the corner of your eye.Your eyebrow should peak right above the middle of your iris.
The end of your eyebrows should end right above the far corner of your eyelids.
 A bright or bold lip color is way to balance your makeup with your glasses. Bright reds, pinks, or even purples look fun and can also make you feel pretty and powerful. Any style of glasses works well with a classic red, and if you want to play it safe, you can go for a shade that’s similar to your own lip color to help your natural beauty pop.If your frames have a secondary color, you can coordinate your lip color to accentuate that secondary color.
Matte or cream lipstick work well with glasses. A gloss can sometimes compete with any glare that may reflect off of your lenses.
 You don’t want your eyeliner to compete with the color of your frames. Experiment with a navy or burgundy eyeliner as black can sometimes overpower your eye, especially with glasses.


Brown eyeliner is also an option and works well for green and brown eyes.
The thicker your frames, the thicker your eyeliner should be. This isn’t a hard and fast rule, but you can get away with a thick cat eye effect with a bold frame.Thinner frames will look unbalanced with extremely heavy eyeliner.
For a more drastic contrast, pick a color of eyeliner that is on the opposite side of the color wheel from the color of your frames.
 The bridge of your nose is going to be prominent thanks to your glasses, but that doesn’t have to be a bad thing. Use a powder made to cut down on face oils or a foundation powder so that your don’t have a shiny nose. Cutting down on any moisture on your nose will also help to keep your glasses from sliding down.


Mineral-based foundations can also help cut down on any shininess from oil.
A little bit of concealer can also help cut down on any red spots left from the nose pieces on your glasses.
Blot any excess powder or foundation with a tissue to prevent your glasses from sliding., Being able to see is of course important, but dirty lenses are also not attractive. No matter how put together you look with your makeup and outfit, dirty glasses are a detail that can ruin the whole look. Spritz your lenses with a glasses cleaning solution and wipe them with a microfiber cloth.Cleaning your glasses will help prevent prevent smudges from your fingertips or your hands from adjusting your frames throughout the day.
At least once a week, clean the entire frame for your glasses. Face oil, sweat, and bacteria can build up in crevices and cause you to break out.
Avoid using rough materials such as paper towels or tissue paper to clean your glasses as these can damage the glass.
You can get replacement microfiber cloths at an optician’s office.
Wipe off water or moisture immediately to avoid water spots or stains.
Make sure there’s no debris or small particles on the lenses before cleaning them or the dirt will scratch your lenses.

