 You don’t want to be too low to the ground, but low enough so that you are grounded and easily balanced. Consider keeping your knees behind your toes to avoid knee injury. Stand with your legs wide apart, lower to the ground, with your feet turned out. This will help you maintain your balance once you start moving. This is the most common way to twerk, and is the least sexually provocative.









Pick a fun, fast beat and start practicing! You can practice twerking slowly at first, to get the basic move down, and pick up your pace once you're comfortable with it.;
, Get into the stance where it looks like you are about to sit into a chair-- think "chair pose" in yoga -- your booty should be the main attraction. Make sure to keep your knees bent and to place your hands on your hips. Keep your upper body pretty straight and look straight ahead. You don't need to look at the ground to twerk effectively.









As you pop your booty out, you should lean forward about 45 degrees, shifting your weight to your toes. This is known as the "Miley Twerk". If you want to be a bit less scandalous, then you don't have to lean forward as much, and can keep your chest upright.
 If you choose to keep your hands on your hips while you twerk, then you should press your thumbs into your butt bones to help push your hips go forward if you're moving forward; to move your booty back, use your other fingers to pull back on your hip bones to help your booty move backward. If you're comfortable twerking without your hands, then you can lift your arms straight out in front of you, close together and parallel to the ground, and gently sway them as you continue to twerk.









For the Miley Twerk, you should move your hips quickly from right to left; for a standard twerk, pop your booty up and down, arching and straightening your back to get the best results. And don't worry if you don't have a big booty. Anyone can rock this move!
It's all about isolating the lower half of your body. Try to keep the upper half of your body pretty stable.
You can also switch it up with your hands, keeping them up in front of you, out at your sides, or back on your hips.
Additionally, you can get even a bit lower the ground, placing your hands above your knees, with your fingers pointed toward each other and your wrists facing out, and shake your booty with your hands helping you get the most for your money.
If you're really going for it, add a Miley face or hand signal for good measure.

