 It's one of the first ways many of us are taught to be environmentally friendly, yet we all need help remembering how important it is to do things like turn off the lights when you leave the room. Everything that's powered by electricity requires the use of energy generated at power plants. The plants usually burn either coal or fossil fuel, which produces emissions that cloud up the air and make it harder for everyone to breathe. That's a heavy consequence for forgetting to shut down your computer. Here's what you can do:


Lower the thermostat in the winter. Instead of heating the house so it's blazing hot and snowing outside, heat it just enough so that you're comfortable. Insulating your home helps keep the cold out more efficiently, too.See if you can switch to wind or solar-powered electricity, which produces fewer emissions.Use less air conditioning. In the summer, see if you can handle going without air conditioning on days when it's not that hot. Save it for the sweltering days.
Turn off appliances and electronics when not in use. Computers, TVs, coffee pots, and more should be turned off and unplugged when you aren't using them.
Use energy-saving light bulbs. Incandescent bulbs (the old-fashioned kind) require more energy to burn.
 From the manufacturing of cars, to the extraction and burning of the gas that powers them, to the oil and other materials used to build the roads they drive on, there's no doubt that cars and all their trappings are a major source of air pollution. Cutting back on your car use is a great way to be more environmentally friendly.


Take public transportation. Get familiar with the bus, subway or train schedule in your city, and start using public transportation more often.
Find the bike lanes in your town. More and more cities and towns are putting in new bike lanes connecting all the major neighborhoods. Saving money on not getting a gym memberships and getting free exercise is an added bonus of using bike lanes.
Make time for walking. If you have time for a stroll, why not walk instead of driving? Any place that's five or ten minutes away by car should be within suitable walking distance, too.
Carpool to work or school with other people instead of driving by yourself.
 Your shopping habits might not be the first thing you question when you're coming up with ways to reduce air pollution, but what people buy has a big effect on the environment. How a product was made, where it was made and how it was packaged all play a role.


Look into manufacturing processes. Was it made with sustainable materials, or did its production involve the use of plastics or other chemicals? Product manufacture is also responsible for using (and wasting) a lot of water, so this is an important question to ask for more than one reason.
Check labels to see how far items traveled. If it had to travel by boat, plane, and truck to get to your store or door, a lot of gas was burned to allow you to purchase the product. See if you can find a good replacement that is created closer to your home,

, You can really show that you support the environment by changing some of your food buying habits. Shopping local instead of buying food that was shipped in from far away both supports local farms and cuts down on your carbon footprint.


Shop at farmer’s markets. During the spring, summer and fall, most towns have farmer's markets with selections of local food.
Try growing your own food. Join a community garden or make a plot in your backyard or on the patio.
Practice "Meatless Mondays."Meatless Mondays is a worldwide movement. Followers do not eat animal-based protein on Mondays. This movement helps to minimize water usage as well as reduce greenhouse gases and fuel dependence., Once you start being more aware of how everyday habits affect the quality of our air, you might want to take action do do something about air pollution. Look for local and national groups working on ways to reduce carbon output and combat global warming. See what problems are being addressed in your area, and encourage others to join in.

