 Enter your Settings menu, then select Sounds. Drag the Ringer And Alerts slider to increase the volume. If you still cannot hear sound, contact Apple’s support team.If, after adjusting the Ringer And Alerts slider, you can hear sound from the speaker, check the Ring/Silent switch on the side of your device. If the switch is in a position that reveals a small orange dot, the device is set to silent. Move the switch in the opposite direction in order to turn the ringer back on.
 If you’ve tested your speaker settings and they haven’t improved your speakers’ operation, you can restart your iPhone using a preset sequence of buttons. Restarting the iPhone causes it to turn off and then turn back on again. To restart your iPhone, hold down the sleep and home buttons until the Apple logo comes up.Test the sound after you’ve restarted the phone.
 If your iPhone is in a case, it’s possible that the case could be muffling or restricting the speakers from making sound. Take the case off your phone and attempt to play music or a sound., Sometimes, sound glitches occur due to drivers or firmware being out of date. To update your iPhone, connect to Wi-Fi, then enter your Settings menu. Click General, then Software Update. Finally, click Download and Install.If, in the process of updating, your phone asks to temporarily remove apps, just click Continue. Later, your apps will be reinstalled.
You might be asked to provide your passcode. Enter your passcode if prompted.
Before you update, make a backup of your phone by connecting to a Wi-Fi network, the clicking Settings, then iCloud. Next, tap Backup and turn iCloud Backup on if it isn’t already. Finally, tap Back Up Now.
To check that your backup is finished, go to Settings, then iCloud, then Storage, then Manage Storage, and select your phone. You should be able to see your backup file with the time you created it and the size of the file., Visit an Apple store to talk to Apple technicians who can help. If you don’t have any Apple stores nearby, go online to Apple’s support website at the address https://support.apple.com/contact. To get started, click “Set up a repair,” then click “iPhone.”Next, select “Repairs and Physical Damage” and click the option “Unable to hear through receiver or speakers.”
At the next screen, click “Built-in speaker.”
At this point, you can select a range of options, including chat, schedule a call, and send in for repair. Choose the option that works best for you.
 If Apple cannot help you, they might recommend the nuclear option – a total phone restoration. Restoring your iPhone will wipe your contacts, calendars, photos, and other saved data. However, your text messages, call history, notes, sound settings, and certain other customizable phone options should be saved to the cloud.To restore your iPhone, connect your phone to your computer using the cord that it came bundled with. Open iTunes on your computer.
Enter your passcode or click Trust This Computer, if prompted.
Select your phone when it appears in iTunes. In the summary panel, click Restore . Click again to confirm your decision.
Before beginning the restoration process, you could make a backup of the information in the same way you did before updating your iOS.

