 This is one of the best ways to get children excited about eating healthy food because they feel like they are choosing the food, not being forced to eat it. Have them choose one part of the meal each night, make your grocery list with you, or prepare simple parts of the meal, like mixing or stirring things.See what foods your child gravitates towards in the store and reward them for their help.
If they seem interested, challenge the kid to balance the meal themselves. Make a chart for each day of the week with space for a protein, carb, and fruit/vegetable and let them choose something for each category.Offer to let teens and older children take charge of one meal a night. Let them know that you'll eat whatever they make, as long as they do too.
 There is a variety of special summer camps and after school programs related to food these days, and this can be a great way to introduce healthy foods without doing all the work yourself. Kids will feel more comfortable trying new things if their friends are doing it, and they can feel proud bringing recipes or nutrition facts back home to you. Check your local parks and rec department for a list of camps, or search online for nearby food experiences for kids., You can sneak vegetables into almost anything if you are stealthy about it. Try puréeing or finely chopping up some vegetables into kid-friendly foods to get them vital vitamins and minerals whenever possible. Some ideas include:


Chopped onions, broccoli, peppers, and spinach in quesadillas or mac & cheese.
Calcium rich yogurt and fruit in blended smoothies.
Thinly sliced eggplant, peppers, squash, or zucchini in lasagna., Smiley faces, even when they are made out of peas, look a lot more appetizing than a pile of green, slimy orbs. Use the occasional drop of food coloring to make "Green eggs and ham" or blue spaghetti squash. While you don't need to go overboard, healthy food is a lot easier to get on the table if it is hidden behind something fun.


Let them know fun or exotic names of things, like Papaya, Mango, Zucchini, or Bok Choi.
Cut up vegetables into fun shapes.
Have kids sample the food for a "texture test" before you put it on the table.
Let your children explore a bit -- ask them how they might cook something or show them where the food comes from., Don't give in to your child's temper and make a separate meal just for them. You need to stand firm with the healthy meal you've put on the table. If you keep making them specialty food, you tell them that the healthy meal you've put together is not really important and validated their picky habits. Make one meal and stick to it.You can still offer choices within this meal, such as spaghetti with either red sauce or a little olive oil, and only cook one meal.
 Put your meal out on the table and let the kids choose what they want to eat, instead of cooking them a separate meal or putting everything on their plate for them. Kids love to feel like they are in charge of their own decisions, and will likely model their behavior after you. It also lets them put as much of a new food on their plate as they want to sample before coming back for seconds.Ask them to put at least one of everything on their plate, but let them choose the amount.
Serve yourself first so that they can see how much of each food you take.
 It can take between 10 and 15 exposures to a new, healthy food for a child to try something, so take you time and avoid yelling or forcing a child to eat.This will only give them bad memories of the food and make it harder to get them to try something else later. Put the food in front of them and ask them to give it a try, but don't get upset if they won't finish it. Thank them for trying and move on to another food.


Try different ways of cooking foods, such as raw vegetables one night, steamed the next, and roasted the third. Let them know that cooking changes taste and texture.

