 Individual counseling can effectively treat anger. A therapist can help you manage your anger by working on your thoughts and behaviors around anger. Therapy can give you techniques to learn and practice to reduce your anger. A highly angry person can come down to a mid-range level of anger within 8-10 weeks of therapy.For counseling to be effective, attend sessions regularly and follow through on any tasks or assignments.
To find a therapist, call your insurance or local mental health clinic. You can also check out How to Choose a Therapist
;
, Group therapy unites people with similar difficulties and allows everyone a space to listen to others and express themselves. Group therapy has many benefits, such as providing a support network, allowing opportunities for personal development, and recognizing that you are not alone in your struggle. Groups are generally led by one or more therapists, who guide each session.Together, the group can learn and practice techniques to manage anger more effectively.


Ask a therapist or general practitioner if there are any groups for anger in your community.
For more information, check out How to Attend Group Counseling.
 Support groups are community-run groups that help gather people together in a uniting factor, such as anger management support. Support groups can help you make connections and receive help from other people who have “been there.” They can be helpful in providing and receiving support from other members of the community that also struggle with anger problems. Support groups are a great place to give and receive advice, give and receive support, and share your struggles or successes.You can ask your therapist or general practitioner if an anger management support group exists in your community, or you may join an online support group.
 Some community centers or mental health clinics offer anger management classes.These classes can take place one night, over a weekend, or over a series of weeks. You may be able to find free or low-cost classes in your community. Classes may focus on identifying triggers and learning healthy coping strategies to deal with anger. They are likely more information-based than practice-based.


Talk to a therapist or your general practitioner about classes in your community.
You may even find anger management classes online.
 If your anger leads to violence or abuse, it’s important to seek treatment. Work with a therapist to respond to anger in ways that do not hurt others.Ask your therapist or general practitioner if there are programs in your community to help those who want to change their violent behaviors.

