 Because diabetes is closely linked with heart disease, it is important to proactively protect yourself against developing heart disease. One of the great benefits of working with your CDE is the chance to craft a personalized workout regimen that keeps your heart healthy and your body fit. Your CDE may recommend:Aim for at least 2.5 hours of moderate or vigorous exercise per week. Spread your exercise out over the course of at least three days during the week.
For instance, you could walk, run, ride your bike, or engage in some combination thereof for thirty minutes per day over the course of five days.
Your CDE will also recommend that you incorporate resistance training – lifting weights or working out on the benchpress, for instance – at least twice each week.
Ask your CDE, “What sorts of exercise can I do to stay healthy with diabetes?”

, Working with your CDE gives you the opportunity to develop dietary changes you can make to stay healthy with diabetes. Let your CDE know your dietary preferences and budget so they can recommend recipes or meal options to help you stay healthy. Your CDE might, for instance, recommend:Fruits like oranges, blueberries, grapefruits, and strawberries.
Non-starchy veggies like beans, spinach, collards, tomatoes, and broccoli.
Lean protein sources like nuts, beans, and seeds.
Avoiding sugary drinks like cola, sweet juices, and teas with added sugar., Ask your CDE what other practical interventions you can make to manage your diabetes. For instance, your CDE will probably advise you to quit smoking and drinking alcohol, since both can increase your risk for heart disease. Your CDE might recognize other habits or areas where you can improve your diabetes-management methods. For instance, you might have to:get your immunizations up-to-date
take special care of your dental health, since diabetics are more likely to develop gum infections
manage your cholesterol and blood pressure levels
read additional material your CDE provides

, Your diabetes educator will help you stay on target with regard to your lifestyle changes, glucose monitoring, and other aspects of your health plan. As you learn more about your condition and identify potential problems with your treatment plan, reconnect with your CDE so that you can make changes together.Diabetes education takes time. Be patient and continue to heed your CDE’s advice.
If you have to cancel your appointments, always reschedule.

