 Scraps make an ideal base for pillows (cushions). You can either piece different scraps together to form a crazy pillow, or you can use scraps to make an applique on a plain background piece of fabric.





 A scrap cat pillow

Another idea is to make an animal shaped pillow from scraps, as shown in this image.;
, Applique is just stitching shaped pieces of fabric onto other fabric. You can make the design as simple as fancy as you want. Applique can decorate a pillow, wall hanging, apron, quilt, or nearly any fabric project., Fabric flowers are useful for many purposes, such as making hair accessories, dressing up clothing, making a floral craft item, or using to decorate something you have made, etc., Shoe stuffers are great for keeping shoes fresh, and they also make wonderful gifts or stall sellers for a bazaar., If you want, you can also use contents that keep away moths and other insects., Any leftover scraps can be turned into a lovely pincushion., Scraps can create one-of-a-kind scarves that match your favorite clothing colors, or make wonderful gifts., Scrap fabric mats are ideal for tableware, especially delightful for using outdoors for al fresco dining, or for homes with a native country theme., Scraps can be used up in endless ways for the holiday season, from tree decorations to Christmas stockings., iPods are prone to scratching without a cover; instead of buying one, simply make your own from your favorite colored scraps., A cloth bag made from scraps is an ideal cover for a gift and your recipient can reuse the bag for another gift or for storage., Patchwork purses are unique and special, especially when you make use of your favorite colors and patterns from among the scrap fabric. Tote bags can carry everything from groceries to library books, displaying your favorite scraps as feature pieces., Quilts originated from seeking ways to use up scraps to make warm bedding. It is still an ideal way to make the most of favorite scraps of fabric., Ruffles are great for adding to a range of items, including clothing, tablecloths, curtains, doll's clothing, artist trading cards, sheets, and more., Fabric scraps are perfect for making stuffed animals. You can also use favorite old clothing that can no longer be worn but that you can't bear to part with - let it live on as a favorite stuffed toy!, Puppets are a close cousin to stuffed toys, and, depending on the design, very easy to make. Decorating a puppet is also an opportunity to use fabric scraps. You could applique or glue on eyes, nose, mouth, ears, and hair. You could also dress up your puppet with fabric scraps. If you don't sew that much, a scarf or shawl is a very easy addition., This is a very easy sewing project that uses scrap fabric cut into strips., Everyone has their own uses for scraps - perhaps even get together and use up your scraps as a group! If you'd like to share your creations, consider leaving the instructions for your new creations on wikiHow., They can be used for crafts, and the children enjoy the different colors and textures., It is an easy way to get pieces of fabric in the colours, textures, or patterns you need for a project. This is especially useful with quilting patches. Just get some friends together all with bags of leftover fabric and start making deals and swaps.