 Changes in your bird’s weight can let you know that something is wrong. You should weigh your bird regularly. Do this once each month. Weigh them at the same time every day so the weight will be consistent.If your bird loses more than 10 percent of their body weight and you haven’t put them a diet, you should take them to the vet.
 Lories and lorikeets should have no respiratory problems. They should breath easily and smoothly, with no body movements as they breathe. If your bird bobs their tail as they breathe, or they keep their mouth open after activity, there may be something wrong., Your lory or lorikeet’s eyes and ears should be clear and normal colored. Redness or discharge may indicate a problem. There should also be no swelling around the eye tissues, ear tissues, eyelids, or conjunctival tissues. Any irritation can point to a problem.The ears and eyes should not be blocked by anything.
 The beak should be normal shape for a lory or lorikeet. Overgrown beaks can point to a nutrition problem. Reddened or swollen mouth tissues are also a sign of problems. The bird may also experience a discharge from the mouth or beak.If the bird starts sneezing a lot, this could point to a problem.
 Your lory or lorikeet’s feathers should bright, colorful, and smooth. They should not be torn or tattered, and they shouldn’t lose their color. Bald patches where feathers should be can indicate a problem. If your bird is pulling feathers out of a certain area, there may be a problem there.Abnormally shaped feathers may also indicate illness.
Black spots on the feathers may mean a problem with their diet or be a sign of illness.
 Lories and lorikeets should have a clean vent region. If there is fecal matter or matted feathers, the bird may have diarrhea or other problems. Any discharge, bleeding, or swelling in this area indicates there is a problem., Any changes in your bird’s droppings may be a symptom of a problem. No feces, black feces, or liquid feces may point to digestive problems. Color changes may mean your bird has an illness or infection. Blood in the droppings is not normal.Increased urine in droppings may be a symptom of an illness that causes increased water consumption.

