 Some natural products make claims that are not supported by scientific research. According to the American Academy of Dermatology, the demand for quality products that are effective against dark spots, also called liver spots, age spots, melasma, and sun lentigines, has prompted further research on natural ingredients.Always monitor your skin for possible sensitivities to products, the development of a new allergy, or unwanted skin reactions and changes. Let your doctor or dermatologist know if you develop any unwanted changes.
The experts have looked at existing research on many natural products and found them to be a good way to get rid of dark spots.
Always use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher. This helps to prevent dark spots from appearing, and helps to protect the areas you successfully treat from reappearing.
 Soy works to lighten skin by interfering with the transfer of clumps of the dark skin cells that contain melanin to the surface of the skin. Soy prevents the additional and unwanted dark pigment from reaching the surface of the skin.Soy is contained in many skin lightening agents and cosmetics. Soy used in these products comes from the soybean plant.
 Niacinamide is also known as vitamin B3. Look on product labels for either description, vitamin B3 or niacinamide as part of the active ingredients.Niacinamide works in a way similar to soy. It helps to lighten areas of the skin and prevent the dark pigmented cells from reaching the surface of the skin.
As the existing skin cells slough away over time, the newer skin cells with not contain the darker pigment with continued use.
 Ellagic acid has antioxidant properties and inhibits certain enzymes needed for the production of melanin, which is the source of the dark areas on the skin. Research suggests that ellagic acid is one of the most potent natural skin lighteners available.Ellagic acid is commonly found in natural food sources that include strawberries, cherries, and pomegranates. Other natural sources include blackberries, cranberries, raspberries, wolfberries, grapes, walnuts, and peaches
Non-food sources of ellagic acid include the North American white oak and the European red oak.
Some medicinal mushroom species contain ellagic acid, such as the phellinus linteus.
 Lignin peroxidase is an enzyme that breaks down the melanin in the layers of the skin. Breaking down the melanin reduces the appearance and formation of dark spots. Many products contain this enzyme, even though the research is still ongoing to determine the role of lignin peroxidase as a skin lightener.Lignin peroxidase is derived from a fungus. It is most commonly found in wood pulp as it breaks down and becomes lighter.
This enzyme is used to lighten wood pulp during the paper manufacturing process.
The use of lignin peroxidase in lightening wood pulp led to its discovery as a source for skin lightening.
 Arbutin, sometimes referred to as alpha arbutin, is a natural product derived from plant sources. Arbutin is considered a natural form of hydroquinone which is scientifically proven to lighten skin.Plant sources for arbutin include bearberry, blueberry, cranberry, mulberry, and pears.
The substance comes in two forms. The alpha arbutin isomer is more potent in lightening skin than the beta arbutin isomer.
Available products contain as much as 3% arbutin concentrations. Arbutin works by inhibiting the production of melanin in the skin.
 This a substance produced as a byproduct during the process of rice fermentation to make sake. Pure kojic acid can be unstable when exposed to air, so many companies use a derivative of kojic acid called kojic dipalmitate.Research with this agent is ongoing. Some concern exists. Using large concentrations of kojic acid has created concerns of possible unwanted and serious skin changes, as well a risk of an allergic reaction.
Kojic acid is also derived from plant fungus.
Many available products contain concentrations that range from 1-4% of kojic acid or a derivative. The active agent is sometimes combined with other skin lightening agents to enhance the effectiveness of the product.
 While ingesting licorice can have several unwanted side effects, using licorice or licorice derivatives in a topical manner has been shown to lighten areas of the skin.Some products used for skin lightening, including topical patches among other types of topical preparations, are available that contain licorice, licorice extracts, or licorice root.
Recipes to make licorice preparations are available on line. Preparing your own topical preparation may result in some difficulty with application since the results are usually sticky and somewhat smelly preparations.

