


It is very common to automatically say "no" to a child when they ask if they can do something. This can range from leaving the table before they're done eating to playing in the park.
You can't let kids do whatever they want, but limiting them just because you may not want to do something is not always the best approach.;
,


If you are working on a home improvement project and the child asks if he or she can help, don't automatically say "no" because you know the job will get done faster.
Find a reasonable task for the child to do, like handing you tools or working on cleaning something. This can help build trust between you and the child as well as boost their confidence.



Children are very curious and often feel the desire to explore new places. Let them explore when you know that the place you're at is safe and the people around are trustworthy.
This will let the child know you trust him or her and are willing to let the child learn on his or her own. Saying "no" right away, because you may feel the child will get into something or you don't want to chase after him or her, is a legitimate concern, but doesn't always have to be there.
Allowing the child to explore, and even get into trouble, can be a healthy learning experience.
 Continue to communicate with them on a regular basis. Make sure they know they are safe and give them a sense of belonging.


Introduce them to friends and family members.
Ask them questions about their lives and ask if they need any help with something that may be going on at school or daycare.
Place pictures of them around your home.
 Make sure the basic needs are met, such as healthy food, a place to sleep and activities to do at home.


Providing simple rules, such as television guidelines and specific bedtimes, will also help give the child a routine and a sense of security.



It is not uncommon for parents to win affection and effectively control their child's behavior by using a reward system or by giving him or her whatever he or she desires.
Although this might appear to make the child happy and keep your relationship positive, in the long run it does not work. Children often end up demanding and grow up with a sense of entitlement.
Instead, reward them for something they have done right as opposed to trying to stop doing something wrong.

