 Most of your customers are probably using Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn at a minimum.


Consider other, lesser known sites. Check out the profiles on Tumblr and Pinterest, 2 social networking sites that are growing.;
, Obviously, you want to promote your product. Be specific about what else you want to do. This might include selling more products, attracting return customers or gaining new customers.
 Your product can have its own page, where people can like it, comment on it, leave reviews and even link to your website so they can buy it.


Encourage people to like your product page. Offer incentives such as coupons and discounts. Invite people to share your page with their friends so your community can grow.
Develop surveys, quizzes and other engaging content that will generate interest and drive traffic to your page and your product.
 You can set up an account on Twitter for your product and promote it by attracting followers.


Come up with brief messages that describe and promote your product. You only have 140 characters to talk about it.
Follow people, brands and companies that might be interested in your product. The more people you follow, the more followers you have a chance of attracting.
 LinkedIn is a social networking site that is predominantly used by professionals and business people.


Set up a group for your product and reach out to people and companies that your product could serve. Post regular reviews and updates.
Skip LinkedIn if your product does not sell in the business world niche.
 Use your own blog or write guest blogs for other websites about the benefits and popularity of your product.


Encourage people to share your posts and share them yourself by posting them to other social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.
 People watch billions of YouTube videos every day.


Make a video or a slideshow about your product that will serve as an advertisement that can potentially go viral, which means it gets forwarded and viewed by many different people.
Encourage others to post videos of themselves using or benefiting from your product. Many companies hold contests or give away free products in exchange for submitting videos.
 Explore places such as Tumblr, Pinterest and Google Plus.


Be strategic about where you promote your product. Make sure your customers or potential customers are on those sites.
Get demographic data and other statistics on who uses social networking sites. There are a variety of data mining companies who can do this research for you and give you specifics. You can also do the research yourself by conducting Internet searches which will give you general information.
Ask your customers where they like to go online. Take a poll on your Facebook page or ask for comments on your blog. This will lead you to ideas.

