 If you do not have any, you can go to any store that carries hair accessories to buy a pack. You can also buy premium bobby pins, which are touted to hold hair better than cheap bobby pins from a drugstore, for example., Use your fingers or a comb to help you part and lift the segment of hair so that it separates from the rest of your hair.


Gently push away any loose strands of hair that should not be included in the part.
Pulling back hair from along the side of your face will help keep it out of your face and keep flyaway hairs from sticking out.
 Keep the hair smooth, and if any bumps arise as you gently pull it back, smooth them out without dropping any segments of hair.


Smooth out bumps using your fingers or your comb. Do this carefully to avoid picking up any stray hairs that should not be included in the part.
 You can make the twist tight or loose; it is up to you based on how you want the twist to look.


You will need to twist the part at least five times to get a tight twist, but you will only need to twist it a couple of times to get a looser twist.
 Gently place it at the height where you want it to sit, making sure again to avoid any bumps.


It is best to lay the twist at such an angle (or height) so that the hair that stems from your hairline doesn't bump, or pouf, up when you lay it. If this happens, you will want to gently slide the twist down until the hair lays flat.
Hold the twist in place with the hand that is on the same side of your body as the twist. If your twist is on the left side of your head, then hold the twist in place with your left hand. Likewise, if the twist is on the right side of your head, then hold the twist in place with your right hand.
 Using the hand that is free, reach around behind your head to prepare to slide the bobby pin in place to hold the twist.


Aim the bobby pin so that the open side points toward your face. Make sure that the ridged arm of the bobby pin will lay against your scalp.
 You will slide the bobby pin underneath the twist, which will hide more of the bobby pin but still keep the twist held in place., Again, make sure that the ridged side of the bobby pin lays against your scalp.When you are done inserting the bobby pin, most of it should be hidden by the twist.
 Gently pat them down with your hand and/or pull them out of the bobby pin, if they got caught in it.

