 Get out a jelly roll pan and line it with waxed paper. Set the pan aside and get out a medium saucepan. Pour 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in the pan and put it on the stove over medium-high heat. Set a clear oven-safe bowl over the saucepan.The bowl shouldn't touch the water in the saucepan.
Leave the double boiler set up, since you'll need to melt more chocolate once your bark is almost assembled.;
, Once the water in the saucepan bubbles gently, pour one (12 ounce of 350 g) bag of semisweet chocolate chips into the bowl of the double boiler. Add 2 tablespoons of the coconut oil and stir the chocolate until it melts.The melted chocolate and oil should be a little thin.
 Carefully pour the melted chocolate into the prepared jelly roll pan and use a rubber or offset spatula to smooth it out. Try to do this before the chocolate has a chance to set up. Place the pan in the refrigerator and chill the chocolate for 20 minutes.The chocolate should set up and harden before you cover it with the rest of the bark.
 Put 1 cup (226 g) of softened, unsalted butter into a mixing bowl along with 1 cup (200 g) of brown sugar and 2 teaspoons of vanilla. extract. Beat the mixture with a stand or handheld mixer until it's light and fluffy.You'll need to cream the mixture for several minutes for it to lighten.
 Use a rubber spatula or spoon to stir in 1 1/2 cups (130 g) of crushed graham crackers and 2 teaspoons of salt until they're incorporated. Slowly stir in 1/3 cup (80 ml) of milk until it's combined.The mixture should be the texture of cookie dough at this point.
 Measure out 2/3 cup (115 g) of mini chocolate chips and stir them into the cookie dough. Take the jelly roll pan of chilled chocolate out of the refrigerator and spread the cookie dough evenly over the chocolate., Put the pan of bark back in the refrigerator to chill while you make the chocolate topping. Melt the remaining bag (12 ounces or 350 g) of semisweet chocolate chips and 2 tablespoons of coconut oil in the double boiler. Stir the chocolate, so it melts completely.For a double chocolate, try melting white chocolate chips instead of semisweet.
 Take the jelly roll pan out of the refrigerator and carefully pour the melted semisweet chocolate over the cookie dough. Use a spoon or spatula to spread it evenly., Open one 3.5-ounce (99 g) package of mini-chocolate chip cookies and set a small handful of them aside. Crush the handful and sprinkle it over the top of the bark. Scatter the remaining whole mini-cookies over the top and place the sheet in the refrigerator. Chill the bark until it's completely set and then break it into pieces.It should take about 2 hours for the bark to set up.

