 Go online and search for “blindness or visual impairment” and absorb as much information as you can. Find out about their specific health issues, without violating their privacy, and look these up as well. Make sure to only read reliable information from reputable websites. Share your findings with your sibling and ask what they think.You can also join a forum for visually impaired persons and their families. This will allow you to ask any additional questions that you have and stay anonymous, if you prefer.
 Various local groups in your area have probably organized certain events for blind or visually impaired persons. These organizations often allow siblings to participate as well. You could participate in a beeping Easter egg hunt. Or, spending some time together painting Valentine’s Day gifts for your loved ones.Part of creating a solid relationship with your sibling is simply making yourself available, just as it is with any relationship.
 Take a class at a local community college. Or, order materials online and work through them. You could also use the same materials that your sibling worked with in order to learn. If you can learn alongside your sibling, even better. Keep going until you have a solid grasp of the basics and then you’ll have a unique language to use when communicating in public and elsewhere., There are numerous organization that work to assist blind or visually impaired persons and their families. You could donate funds to an organization or you could spend some of your time volunteering. You could even volunteer alongside your sibling in many cases. Reach out to the American Foundation for the Blind (AFB) for more information., If your sibling attends therapy, see if you can come along. The therapist might provide ways for you to participate, or you might be allowed to sit on the sidelines and observe. Some occupational therapists also offer sibling support sessions., Search online for a family learning camp or retreat near you. These camps last from a few days to a few weeks and are a great way for family members to bond. You may learn about volunteer opportunities. The camp may also provide medical or therapy experts for question and answer sessions.