 You get your first riding skill at level 20. If you do not already have it, purchase it;
, At this point, you will be able to purchase the Expert flying skill, if you have not already done so.
 The NPCs that can train you to fly are located in the following areas:


Borean Tundra: Maigra Keenfeather in the Valiance Keep, and Wind Rider Sabamba in Warsong Hold.
Dalaran: Hira Snowdawn in Crystalsong Forest.
Elwynn Forest: : Bralla Cloudwing Dalene Stokx in Stormwind City.
Hellfire Peninsula: Hargen Bronzewing in Honor Hold and Wind Rider Jahubo in Thrallmar.
Orgrimmar: Maztha in Durotar.
Shadowmoon Valley: Ilsa Blusterbrew in the Wildhammer Stronghold, and Olrokk in Shadowmoon Village.
Sholazar Basin: Pilot Vic in River's Heart.
Storm Peaks: Roxi Ramrocket in The K3.
Vale of Eternal Blossoms: Cloudrunner Leng in the Shrine of Seven Stars, and Skydancer Shun in the Shrine of Two Moons.
 This will cost 250 gold and will let you fly at 150% movement speed.


If you reach Exhaulted reputation with your faciton, then you can purchase the skill for 200 gold., It will cost you 50 gold. If you are in the Alliance, you can purchase a Gryphon. If you are in the Horde, visit Orgrimmar and purchase a Windrider.


You can't fly until level 90 for Pandaria. Most Pandarian mounts also require a certain type of skill, such as the Cloud Serpent skill.
 Open up the Spellbook and click on the "Mounts" tab. You will find the flying skill there as a usable spell.
 Right-click on your mouse to aim your view. Move forward by clicking on the left button of your mouse, or the forward key on your keyboard.
 This will allow you to cruise long distances or scout out an area. Here is how you can move around on your mount:


Press W to move forward.
Press S to move back.
Click A to turn left, and D to turn right.
Hit Q to shuffle to the left, and E to shuffle to the right.
Hit the space bar to ascend, and hit it again to descend.
 It will cost you 5000 gold and give your mount 280% movement speed flight and 5000 gold once you reach level 70.
 It will cost you 5000 gold, and will allow your mount to fly at 310% movement speed.
 Once you reach level 60, you will be able to learn how to fly; however, in order to fly in specific areas, you will need to meet specific requirements. In most cases, you will also need to purchase additional skills. Here is what you need to know:


To be able to fly in Kalimdor, Deepholm and Eastern Kingdoms, you must first reach level 60, then visit a flying trainer, and purchase a Flight Master's License for 250 gold.
To be able to fly in Northrend, you will need to reach level 68, then visit a flying trainer to purchase Cold Weather Flying for 500 gold.
To be able to fly in Pandaria, you need to first reach level 90. Then you can visit the flying trainer in your faction's shrine in the Vale of Eternal Blossoms and learn the Wisdom of the Four Winds for 2500 gold.
To be able to fly in Outland, your riding level needs to be 225. You don't have to purchase a Flight Master's License.
 Unlike with flying mounts, you do not need to know the Expert Riding skill in order to use your flying form.
 This skill will become available to you at level 60. It will cost you 3 gold.
 If you do not want to fly, either shift back to your original form, or sit.
 It will cost you 19 gold.
 While flying comes with many benefits, such as increased movement speed and no threat generation, it also comes with some drawbacks as well. Here are a few things you should be aware of before using your travel form:You cannot use it while fighting.
You cannot use it indoors.
You cannot use it while already in another form.
You will not be able to fly in Northrend without getting Cold Weather Flying (at level 68) and Azeroth without getting the Flight Master's License (at level 60).
 You will need to explore the following areas: Frostfire Ridge, Goregrond, Nagrand, Shadowmoon Valley, Spires of Arak, and Talador.


To explore Frostfire Ridge, you will need to find: Bladespire Citadel, Bloodmaul Stronghold, Bones of Agurak, Colossal's Fall, Daggermaw Ravine, Frostwind Crag, Grimfrost Hill, Grom'gar, Iron Siegeworks, Iron Waystation, Magnarok, Stonefang Outpost, The Boneslag, The Cracking Plains, Wor'gol.To explore Goregrond, you will need to find: Bastion Rise, Beastwatch, Crimson Fen, Deadgrin, Evermorn Springs, Everbloom Wilds, Grimrail Depot, Gronn Canyon, Highpass, Iyun Weald, Stonemaul Arena, Tangleheart, The Iron Approach, and The Pit.To explore Nagrand, you will need to find: Ancestral Grounds, Broken Precipice, Gates of Grommashar, Hallvalor, Highmaul Harbor, Ironfist Harbor, Lok-rath, Mar'gok's Overwatch, Mok'gol Watchpost, Oshu'gun, Telaar, The Ring of Blood, Throne of the Elements, The Ring of Trials, and Zangar Shore.To explore Shadowmoon, you will need to find: Anguish Fortress, Darktide Roost, Elodor, Embaari Village, Gloomshade Grove, Gul'var, Isle of Shadows, Karabor, Shaz'gul, Socrethar's Rise, and The Shimmer Moor.To explore Spires of Arak, you will need to find: Admiral Taylor's Garrison, Axefall, Bladefist Hold, Bloodmane Valley, Lost Veil Anzu, Pinchwhistle Gearworks, Pinchwhistle Point, Ravenskar, Sethekk Hollow, Skettis, Southport, Terrace of Dawn, The Howling Crag, The Writhing Mire, Veil Akraz, Veil Zekk, and Windswept Terrace.To explore Talador, you will need to find: Anchorite's Sojourn, Aruuna, Auchindoun, Court of Souls, Duskfall Island, Fort Wrynn, Gordal Fortress, Gul'rok, Orunai Coast, Shattrath City, Telmor, The Path of Glory, Tomb of Lights, Tuurem, and Zangarra., You can find them in Frostfire Ridge (Horde only), Goregrond, Nagrand, Shadowmoon Valley (Allance only), Spires of Arak, and Talador.
 You will need to collect 100 treasures in Draenor. Tannan jungle treasures do not count towards this.
 They will be the same, regardless of whether you are part of the Alliance or the Horse. Here is a list of the 12 quests:Assault on the Broken Precipice, Assault on Darktide Roost
Assault on the Everbloom Wilds
Assault on Pillars of Fate, Assault on the Pit,
Assault on Shattrath Harbor, Assault on Skettis, Assault on Socrethar's Rise, Assault on Stonefury Cliffs
Assault on Mok'gol Watchpost.
 They are the Tanaan Diplimat, Order of the Awakened/The Saberstalkers, and Hand of the Prophet/Vol'jin's Headhunters.