 Most birds tend to make some noise, either by singing or squawking. Birds tend to be most vocal during waking hours in the morning and before going to sleep in the evening. Some birds are more prone to making noise than others, but understand before bringing home a bird that some noise will be inevitable.Cockatoos are considered one of the most vocal species of birds. Though their vocalizations are typically limited to morning and evening time, they are widely held to be the loudest birds one can own as a pet.Macaws also tend to be very loud, but their vocalizations are usually most prominent in the morning and evening, much like cockatoos.Conures are prone to loud, piercing calls, but typically are most vocal when making "contact" calls to owners, rather than being "chatty" throughout the day.
Cockatiels, budgerigars, lovebirds, and parrotlets are known to be vocal throughout the entire day. If you're interested in getting a bird that won't make too much noise, consider avoiding these birds.;
, Every time you react to a bird's incessant squawking, regardless of species, it reinforces in your bird's mind that his annoying behavior will help him attain the attention he desires. Bird owners reward squawking by showering a vocal bird with affection, or even by running into the room and yelling for him to stop. It will be hard at first, but over time, ignoring your bird's squawking will train him out of this attention-seeking behavior.Leave the room when your bird begins to act out.
Do not return to the room until he has stopped squawking or screaming.
Return once your bird has been silent for at least ten seconds.
Give him praise and reward him with a treat to show him that not making noise will earn him your affection.
 Praise your bird when he whistles or whispers, instead of squawking or yelling. This may be especially useful for parrots, as it will be easier to teach soft-spoken words rather than sounds.Do not raise your voice in response to your bird's volume or tone.
Speak softly whenever you address your bird, and whenever you're around him.
Praise your bird every time he lowers his voice to match yours.
 If your bird currently has a vocal range that is an acceptable volume, offer your bird food or toys as a reward whenever he uses that vocal range. Over time, he will come to associate that vocal range with whatever you choose to reward him with.Always praise good behavior immediately. If any time passes between his action and your reaction, he may not associate the two.
Any time your bird yells or speaks loudly, you should temporarily stop showing him affection and leave the room immediately.
Use a distinct "reward" treat. Find out what your bird really likes, and save those treats for training purposes. It may give your bird the extra motivation he needs to follow your lead.

