 Amino acids are chemical compounds that have important biological function in the tissues of all living organisms including humans and animals. They are usually present naturally as building blocks of special type of macromolecules that are called proteins.This type of macromolecules is abundant in nature and is found in many food products including meat products and other food sources. There are 20 known amino acids in the body that combined comprise the structure of all proteins in the body.;
, The body of humans is able to synthesize part of those amino acids as part of its complex metabolic function that include among many other functions the synthesis of certain type of these amino acids that for this reason are called nonessential amino acids. The other part of the 20 amino acids is not synthesized in the body due to the lack of special mechanisms for their synthesis such as the presence of appropriate enzymes for their proper synthesis.
 These amino acids are usually obtained as food that is rich in proteins product. This source of amino acids is not available to the body tissue on an immediate fashion and must first be digested in the intestine into its amino acids components that are then absorbed into the blood using special transport systems across the epithelial cells that cover the lining of the intestinal mucosa.
 Amino acids are usually metabolized in the body through several mechanisms that each leads to different product in the body. First, amino acids enter a translational process which occurs at the cellular ribosome and which is mediated by a genetic code from DNA bases that are located on DNA template that is specific for the genetic coding of that particular protein. This process is very organized and accurate and uses amino acids in the body that are both essential and nonessential in order to construct the primary structure of the protein.
 A wrong sequence of DNA bases can essentially produce a defective structure of the synthesized protein that has incorrect sequence of amino acids in its primary structure. This can usually occur in certain genetic diseases in specific tissue of the body. Also it can occur due to a mutational effect on the DNA structure as is manifested by certain types of cancer.
 Proteins can serve in the body different functions. One important function is as enzymes. This type of protein has specific sequence of its amino acids and specific tertiary structure that allows it to perform catalytic function of reactions in the body. Again, amino acids here play an important role since this catalytic ability of the enzyme is mainly due to few amino acids that are located in a small cleft or hall that is located within the structure of the enzyme. These amino acids work jointly to perform certain reaction that otherwise would not take place in an environment outside the hall of the enzyme.
 The other metabolic pathway that amino acids enter in the body and which is well studied and is well known in the chemical literature is the degradation of amino acids into various metabolic products that usually serve intermediates for the Krebs cycle in order to generate ATP molecules. This process involves in most amino acids the removal of the amino group from the basic structure of the amino acid. This process is called delamination and is typical for the metabolism of these important molecules in the body.


This process usually takes place in liver cells that are called hepatocytes. This is the typical site of amino acids metabolism as well as other important molecules such as fatty acids. This continuous process of consuming the amino acids by the delamination reaction can lead to the replenishment of the sources of this important molecule in the body. For this reason a continuous supply of these amino acids is mandatory for a proper and normal metabolism in the body. The amino group of delaminated amino acids is converted into urea by a specific biochemical process that is characteristic of the ammonia molecule.
 These serve as precursor intermediates for other important molecules in the body such as neurotransmitters and hormones. Examples include the synthesis of the thyroid hormone from the amino acid tyrosine. Also an important neurotransmitter in the nervous system and which is called dopamine is obtained metabolically from one type of amino acids by an enzymatically dependent biochemical process.


Two other important neurotransmitters which are mediators of the autonomic nervous system are synthesized from amino acids also by enzymatically catalyzed biochemical processes. These two neurotransmitters are epinephrine and norepinephrine and are mediators of the function of the autonomic nervous system. They have function that is related to the expression of stressful situation by inducing physiological symptoms such as increased heart rate and increased sweating and and many other symptoms that are characteristic of this stressful situation.
 In addition, individual amino acids can have by themselves important physiological function such as the simple molecule of glycine which despite its primitive chemical structure is an important neurotransmitter in the nervous system.


There are also atypical amino acids in the body and which usually are not incorporated into the primary structure of proteins. An example is the neurotransmitter GABA or gamma-amino-butyric –acid. This molecule has sedative effect on the nervous system by inhibiting electric transmission between neurons.

