 Olive oil is a great skin moisturizer. Pour about 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil into your palm. Add a teaspoon of sugar. With one finger, mix the sugar into the olive oil until it is a gritty mixture. Then rub your palms together, spreading the oil and sugar mixture to cover your skin.Inexpensive olive oil will be fine for this remedy.
Rub your hands together for several minutes, making sure all your skin is covered. After you've rubbed your hands well, gently rinse with water.;
, Start by mixing a tablespoon of glycerin and an equal amount of rosewater in a small glass jar. Add a squeeze of fresh lemon juice, or a few drops of bottled lemon juice. Stir well.Cup your palm and pour about teaspoon of the mixture into your palm.
Rub your hands together. Make sure the mixture covers the palm as well as the back of your hands. Work the mixture well between your fingers.
Dry your hands with a soft cloth or towel.
Apply twice a day. This mixture shouldn't be kept for more than a couple of days.
 Separate an Egg into egg yolk and whites. Put the egg yolk into a small bowl, and set the egg whites aside. Add 1 teaspoon of honey, 1/2 teaspoon of almond powder, and a few drops of rosewater to the egg yolk. Stir well.Rub well into your hands for 10 minutes or so, making sure to cover all your skin.
Allow mixture to sit for about 10 minutes more.
Gently rinse the mixture from your hands, and dry.
 Put 2 teaspoons of butter, and one teaspoon of almond oil into a small bowl. Blend well with a fork until smooth. Follow by rubbing cream well into your hands.Allow the mixture to be absorbed by leaving it on your hands for at least 20 minutes. Follow by rinsing gently in lukewarm water.
The vitamin E in the almond oil will help heal cracked skin and diminish wrinkles.
 Take a 1/2 slice of a lemon. Sprinkle a little sugar on the moist fruit. Squeeze the sugared lemon slice into your hand until the sugar seems completely gone. Repeat with your other hand.This simple remedy can be easily found if you're in a restaurant and want to soften your hands quickly.
The lemon slice also helps rid your hands of unpleasant odors, like garlic or fish.
 Put 1 tablespoon of coconut oil into a small bowl. Add 2 tablespoons honey and mix well. In a second bowl, mix 1/4 cup sea salt together with 1/4 cup sugar. Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice to the dry mixture until it has the consistency of slightly damp sand. Combine the salt mixture with the oil and honey mixture, and stir well.With your fingers, scoop a small amount into your hand.
Rub your hands together well, and spread the scrub across your palms and between your fingers.
Rinse with warm water, and gently dry with a towel.
Store excess scrub in a glass jar with an airtight lid.
Apply 1-2 times per week.

