;
, Include your name, the chart's purpose, and the year.


Want to change the font or font size? Look at the Styling the Table section (below).
 Don't forget the date, description, from/to, earnings, and costs.


The date column should be the column farthest to the left.
You may need to adjust the columns' widths as you add information. Find the letter (A, B, etc.) for the column you want to widen or shrink. Select that letter's box and drag the edge the desired direction.
To sub-divide a column (like the earnings or costs one) you'll need to add another header row. Click on any cell, go to the Table tab on the right, find the header options drop-down, and add another header row. Add a column directly before or after one of the sub-divided columns. Select the new header column cell and the one with the text and merge them.
 This lets you enter a date however you like (for example, either April 17, 2014 or 4/17/14) and then re-formats the date to the specified format.


Select all the date cells.
Go to the Cell tab and select Date & Time for the data format.
Set the date and time formats according to your preference.



Select all the cells for money data.
Go to the Cell tab.
Select the Currency setting. Change the settings to your currency type or preferences.
 Selecting the cells, then choose Table > Delete Columns.
 Click on any cell, go to the Table tab on the right, and find the footer options drop-down.
 Select the top footer cell of the earnings, then hit the Function > Sum button. Do the same for the costs cell.
 Read Calculate the Difference Between Two Cells in Numbers to learn how.
 Numbers usually autosaves, but it's always better to have your work saved. Use a descriptive file name, preferably including the same information as the chart's title.


Is a cell too short for all the information you want to add? Adding a note on a cell is easy, just select the cell and then click the Comment button near the top of the app.
 Select the cell(s), go to the Cell tab, then enlarge or shrink the font size.
 Every typeface has a personality and can clarify your text while also making the table beautiful and attractive.


Select the cell(s), go to the Cell tab, and choose your new font family.
 You may want to keep it neutral, but you can be wild if you keep the text readable.


Select the cell.
Go to the Cell tab.
Click on the color palette and choose a color.



Select the text.
Go to the Text tab.
Click on the color palette and choose a color.

