 You may read to them, or they may want to read to you. Choose books that are appropriate for their reading level.


See if there are any books about your favorite movie characters. For example, if your brother loves Frozen, try finding picture books about Princess Anna and Queen Elsa.
Try picking books that teach life lessons, such as The Berenstain Bears. Many children's books teach stories that range from handling bullies to understanding diversity.
 Every kid needs to learn social skills, and siblings are one of their teachers. Teach them about good manners, and use them yourself. When they see you doing something, eventually they'll pick it up from you.


Practice asking questions about others. "I had a good day. Would you like to tell me about yours?"
Model how to deal with feelings. "I'm feeling frustrated, so I want to go to my room to be alone. Please let me be."

, This works best if you are using dolls, or some other sort of social interaction toy. Have the dolls model good and bad choices. For example, when it's bedtime, have the child dolls pick up their toys before putting on their pajamas. Then have the parent doll(s) praise them for putting away their toys. Your sibling will think that maybe they should do the same thing.
 Many kids' shows will teach social lessons, but you can enhance this power by asking questions and making comments. Here are some examples of ways to encourage social skills development:


"How do you think he felt about that?"
"Is that a good idea? No, it's not? What is a good idea for her to do?"
"Wow, he's not being a very good listener to her, is he? She's trying to tell him something important, and he won't listen!"

, Assume that they didn't know that their actions were inappropriate, or that they didn't understand what to do. Listen to find out why they did it, explain why it was a bad choice, and help them find a better choice.


For example "No, you can't walk around in your underwear when we have guests over. It's not polite. I understand you're hot, so we can turn up the air conditioning and I'll get you some ice water. Does that sound good?"
If you don't think you can explain it well, that's okay. Ask an adult to explain.
 Many disabled children get ostracized or bullied. Practicing unconditional love will help them view themselves the same way.



Compliment them. "You're so sweet!" or "I'm proud of you for being such a hard worker!"

Celebrate their good traits. Maybe your autistic sister can't talk, but she can write computer code. Complimenting her coding skills will help balance out all the negative attention on her being nonverbal.

Don't let disability become a bad word. Treat disability like a natural part of the human experience, just like your peanut allergy or love of punk rock.

Love yourself. Tell yourself that you're awesome until you believe it. Your sibling will copy you.
 Remember, you're the child's sibling, not their teacher—and spending your free time on teaching will be exhausting to both you and your sibling. Teach them as you go, but keep it light, and let the parents/caregivers deal with the heavy stuff. Let your relationship be based on fun, and let the life lessons be extra.
 Children with disabilities are all unique individuals who have something special to give to the world. Listen to your sibling and learn to see things from their perspective. They may just change your life.