 Access is available as part of Microsoft Office for Windows. The application is available in various iterations, including Office 365, which you can "rent" for less than $10 a month, by purchasing Microsoft Office for Windows on disc at a retail store or online, or by buying Access as a separate application from Microsoft online. Access is not available on any other operating system other than Windows.


All of the latest information on Office is available at Office.com. If you want the Windows version of Office on Mac, get a compatible copy of Windows and run it alongside OS X with Mac's Boot Camp software.;
, You can use cloud storage such as Microsoft OneDrive or DropBox so that your files are available from anywhere that you can access the Internet, store your files locally on your computer or other network, or save copies in multiple places to be really secure.
 Unless you have the CD you will have to download and execute (double click the file) a Setup file and then install over the Internet. You can choose which applications to install -- Office includes Access in the main suite unless you deselect it deliberately. Your computer may restart one or more times during the process.
 To find the program, click the "Access" icon in your All Apps list on the Start menu. The app appears giving you choices of what type of project you want. With a blank database you can keep reports of people you owe money to -- or people who owe money to you -- or for lists of invoices, large databases of postal or e-mail addresses, or other large amounts of data.


Access is a much more powerful tool for these chores than is Microsoft Excel. Access can work easily with Excel by importing data from (and exporting data to) that application via buttons on Access' External Data tab.
To make it easier to start the program in the future you can right-click the icon and choose "Pin to Taskbar" to pin the icon to your taskbar.
 You can play around with the other options when you get more experience with the basics. The program starts with a new file named "Database1" by default and a brand-new table in front of you called "Table1."


Databases store data in raw format in tables that tell Access where to allocate space on a hard drive for the data you put into each table cell.
You can also use the "Tab" key to get to the next field or use your arrow keys.
 A menu appears; from this menu you choose a data type for the field; options include "Short Text” for short text boxes, such as for names or postal addresses, "Number,” “Currency,” “Date and Time,” or one of the other choices.
 Note that the first field of the table fills in with ID numbers automatically as you add items in the rows and column(s) at right, hence its name "ID" -- you can change this behavior as you gain experience using the software.
 Specifically, create new columns, add data to rows, and rename columns as you need.
 To do so, click the “File” tab and then click “Save As.” Leave the choices as they are by default and click “Save As” again. Click "Yes" when Access asks if it can close all objects to save. The file is saved.


If you ever choose to move your database to the cloud or another device, Access can help you format your data for the new platform. Just click "File" and then "Save As" and you’ll see the formats available in the window pane at right.

