 Unless you’re normally an exceptional student, it’s unrealistic to have a report card that’s all As. To make your mock-up more believable, only change one or two of the worst grades, rather than every single one. A wider range of grades will attract less attention.


Consider leaving one or two average grades in place. This will make it appear that nothing is amiss.
Write down your real grades on a separate sheet of paper so you can enter a few of them back in later. This will make the end result more convincing.
 Carefully brush over the all the existing grade letters until they’re completely hidden. Take your time and get it right. Be sure not to accidentally erase any other portion of the report card, like part of a bracket or border. Do this for every grade on the report card.Brush on the correction fluid in smooth, even strokes. Thick, uneven or oddly shaped blobs can show up in the photocopy if you’re not careful.
This method will only work if the original report card is printed on white paper. If the paper is colored, the smear from the correction fluid will be too obvious.
 Once the correction fluid is dry, run the report card through a photocopy machine. The printed copy will blur the appearance of the correction fluid, causing it to blend in with the white of the page. You’ll then have a column of perfect blank spots to enter your new and improved grades.Smooth out the original report card to eliminate any creases that may show up in the photocopies.
Run off multiple copies in case you make a mistake while filling one out.
 Go down the columns, plugging in the original grades where you want to keep them and entering new grades in places where you want to change them. You can use this technique whether the original grades were typed or handwritten. As long as you blank out and rewrite all of the grades, no one but your teacher will ever know the difference.


Try to disguise your handwriting so that it isn’t obvious that you filled in the report card yourself, or have a friend draw the new grades for you.Use the same color ink that your teacher ordinarily uses.
If it's apparent that the grades are supposed to be typed, make a second copy of the original report card. Use this copy to cut and paste the good grade letters from the original onto the duplicate, then photocopy the duplicate one last time to make the corrections seamless.

