 If you are new to yoga or not especially flexible, prepare yourself to perform plank pose by starting on all fours. Make sure that you will be comfortable by using a yoga mat. You may also place a folded up blanket under your knees if you need some extra padding for your knees.


Make sure your hands are directly beneath your shoulders and your knees directly beneath your hips.The tops of your feet can either be flat on the floor or you can curl your toes if you choose.Inhale and exhale evenly through your nose. If you can, make a slight sound like the sea when you breathe. This is called ujayyi breathing and can help you flow through your routine more effectively.;
, To do child’s pose, or balasana, remain on your hands and knees and move your bottom back towards your feet. Allow your thighs to spread out to the same width as your shoulders as you do this and sink your chest towards the mat. Your hand should stay out in front of you with your palms on the yoga mat.








Stretch your arms and head forward and breathe through this pose.
You can rest your forehead on the mat as well.
Allow your shoulder to relax and release as you sink deeper into the stretch.
Hold this pose for about five breaths or for as long as you like.
 When you are ready, push your body up from child's pose and back onto your hands and knees. Then, move into a plank pose, or kumbhakasana.Position your shoulders over your hands and straighten your legs as you rise up onto the balls of your feet. When you are in position, you should look like you are preparing to do a push up.








Make sure to keep your abs engaged and spine long. Don’t pop your bum up.Your feet should be hip width apart and flexed with your heels pushing backwards for extra stability.Keep your elbows close to your ribs, and pull your shoulders down and away from your head to keep them from collapsing, which will lengthen your neck., You can stay up on the palms of your hands if you want, or you can drop down onto your forearms to make the plank a little more challenging. This variation is called the dolphin plank pose.








Make sure to keep your spine straight and your bottom down, as with the regular plank pose. Direct your face and eyes towards the floor as you hold the pose.
Breathe for three to five breaths as you hold this pose.
When you are finished holding your dolphin plank, get back onto your hands and knees so that you can move into child's pose. You can either drop down onto your stomach and then rise up onto your hands and knees, or you can move back up into a plank on your palms and then get onto your hands and knees.
 After you’ve stayed in plank for three to five breaths, exhale, get onto your hands and knees, and then hinge back to child’s pose. Give your body a chance to rest in child’s pose for a few breaths before you proceed with any further poses.








Inhale and exhale steadily for as many breaths as you like.
You can do another plank after you finish with child's pose, or finish your practice here.
 Once you've mastered the full plank, you can challenge yourself with more difficult variations.Don't progress to these until you are strong enough to keep your body straight and stable throughout the entire movement.









Do a single leg plank by slowly lifting one foot at a time off the ground. Then, lower that leg after a few breaths and repeat on the other side.
Do a single arm plank by slowly reaching one arm out in front of you. After a few breaths, lower that arm and repeat with the other arm. Make sure your hips remain stable and don’t rock from side to side.
 After you’ve done a few rounds of plank pose, finish your practice. From the plank pose, gently lower your knees to the floor. Then, transition into child’s pose again and breathe. Take three to five breaths in child’s pose to complete your routine.









If you want some extra rest, stay in child’s pose for longer.

