 Make note of the information provided in the notice as well as the date the notice was sent. You have 30 days from that date to dispute the validity of the debt.


By law, the notice must include the name of the original creditor, the amount you owe, and how you can dispute the validity of the debt.If your first contact with the debt collector was over the phone, it is required by law to send you this information in writing within five days of that conversation.If you dispute the validity of the debt within 30 days of receiving this information, the debt collector cannot contact you until it has provided you with proof of the debt.Even if the 30 days have already passed, you can still dispute the validity of the debt. However, the debt collection agency is under no legal obligation to stop contacting you because of your dispute.;
, Before you dispute the validity of a debt, check your own records to see if you can find information about the account.


You might also want to request a copy of your credit report. Your credit report may have information about the original debt or when it was sold to a collection agency.
For example, a debt collector may contact you regarding a debt you've already paid. While there's no requirement for you to do so, you may want to provide the collection agency with copies of statements from the original creditor or cancelled checks proving the debt was paid. If you don't have records that prove the debt was paid, you should be able to get this documentation from the original creditor. In the meantime, you can dispute the validity of the debt with the collection agency., Each state has its own deadline for collection of credit card debt. Once that deadline has passed, you aren't legally required to pay the debt.


The statute of limitations starts running from the date of your last payment or acknowledgement of the debt. For this reason, it's important not to include any statements acknowledging that you owe the money in your letter disputing the debt's validity.Typically the statute of limitations will expire between three and five years from the date of your last payment, but in some states it may be as long as ten years.You can easily find the statute of limitations in your state by searching "statute of limitations for debt" on the internet with your state's name.
If you have reason to believe the statute of limitations has expired, you can request the debt collection agency provide you with proof that it hasn't.
Keep in mind that disputing the validity of a debt does not mean you are refusing to pay. Rather, the collection agency must provide proof that you are legally obligated to pay the money to it. If the collection agency cannot provide this information, you are under no legal obligation to pay them.If the statute of limitations on the debt has expired, the collection agency has no right to use court processes in an attempt to collect the money from you., Many consumer protection agencies have letters available that meet the federal requirements for disputing the validity of a debt.


For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has a number of sample letters available at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/askcfpb/1695/ive-been-contacted-debt-collector-how-do-i-reply.html. Each of these letters applies to a specific situation, such as a request for further information about the debt or a demand that the collection agency stop contacting you.You also can find sample letters written by attorneys and consumer advocates which may go into more detail or indicate that if you don't receive a response you intend to consult an attorney or file a lawsuit.Be careful when using these sorts of letters and avoid sending the collection agency what amounts to an idle threat. If you have no intention of getting a lawyer or filing a lawsuit, don't tell the collection agency you do.
 The word processing application you use probably has templates you can use to create a business letter.


Make sure you date your letter, and include your name and address as well as the name and address of the collection agency.
In the subject line of your letter, list any account or reference number that was included on your notice., You should use specific wording as prescribed in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act so there is no confusion regarding your request.


Begin your letter by referencing the notice you received and the date of that notice. This makes it clear that you are responding before the end of the 30-day period and are entitled to certain rights under federal law.Indicate that you are sending notice that you dispute the collection agency's claim to money from you pursuant to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and request validation of the debt., The collection agency must provide specific evidence that you owe the money and it is entitled to payment from you.


You may list specific information you expect the collection agency to provide you, including the name of the original creditor, how the amount due was calculated, copies of any credit card agreements or contracts signed by you, and contracts showing the sale of the debt from the original creditor to this collection agency.Because collection agencies must be licensed, you also can request information from the agency such as license numbers that indicate the collection agency is legally allowed to operate., Once you've sent a written letter disputing the validity of a debt, federal law prohibits the collection agency from continuing collection efforts until the requested information has been sent.Contact to collect the debt includes computer-generated calls or any communication from third-party firms attempting to collect the debt on the collection agency's behalf., After you've thoroughly edited and proofread your letter, print it up and sign it.


Make copies of your letter before you mail it so you have proof that you sent a written letter disputing the validity of the debt., You must send your letter within 30 days of the date on the notice you received to take advantage of the protections afforded to you by federal law.


The notice should disclose the correct address to which you should send your letter disputing the validity of the debt.
You might want to use certified mail or a private delivery service that will provide proof that your letter was received., The FDCPA guarantees you certain rights when dealing with collection agencies.


Once you've disputed the validity of the debt, the collection agency also is required to update its report to any credit bureau and indicate that the debt is disputed.After you have proof that the collection agency has received your dispute, you may want to monitor your credit report to confirm the information has been updated as required by law.
 If the collection agency contacts you in a manner that violates your rights under federal law, you can report the activity to the federal government's Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.


For example, if you are receiving harassing phone calls from the collection agency after you've told them not to contact you, write down the phone number that called you along with the date and time of each call.
If you have any phone conversations with a collection agency representative, write down the date and time of the call as well as the name of the person with whom you spoke. If you make any agreements or request any information from the representative during the call, make sure the agency sends you confirmation in writing., You can find out additional information about consumer rights under federal law and submit a debt collection complaint at consumerfinance.gov.


The CFPB was created to protect consumers and provide information about financial markets and consumer credit. The agency enforces federal laws and implements regulations as well as taking complaints from consumers who've experienced unfair or deceptive behavior from financial institutions or debt collectors.The website also contains a number of articles, reports, and videos designed to educate consumers on financial matters including banking and loan regulations and consumer rights., After you've clicked the link to submit a complaint, you will reach a form with space to provide details about the activity you want to report.The first page of the form asks you what type of debt is involved, and allows you to choose a brief description of your issue from a drop-down menu. Then you have an open space to write what happened in your own words.
You also can choose to allow CFPB to publish your complaint. You should avoid including any personal or sensitive information in your description of what happened, regardless of whether you allow CFPB to publish it.You also have space to tell the CFPB the resolution you desire as a result of the complaint. The CFPB will forward this information to the company when it investigates your complaint, but it doesn't guarantee that the actual result will match what you requested.The second page of the form asks for the name and contact information of the company or collection agency about which you're filing the complaint, and the third page of the form asks for your name and your personal contact information.
 After you've entered all your information, you have the opportunity to review it and print a copy for your records before you submit it.


Double-check any dates or figures to make sure they're accurate, and confirm that you haven't left out any details.
Once you've submitted your complaint, the CFPB will provide you with a tracking number and keep you updated on the status of its investigation.