 Everyone knows exercise is good for your body, but it’s also good for your skin. Working out tones and firms your muscles, which helps the skin look better. On top of that, exercise aids in circulation which feeds skin cells with oxygen and nutrients, it dilates the skin, and reduces inflammation.There are multiple ways exercise makes you look refreshed.


Clean your skin before you work out to help keep your pores unclogged.
Keep your skin cooler and cleaner by wearing moisture-wicking clothing to get the perspiration away from your skin. This also helps prevent acne.Exercise in a cool environment that helps keep your body temperature down. This can help prevent flare-ups of some skin conditions.Apply a skin moisturizer. Using skin moisturizer before exercise helps repel sweat, and applying afterwards – especially after swimming – helps fight dry, cracked skin and unhealthy appearance.Exercise reduces stress and anxiety. Feel happy about your condition, your confidence, and your fitness. Even just 15 minutes of exercise can reduce anxiety levels., Studies have shown that alternating hot and cold treatment, even including a sauna, has great benefits. Blood flow is increased, the metabolism speeds up, depression is minimized, and the body is stimulated. After you're cleaned up, alternate between the coldest temperature you can tolerate, then the hottest, and finish with the coldest again., Smoking has been related through studies to a variety of skin aging issues as well as skin conditions like psoriasis. The heat from the cigarette directly affects the skin, and the elasticity is worsened because the blood vessels are constricted. On top of that, levels of vitamin A are reduced., Eat meals healthy for your body, those high in fiber with minimal fats, especially saturated fat. These diets boost energy and mood, while poorer diets make you drowsy and miserable.Choose foods with folic acid and Vitamin B12, like leafy green vegetables and beans, to reduce symptoms of depression. Eat plenty of fruits. Some studies have linked eating fruit to better physical health, and better feelings about personal health.Eat fish often. Multiple studies have linked eating plenty of seafood to lower levels of depression. Try to fit fish with high levels of omega-3 fatty acids into your daily diet., Drink about 3 liters (0.8 US gal) of water per day. Drinking plenty of water has been shown to increase blood flow and elasticity of the skin, making it appear thicker, moister, and healthier.