 If you’re prone to tearing up all the time, do some preemptive damage control by telling your boss, coworkers, and friends. Emphasize that it’s not a big deal, and tell them about the best way to react if it happens.For example, you could say, “I tend to cry easily, so don’t worry if I get upset – that’s normal for me. I try to keep it under control, but if it happens, I just need a few minutes to calm down.”

, After you’ve calmed down, ask the person who yelled at you if they can talk to you privately. Address the problem and apologize if you did something wrong. Then tell them how their yelling made you feel, and politely ask them to talk to you more calmly in the future.Say something like, “I get pretty flustered when people shout at me, so it was hard for me to come up with a good solution to our problem earlier. Next time we run into an issue like this, can we talk about it when we’re both calm?”

, Ask yourself what you feel when someone yells at you. If you can identify where your tears are coming from, you might be able to figure out some alternate coping strategies.For instance, if you get overwhelmed by sheer adrenaline, you could squeeze a stress ball to release tension instead.
If being yelled at makes you feel small and inferior, you could try remembering that the other person is a human who makes mistakes too, and they might not even be in the right for yelling at you.
 Think about what you can do or say next time someone gets angry at you. Visualize yourself staying calm and collected as you use your new strategies.For example, if your boss tends to yell a lot, imagine saying something like, “I’m sorry you’re not happy with this, and I’ll work on finding a solution. In the meantime, though, I find it hard to focus on what you’re saying when you yell. Can we discuss this more calmly later?”

, If you are faced with chronic stress, you may be more likely to cry in tense situations. Getting your stress under control could stop this from happening as much. Think about some relaxing activities you can do on most days to keep stress at bay.For example, some healthy ways to deal with stress may include doing yoga, meditating, calling a friend, going for a walk outdoors, or listening to soothing music. Try these activities when you're feeling stressed or overwhelmed.
 If your crying is affecting your relationships or getting in the way of your work or school performance, it’s worth seeing a mental health professional to find out what’s going on. A counselor or therapist can help you discover why you cry so much and find ways to stop.