 Start a relationship from there. Hang out every now and then with him/her and a few other friends. Get to the point that you can openly talk to them about anything.;
, Do they like you for you and make sure you like them the way they are.
 Give them space to live their life. Don't stalk them but talk to them. Be casual and let whatever happen.
 You shouldn't go any further than a peck on the lips, unless you're okay with it. If you aren't comfortable with anything though, tell him/her.
 Go on a date at the mall, movies, etc. with other friends.
 Don't act rude to their friends they can make them easily break up with you be as nice as can be but don't creep them out.
 Just because you have them does not mean you can't lose them. This does not mean dress like a model every day. An Aeropostale/Polo shirt and jean/khaki shorts look great on guys, and those tank-top/jacket outfits with a pair of jeans look cute on girls.
 Just know later in life you will be more desirable if you haven't given it up.
 If they are cheating break up, and just be friends. Do not go back!

, Every now and then it is good to keep updated with your crush/boyfriend/girlfriend.
 Hug, hold hands, and maybe even a little peck on the cheek or lips on special occasions, but nothing further than a kiss.
 Brush and floss your teeth and use mouthwash for fresher breath. Take showers daily and wash your face every day. Washing your face can help prevent pimples. Also use deodorants. No boyfriend /girlfriend wants a smelly partner.
 No one wants to date a fake, then find out that those weren't your true colors.
 Maybe you two love to play soccer. Or maybe you two are both choir nerds. You don't have to be a cheerleader-quarterback couple.
 There will be haters, rumor spreaders, and those immature preps asking "Hey! Did you guys make out yet?" Don't let them take the fun out of the relationship!

, You two are still really young, so relationships should be really light-hearted and fun.
 This will let them know you, and chances are they'll like you.

