 Your cat head will certainly need pointy ears off to the sides. Also, a larger head shape might suit your purposes best. This way, you'll have more space to accommodate other features, like whiskers, a kitty-cat nose, and perhaps a w-shaped mouth. Draw two outlines with your washable fabric marker on the side opposite the pattern on separate pieces of fabric. One of these will be the front of your doll, the other for the back.


You might want to make your kitty-cat head adorably large. A 5 inch (12.7 cm) wide, 3 inch (7.62 cm) tall oval would be perfect for this!
To make sewing easier, draw an outline of your desired doll size, measuring a 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance around your outline.
You can may want to draw ears on spare fabric and attach each separately. Each ear should have two pieces of fabric.
 Use your scissors to free the outlines from your length of fabric. Do so by following the outermost line, as the inner line is intended to be a guide for sewing your seam. Try to make your cuts around the ears especially clean - you probably don't want your kitty's ears to look ragged!At this point, you should also cut out any additional accents you've drawn on spare fabric. Each accent should be made of two pieces of fabric.
It may be easiest to cut two identical front/back pieces by folding your fabric in half, drawing your design in washable fabric marker, and then cutting both halves at the same time.
 Use pins to hold your outline together so that the seam lines face outward on the front and back pieces of fabric. This will make sewing easier for you, as you can follow your seam guideline. Once both halves of the body outline are in place, you should sew along your seam guideline to stitch both halves together, leaving a 2 to 3 inch (5 - 7.6 cm) gap for stuffing.Pin your accents together in a similar fashion and sew both halves together. Leave a small gap in your stitching, stuff the accents piece (like ears) with filling, and finish the seam so no filling can escape.
 Carefully remove your pins from the fabric and place them in a safe receptacle, like a pincushion. Then feed your fabric through the gap you've left in the stitching so your guidelines and seam are on the inside of your doll.
 Simple accents include black button eyes, yarn whiskers, or embroidered eyelashes. You can even sew cute pink circles on the cheeks to give your kitty-cat a blush! If you've decided to make cat ears from a spare piece of fabric:


Mark ear placement lines with a washable fabric marker (optional).
Sew the base of your cat ears to the top of your cat head.
 Gently push your filling through the gap in the fabric until the shape begins to fill out. You can stuff it to the gills to give the finished doll a plusher appeal, or you might consider going light on stuffing so the doll isn't so stiff and can move during playtime.
 Stitch the final gap of your stuffed cat head closed. You can reinforce the stitch by tucking one side of the fabric in along the seam, including it in your stitch.Also, if you notice any features you've forgotten, you can make additions with a washer safe fabric marker. Dots on the cheeks are a quick fix for forgotten whiskers.
 You can take artistic liberties and make the design your own, but an effective stuffed cat doll can be made with a square or rectangular body. A 5-inch by 8-inch (12.7 by 20.3 cm) rectangle would work well for the body, and simple, rounded arms can be drawn whichever size you please.


Each part of the body should be drawn onto your fabric twice. Your body and limbs will need backs for each front - the two sides will require two pieces of same-sized fabric.
It may be easiest to cut two identical front/back pieces by folding your fabric in half, drawing your design in washable fabric marker, and then cutting both halves at the same time.
To make sewing easier, draw an outline of your desired doll size, measuring a 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance around your outline.
 Take your scissors and clip free the body and limbs of your stuffed kitty-cat from the fabric. Follow your outer guideline the entire way around to free your outline from the fabric completely. By rounding the limbs of your kitty-cat, not only will it appear cute, but these regular shapes will be easier to sew., When sewing these pieces together, you'll want the seam guideline to be facing out on both front and back. Then you can pin these front and back pieces into place to make them more manageable. From there you should sew along your seam guideline and stitch both pieces together.Be sure you leave a sufficient gap, 2 to 3 inch (5 - 7.6 cm) should work well, for stuffing.
 Use care when taking your pins from the fabric so that you don't prick yourself, and be sure you put your pins in a safe container to prevent spills. The seam guidelines and the seam itself should be on the outside, you'll need to feed the fabric through the gap you left in the stitching.
 Push your filling gently through the gap in your stitching until each part is acceptably full to your preferences. Looser limbs can give your finished animal more flexibility, while a gill-stuffed doll will be more soft and plush.
 The final stitch is the one most likely to come undone, so you may want to close seams off by tucking one side of the fabric inward and sewing it along with your stitching.A ladder stitch can give a polished, professional look to the ending seam of your stuffed animal., You may want to mark the position of your limbs with your washable fabric marker before you get stitching. Then sew the body end of each limb to the body. Once the body is complete, sew the body and head together.
 Buttons on homemade stuffed toys are a cute embellishment. Your doll might look good with some flower buttons on the torso below the head. A cute and cheap skirt can be made by sewing a band of lace in a circle around your cat's "hips."

, Before you do, though, you may want to clip any loose threads or imprecise edges with your scissors. You can make clothes for your stuffed cat, draw a snazzy outfit on it with a washer safe marker, or even pin a ribbon atop its cute kitten head.

