 It’s rarely advisable to leave large amounts of food out for your dog to eat throughout the day, but naturally derived foods have the added concern that the meal will rot. Typically, adult dogs need to be given food weighing two to three percent of the ideal weight for their breed split between two feedings a day.If you have an active dog, you may want to feed them more or higher calorie food, and for your “couch potato” pup, less is more., Most dogs need about the same amount of key nutrients. However, certain breeds need higher or lower levels of nutrients than others. For instance, large dogs are prone to joint and muscle issues, so low calorie foods to keep them at a healthy weight are essential. Additionally, foods that include inflammation reducing, joint health supporting supplements like glucosamine and chondroitin may be a good option.


Ask your veterinarian if there are any breed-specific nutritional requirements you should know about.
Find information online about your dog’s breed, and use that to make a more informed dog food purchase or to make a well-rounded meal at home., If your dog has just been weaned, you’ll need to feed them specially formulated puppy foods and feed them much more frequently than adult dogs. For senior dogs, those who are age seven and up, the converse is true. They will need far fewer calories, and may only eat once a day. Pregnant or nursing dogs will need to eat higher calorie foods, and may need to eat more frequently. Typical adult dogs should be fed a low calorie, high protein diet twice a day.


Puppies need to take in food equivalent to two to three percent of their ideal adult weight, and they need to be fed four to six times a day in the first six months.
From six months to a year, continue to feed them the same quantity of food and gradually reduce feeding times to twice a day.
By one year, your puppy should be ready for adult food and feeding guidelines. Continue to offer them the same quantity of food (two to three percent of ideal body weight) over two feedings.
From age and seven and up, reduce the calorie content of your dog’s food and consider adding more supplements that support immune function and joint health include prebiotics and glucosamine., While most foods that are fit for humans to eat can be digested by dogs, there are some that will make your pup sick. These foods include raisins, grapes, onions, garlic, chocolate, macadamia nuts, coffee, and tea. Talk to your veterinarian about other foods that may be harmful, and make sure you exclude these from your pup’s diet.