 In order to help you keep track of the triggers that cause your digestive problems, keep a detailed diary that includes what you ate each day, what medications you took, what activities you participated in, and what significant events occurred. Keep track of any digestive issues you experience each day as well. Once you do this for a while, you may start to notice patterns.Common foods that trigger digestive problems include dairy, coffee, and carbonated beverages.
Fruit juices can be a common trigger as well. Foods with high amounts of simple sugars are osmotically active and pull water into the bowel, causing diarrhea. This is especially seen in children.
 In order to avoid introducing unhealthy bacteria into your digestive system, make sure to always thoroughly wash your hands with warm water and soap after you use the bathroom and before you eat., You can prevent food poisoning by thoroughly cooking meat and eggs, washing produce, storing all foods at the proper temperature, checking expiration dates, and avoiding unpasteurized dairy products and cider., Stress can trigger digestive issues for many people, so try to combat it by pursuing relaxing hobbies.Yoga and meditation are relaxing for many people, but if these don’t appeal to you, you can choose any hobby that helps you feel relaxed.
 Getting your body moving can help stimulate digestion. Try taking a short walk after you eat.Exercise is also important to help you maintain a healthy weight, which is important for optimal digestive health.Aerobic exercises like running and dancing are great for relieving constipation.Certain yoga poses, especially twists and forward bends, which massage the digestive organs, can help improve digestion.Give yourself some time to digest before engaging in any strenuous exercises, or you might experience symptoms like bloating and cramping., In addition to the many other known health risks, smoking can cause or aggravate a variety of digestive issues, including heartburn, GERD, Crohn’s disease, pancreatitis, gallstones, colon polyps, and peptic ulcers. Smoking also increases the risk of many different cancers of the digestive system, like colon and liver cancers.You may experience immediate relief from some of your digestive ailments when you quit smoking. Your risk of developing chronic digestive conditions will also decrease over time after you quit.
 If your digestive problems are severe or if they don’t improve at all with diet and lifestyle changes, you may have a medical condition that requires treatment, so see your doctor. You should make an appointment right away if you have any of the following symptoms:


Persistent diarrhea
Persistent or severe abdominal pain
Bloody stools
Changes in the color or frequency of stools
Unintended weight loss
Chest pain

