 If so, wait. The infant may expel the foreign object he or she is choking on. Do not try to dislodge anything from the baby's throat at this point as the attempt may just push the item down further. Proceed with steps to treating a choking infant only when it is guaranteed the infant is choking. This will be evident from the child not being able to breathe or cough. In some instances, the infant may start to turn blue.;
,, Begin by sitting down. Lay the baby on his or her back along the length of your forearm. Make a baby sandwich by placing your other arm over the baby's front. Hold the jaw between your thumb and fingers. This is a very important step as it stabilizes the baby's head as you continue to carry out the baby Heimlich process. Flip the infant, in your arms, so he or she is now facing downward and resting on the forearm of the arm that was originally on top. Rest the arm with the baby in it on your leg. To proceed, the baby's head should not be higher that his or her chest.
 Use the base of your palm to apply 5 blows to the infant's back, right at the area between the shoulder blades. You should do this with a decent amount of force.
 Turn the baby back over, so his or her head is facing upward again. Use the sandwich method described above. Make sure that your bottom hand is supporting the baby's head. Rest your arm and the baby on your leg again, keeping his or her head lower than the chest.
 Draw an imaginary line connecting the baby's nipples. Place the tip of your ring finger on the center of the chest, just below where this line crosses. Lay the padded tips of your pointer and middle fingers down on the breastbone and lift your ring finger up. If you can feel the gap at the base of the breastbone, slide your fingers up a little. Give 5 firm compressions on the chest. The right amount of pressure causes the breastbone to give about 1/2 - 1 inch and then retaliate between compressions.
 If the child becomes unconscious, proceed with steps on caring for a choking infant that is unconscious.

