 Drink approximately four 8-oz (250-ml) glasses of apple juice or apple cider each day for a period of five days.For best results, drink the apple juice at room temperature or slightly warmed.
Alternatively, you could eat four to five apples each day for five days if you would prefer to do so instead of drinking apple juice.
Apples contain limonoids and malic acid, which both help soften gallstones and alleviate related gallbladder pain.
Note that there are no other dietary restrictions you need to follow for these first five days, but you should try to maintain a balanced diet.;
, Try to have your last meal around 4:00 PM on the sixth day. Wait one to two hours before taking the next treatment.There are no dietary restrictions for the earlier part of the day, and you do not need to drink any apple juice or cider early on.
 At approximately 6:00 PM, dissolve 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of Epsom salt in 8 oz (250 ml) of warm water. Stir well and drink the mixture quickly. Repeat once more at 8:00 PM.


If you are unable to tolerate a full 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of Epsom salt, you should at least use 1 tsp (5 ml). Dissolving the salt in warm apple juice instead of water can also make it more tolerable for some, and the additional apple juice can continue softening the gallstone.
Epsom salts contain magnesium sulphate, which can help open the ducts of the gallbladder enough to release the developing stones.
 At approximately 10:00 PM, mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) of olive oil with 1/2 cup (125 ml) of lemon juice. Drink the mixture quickly.


If you find it difficult to stomach this combination, you can cut it down to 1/4 cup (60 ml) each of olive oil and lemon juice.
Note that sesame oil can be used instead of olive oil. Either one should help lubricate the softened gallstone.
The acidic lemon juice helps soften and dissolve the gallstones further, making them easier to pass.
 Go to sleep like usual on the evening of the sixth day. When you wake up the following morning, the gallstones should pass during your first bathroom trip.


The gallstones should come out as small greenish balls. Some might be as small as a grain of sand, while others can be as large as peas. Depending on the circumstances, you may pass several dozen.
If you don't pass the gallstones, you either don't have any to pass or have gallstones that are too large to respond to home remedies.
 Mix 1/2 cup (125 ml) natural pear juice with 1/2 cup (125 ml) hot water. Add 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of honey, if desired, and drink it all before the beverage cools.You can prepare and drink this mixture up to three times each day. Take it alone or in conjunction with other gallstone home remedies.
The pectin in pears binds to the cholesterol in cholesterol-based gallstones, making it easier for your body to flush the gallstones out. This treatment may not be effective against bile-based stones, though.
 Squeeze the juice out of one beetroot, one cucumber, and four medium carrots. Combine all three juices and consume the resulting mixture.


Drink 8 oz (250 ml) of this juice combination twice daily to achieve the desired results. Store excess juice in your refrigerator.
Beetroot is believed to cleanse your gallbladder, liver, colon, and blood.
Cucumbers have a high water content, and this can help detoxify your system by increasing the flow of fluid through your blood, gallbladder, and liver.
Carrots are high in vitamin C and other nutrients, all of which can help strengthen your both gallbladder and immune system.
 Steep 1 tsp (5 ml) of milk thistle leaves and seeds in 1 cup (250 ml) hot water for five minutes. Strain the leaves, then drink the tea before it cools.


You can also use bags of prepared milk thistle tea instead of using loose leaves and seeds. Add honey to the prepared tea, as well, if you prefer the taste of tea with honey.
Milk thistle is used to help shrink gallstones, detoxify the liver, and reduce bladder pain.
In addition to milk thistle tea, you can also add milk thistle to your diet by mixing powdered seeds into juice, salads, soups, or other foods.
 Steep 1 tsp (5 ml) of dried dandelion leaves in 1 cup (250 ml) of hot water for five minutes. Strain and drink the tea before it cools.


Drink the tea two or three times daily. You can sweeten it with honey, if desired, or drink it without.
Dandelion leaves stimulate both the liver and gallbladder, causing both organs to push bile and other contents through. This can include gallstones.
If dandelion tea doesn't appeal to you, consider adding tender dandelion greens to salads or eating them as a steamed side dish.
 Steep 1 tsp (5 ml) of fresh or dried mint leaves in 1 cup (250 ml) of hot water for three to five minutes. Strain the tea and drink it before it cools.


To maximize the benefit of peppermint tea, drink it in between meals.
Peppermint oil stimulates the flow of bile and other digestive juices, which can help push gallstones out of the gallbladder. Moreover, peppermint also contains terpene, which may help dissolve gallstones
Peppermint oil capsules are another option if you don't want to drink peppermint tea.
 Dissolve 1 tsp (5 ml) of psyllium powder husk in 1 cup (250 ml) of water. Drink the mixture once a night, immediately before going to bed.


Psyllium is a good source of soluble fiber. That fiber binds to the cholesterol in cholesterol-based gallstones, which may help cleanse existing gallstones and prevent future ones.
 If this is your first gallstone episode, your doctor may recommend waiting it out. Oftentimes, the stone will dissolve or dislodge itself without treatment.


Nearly one-third to one-half of people who have gallstones once never have another attack again, so drastic treatment is often unnecessary.
If this is not your first time developing gallstones, your doctor may still recommend waiting it out if there are no accompanying symptoms or if there are other health concerns involved.
If you're told to wait it out, you should still watch for symptoms of gallstone complication. This includes intense pain in your upper right abdomen.
 Your doctor may prescribe ursodiol, an oral bile acid that can dissolve cholesterol-based gallstones. Dosage varies, so you'll need to follow your doctor's instructions.Note that ursodiol and other bile acids only work against cholesterol-based stones and will not dissolve stones made from bile pigments.
Additionally, it may take months to years before this medication successfully dissolves the gallstones, so you could be on this medication for quite a while.
 For medium to large gallstones, your doctor may recommend shock wave therapy. A special device will direct high-frequency sound waves to the gallstones, and those sound waves can break the stones into fragments.


Since shock wave therapy only breaks apart the gallstone and doesn't dissolve it, you may need to take ursodiol or a similar bile salt afterward to get ride of the fragmented pieces.
Also note that shock wave therapy is still considered an experimental treatment, so conventional doctors may not recommend it.
 During this procedure, your doctor will insert a catheter through the abdomen and inject a special drug directly into the gallbladder.


Once this drug gets into your gallbladder, it will immediately begin to dissolve the gallstones inside. Most stones will disappear withing several hours of the treatment.
Contact dissolution is another experimental treatment, though, so some doctors may not recommend it.
 If you've struggled with gallstones on more than one occasion, your doctor will likely recommend a cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of your gallbladder.Gallbladders are not vital organs in the strictest sense, so it is possible to remove yours without suffering severe complications. After your gallbladder is gone, bile will flow directly from the liver to the small intestines. This may cause diarrhea, and you'll also need to limit your dietary intake of fat to avoid other complications.
Depending on which type of cholecystectomy the surgeon performs, you may need to spend one to three days in the hospital, and you may need to spend several weeks recovering at home afterward.

