


At most grocery stores, dried soybeans will be sold in the bulk food sections. They may also be available with the rice and/or pasta.;
,


Check the soybeans for signs of damage or disease before using them in your recipe. Pour them into a large, flat baking sheet, and inspect all beans. Any soybeans which appear discolored or are misshapen should be removed and discarded. Also pick out any small pieces of pod or debris that may have been included.



Pour the soybeans into a large colander, and rinse with cool water. Make sure all beans have been rinsed to remove any dirt, dust, or debris.



Dried soybeans must be soaked overnight before they can be used in cooking or baking. Place the rinsed soybeans into a large bowl, and cover with enough water to submerge all of the beans. You may want to consider covering the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap to prevent disaster if the bowl is accidentally knocked or nudged.



Drain the soybeans from the water they have soaked in, and place them in a large, sturdy pot. Pour water into the pan, making sure to again add enough water to completely cover the soybeans.
 Place the pot over high heat, and bring the water to a boil. Once the water has come to a boil, reduce heat to a simmer, and continue cooking the beans for 2 to 3 hours.
 During the boiling, the hulls of the soybeans will fall off. Use a large slotted spoon to carefully remove these hulls from the water. You will need to monitor the soybeans on a regular basis to remove any additional hulls which have fallen off, and to stir the beans.,


Once the soybeans are tender, remove them from the heat source. Allow them to cool to room temperature, skimming off any hulls which may remain at the top of the water. Drain the water from the soybeans.



Once the soybeans have been rehydrated, dehulled, and cooled, you are ready to use them in your favorite recipes. Add them to chili, soups, and even side dishes for a healthy, delicious meal. The soybeans should be added relatively late in the cooking process of these items, as overcooking can result in excessively soggy soybeans.

