 When you open up and explain what you want out of your relationship to your boyfriend, he still may not be comfortable doing everything you want him to do. Relationships are about compromise and mutual respect, so try to find an understanding that makes you both happy.Don’t compromise by accepting something you aren’t comfortable with, but try your best to understand how your boyfriend feels.
Your boyfriend may be willing to be more open about his feelings in private, but he still may be uncomfortable giving you affection in public. You will each need to decide what you are willing to do for the other in order to find a fair compromise.
 You and your boyfriend may not have the same understanding of what’s normal behavior in a relationship. You should clarify each of your expectations and try to find a mutual understanding.If your relationship is new, your boyfriend may not have ever dated someone like you and may not understand how to meet your needs without some guidance.
Your boyfriend may feel as though you haven’t been acting the way he was expecting either. You should both try your best to find an understanding you can both appreciate.
Be clear about what you want out of your relationship and ask your boyfriend to be clear with you about what he wants. Once you have both been honest about your expectations you can find common ground and consider compromises to help solve any problems you identify.
 Changing your behavior can be difficult and even stressful, but sometimes relationships require emotional compromise. Your boyfriend may struggle to show his feelings in the way you’d prefer, so be patient. You may also occasionally lose your patience, and your boyfriend should try to demonstrate the same understanding to you.You may want to point out to your boyfriend when you are trying to behave the way you feel is appropriate for a relationship, but do so nicely.
Try saying something like, “I’m always here for you when you need me, and I’d like to know that you’ll be there for me too.”
If you can both provide one another with patience and understanding, you may find a natural compromise in both of your behavior.

