 Add half a teaspoon of salt to 8 ounces of warm water and mix well. Sip and gargle for 10 seconds, then spit--do NOT swallow.


The salt helps to cut through excess phlegm (which can cause an itchy, tickling feeling in the throat) and reduce inflammation.
Repeat this 2 to 3 times per day, until your throat feels better.;
, Honey is a fantastic natural remedy, as it coats the throat and quickly relieves any itchiness or irritation. For best results, eat a tablespoon of honey each morning.


Use raw, local honey where possible, as it will help to build up your allergy resistance.
Stirring a tablespoon of honey into your tea is another viable option if you can't stomach the raw stuff.
Never give honey to infants under the age of 12 months, as the bacteria it contains can cause a condition known as infant botulism, which may lead to death.
 Add a small amount of honey to the bottom of a cup and fill to the top with hot water.


Then, squeeze one to three wedges of lemon in. Finally, grate a small amount of ginger and stir.
Drink several times throughout the day to soothe an itchy, sore throat.
 Turmeric in milk is a home remedy for soothing an itchy throat that has been around for many years.


Before bedtime, boil a cup of milk in a saucepan with a teaspoon of turmeric (you can also mix the turmeric with water if you prefer).
Allow the milk to cool slightly before drinking. Drink each night until the itchy throat disappears.
 Apple cider vinegar is used in many home remedies and has a broad array of health benefits -- one of which is relieving an itchy throat.


Add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar to 8oz of hot water and sip slowly.
You can add up to a tablespoon of honey to the drink to improve the taste, if you like. Maple syrup is a good alternative if you don’t like the taste of honey.
 In Russia, a popular home remedy for relieving a sore throat involves making a drink from horseradish.


In a glass, combine one tablespoon of pure horseradish (the plant, not the sauce) with a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of ground cloves.
Fill the glass with hot water, stirring to distribute the horseradish mixture, then drink slowly.
 Living or sleeping in a very dry environment can cause your throat to become dehydrated and itchy.


Placing a humidifier in your living area or bedroom will add moisture back into the air and help to soothe an itchy throat.
If you don't want to invest in a humidifier, you can achieve the same results by placing a large bowl of water under the radiator or by keeping plants in your living space.
 Dehydration is one of the most common causes of an itchy throat, as your throat becomes dried out and there is not enough mucus to lubricate and protect the sensitive tissue.


Try to drink at least 8 glasses of water per day and drink plenty of green and herbal teas.
Drinking water is especially important if you have a flu or cold, as you tend to lose a lot of fluids through sweat (from fever) and mucus (from sneezing and blowing your nose).

