 Spend time with your wife on the weekends. You need to work hard and earn love and care that you receive from your wife.;
, Women need to know and be reassured that they are loved. Express your feelings several times a day and by saying, "I love you!" Use these 3 words often, even when she is your wife and she very well knows that you love her. Expressing love eases stress and strengthens relationships.
 Trust is the most important pillar for any relationship. You need to trust her completely to win back her trust. Show faith and trust in her abilities, decisions, and choices. As you do so, she will turn out to be a more confident and decisive person and, thus, would be far easier to understand! She will be clearly able to tell you, whatever she wants from you.
 If you could risk your relationship for another one, there is no way you can win back her love with these tips.
 It’s not okay to draw parallels publicly and expect her to understand her faults. No one likes to live lives of others. It would be like she comparing you to other men and pointing out how much better husbands others are to their wives.
 Always ask and do not command. No one likes to live a life set through other people's standards. A man who treats his wife like a princess shows that he has been raised in the arms of a queen, so it’s your pride if you behave like a gentleman.
 Do not retrograde if she wants to open up and say something. It is very important to communicate your differences to each other. At times, you need not reply. Just listen to the complete conversation so as to make out where the problem is and find the solution. Never find faults within the other person. That only spoils the whole conversation and the quality of the relationship.
 It is also important that you expect her the way she is and not try to change her to fit your expectations. Don’t expect too much from her. Happy relationships need not have perfect people though perfect companions! If you could become her best friend, no one knows her better than you.
 Learn to live beyond them.
 Learn every one of her favorites, such as foods, colors, clothing, brands, etc. Every time you fail to recognize her preferences in a restaurant or a shopping mall, you make her feel that she is not important to you.
 This includes birthdays and anniversaries. Why? Simply because these are special days for you two and if she is important to you, so should be the days and celebrations with her.

