 What does financial security mean to you? If it simply means being rich, you may not have a realistic dream. However, if it means paying off your loans, saving for your kid's college fund, or saving for retirement, then you have a realistic end goal that you can work towards.Having a clear idea of what you want to save up for and why can help keep you motivated and on-track.
Once you have a well-defined financial goal, you can talk to a financial planner to help you find ways to invest or save your money.
 If you want to feel financially secure, you need to first evaluate your current financial situation to determine what (if anything) needs to change. This starts with examining your finances, including your savings and your expenses.Take note of your income, as well as your savings (if any).
Track your daily, weekly, and monthly expenses. Carry a small notebook in your pocket or purse and write down every single expense. That includes things you buy, bills you pay, and the dates/times those expenses were incurred. You should also make a note of how you were feeling when you made any purchases.
Examine your spending patterns. Do you tend to buy things for yourself when you're feeling sad or stressed out? Are there any purchases that you made on a whim when you didn't really need that item, or could have found it cheaper somewhere else?
Make sure you are not spending more than you earn. This will quickly put you in debt, and it will be hard to recover your finances once you're in the red.
Find ways to reduce expenses. You don't need to deprive yourself of every single thing that makes you happy, but you also need to set limits and boundaries for yourself. Don't go on shopping sprees whenever you feel like it, and don't make useless purchases that you don't really need.
 Some expenses, like rent, utilities, and groceries, are unavoidable. But even with these essential expenses, you can find ways to spend less by shopping smart and avoiding unnecessary expenditures.Any time you go grocery shopping, bring a shopping list and stick to it.
Whenever possible, buy items that are on sale, generic/off-brand, or in bulk. This can save a lot of money and will give you the same essential product, but at a fraction of the price.
Try to buy things second-hand whenever possible.
Compare prices before you buy. If you look around at advertisements, both online and in the newspaper, chances are you'll be able to find the exact same product at a lower cost somewhere else.
Prepare meals at home. Avoid eating out as much as possible, and bring a bagged lunch and thermos of coffee to work everyday. This will help save a lot of money, and you can apply that money to other expenses or to a savings account.
Seek out free or low-cost entertainment. You can find a lot of movies online for free or for relatively low costs (through legal streaming websites), or visit the library and borrow books, CDs, and movies for free.
Adjust your thermostat during the day when you're not home, and at night when you're asleep. Try to only run your heat or air conditioner the most when you're at home and awake. (However, if you have any pets at home, remember that they need a comfortable temperature during the day and night, even if you're not home.)
Don't buy things on credit, or with a credit card. Save up until you can afford your purchases and you'll avoid a lot of stress (and debt) in the process., If you're working part time, try getting a second part-time job, or finding one full-time job. Even if you're working full-time, you can still find odd jobs to make a little extra cash on the side. And if you're getting by with your bills on your current job, your side job can be devoted to your savings account!Look at the help wanted section in newspapers or on job listing websites.
Find easy side jobs that won't interfere with your work schedule. Odds are you'll be able to find listings for dog walkers, babysitters, or even freelance work on the side.
 It's okay if it takes you a while to save up money. It takes a lot of planning and hard work for most people, but the reward of financial security is well worth it. A good way to start saving is by opening a savings account. You can start out small - say, by setting aside $20 every month or every paycheck. Over time, that weekly or monthly deposit adds up to a pretty substantial savings.Many financial institutions let you set up an automatic transfer so that a portion of your paycheck is automatically deposited into your savings account.
Some banks offer a "Keep the Change" (or similar) program, in which small debit/checking purchases are rounded up to the nearest dollar and the change is deposited into your savings account. This is a quick and easy way to build up your savings without even really noticing it.
Try to avoid dipping into your savings unless it's an absolute emergency. If you can put off any purchases until after you receive your next paycheck, hold off and leave your savings untouched.

