 Your child’s health should be your first priority, so focus on getting her or him any necessary treatment. Call an ambulance or go to the emergency room if the injury is severe.;
, Once your child has stabilized, you should begin gathering evidence for whatever legal action you intend to take. You can begin by getting copies of all medical records. Contact any doctor or hospital where your child was treated.Medical records help prove the severity of the injury as well as any physical pain your child has suffered.
Being organized is important. For this reason, you should get a giant folder and place all of your records in the folder.
 You can be compensated for any amount of money spent treating your child’s physical or emotional injuries. Accordingly, hang onto all medical bills and receipts. Put them in the folder as well. You can get compensated for the following:hospital bills
surgery costs
diagnostic tests
physical therapy
rehabilitation
costs of prescription drugs
pain and suffering management, including therapy or counseling
insurance-related costs (in some situations)

, If you bring a lawsuit, a year or more might pass before the trial. By that point, your child’s injuries might have disappeared. For this reason, you should take vivid color photographs of any injury.Take photographs from many different angles. Digital photographs are clearest.
If you need to photograph your child’s face, make sure they aren’t smiling. Your child may be thrilled to be alive and naturally want to smile, but you need them to look neutrally at the camera.
 You can also get compensation for any emotional distress your child experiences. For example, if your child was bitten by a neighbor’s dog, then you could get compensation for difficulty sleeping, fear of animals, and general anxiety.You can document any changes in your child’s behavior by keeping a journal. Write down how your child is feeling each day.
Also note how the injury has affected his or her daily life. Does he or she have difficulty participating in activities? Has your child withdrawn from friends?

, To help build a legal case, you also need photographs of whatever injured your child on the neighbor’s property. If possible, take color photographs during the day. Don’t trespass, but see if you can photograph it from your own property.


For example, if your child fell into a ditch, then take photographs of the ditch.
If a dog injured your child, then videotape the dog barking. That is powerful evidence of how vicious the animal is.
 If you have questions or need help, then you should try to meet with an attorney. Only a qualified attorney can offer proper advice. If you don’t know of any attorneys, then you can get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association.Call up the attorney and ask how much he or she charges for a consultation.
Also ask the attorney if it is okay to pay for an hour of advice but not hire them to represent you. Some attorneys are willing to coach you for an hourly fee. This arrangement could be ideal if you want to handle the case yourself but need an expert advice on some issues.
 You can certainly bring a lawsuit without a lawyer. However, you would benefit from a lawyer’s experience and skill. If your child suffered major injuries—such as loss of limb, disability, or serious disfigurement—then you should hire a lawyer to represent you.


Ask the lawyer how much he or she charges per hour. Typically, personal injury lawyers will work with clients on “contingency.” Under this arrangement, the lawyer doesn’t charge fees. Instead, he or she will get paid only if they settle the suit or win at trial. Generally, lawyers get 33-40% of the amount you win.You still have to pay the costs of the lawsuit, such as filing fees or costs associated with court reporters. However, a contingency fee arrangement can put a lawyer within reach for many people.
 If your neighbor has insurance, then you can negotiate with the insurer. Your neighbor may even immediately contact their homeowner’s insurance company and report your child’s injury. In this situation, a claims adjuster may reach out to you.


You might feel uncomfortable asking your neighbor if they have insurance. You shouldn’t be. People carry insurance precisely because accidents may happen.
Call up your neighbor and say, “Melissa, I’m calling about Ethan’s medical bills. We’re wondering if you have a homeowner’s insurance policy and if you have a number to contact. Because Ethan got injured on your property, we think your insurer should pay for his treatment.”

, You should write a letter demanding that your neighbor (or their insurance company) compensate you for your child’s injuries. You can set up the letter like a standard business letter.


Also include the heading “For Settlement Purposes Only” near the top of the letter.It will be more professional if you type your letter instead of writing it by hand.If you don’t have a computer, check if you can use a computer at your local library.
 In the first paragraph, you should explain the background to the dispute. Include the “who, what, where, when, and how.” Try to maintain a neutral, polite tone. Don’t express outrage.


For example, you could write, “My son, Ethan, was injured on your property on July 2, 2016, at your home at 1234 West Glenlake Avenue, Any City, Tennessee. He was walking up the stairs to your back porch when the rotted stair gave way and he fell, breaking his left leg.”, You can go into more detail about the medical treatment that your child has received. If possible, include helpful details, such as the precise drug used to treat your child’s pain (if any) and the name of your doctor.For example, you could write: “Immediately after Ethan’s fall, we called an ambulance to come pick him up. He was then taken to Any City Regional Hospital where he had X-rays taken in the emergency room. Ethan was in incredible pain the entire time, and had to be given a Demerol injection during transport to the hospital. His leg was set in a cast, which has only recently been taken off, two months later. During this time, we have taken Ethan to see Dr. Sylvia Smith, who has continued to take X-rays and prescribe pain killers. Now that the cast is off, Dr. Smith has recommended physical therapy, which Ethan attends three times a week. He still does not have full use of his leg and continues to complain about pain.”

, You should include a breakdown of money you have spent to treat your child’s injuries. You should also include copies of medical bills, so you don’t have to go into extreme detail in the letter.


Sample language could read: “The cost of Ethan’s medical treatment to date is as follows: Any City Ambulance Service: $350. Any City Regional Hospital (E.R.): $1,000.”
After you have listed all of your expenses, also include the total amount., You should also include a paragraph or two in which you explain why your neighbor is legally responsible for the injury. Since you are not a lawyer, you don’t need to try and make legal arguments. However, you can give a general sense of why the neighbor is responsible.


Point out if the neighbor violated any city ordinance.For example, your city might require that swimming pools be fenced in. If your child was injured by falling in a pool, then point out that your neighbor was in violation of city law if they didn’t have a fence up.
If your neighbor was careless, then you should tell them they had a duty to be more careful. For example, you could write: “As the homeowner who invited my child to a birthday party on your property, you had a duty to make sure that the property was safe and free of dangerous hazards. According to Ethan, the stair crumbled under his feet and was clearly decayed. Allowing your property to decline in that manner endangers people you invite onto your property, and you violated your duty to be careful.”

, You can get compensated not only for medical expenses but for your child’s pain and suffering, as well as emotional distress. In a paragraph, you should explicitly state how much money you want.


For example, you could write: “Because of your carelessness in maintaining the stairs, my son suffered a serious fall and is continuing to live with the effects of his broken leg. Because of his pain and suffering, and potential permanent disability, I demand $50,000 in compensation.”If you don’t know what to ask for, then speak to an attorney. Generally, you can request one to five times the amount of your out-of-pocket medical expenses.If your neighbor intentionally hurt your child, then you can ask for a lot more than if your child was harmed out of carelessness.
However, leave room to negotiate. For example, you might have paid $10,000 out-of-pocket for medical expenses. You then add $30,000 on top of that for pain and suffering. This gives you $40,000 total. Make a demand for double--$80,000. This gives you room to come down.
 You should close the letter by giving your neighbor a deadline and stating that you will bring a lawsuit if the matter isn’t resolved by then.For example, you could write the following:


“Thank you for your review of my demand letter, together with the attached supporting documents. I would appreciate a response within 30 days of the date of this letter.”
Then sign your name.
 Send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested and hold onto the receipt. It serves as proof that the letter was received. Also make sure to keep a copy of your letter for your records.
 Your neighbor or the insurance company will read your letter and hopefully respond before the deadline. If you are dealing with an insurance adjuster, then you shouldn’t expect him or her to immediately agree to the amount you requested. Instead, they will make a counteroffer.


The counteroffer should be by letter. However, a neighbor may call you up and want to negotiate over the telephone or in person.
You can negotiate in person, if you want. Keep detailed notes about any agreement and don’t leave your negotiation unless your neighbor signs an agreement.
 An insurance adjuster might respond by “low-balling” you. This means he or she responds by offering you only a fraction of what you have requested. Rather than get angry, you should use the following techniques to respond:


Call and ask why the adjuster has offered such a low amount. He or she might not have all of the information needed.
Write another letter rejecting the amount offered. You can state that you find it far too low.
Provide additional information on your child’s emotional suffering. Emphasize how their injuries have prevented them from participating in activities., You may have to go back and forth until you can reach an agreement. With each counteroffer, you should be willing to come down a little bit. However, if the other side won’t give you a reasonable amount of money, then you can cut off negotiation and bring a lawsuit.


If you reach an agreement, then draft and sign a settlement agreement. You can find examples on the Internet which you can use as guides.Because the settlement agreement is a contract between you and your neighbor, it should contain all of the key terms of your agreement: the settlement amount, when payments will be made, and whether you release your neighbor from further lawsuits based on the injury.
 In order to bring a lawsuit in court, you need to tell the judge why you are suing. A cause of action is the legal theory which supports your lawsuit. These are the most common causes of action when a child is injured on a neighbor’s property:



Intentional injury. If someone intentionally hurt your child—such as by striking or kicking them—then you can sue for “battery.”Negligence. “Negligence” means carelessness. A homeowner owes a duty of reasonable care to someone invited over to their home.A homeowner can be careless in a variety of ways. For example, they may not replace rotted handrails or steps, or they don’t carefully watch children swimming in a pool.

Attractive nuisance. Generally, a person who “trespasses” (enters property without permission) cannot sue for negligence. However, an exception is made for children. If your neighbor had an “attractive nuisance,” then you can sue if the landowner didn’t take precautions to protect your children from it. Attractive nuisances include swimming pools, wells, ditches, dangerous animals, equipment and tools, and abandoned cars or appliances. They are artificial (not natural) hazards which attract children but can also injure them., You will sue your neighbor in the county in which you both live. However, you might be able to sue in small claims court. These courts are set up for people who don’t have attorneys but who are bringing a case worth a small amount of money.


Check to see if your county has a small claims court. You can stop in and ask the clerk.
Also check to see the maximum amount you can sue for. This will differ by state. For example, in Arizona, the maximum amount is $3,500. In Delaware, by contrast, the maximum is $15,000., You start your lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In the complaint, you identify who you are suing (the “defendant”) and the reasons why. You also make your demand for money compensation.To help write your complaint, you should take out your copy of the demand letter that you sent your neighbor.


Check with your court if they have printed, “fill in the blank” complaint forms that you could use. Small claims courts in particular have these forms.Using one makes filing a complaint easy. Be sure to print neatly or use a typewriter.
If no form is available, then look on the Internet for samples that you could use.
 After completing your complaint, you should make several copies and take your copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file the original. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee. The amount will differ depending on the court. Call ahead of time and ask for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
If you can’t afford the filing fee, then ask for a fee waiver form and fill it out. This form usually asks for information about your monthly income and living expenses., You have to give your neighbor a chance to respond. For this reason, you should send a copy of your complaint to your neighbor. Also send a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk. The summons contains information about your case and also tells the neighbor how much time they have to respond.You can typically send a copy of your complaint by having someone 18 or older make hand delivery. You can’t make delivery yourself and you can’t throw it over your neighbor’s fence or slide it in the mailbox.
In some counties, you can pay the sheriff a small fee to make hand delivery. Alternately, you could hire a private process server or ask a friend.
 Your neighbor needs to respond to the lawsuit. If not, then you should get a default judgment. Generally, however, your neighbor will respond by filing an “answer” with the court.


In the answer, your neighbor will admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to respond to each allegation that you make in the complaint., Lawsuits can take over a year, from start to finish, so if you can’t reach a settlement agreement, then you should continue on with your lawsuit. Each lawsuit is different, but there are common stages:Discovery. After the defendant responds, the lawsuit will enter a fact-finding stage. You and the defendant will swap relevant documents and information about witnesses you intend to call to testify. If you want to find out what a witness knows, you can schedule a “deposition” in which you ask them questions under oath.

Pretrial motions. The neighbor will probably try to get the case dismissed after discovery by filing a “motion for summary judgment.” Basically, they argue that trial isn’t necessary because there are no meaningful factual disputes for a jury to decide and the law clearly favors them.

Prepare for trial. If the case isn’t dismissed, then you’ll prepare for trial. Gather together all documents you want to use and turn them into exhibits. Also fill out and serve subpoenas on your witnesses.

Trial. At trial, you have the burden of proving that it is more likely than not that the defendant is responsible for your child’s injuries. This is called your “burden of proof.” You can call witnesses and also cross-examine the defendant’s witnesses.

Appeal. If you lose at trial, then you can think about filing an appeal. With an appeal, a higher court reviews the trial transcripts and looks for errors the judge made. If an error was sufficiently serious, then the appellate court can set aside the jury verdict.

