 The Amazon App store is not usually pre-installed in Android devices. If your device doesn’t have it, you have to install it first from its website.


Open your device’s web browser and search “Amazon app download.” From the search results, tap the first link from the Amazon website, which will direct you to the official download page
After being directed to the page, enter “Amazon app” in the search bar at the top. Tap “Download” on the first file, and wait for the apk file to finish downloading.
Once it has downloaded, swipe down on the screen to open the notification panel, and tap the apk file from there. On the pop-up, select “Install” then wait for it to finish.;
, After the app has finished installing, the pop-up will have two buttons on it: Open and Done. Select “Open” to launch the app directly.


You can also find the app on your home screen or app drawer, and launch it from there.
 The first time you use the app, you will be asked to log into your Amazon account. Enter your login details into the fields provided, and tap “Sign in.”


If you don’t have an account, tap “Create an account” and provide your name, email address, and password to instantly get an account. You cannot buy or rent a movie without an Amazon account.
 This will open the app menu. You’ll find the Amazon Instant Video feature near the middle of the menu, and right across it is a down arrow.
 Tap the down arrow next to “Amazon Instant Video” in the menu, and then select the first option that drops down, which is “Videos Home.” The menu will close, and you will be taken to a list of available videos for you to buy or rent.
 Scroll up the screen in the Amazon Instant Video page to view recommended movies and TV shows for you to watch. These will be under categories like Recommended Action & Adventure, Recommended Kids & Family, Recommended TV for You, and so on. If you want to view more shows under a particular category, just tap the right arrow beside the category heading.
 If you have a specific movie or TV show you want to buy or rent, tap the magnifying glass icon at the top header and enter the movie or TV show title. As you enter the title, Amazon will provide results below.
 Tap the video name to access its video info page. The video info page will display the video’s cover, a link to its trailer, ratings, and the buy and rent buttons. Scroll down the page and you’ll find the movie info and reviews.
 To buy the movie, tap the “Buy” button. This button will also have the price of the movie on it. Tapping this will direct you through the purchasing process. The prices of movies will vary.


To rent, tap the “Rent” button above the “Buy” button. The “Rent” button will also have the rental rate and the number of hours or days you have in order to watch it. You will be taken through the purchasing process. The rates for rental will vary.
Movies bought or rented can be accessed in Your Video Library menu.
 Locate the app icon on your home screen or app drawer and tap it.
 A left panel will open displaying all the app menu options.
 Tap the down arrow next to “Amazon Instant Video” and select “Your Video Library” from the submenu that drops down. You will be taken to a list of all the videos you purchased. Active rentals will also be displayed.
 The videos will have a play icon on them. Tap this to begin watching the video you purchased or rented.


Rental videos that have expired will automatically disappear from Your Video Library, so make sure you watch these before they’re removed from your list.

