 The source of protein is probably the key difference between a vegan or vegetarian diet and those of a more traditional meat-based diet. Luckily, there are plenty of affordable and healthful sources of vegan protein.


Try beans and lentils. These legumes are high in protein, fiber and many minerals. Canned options are affordable, but you might want to consider purchasing dried beans and cooking them yourself for the cheapest option.Nuts and nut butters are another source of protein that also come with the benefit of having some heart-healthy fats. Try to purchase these proteins on sale or purchase them at "big box stores" so you can buy larger amounts for a discounted price.
Also try tofu or tempeh. These foods are a great source of protein and even contain probiotics.When you purchase these foods plain, they're fairly low cost and can fit into your budget.;
, Fruits and vegetables are the mainstay of vegan diets. Most of your meals and snacks should revolve around these high-fiber, nutrient-dense foods.Be smart when choosing your produce so you stick to your food budget.


Purchase in season items. If you're going to buy asparagus out of season, you'll pay top dollar for this veggie. Consider printing out a list of what items are in season for winter, summer, spring and fall so you can avoid purchasing something out of season.Skip the pre-washed and pre-cut fruits and vegetables. These are convenient, but you're going to pay extra for the convenience. Buy whole fruits and vegetables that are not prepped in any way. This will be the cheapest option.Also consider frozen or canned fruits and vegetables. These are typically a little bit cheaper than some fresh items and can be stored for much longer periods of time. This is an especially smart tip if you want something out of season.
 Another essential component of a vegan diet are grains. They provide a complementary source of protein and will make your diet more balanced.In general, many grains are fairly inexpensive — even whole grains. Buy the bigger bags instead of individual servings for the most cost effective selection.
Purchase the "store brand" or generic whole grains. Store brand products often offer the same item for a lower cost.
Also skip purchasing the pre-made and par-cooked grains you can find both in the grain aisle and in the freezer section. You'll pay a higher price for the convenience of these foods.
Whole grains are the best choice since they are higher in fiber, protein and many minerals. Try to skip the refined processed grains like white rice, white bread or plain pasta.Instead go for: oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, whole wheat bread and pastas.
 Purchasing special seasonings for different recipes or dishes can rack up a high tab on your grocery bill. Be smart with what you buy so you don't over do it.


Many dried herbs and spices can be expensive. Although they generally last about 1 year, you can try drying your own herbs yourself for a cheaper option.Purchase fresh herbs and allow them to hang in a dry, cool area. Once completely dried, crush and store in an airtight container.
You can also purchase fresh herbs and chop them into small pieces mix with a little oil and freeze them in an ice cube tray. They'll act like "fresh" herbs once you defrost and cook with them.
Items like garlic are also cheaper in their fresh form. Stored in a cool, dark place, garlic can last a good while.Ginger doesn't last as long but can be kept for a significant amount of time in the freezer.Many fresh herbs are easy to grow and do not require much space. Rosemary makes a nice shrub, while basil, thyme, and oregano can easily be grown in a windowsill.
 When you first transition to a vegan diet, you might think it'll be easy to replace your favorite meat and dairy foods with the vegan alternatives in the supermarket; however, these meat and dairy analogs can get quite pricey.Food manufacturers offer many options to vegans and vegetarians to make their diet easier to follow. You can purchase meat-substitute items like: hot dogs and deli meat, cheese, yogurt and sour cream, butter, breakfast sausage, chicken nuggets, chorizo, pepperoni and ground meat.
Although these foods do make following a vegan diet easier, they are also considerably higher in cost. Avoid or significantly limit how much or many of these items you buy.
Instead of relying on these substitutes, make vegan meals based off of whole grains, beans, nuts, fruits and vegetables instead. Try natural meat substitutes such as mushrooms, potatoes, jack fruit, eggplant, and lentils.These are all more cost effective than the trendy alternatives.
 Writing up a meal plan can make any diet a little bit easier to follow and cheaper to buy. When you're trying to plan out and prepare healthy and affordable vegan meals, start with a meal plan.Sit down and write out all the meals and snacks you're planning on eating during the next week. Make sure to include all breakfasts, lunches, dinners and snacks you're going to have.
Design your meals around low-cost foods like whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables. Note which items you might want to buy in bulk, which items you might want to buy fresh, and which ones you should purchase frozen or canned.
Try to make your meal plan seasonal. Again, purchasing items that are out of season is more costly. So make your meals for the week reflect this.
 After you've constructed your meal plan, write up a corresponding grocery list. This will also help you stick to a specific food budget while you're shopping.


Studies have shown that those people who shop with a list spend less money and also get in and out of the store a little more quickly.
While you're making your grocery list, check for flyers or advertisements that offer "two for one" sales or other discounts.
Also make sure to bring any coupons or other discount flyers with you. Cut these out of the paper ahead of time and bring them with you to check out.
 If you have a local farmer's market, consider getting some of your groceries here each week. It's a fun way to save money and purchase great local items.


Farmers markets are a great idea if you're on a budget as many items you can find here are cheaper than your grocery store.Even if some of the produce is the same price, you get the added benefit of buying local. You can also get to know the farmers and their processes better (you could ask specific questions about which pesticides are used, for instance).
Farmers markets offer you a large variety of foods. Many even offer local baked goods or pre-made vegan foods like soups or entrees.
The foods that are sold at farmers markets are local, seasonal and full of flavor. It's a great place to to explore new items and get inspiration for vegan meals.
 Many grocery stores now offer the option of buying some goods in bulk (from the bulk bins section). This is a great option for those vegans who are minding their food budget.Typical foods you can find in bulk bins include: grains and cereals, nuts, seeds, beans, nut butters and dried fruits.
Make sure you have the space for bulk goods in your kitchen and will be able to use or consume them before they spoil.
Consider prepping and freezing items you've purchased in bulk so they do not spoil before you can use them. You can pull them out whenever you need them.
Consider splitting larger quantities of items with friends or family members if you cannot eat or store larger quantities of certain foods.
 Many pre-made vegan foods are expensive. In addition, eating out can be expensive as well. Stick to making your vegan foods from scratch at home so you can stay within your budget boundaries.


One of the best benefits of making foods at home and from scratch is that you'll save a good amount of money.Skip the restaurant foods and make your own vegan meals at home.
In addition, cooking from home allows you to control all the ingredients in your foods. You can make a low calorie vegan meal, a low sodium vegan meal or a gluten-free vegan meal much easier.
 An easy and affordable vegan meal to make is a stuffed sweet potato. The ingredients are easily found at any grocery store and are very affordable.Bake a medium sweet potato in the oven until it's tender and cooked through. Split it lengthwise and open it like a hot dog bun. You'll put the filling into the center.
Sauté a combination of your favorite vegetables. You can try a mix of onions, garlic, bell peppers and zucchini. Sauté vegetables with a "taco seasoning" blend until they are tender, but not mushy. Toss the vegetable mixture with black or pinto beans.
Add about 1/2 – 3/4 cup of the vegetable and bean mixture over your split sweet potato. Top with a little sliced avocado for a quick and easy dish.
An easy way to change up this recipe would be to use a white potato with the skin on. Instead of sautéed vegetables, fill with salsa, olives, and red onions.
 Another super affordable and healthy vegan dish is soup. Basing your soup off of beans is a great way to make a hearty soup for only a few dollars.Sauté onions, garlic and chopped carrots in a large soup pot. Cook until vegetables are lightly golden and tender.
Add equal parts of white beans and vegetable stock. Bring to a boil and allow to cook for 30 – 45 minutes.
Add in a few large handfuls of roughly chopped kale to the soup. Continue to cook until the kale is wilted into the soup. Serve with a slice of whole wheat bread.
You could also make a vegetable soup using all of your unused veggies for the week. Sauté some garlic and onion, then chop up vegetables and add them to the pot. Once soft, add a vegetable broth and simmer.
 If you're in the mood for pizza, skip the delivery and make your own vegan pizza at home. This will help you save some money and make a healthier meal.


Skip the store-bought pizza dough — this can be a little expensive. Try using a whole wheat tortilla or pita bread instead. Or, find your local pizzeria and ask if they'll sell their dough. Many times they'll give you a good deal on it.
Roll out your pizza dough or set out your tortilla/pita bread on a sheet pan or cookie sheet.
Top your pizza with a little bit of homemade hummus. Spread the hummus in a thin layer until it's about a 1/2 inch from the edges.
Layer on thinly sliced vegetables. You can do any combination you like. Try onions, peppers, mushrooms and olives.
Bake pizza until the dough is light browned and crispy or the tortilla/pita bread is slightly golden. Drizzle with some extra virgin olive oil and serve.
Or, use tomato sauce and top with sliced veggies and pine nuts.
 Another great quick and cheap vegan meal is a salad. Make your salads a little more flavorful and exciting by tossing your greens with a Mexican-inspired black bean salad.In a small bowl, mix together 1 cup of black beans, 1 cup corn kernels, 1/2 cup of diced red onions, one diced jalapeño and a few halved or quartered cherry tomatoes.
Mix the black bean and corn salad with a little canola oil, lime juice, salt and pepper. Toss to combine.
Layer a handful or two of spinach leaves on your plate. Top with about 1/2 cup of black bean salad. You can also top with a little sliced avocado for an extra source of healthy fats.
Another modification is to top your salad with white beans and lightly sautéed walnuts for an extra crunch.

