 To take this exam, you must have a bachelor's degree in engineering. You can be in your last year of your degree. If you don't have a bachelor's degree in engineering, you may substitute a master's degree in science, as long as it is related to engineering.You will need to prove that you have completed your degree by showing your diploma or a transcript of your final year. If you are still in your final year, you will show the last semester you completed. You can also show a provisional diploma/certificate. You can download a provisional certificate letter from the main GATE website, which your school can fill out for this purpose.;
, You cannot send in physical applications. You must apply online at your zone's website.You'll need to fill in biographical information, as well as choose a username and password. You'll also need to provide proof for certain information, such as your degree, which you'll need to upload.You'll need your address, as well as your college's address. You'll also need to provide an image of both your signature and your thumbprint.
 When choosing where you take the test, you have the option of a wide variety of cities, divided into zones. When you look at the list, you pick a first choice, second choice, and third choice. They do not have to be in the same zones.If you're an international candidate, you must take the test in one of the following countries: Singapore, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, or the United Arab Emirates. In these countries, you only have the option of one city.
 The GATE subjects are called "papers." You have the choice of 23 subjects you can take. You cannot take more than one. Therefore, you must decide which subject you will take before you finish applying for the test.You should choose based on where you want to get a master's degree, as most universities require a certain subject.
The 23 subjects are Aerospace Engineering (AE), Geology and Geophysics (GG), Agricultural Engineering (AG), Instrumentation Engineering (IN), Architecture and Planning AR Mathematics (MA), Biotechnology (BT), Mechanical Engineering (ME), Civil Engineering (CE), Mining Engineering (MN), Chemical Engineering (CH), Metallurgical Engineering (MT), Computer Science and Information Technology (CS), Petroleum Engineering (PE), Chemistry (CY), Physics (PH), Electronics and Communication Engineering (EC), Production and Industrial Engineering (PI), Electrical Engineering (EE), Textile Engineering and Fiber Science (TF), Ecology and Evolution (EY), Engineering Sciences (XE), and Life Sciences (XL).
 In India, the fee to take the test is 1,500 rupees or about $23. If you take the test internationally, the fee goes up. It's $50 to take the test in places like Singapore, Nepal, or Ethiopia. These fees are based on where you're taking the test, not where you're from.For women and people with disabilities, the fee is about 750 rupees.
You'll need to pay online with a bank account or bank card.
 The test is taken online. You will have some questions where you must write in the answer, while others are simply multiple choice. You can only use the calculator provided on the computer screen, as all outside calculators are prohibited.The test is 3 hours long and has 65 questions.
 In this test, you are penalized for wrong answers. Some questions count for 1 point, and you lose 1/3 of a point for wrong answers. Some questions count for 2 points, and you lose 2/3 of a point for wrong answers., Beyond subject material, you need to know how the test will ask you questions. The test will look at both your recall of facts, such as how well you know certain information. It will also test your comprehension, by requiring you to make a judgement based on fundamental knowledge. Finally, it will test how well you can apply that knowledge, as well as if you are able to analyze and synthesize information., The main website for the GATE exam has a syllabus you can use to study for the exam. Basically, it gives you an idea of what's on the test, plus it does provide some sample questions in some instances., The exam has a general portion that everyone must take, regardless of their subject. This section tests your verbal ability (in English) and your numerical ability, as well. The syllabus has sample questions to help you review., The syllabus has a section for each of the subjects you can take the exam in. It also breaks each subject down into sections and explains what each section will cover. However, it doesn't have sample questions for each section., When you apply to take the test, sit down and make a study plan. You don't want to leave the studying to a day or two before the test, and if you're a procrastinator, that's easy to do. Instead, make a plan where you work in a little study time each day for the amount of time you have left before the test., You can download and look at old exams. You can use these just for study purposes, or you can try taking them to see how you score. It can be helpful to see past questions. Keep in mind, though, that the questions will of course change from year to year.You can download just the one for your subject.
 Once you learn what will be on the test, take the time to review the relevant materials. Go over anything you've forgotten, in particular, and use the syllabus as a guide. Take time with each part of your subject, reviewing what you've learned in the past. If you don't know about certain parts, look them up to learn how more about them.
 You may want to sit in your chair and not get up for hours when it comes to studying. However, taking breaks helps your mental clarity. Try to take a break at least every hour, but every half hour is better. Get up and stretch. Move around, and shake out your brain., You may be tempted to keep cramming the night before. However, it's important to get enough sleep. You will be able to recall more if your brain is functioning properly, and it can't function if you don't give it what it needs, sleep.It's okay to review a bit the day before, but you won't have the time to really learn any new information.
 It can also help to try to find a way to de-stress. Stress won't help you take the exam, and stepping away from studying for an hour or two can help calm you down. Try anything you enjoy, or you could try meditation or yoga.