 Exercise really does nourish the body, mind, and heart. Whether you enjoy exercising initially or not, keep with it. Make exercise a new habit. Your body will become stronger, your brain will actually work better, and you’ll nourish your heart.There are plenty of gyms that offer monthly memberships now, meaning you get all the perks of a gym without a lengthy contract to bog you down.
 Get out there, be social, and enjoy your life. Take this opportunity to reconnect with people and activities that bring you joy. This is also an opportunity to discover new social activities that you have been meaning to look into. He will likely hear about your new social life, or he may even see photos online, and he’ll see that you’re living your life without him.See your friends
Go to dinner
Go to the theater
Go to festivals – make a day trip of it
Join a meetup group
Join a hobby club
Don’t go overboard with pictures of you going out, as it may give the appearance that you’ve lost self-control because of your breakup.
 There’s an idea that you attract what you think, and if you think positive thoughts, you’ll attract positive energy in your life. More than that, by practicing positive thinking, you’ll learn to quiet all those negative, self-doubt thoughts that tend to creep up when we least expect them. Positive thinking is a habit that takes work, but is well worth the effort.Start small. Think about a negative thought that you tend to have and how you could make it positive. Then, the next time you have that negative thought, push it away and replace it with the positive thought instead.
For example, you might have a recurring thought that you’re just not as talented as everyone else and that you’ll never be successful. Counter that negative talk. You are merely expressing fear and anxiety, not a true fact. Instead of letting your fears and worries run rampant, correct your fearful thinking. For instance, you could say, “Everyone has a talent. I just have to discover mine.” And, “There are many ways to be successful. I have succeeded in many aspects of my life already. I will find ways to be successful every day, and I will continue to find ways to improve."

, You have strengths, and you need to focus on them. Focusing on what you do well will encourage you to continue thriving and succeeding. Your success is yours, and it is something that nobody can take from you. You build it by exploiting your own talents and, as with anything, the more you do it, the better you’ll become. And your continued growth will only open up more opportunities for personal growth and advancement.You might consider your professional strengths, or your personal talents, or even your artistic abilities. Combine strengths to develop something truly unique to you.
For example, you’ve been a hobby baker for years. You absolutely love making homemade goodies and sharing them with your loved ones. Consider starting a blog in which you highlight your baking skills and recipes.
Or perhaps you’re great at organizing and juggling complex tasks. You’re the person that people go to at work to fix problems, especially when they seem too big to handle. You can use these skills and start your own business on the side as a personal assistant or even a life coach.
Maybe you absolutely love animals and would love to spend more time with them. You have an almost empathic connection with them, it seems. Take that special talent and volunteer at a sanctuary for the rehabilitation of animals or the zoo.
 You might find yourself wondering “what now?” after a breakup. You’re so accustomed to sharing experiences with another person that you may have lost touch with yourself. Getting to know yourself and figuring out who you are, what your likes and dislikes are, and even how you feel about religious and political matters are essential to moving forward. When you move forward, he will see what he’s missing out on.Start out simply and make a list. List what you like to do for fun, what adventures you’d like to take, your dream vacations, your hobby interests. Make as many lists as necessary. The acts of considering yourself and writing your thoughts down will help you get to know yourself much better.
Or you can meditate, formally or less formally, by simply closing your eyes, doing calming breathing, and allowing yourself to sit in silence. Acknowledge and quiet your thoughts so that you’re alone with only yourself with no distractions.

