 Hair is a fiber: think of it as a delicate wool. Just like wool, it is particularly fragile when wet. To minimize damage, avoid brushing your hair when it's wet, and never use heating irons (curling or flattening) on wet locks., Using a wide-tooth comb, start from the bottom of your hair and detangle the last few inches. Next, detangle a few inches higher, working your way up to the top. This gentler method detangles gradually, which is a less damaging and will lead to less breakage than yanking a comb from the roots to the ends.


Try to let hair dry just a little before combing.
 Brushing your hair causes friction, which damages the cuticle and leaves hair frizzy and dull. Detangle with a wide-tooth comb, and only brush when you need to for styling purposes.


Use a paddle brush with ball-tipped bristles, which is gentler on the hair., Towels can cause friction and can rough up the hair cuticle, causing frizz (particularly if you rub your hair with one). A soft cotton t-shirt, on the other hand, is a much gentler way to absorb excess water.Instead of wringing out your hair, wrap it in the t-shirt.
 Let your hair air dry if possible.If you do use a hair dryer, use it on the lowest setting.
If you're using a curling or flattening iron, minimize the time it contacts your hair, limiting it to 3-4 seconds per section. Always apply a heat-protective product beforehand to help prevent heat damage., This includes relaxers, perms, dyes (particularly with ammonia or peroxide), and bleaching/lightening your hair. In particular, don't re-bleach, re-relax, or re-perm hair that has already been treated, as this can drastically weaken hair. It is fine to get a touchup every six weeks or so, but this treatment is only applied to the new growth.
 There's no need to spend money on commercial hot-oil treatments. Instead, apply coconut or olive oil to dry hair, wrap it in a t-shirt (or cover with a shower cap), and let it sit overnight. Rinse it out the next day with lukewarm water. Do this treatment once a week.
 While it's a myth that this can actually make your hair grow faster, split ends can actually inhibit the growth of long, healthy hair. Neglected split ends can travel up the hair shaft all the way to the roots. What's worse, you can develop multiple split ends, where the splits themselves develop splits.To keep this problem at bay, cut your hair every 8 to 12 weeks, and ask your stylist to take off the ends only., Anything that feels like it's pulling is probably too tight and may cause traction alopecia (hair loss). Extensions and cornrows can also cause damage. Instead, stick with looser ponytails or braids.