 The water will become cloudy and there may be flakes of mascara floating around as the clumps are released from the brush., You don't need to be too rough, so gently work the brush against your palm, twisting, turning, and rubbing the bristles.Rinse the brush under warm water and continue scrubbing. Repeat this until the water runs clean and you don't see any more mascara rubbing into your palm., Be gentle so you don't bend or break any of the bristles. You can also set the brush on a paper towel and simply allow it to air dry.If more product comes off the brush as you dry it, you may want to shampoo it again. You can also use an old toothbrush to try and comb or brush out any persistent clumps.
 This will keep it free from bacteria in case you decide to use it on your lashes, hair or brows.
 The bristles will not only free the clumps from your lashes, but will also separate your lashes and give them extra definition.Make sure the mascara is still wet on your lashes, or the brush will be unable to pull out the clumps.






Use your mascara wand to groom your eyebrows. Simply brushing your eyebrows can help them look tidy, clean, and on point. A clean mascara brush is perfect for getting that polished look.Brushing your brows can also assist you when tweezing. Brush your eyebrows up so you can access the roots of the out of place hairs and better identify the hairs that fall outside your arch.Keep your brow powder in place by brushing it in with a mascara brush. Try applying your brow powder by running the mascara brush over the product and then combing it through your brows. The mascara brush gets the powder into your brows and between the hairs so it will last throughout the day.Unclog your sink with the mascara wand. If the gunk that is backing up your sink isn't too far down, try sticking the brush into the drain and twisting it around, running it around the edges. It may pick up whatever is clogging your sink, and will be especially efficient at nabbing any hairballs that might be causing the problem.