 You should be on the camera screen that allows you to create Snaps.;
, Tap the larger button in the bottom center of the screen to take a photo, or press and hold it to record a video up to 10 seconds long.


You can add a Lenses effect by tapping anywhere on the camera screen before taking a Snap. Swipe left or right to preview each Lenses effect.
Regular Snaps can be replayed once by viewers by tapping and holding the Snap immediately after viewing.
A Snap or video added to your Story can be viewed an unlimited number of times in the 24 hours before it disappears.
 This sets how long the Snap will appear onscreen before moving to the next Snap in your Story. The default setting is 3 seconds. Tap the timer in the lower-left corner to select a longer or shorter time.
 You can add a caption to your Snap by tapping on it. Tap the Scissors button to make your own sticker, using your finger to outline a portion of the image and move the sticker on the screen. Tapping the Stickers button will allow you to place emoji stickers on the Snap. The Pencil button allows you to draw on the Snap. Swiping left and right on the Snap will cycle through the available filters.
 It's in the bottom left corner of the screen and looks like a box with a "+" in the corner.


Alternatively, tap the blue Send To button in the bottom-right corner and select My Story as a destination. This method allows you to send the Snap to individuals, as well as to your Story.
Selecting individual recipients only sends the current Snap or video, not the entire Story.
 If you're near a location that supports posting to public Stories, such as a college campus, you'll see it listed below My Story and can select it as a destination, as well.
 It's in the lower-right. Your Snap or video has been added to your Story, as well as any public Story you selected, and will be viewable for 24 hours.


If this is your first time adding to your Story, you'll be prompted to enable location services for Snapchat and to acknowledge that the Snap will be visible for 24 hours. Location services are required for My Story, which location tags each of the Snaps that you add., This takes you to the Stories screen.
 The most recent Snap will be listed at the top, with older Snaps below it.
 Doing so allows you to see how many people have viewed it and how many people have taken screenshots. Tapping the trashcan icon will delete the Snap from your Story.


Snaps can only be removed from your Story one at a time.
Tap the download icon, a downward-pointing arrow in a box, in the bottom-right corner, to save the Snap or video to your device.
 To do so, tap a Story on the Stories screen, below My Story. Stories with the most recent Snaps are pushed to the top.
 Doing so opens the Stories screen.


By default, your Story is viewable by anyone you are friends with. You can change this in the Settings menu.
 Doing so shows you who can view your Story.
 You can choose "Everyone," which makes your story public, "My Friends," which is everyone on your Friends list, or "Custom." If you select "Custom," you'll be prompted to select the friends that you don't want to see your Story.

