 Either way, your lasagna will be delicious.


To make your own red sauce: Heat two Tbsp. of olive oil in a large skillet.



 


Chop one small carrot, one small stalk of celery, and two Tbsp of parsley. Once chopped, add them to the skillet. Stir them so that they are coated in the olive oil.






Reduce the heat to low and cook the vegetables and olive oil for 15 minutes. Stir occasionally until they are cooked through and soft.






Mince one clove of garlic and add it to the mixture. Turn the heat to medium.






Add one 28 oz. can of whole tomatoes with the juice. Add one teaspoon of tomato paste and two Tbsp. of freshly chopped basil.






Season the mixture with salt and pepper to your taste. Bring the sauce to a low simmer and cook for 15 minutes without the lid. The sauce should become thick. Stir occasionally.






For really flavorful sauce, let the sauce simmer all day.





;
, Place the meat mixture in a frying pan and brown it.


Skip this step if you would prefer to make a vegetarian lasagna.
 Draining the meat will reduce the grease and make your lasagna a bit healthier. Set the meat aside.
 Add an egg and beat the mixture until it is thoroughly combined. Set this bowl aside. You will use it later when layering the lasagna as a way to separate layers and hold the noodles together.
 You should shred enough for four cups of mozzarella cheese., This mixture will be used to create it's own layer in the lasagna.Another option is to combine the ricotta, Parmesan, mozzarella and egg in one large bowl. Make sure to mix them well.
 Lay all of your ingredient bowls out in an assembly line to make the layering process quicker and more efficient.


If you are making your lasagna with your friends or your kids, assign each person a layer to be in charge of. This may slow down the layering process a little but it will be fun.
 Make sure to coat the pan evenly.,, The ricotta will act as a base layer for the rest of the cheese. It will also hold your noodles together.If you chose to combine all of the cheese, spread 1/2 of the cheese mixture over the noodles. Set the other half aside.
 Keep in mind how many layers of cheese you would like and save enough of the mixture for each layer. The number of layers in your lasagna is entirely up to you., Top the meat layer with another sauce layer., Sauce, pasta noodles, cheese, and then meat covered by sauce.
 Add the rest of the sauce to cover the noodles., This will melt on top and hold the top layer together.
 Place a garnish of parsley on top. Add as much or as little as you like. This is an optional step. (to taste)., Place the lasagna on a cookie sheet in case it bubbles over.
 Remove the cover and bake for an additional 15 minutes or until the top layer of the lasagna is light brown and bubbly. Turn the oven off and let the lasagna stand for 10 minutes. This will give the lasagna time to settle.,