 If you suspect that you have a thyroid problem, then the first thing you should do is see your primary care physician for a physical exam and tests. Your doctor can easily determine if you have a thyroid problem by interviewing you, performing a physical exam, and ordering some simple blood tests.

Depending on your symptoms, lab tests may include a Thyroid stimulating hormone concentration (TSH test), Total thyroxine (T4 test), Total triiodothyronine (T3 Test), an/or a Free T4 Concentration test.
Depending on the results of your bloodwork, you may also have to have imaging, such as an ultrasound or CT scan., There are two common problems that can affect the thyroid. The thyroid can be overactive and overproduce the thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. The thyroid can also be underactive and produce insufficient amounts of the thyroid hormone, which is called hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is second only to diabetes as the most common endocrine disorder.


Both conditions can cause a goiter, which is the enlargement of the thyroid in an effort to increase and manufacture thyroid hormone. A goiter presents as a glandular swelling that can be detected as a swelling in the neck. It is only considered a symptom, not a medical disorder in and of itself., Hyperthyroidism causes an increase in metabolic activity. Symptoms of hyperthyroidism include:


Heat intolerance
Tachycardia or rapid heart rate
Weight loss
Sweating
Goiters, The most common causes of hyperthyroidism are Grave’s disease, a toxic thyroid adenoma, a toxic multinodular goiter, lymphocytic thyroiditis, heart medications such as amiodarone, or a primary pituitary disorder.


A thyroid storm is a rare cause and at the extreme end of the spectrum of hyperthyroidism. In this condition, the patient exhibits symptoms such as increased heart rate, vomiting, fever, diarrhea, dehydration, and altered mental status., Every cell in the body requires thyroid hormones and without them, signs of decreased metabolism are present. The symptoms of hypothyroidism are:


Weight gain
Depression
Dry skin
Memory Impairment
Poor concentration
Constipation
Hair thinning or loss
Joint pains
Goiters
Cold intolerance, Hypothyroidism is most commonly caused by an autoimmune destruction of the gland or by Hashimoto’s disease, which is a condition where the immune system attacks the thyroid gland. Hypothyroidism may also be caused by primary glandular insufficiency for unknown reasons, iodine deficiency, pregnancy, congenital disorders, or issues with the pituitary gland.Hypothyroidism can also result from lithium or iodine containing drugs. Talk to your doctor about getting regular tests to monitor your thyroid if you take any of these types of drugs.
 Most often, hypothyroidism is diagnosed by simple blood tests, such as the TSH test and thyroid hormone test. Generally, once you go to the doctor with the common symptoms of hypothyroidism, your doctor will run blood tests to check your hormone levels.


You may want to ask for a test if you are at higher risk of hypothyroidism. Doctors may also suggest it themselves if you are an older woman or if you are pregnant or want to become pregnant., In hypothyroidism, the body has a number of compensatory mechanisms which keep it functioning despite decreased hormone levels. In the event of sickness, such as infection, the body can increase its metabolic rate and the levels may overwhelm the body, causing coma. A severely low thyroid can even result in a myxedema coma, which is an extreme manifestation of hypothyroidism.