 Something like Photoshop, Elements, GIMP, or other graphics application that has layers.
 to make it "sticky note" sized, make the document 800 pixels square, and 300 dpi so it will look good.
 If you want, you can also draw in a static background on this layer that will appear in every frame.
 This will be the first "page" of the flipbook. We'll use a simple face drawing for this example, and move it from a serious face to a happy face.
 When you're done drawing on Layer 1, duplicate it, and then set the opacity of Layer 1 to 20%. It will appeared grayed out, making it easy to see your drawing on the next layer.
 Erase out the parts of the first layer you don't want to keep, and draw in the new positions for those elements. In this example, we erased the eyebrows, pupils, and mouth, and made small changes in each.
 Repeat the process of erasing the moving elements, and drawing in the next step in the motion until you reach your final frame.









When you're done with your tracing, make sure you set the opacity of every layer to 100%

, There are a couple ways you can turn your drawing into a flipbook. The first is to make only one layer at a time (plus the background) visible, print it out, and then switch to the next layer. When you have all the images printed out, trim off the excess paper, staple the pages together, and flip.









Trimming the paper is an important step, best accomplished with a paper cutter, not scissors. You will want every page to line up exactly on the "flipping" edges, so your flips work.
 Instead of using paper to make a flipbook, you might be able to make a little mini-movie. If your drawing program has the option to create animation, check out the user guide for the best way to accomplish that, but the basic process is this: create a frame for each step of the animation, and turn on only those layers you wish visible for that frame.









In this example, we enabled the background layer for every frame, and set each frame to a single other layer: Layer 1, Layer 1 copy, Layer 1 copy 2, etc.
Set your loop count as desired—once, 10 times, endlessly—however long you want to enjoy your animation.
 When you're done, use the export function and save your flipbook as a video file that you can put on YouTube for the world to see!








