 This fast can be performed for as long as 10 days; however, in addition to the fasting days you also need to schedule days to break your fast. If you decide to do this fast for 10 days, you’ll need five days to break the fast; therefore, you’ll have to plan for 15 days of structured eating and drinking.Absolutely no food can be consumed during the fasting period.
If necessary you can drink a cup of mint tea or some vegetable broth in the evenings of your fast, if you need some variety.
 The main part of this fast is the lemonade mixture consumed everyday. To make things easier, make up enough mixture to last for one day at a time.Mix together 2 cups of lemon or lime juice (500 ml) with 1 cup (237 ml) of maple syrup and at least 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper.
The lemon or lime juice must be from fresh lemons or limes, not bottled lemon or lime juice.
The maple syrup should be either grade B or C as these grades have a higher mineral content (or grade A "Dark Color Robust Taste").
You can add more than 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper if you wish.
 Three tablespoons of the lemonade mixture should be combined with 8 – 10 ounces (237 – 300 ml) of purified water for drinking. The 8 – 10-ounce glass of water mixed with the lemonade is considered one glass of the mixture. You should drink at least six glasses of this mixture, but you can drink as much as you want., On the mornings of the first three days of your fast, perform a warm water enema on yourself.A warm water enema can be performed using the following instructions:Purchase an enema bag from a pharmacy or drugstore in advance.
Fill the enema bag with approximately 2 cups (500 ml) of warm tap water.
Lie on your left side with your knees bent in towards your chest.
Before lying or sitting down, hang the enema bag approximately 12 – 18 inches (30 – 46 cm) above where your rectum will be.
Remove the cap from the end of the enema tube and insert the tip 3 – 4 inches (8 – 10 cm) into your rectum.
Open the valve on the enema bag and allow the water to flow slowly into your rectum.
Hold the water inside your rectum for at least 15 minutes before releasing it into the toilet.
 On each of the three days of your juice fast, take two lower bowel capsules three times a day (morning, afternoon, evening). Don't take any other vitamins or mineral supplements during these three days.A lower bowel capsule contains cascara sagrada extract, buckthorn, ginger root, goldenseal root, raspberry leaves, fennel seeds, turkey rhubarb, lobelia, and cayenne pepper.You can make the capsules yourself (if you’re familiar with herbal remedies), or you can purchase them at a natural health food store.
Cascara sagrada extract, buckthorn, and turkey rhubarb help control the motility of your colon, similar to a laxative. However, cascara sagrada extract also helps tone your colon.
Ginger root and fennel seeds reduce griping or nausea in the intestines while performing a cleanse or fast.
Goldenseal helps make mucous membranes stronger.
Raspberry leaves are a demulcent, which soothes the intestines.
Lobelia helps control nerve reactions in the intestines.
Cayenne pepper increases blood circulation.

