 An endoscopy can serve several purposes. Your doctor might advise an endoscopy to investigate symptoms such as nausea or vomiting. If your doctor recommends an endoscopy, take time to learn why.In addition to investigating digestive symptoms, your doctor might use the endoscopy to collect tissue samples. This is also known as a biopsy.
Tissue samples can help your doctor to diagnose your condition. The tissue samples can be tested for diseases such as anemia and certain cancers.
If your doctor suggests this procedure, you do not need to immediately be alarmed. It is a common procedure and used to diagnose many conditions.;
, Talk to your doctor about what the procedure entails. You can also ask him to provide additional resources, such as pamphlets or useful web sites. If you know what to expect, you will feel more comfortable about having the procedure.You will be awake during an endoscopy, however you will also be slightly sedated with a rapid onset and short duration medication. It is a same day procedure that takes place in a doctor's office or exam room.
During the procedure, you will lie down either on your back or side. Your doctor may give you a sedative to help you relax.
The endoscope, which includes a small camera, will be inserted into your mouth. Your doctor will extend the scope down into your esophagus so that the camera can capture images.
Your doctor might use other small tools to gather the tissue samples. You will not be able to talk during the procedure, but you will be able to breathe and make sounds.
 It is important to understand that there are actually two common types of endoscopy. One is the upper endoscopy and the other is a colonoscopy. Make sure to clarify with your doctor which type of procedure you need.Your doctor will use an endoscopy to view the upper digestive tract, or a colonoscopy to view the lower digestive tract.
The upper endoscopy is the procedure where the scope is inserted through the mouth. It will allow your doctor to look at the small intestines and stomach in addition to the esophagus.
During a colonoscopy, the camera is attached to a flexible tube inserted through the rectum. This procedure allows your doctor to examine the large intestine, colon, and rectum.
Both procedures are used to diagnose disease and investigate symptoms. Both are common, same day procedures.
 You may be disconcerted if your doctor recommends an endoscopy. It is normal to be nervous about undergoing a new procedure. Take time to ask your doctor several questions about his recommendation.Gain an understanding of why you need the procedure. Try saying, "What, specifically, makes you think this procedure is necessary for me?"
You can also ask about the procedure itself. You might say, "Can you tell me if it will hurt?"
Ask your doctor about possible side effects. You can also ask how regularly he performs the procedure.
Feel free to take notes. You might hear some unfamiliar medical terms and want to write down what they mean.

