 You can make your paper longer by adding in viewpoints that are different than your own. This could be an opposing viewpoint on your topic or a viewpoint that is slightly different than your own. Adding in different viewpoints can help to make your paper stronger and help you reach the required word count.For example, if you are writing a paper on reproductive rights in Oregon, you may include a section on an opposing viewpoint on abortion rights from a credible source.
 You can also increase word count in the paper by adding in more examples from your sources. Look in your body paragraphs for spots where another example may be relevant to support your idea. Use examples that are more detailed from your source text to strengthen your argument and add to the word count.For example, you may add another example from the source text that illustrates the theme of your essay. Or you may include another case study to support your argument in a paper.
 Consider if there are other references or sources that you can add to your paper to make it more well rounded. Add in references from other texts or include a new source that feels relevant to your topic.For example, if you are writing a paper on reproductive rights in Oregon, you may look for a recent government source that you can then pull content from to add to your paper. Or you may add scholarly articles to your paper to help support your ideas more fully.
 Try not to simply put in fluff, or unnecessary content, into your paper to increase the word count. Fluff includes things like stating the obvious and repeating the same ideas or thoughts several times. Avoid being redundant to help reach your word count. This will only tell your instructor that you are trying to pad your paper, rather than delve deeper into your ideas.You should also avoid using overly complex words in your sentences. Do not try to increase word count by adding a lot of “very,” “really,” and “rather” in your sentences. This will only clutter up your essay and weaken your sentences.

