 Your skin might itch, but don’t scratch it. This can worsen your skin condition and even cause skin infections. If you can’t stop yourself from scratching, try covering the area with cool, wet compresses or wearing gloves. Take immediate measures to improve the itching – use an over-the-counter antihistamine like Benadryl, Zyrtec, or Allegra, or apply calamine lotion or 1% hydrocortisone cream to the area.For severe itching, visit your doctor for medical treatment.
 Dry indoor air can worsen flaking and itching. Get a humidifier for your bedroom to add moisture to the air.Make sure you keep your humidifier clean so it doesn’t grow mold or bacteria.
 Because eczema is chronic – long-lasting and recurring – you should see your doctor for help. They can refer you to a skin expert, or dermatologist, if necessary. Some medical treatments can help to clear up or improve your skin, creating a smoother, clearer surface for makeup.


See your doctor for treatment right away if you have signs of a skin infection, such as an open sore or cracked skin that looks red, inflamed, or is leaking fluid., Ask your doctor if a corticosteroid cream or ointment may improve your condition.This prescription medication can reduce the redness and itchiness from inflammation. It’s important to use this medication only as directed to prevent damaging your skin.
 Some medications affect your immune system and can help prevent flare-ups of eczema when applied to the skin. Medicine like tacrolimus (Protopic) and pimecrolimus (Elidel) may be an option for you if you have severe eczema. They can have some serious side effects, so are used after other options have failed.Discuss these with your doctor or dermatologist.
 Stress and anxiety can worsen flare-ups of eczema. Try yoga, meditation, deep breathing, taking a walk – anything that helps you relax. If you have a stressful lifestyle due to school or family, practice mindfulness meditation or learn stress management skills.


Talk to a friend or family member about what is stressing you. You can also confide in a school counselor, church figure, or your coach.

