 You can buy ant baits, but those will likely be chemical preparations that don't fit well with natural attempts to control ants in the home. It's easy to make your own ant baits. A particularly effective one is made with boric acid. Boric acid and sodium borate salts are naturally found in minerals like sassolite.When ants walk in or over boric acid, they ingest it and die. Boric acid is poisonous and should not be ingested or come in contact with the eyes, nose, or mouth. Handle it with gloves.A sample boric acid bait could be made with boric acid and maple syrup. Drizzle a spoonful of syrup on a plate or saucer. Sprinkle this liberally with boric acid.Use a skewer, toothpick, or cotton swab to distribute the acid evenly through the syrup.
Place your boric acid bait wherever the ants are frequenting. Keep it out of the reach of children or pets. This method can take a week to take effect., There are many foods ants are unable to digest. These methods are effective, though you might have to clean up dead ants after the fact. Spread the following bait foods where the ants are appearing:



Corn meal. This method is especially great around pets or children, as cornmeal itself is not poisonous.
Cream of wheat (farina). Spread this raw where there are ants. It will expand in their stomachs, killing them.
Coffee grounds. Ants are sensitive to caffeine. Leave used coffee grounds where the ants will carry it home and eat it. This method takes a few weeks for results., An invasion of carpenter ants is serious. They can compromise or damage your house structure. Piles of broken wings and ants with longer than average bodies are indications of carpenters. You may also see fecal pellets (which look like sawdust) and they can sometimes be heard rustling in the walls. Some ways to deal with them include:Baiting them. They like sugar, so you can turn this against them. Use the boric acid method described previously.
Vacuuming their nests out of infested walls, if possible.
Calling an exterminator. Professionals can drill holes in the wall and blow in diatomaceous earth, silica aerogel, or boric acid inside to eliminate the infestation. Pyrethrin spray can also be used.

