 If you're going to welcome yourself to adulthood by having an all-out crazy celebration of your self and your ability to consume the boozes legally, you have to do it with a plan for staying safe and for being a little responsible. If you're going to party, you might as well party right.


Bring a go-bag with you. Have some emergency supplies on hand in a backpack, purse, or other carrying case: energy drink, sports drink, prophylactic, extra keys, extra cash, cellphone charger, toothbrush, and list of emergency numbers. Never a bad idea.
Let several people know your plans for the night in case things go awry. Let a neighbor, a parent, a housemate, or someone else you trust know where you'll be, what you're planning on doing, and what to do in an emergency. It's not lame to take care of yourself.
 If you're going to celebrate your 21st with a night on the town and you're planning on having a couple drinks, make a designated driver the first priority. Elect a friend to stay sober and chauffeur you around, in exchange for a free dinner, if necessary. If you live in the city, walk around, take public transportation, or use taxi cabs to travel. If you've got the funds, a limo is always a great party option. Don't drive after drinking, under any circumstances.


Before you go out, program the number of late-night taxi services into your phone. That way, if you end up unsure about how to get around, you can call quickly and easily and make sure that you'll be safe.
If you're walking home late at night, always walk in a group and make sure that everyone gets home safely. Make sure that everyone in your group has already exchanged numbers before setting out for the night, in case you get separated.
 Depending on your plants, it might be fun to hit up a bunch of different places in a small area, head to a few special locations, or pick the perfect spot and hole up there for the evening. All approaches can be fun ways to party.


If you want to bar-crawl, find an area that's densely packed with cool bars, so you won't have to worry about transporting yourself in between them, and can walk. Start by eating dinner at the brew-pup and trying a flight of the house made beers to see what you like. Then have an after-dinner cocktail at the fancy bar across the street, and finish off the night with cheap drinks and pool at the dive a few blocks away.
Alternatively, find one place and warn them you're coming. If you've got a favorite restaurant, pick somewhere you'll be able to have a good meal, accommodate a large group, and hang out afterward for drinks, if necessary. A super-trendy or popular restaurant might not want a huge table taking up space for an entire evening. You'll probably want to call ahead to make a reservation and let them know how many people will be attending.
 No place close by where you want to party? Go where the party is. If you plan it out far enough ahead of time and have the funds to pay for lodging, heading somewhere exotic for a birthday celebration will make sure you kick off your drinking years in style.


In America, Las Vegas and New Orleans are great towns in which to turn 21, with a big party-culture, plenty to do for leisure, and friendly open-container laws.
If you head to Europe or elsewhere, know that turning 21 carries less of a cultural significance than in the United States, since the drinking age is usually different. It'll still be a blast for you, but shouting that you're 21 and waving your ID in peoples' faces will probably just earn some confused looks., It's your birthday, so you're the one who gets to decide how classy, trashy, or somewhere in between your birthday is going to be. Your sister might be after you to eat raw oysters at some fancy seaside resort, when all you want to do is hang out with your friends. Consider the guests, the venues, and the type of partying you're after when considering the cost.



Classy option: Plan an exclusive wine tasting with a few close friends and get dressed up in fancy clothes for your 21st. Then score reservations at a trendy small-plate restaurant back in town and sample deserts with after-dinner cocktails somewhere else. Make like you're in Sex and the City, and live it up right. Make it less about "getting drunk" and more about "becoming an adult." If you happen to get a little tipsy in the process, all the better.Budget option: It's always a popular option to throw a campy bar-crawl, frat-style. Hit up the rankest dive bars in your town with 20 friends, throw darts and dance wearing plastic leis, and end the night with some late night Taco Bell. It's about memories, not spending a ton of money. Cut loose and have a blast on the cheap.
 It's good to make plans, but no night on the town should feel like a forced march. If you make reservations at too many different places and have a really specific list of cocktails, appetizers, and different things you want to try before a certain hour, it can seem less like a party and more like work. Remember that you're supposed to have fun and try to allow some time to fly by the seat of your pants.


If you have to make reservations, make one for dinner, and go there first before you do anything else. Afterwards, leave some of your plans up in the air. Make sure at least one person has a smart phone and can look things up on the fly.
One fun way of celebrating can be to turn over the decision making process to someone else and let them plan everything. That way you can be free to sit back and party. Where you're going next? Who cares! Let someone else lead the way.
 Turning 21 might seem like the biggest deal in the world to you right now, but the guy trying to get a quick bite and a beer after work probably doesn't want to be hassled by 20 drunk college kids, and the wait staff is probably just trying to get through their shift as quickly as possible. Don't make a scene and try to be as considerate as possible with others.


Leave a big tip if you've got a big party. If you've got a big group of drunk people making lots of noise, mess, and drawing lots of attention to itself, you need to compensate your servers with a generous tip. If the party is big enough, an automatic tip may be included, but consider going above in some cases, if you can afford it.
If you've got a large, unwieldy party that's hopping between bars, try a helpful friend-making trick: buy drinks for strangers. A table trying to have a quiet dinner keeps making annoyed faces at your table? Don't make a big deal out of it, or complain. Send them another round on your tab and show a little class.
Pay the fun forward. If it's your 21st, fill a bag with 21 beers and give them out to people at the bar you're worried you might have annoyed, like souvenirs for your party. They'll chill out. Be the beer fairy.
 Some people like to start partying at the first possible minute. Make your 21st birthday start the last night of your 20th by waiting until the very moment the clock strikes midnight to show your ID to the bouncer at a bar. Walk in a liberated 21 year old.


If you want to get especially ambitious, some people try to keep the party going for all 24 hours of your actual birthday. That means you've got to keep partying until the following midnight. If you do this, the name of the game is hydration. Schedule some down time to drink a couple Gatorades, catch up on some bad TV, and chill out. No one can survive 24 hours of straight drinking.
 Eventually, your birthday's going to have to end, and it's better that it ends safely and probably sooner rather than later. Some bars can get a little hairy in the after-hours, and it's not usually a good idea to get caught out too late. Make sure you stay in a group and head home at a reasonable hour.


Before you go out, give yourself a loose curfew, so you won't have to worry about decided when to go home later. Call a cab ahead of time and arrange for it to arrive when you'd like to leave. Then you can enjoy your night worry free.

