 You cannot take your temperature during this process. To ensure maximum longevity of the battery you should allow for the device to charge fully before its first use.;
, The current time will be displayed.
 Press the minus button once in order to take you to the alarm setting level. The alarm symbol will appear on the display. The round button should then be held down for some 5 seconds until the alarm symbol begins to flash. Move the hours up or down using the minus and plus buttons until you have reached the desired time for the alarm to wake you in the morning. By pressing the round button again you reach the minute-level, where you proceed equally to set the minutes. Once you have completed the process you keep pressing the round button for 5 seconds again and an acoustic signal notifies you that the alarm-time has been set successfully. The alarm symbol stops flashing and the desired wake-up time appears on the display. Now that you set the time, go on to the next step to activate the alarm.
 The press the minus button again for the alarm-bell symbol to start flashing. Now press the plus button to complete the process. Your alarm is now activated.
 This should be your very first step before taking your temperature for the first time with the LADY-COMP® BABY. To enter the data you first need to activate the "M" symbol. You do so by pressing the round button once. The date will appear and you can then use the minus and plus buttons to go to the desired date.


Begin with the input of the data in chronological order, entering the one farthest away in time. You keep pressing the round button for some 5 seconds until the letter "M" flashes on the display. Now press the plus button so the "M" remains illuminated. To correct the entry simply press minus again.
You repeat the proceedings with every first day of your past menstruation, the LADY-COMP® BABY will add the length of 3 days for your period automatically.
Entering when you menstruate: On days you are menstruating you may have to activate the "M" function as described above under "entering past menstruation data". However, the "M" may already start flashing after your temperature reading on some days. In those cases you simply press the plus button when you are in fact having your period and the M will remain illuminated, and on days you do not you press the minus button until the "M" disappears from the display. It is important to enter "M" on a minimum of 3 consecutive days.
 This data facilitates cycle evaluation and is therefore recommended to be entered. The BMI calculates your body mass based on your age, weight and height. To enter this data hold down both the plus and minus button simultaneously for 5 seconds. The symbol for birthdate lights up. Hold down the round key for 5 seconds until the year flashes. You can use the plus and minus buttons to adjust the numbers to display your year of birth. Save the changes by holding down the round button for another 5 seconds.


To enter your height you only need to press the round button quickly. Then hold it down for 5 seconds. The height symbol will flash. Use the minus and plus buttons again to enter your height and save the changes by holding the round button down for another 5 seconds.
Lastly, enter your weight using the same proceedings: Press the round button quickly before holding it for another 5 seconds. When the weight symbol flashes enter your weight using the plus and minus signs and save the changes by holding the round button once again for some 5 seconds.
Now you press the round button quickly for the LADY-COMP® BABY to calculate the BMI based on the data you just entered. The calculated figure will appear on the display. By pressing the round button one last time all entries will be stored safely and the time will be displayed again.
 After you have entered all the data you can look forward to the next morning, where your LADY-COMP® BABY will wake you up gently for the very first time.


The alarm tone rings at the desired wake-up time and you can switch it off by pressing any button. The thermometer-symbol is now illuminated signifying that the device is now ready for the temperature reading.
Place the thermometer under your tongue. Make sure the tip of the thermometer is right at the very back of your lower tongue to either the left or right of the frenulum, and close your mouth. Press any button to start the temperature reading.
The thermometer-symbol now starts flashing. This procedure will take some 1- minutes. The LADY-COMP® BABY will signal with a beep that the temperature has been taken and the measurement value will be displayed. The high-precision thermometer displays any temperatures between 34.5 and 41 degrees Celsius, and will display the letter "F" above a temperature of 37.8 °C (100.0 °F).
Your fertility for the next 24 hours will now be displayed. The Lady comp will display the fertility level of the day by color-indication.

A red light means you are fertile, a green light means you are not. A Yellow light indicates that the computer is in its learning or transitory phase. And a flashing red light signifies that today you are predicted to ovulate.
When the red, yellow and green indication lights are flashing simultaneously you are probably pregnant. A pregnancy is confirmed by the 18th day following conception by constant illumination of the three lights.
 Adjust the date as usual using the plus and minus keys. Upon completion press and hold the round key down again for 5 seconds until the acoustic signal confirms the input. The year adjusts automatically on the 1st of January of every new year without any need for resetting. This also applies to leap years. You may only need to change the date and time when traveling or due to seasonal time changes where applicable.


When proceeding from the time display you hold the round button down for 5 seconds. The hours will begin to flash and you can use the plus and minus buttons to adjust the hours. Upon completion press the round button again shortly to move up to the minute-level, using the same technique to adjust the time. To finish the process hold the round button down again for 5 seconds. The flashing will stop and an acoustic signal confirms your input.

