 Though caffeine can make you crash and be even more tired than you were to begin with, if you're reaching those late hours of the night and your eyes feel like sandbags, if may be time to have some emergency caffeine.

Start off with a cup of black tea. Its side-effects will be less intense than the effects of coffee.






If you're already a big coffee drinker, have 2 or 3 cups.






If you're really desperate, drink an energy drink like Mother, Monster or Red Bull. Make sure you do not consume a lot of these drinks, preferably 4 cans at the maximum! This will certainly give you a boost of energy for an hour or two, but the crash afterwards can be significant. It's better to have experience with energy drinks before chugging one to pull an all-nighter.
 When you're trying to stay up all night, you should eat just enough to maintain a healthy level of energy, but not so much that you feel bogged down and sluggish. If you've already eaten your three healthy meals, then you shouldn't be too hungry while you're staying up all night, but there are still a few foods that can help you stay awake if you're having a craving.

Eat a hard-boiled egg or quickly make an egg sunny-side up if you're at home.






Eat a handful of almonds, cashews, or pecans.
Eat a crispy apple, celery, or carrot sticks. Just crunching into these foods will wake up your mouth and will make you more alert. Bananas are great for all-nighters because they keep you awake for longer than usual and give you a great source of Vitamin B1 and potassium.
Have a piece of toast with a little bit of peanut butter.
If you're craving a fourth meal, try to have a healthy carbohydrate like brown rice and protein like turkey. If you can't avoid ordering out, try picking foods that aren't too greasy or fatty.
 Staying hydrated can help you stay awake significantly. Drink a glass of ice water to shock your body awake, and drink water frequently to keep your body hydrated and to continue to feel refreshed.


Drinking lots of water will make you have to go to the bathroom often. This can also help keep you from dozing off.

