 For this method, your number should begin written as pounds and ounces. For example, 7 pounds, 2 ounces.
 It should be fairly clear from how you wrote the measurement in step 1, but it's just the number of pounds. When you're done with the conversion, this number will be what you write first, to the left of the decimal point.


For 7 pounds, 2 ounces, you would circle the 7.
For 15 pounds, 6 ounces, you would circle the 15.
If your original measurement is only written in ounces, and the total number of ounces is less than 16, the number of whole pounds will just be zero. For example, 13 ounces could be written 0 pounds, 13 ounces.
If your original measurement is just written in ounces, and the total number of ounces is greater than 16, then the the total number of pounds will be included as all the numbers to the left of the decimal point in your answer at step 5. For example, 100 ounces divided by 16 equals 6.25 pounds. We don't have to look at the original measurement to find the total pounds, because it's included before the decimal point in the answer.
 Again, this should be clear from how you've written the measurement in step 1.


If you have 7 pounds, 2 ounces, then there are 2 ounces.
 There are 16 ounces in every pound. To find your tenths of a pound, you want to divide your total number of ounces by 16. This should give you all the numbers that come after the decimal point., If you want, you can round so that you have fewer numbers after the decimal. The answer will be less precise, but simpler. To round, just choose the number you want to end with, then look at the next digit. If it's 4 or less, the first number stays the same. If it's 5 or more, the first number rounds up by 1.


2 ounces divided by 16 equals .125 pounds. If you wanted to round it to the tenths place, which is the number right after the decimal point, you would look at the next number. Here, the next number is 2, and 2 is less than 4, so we would round to .1 pounds.
100 ounces divided by 16 equals 6.25 pounds. In this case, you not only get your tenths of a pound, you also get the total number of whole pounds, which is the number before the decimal.

Say you want to round 6.25 pounds to the tenths place. 5 is the next number, and it is equal to or greater than 5, so you would round up. The rounded answer would be 6.3 pounds.
 This number is your final answer.


7 pounds, 2 ounces can be written as 7.125 pounds.
100 ounces is 6.25 pounds.

