 Sit down with your partner and make a list of all people possible to be in your wedding party. Include whom you want, whom your partner wants, whom you feel obligated to invite, and whom you want to invite. Think about options from family to high school friends to newer friends you’ve made in the professional world.;
, Your siblings will be your siblings forever. Even if you might be closer with your best work buddy than your brother right now, your brother will always be your brother. Weddings are mainly about family; you should seriously consider choosing your siblings for your wedding party. Leaving your siblings out could cause some unpleasant and unnecessary family drama, too., Even if you’re the one doing most of the wedding planning, remember that your partner’s family probably has just as much drama as yours. Your partner has just as many obligations to siblings and friends as you do. If your fiance asks you to invite his younger sister to be a bridesmaid, do it. The wedding party is a mixture of people that is supposed to love and support both of you., This is not a hard and fast rule, but it is a general guideline given to most people planning weddings. It might seem uneven to have a 300 person wedding with 1 bridesmaid or a 75 person wedding with 10 groomsmen. Use this rule as a guideline to narrowing down your list of potential wedding partiers.However, don’t feel limited to sticking to the traditional gender balance (having an equal number of bridesmaids and groomsman). You can have more of one than the other, and you can also put them on different sides of the altar.
Don’t forget about the size of your altar! If you’re getting married somewhere with limited space, make sure that you can fit your wedding party there comfortably.
 Before you send out official invitations or post on social media about your wedding, ask your potential wedding partiers if they want to be in the wedding. They might have other commitments, have a fear of standing up in public, or just don’t want to be in your wedding. This is okay. Give them a chance to say “no” and don’t ask them to give you an answer as soon as you ask. Let them think about it. Being in a wedding party can be a decision that is financially challenging and demands a lot of time., Do you need your bridesmaids there every second of the way to reassure and help you, or are you the kind of person who needs his groomsmen there just for the day of the wedding? No matter what, your wedding party should know their responsibilities for before, during, and after the wedding. Being in a wedding party is a commitment, and your members should know all of their responsibilities before they agree to be in the wedding.


Think about where your wedding party lives and what’s going on in their lives. Your friend from across the country might not be able to help you assemble flower arrangements, but maybe she can make one weekend trip to go dress shopping with you., In your wedding party, you want to include people who are positive, supportive, and loving of both you and your partner. You should not choose anyone you suspect will be dramatic or demanding--this is your day.Your entire wedding party should also be filled with people who are excited about your marriage; it might not be the place for your cousin who thinks your fiance is annoying or your friend who is visibly jealous and resentful of you.