 This means that you should try to limit any processed or prepared foods and cook from scratch as much as possible. Avoid boxed, canned, and “ready to eat” foods as much as possible.


Start shopping in the bulk section of your grocery store to get a better price for beans, rice, and pasta.
Buy fresh vegetables as much as possible. Frozen vegetables are fine, but fresh, organic, in-season vegetables are the best choice.
If you are pressed for time, try using a crock pot to cook your meals.;
, Complex carbohydrates are made up of individual sugar molecules that are strung together in long, complicated and often branched chains.Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods. Examples of complex carbohydrates include whole grain bread, brown rice, buckwheat, millet, quinoa, oats, starchy vegetables such as sweet potatoes, corn, pumpkin and squash, beans, peas, lentils, nuts and seeds.
Avoid simple carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include added sugars like glucose, sucrose (table sugar), and fructose (most often added as high fructose corn syrup or HFCS). Consuming HFCS has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and obesity., Water helps flush out naturally produced toxins and helps maintain mineral (electrolyte) balance. Aim for about eight 8 ounce glasses of water per day. Talk to your doctor to determine if you have any special fluid restrictions or needs that you should consider.


Skip sugary beverages. Sugar by itself does not cause diabetes, but ingesting more sugar-filled beverages is linked to an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes.Try drinking water, unsweetened sparkling water, or unsweetened iced tea instead of sugary soda.
 Reading labels can help you determine the amount of sugars in food. Just keep in mind that manufacturers are not required to list added sugars. That is why it is best to choose whole, unprocessed foods as often as possible.Avoid any food that includes terms like “enriched” or “refined.”
Unprocessed foods do contain some sugar, but it is not found in high levels and it is usually in the form of complex carbohydrates.
 Serving sizes vary depending on the type of food and your needs will depend on your weight and other factors such as age, sex, and activity level. A general recommendation is to have 45-60 grams of complex carbohydrates at every meal.Eat most of your complex carbohydrates at breakfast and lunch and only have a small portion of complex carbohydrates for dinner.
 Getting enough fiber is essential to preventing and treating diabetes.Flaxseeds are great sources of fiber and they are an excellent source of the essential omega-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA.


In addition to providing essential nutrients that may help to treat and prevent diabetes, flaxseed and the fiber they contain can help with bowel movements and can help you decrease blood cholesterol as well. Flaxseeds are also associated with decreased risk of colon, breast and prostate cancer, and they may also help with menopause symptoms.Try to include a tablespoon of ground flaxseeds at every meal or 3 tablespoons of flaxseed a day.
Use a coffee grinder to grind your own flaxseeds or keep pre-frozen ground seeds in your freezer.
 Getting enough quality protein is an important component of diabetes prevention.Make sure that any poultry you eat is skinless to reduce the amount of unhealthy animal fats you consume and eat a couple of servings of wild-caught fish each week.


Wild-caught fish such as salmon, cod, haddock and tuna are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential to good health.
 Eat plenty of non-root or starchy vegetables such as broccoli, leafy greens, cauliflower, and beans. These types of vegetables are low in calories, high in fiber, and nutrient dense.However, when you eat starchy vegetables and root vegetables, you will need to take the carbohydrate level into account.


You can also eat fruit. Being diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes does not mean you can’t eat ANY sugars. It is just important to control the amount of sugars that you do eat., The diet diary should record everything you eat and any changes in how you feel. Make sure to record the quality of your sleep and make notes about any changes that may be due to the foods you are eating.


Keeping a diet diary can also help you to keep track of what and how much you eat during the day. This may make you more aware of what and how much you are eating and help you to cut down on certain foods if necessary.
For example, if you find that every time you eat a particular food, you get very gassy and have some bloating, you can avoid that food in the future.
Take note of potential food sensitivities. Food sensitivities may make you more prone to obesity and that is a risk factor for diabetes.If you suspect that you are sensitive to some food, eliminate that food for at least two weeks.
The most common food sensitivities are to gluten (a protein found in wheat products), dairy products, milk/ lactose, tree nuts, shellfish, eggs and soy.
 Low Vitamin D levels may be associated with an increased risk of gestational diabetes. Have your Vitamin D levels checked and take supplementation if you are deficient. 1000-2000 IU/day of Vitamin D have been safely used in pregnant women.During sunny days, spend 10-15 minutes in the afternoon sun with some skin on your arms and legs exposed.

