 Sun poisoning is another term for severe sunburn and can cause redness and blistering of the skin as well as dizziness, nausea, dehydration, headache, and pain. If you have sun poisoning, get out of the sun right away. Apply a cold compress to the area, take aspirin or acetaminophen (Tylenol) to reduce swelling and manage pain, and apply a cooling gel or ointment that contains aloe vera.Do not apply ice to the sunburn. You can use a compress soaked in ice water, or take a quick, cool shower or bath. Don't stay in the water too long, as this can cause your skin to try out further.Try a 1% over-the-counter cortisone cream for the first few days, which can reduce redness and swelling. Follow the instructions on the container and do not overuse, as this can cause thinning of the skin.
If your face swells due to sun poisoning or you have severe blistering, see your doctor immediately.
 Sometimes referred to as a sun allergy, people with photosensitivity burn particularly easily or have severe reactions to sun exposure. Just a few moments in the sun may cause a rash if you have this condition. Symptoms include a pink or red skin rash with blotchy blisters, scaly patches, raised spots, itching and burning. If you believe you have photosensitivity, see your doctor for treatment.Photosensitivity may be caused by certain medications (including sulfonamides, tetracycline, and thiazide diuretics); exposure to certain chemicals, fragrances, or plants; herbs (including St. John's wort); autoimmune diseases; or a metabolic disorder called porphyria.
 This rare condition occurs when the skin swells and develops hives when within minutes of exposure to natural sunlight or UV rays. The rash usually disappears very quickly, often within minutes, once the person gets out of the sun.Preventative care is the best way to treat solar urticaria. Minimize exposure to sun and keep your face protected with a broad-spectrum sunscreen and always wear a hat.

Oral antihistamines may reduce the reaction, but will not prevent it entirely.
 There are a variety of natural products in gel, lotion or cream form that can sooth, moisturize and help heal a sunburned face, such as aloe vera gel, vitamin E oil, lavender oil, cucumber-based cream, or a cold compress made from chilled chamomile tea.Make a facial mask from thick Greek yogurt — it cools, moisturizes and alkalizes damaged skin.
 The sun can feel great and offer many health benefits, such as triggering the production of vitamin D, but too much of it at a time will burn your skin and dry it out, resulting in redness, blistering, inflammation, tightness and sensitivity. Protecting yourself with an SPF 30 or higher will help prevent sunburn.


Wear a wide-brimmed hat when in the sun. T
Wear clothes made of a light-colored, breathable material.
Wearing large framed sunglasses may also help because they can cover a greater surface area of your face, as well as protecting your eyes. Make sure they are 100% UV protective.
Seek shade under a tree, umbrella, etc., if you're outside during a period of high UV radiation.

