 This should always be the first step when taking on any plumbing project in your home.


Also have some rags and a bucket handy in case you need to clean up water quickly.;
, The faucet stems are the parts of your faucet that control the flow of water. There are a ton of different styles out there but they all fall into two general categories: washerless or washer-type. While changing out these two different types of faucets is very similar, you will need to know what type you have in order to replace it with the appropriate type.


A washerless faucet has a single handle that rests on top of a metal plate. This type of faucet controls the mixing of hot and cold with one handle.
A washer-type faucet usually has two or three handles. With this type of stem, you have to adjust the mix of hot and cold with two separate handles. If you have a third handle, it is usually to divert water between the tub and a shower head.
 If changing out a washer-type faucet, open up both the hot and cold water handles to make sure neither has any water pressure.
 Some handles will have a decorative cover, concealing the screws underneath. If so, gently pop off the decorative cover with a flat-head screwdriver.
 The mechanism behind the handle will vary quite a bit, depending on model and maker of the faucet., The entire stem should disconnect from the water pipes. Use caution when removing the stem of the faucet.


Pay attention to whether the exposed pipe has a “male” (exterior threads) or “female” (interior threads) connection. This will be important when buying the replacement.
If you cannot easily figure out how to remove it, you may want to consult a professional. Damaging the pipes inside the wall when removing the stem could cost you a lot more in the end than hiring a plumber to replace your faucet in the first place. Not to mention that they have the right tools for the job!, While the mechanism inside the stems can fail, leaks at the stem are usually caused by worn washers. If this is the case with yours, consider simply replacing the washers and keeping your faucet. It is much easier, cheaper, and less wasteful to replace the washers instead of the whole faucet.
 This new faucet should have the same measurements as your old faucet so that it can easily screw into the wall.


Make sure that the valves on the faucet have a connection that will screw onto either the male or female bathtub pipe connection. If the connection is “male-male,” for instance, then you will need to purchase an adapter.
 Wrap the exposed threads on either the faucet or the bathtub pipe with Teflon tape to prevent leakage.


If your new faucet does not look like it will attach easily to your pipes, don't be afraid to return it and try another. It will be easier to get a new faucet in the style of the old one than to alter your plumbing.
 Tighten the connection by hand until the faucet is tightly attached to the pipe and in the right position to turn “on” and “off” the water supply.
 Remember the position they were in before you removed them and be sure to reattach them in that same position.
 If you have a leak, check that the connection points you just made are tight enough.

