 Sometimes, stress and too much emotion can simply come from stretching yourself too thin. Learn to say no to some of your commitments so you can fully commit to the other ones.The best way to say "no" is to just keep it simple. That is, don't offer explanations, just say "No, I'm sorry, I can't do that." You don't have to justify why you don't have the time to commit to something.You don't have to say no all the way. For instance, if someone asks you to bake cupcakes for a bake sale, you could say that you don't have the time to bake them, but you would be willing to buy some if that was acceptable., Don't let a list of tasks overwhelm you. Make a plan to get things done. Start with what's most important, and schedule time to get it done. Once you've started completing items on your list, you'll feel stress start to melt off., Writing in a journal about what you're feeling can be very cathartic. Over time, it can also help you learn what makes you upset, which can take some of the sting out of the situation.


If you don't know where to begin, ask yourself what moments you enjoyed and what moments you didn't enjoy in your day. Look at what emotions contributed to each situation.
 Meditation can be as simple as learning to listen to your breathing. It's taking a step back from the world, taking your focus from your stress and relaxing your body.For instance, one type of meditation involves repeating a mantra over and over. A mantra is a short word or phrase that helps focus the mind, such as "om." However, your mantra can be whatever you want. Concentrate on letting your thoughts go, concentrating on repeating that phrase over and over., Hobbies such as knitting or even solving jigsaw puzzles help you step away from your emotions. They are like meditation in that way, helping you clear your mind., Exercise is a great way to manage stress. For one, you get lost in the motion, and it becomes a form of meditation, helping you forget what's wrong. In addition, it ups your endorphins, which make you feel better about life.Aim for 150 minutes of aerobic activity a week, if you're exercising moderately., Sometimes, it's not you. Sometimes, it's the people you hang out with. The next time you find yourself in a situation where someone makes you feel hurt, tell that person. You can't make the situation better if you don't say something.It may be hard to get the words out, but the words don't need to be anything special. All you have to say is, "What you hurt me, and I would appreciate it if you don't do it again.", If you're constantly feeling put-down by the people around you, you may need to get new friends. Of course, give the people around you a chance to change. However, if they repeatedly hurt you, maybe it's time to find some new friends.

