 Sleep apnea can have many different symptoms, so it is difficult to diagnose based on the symptoms alone. If you suspect that you have sleep apnea, then see your doctor as soon as possible. Some serious symptoms to watch for include:Snoring or breathing interruptions while asleep, observed by your partner
Waking up gasping for air or choking
Shortness of breath upon waking
Having pauses in your breathing (noticed by your partner)
Feeling drowsy during the day, or like your sleep has not been restful or restorative
Any of the following health issues: hypertension, mood disorder, cognitive dysfunction, coronary artery disease, stroke, congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, or type 2 diabetes mellitus;
, To diagnose sleep apnea, your doctor will consider your symptoms along with the results of a sleep study. You can undergo a sleep study in a clinical setting or at home. In both situations, your vital signs (breathing, heart rate, blood pressure, etc.) will be monitored.



Clinical setting. If you decide to have a sleep study done in a clinical setting, then you will have to stay overnight at a sleep clinic. You will be monitored by medical technicians while you sleep.

Home-based portable monitor. If you decide to have a sleep study done at home, then you will need to use a portable monitor to monitor your vital signs., There are a three different types of sleep apnea: obstructive, central, and complex. Your doctor should be able to tell you which type you have by considering factors such as your medical history, medications, and sleep study results.



Obstructive sleep apnea. This is the most common type of sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea is when the tissues in your throat relax while you are asleep and block your airway.

Central sleep apnea. Central sleep apnea is less common. This type of sleep apnea is when your brain fails to send a signal to your body to breathe.Complex sleep apnea. This form of sleep apnea is a combination of obstructive and central sleep apnea., After you have undergone testing and received a diagnosis from your doctor, you will be able to talk about treatment options. Your doctor will likely recommend some lifestyle changes, such as losing weight, as well as some special exercises and devices, including a CPAP, that may help. These are described later in the article.


In some cases, your sleep apnea may be caused by something that can be corrected with surgery, such as very large tonsils or facial malformations. Surgery to remove these obstructions may provide a long-term cure for severe obstructive sleep apnea.