 Horseshoe kidneys are not protected by your ribcage and muscles because they do not ascend like normal kidneys. Because of this, it is really important to protect your kidneys as much as possible. It is best to avoid contact sports and occupations where your horseshoe kidney could be put at risk.


Go to the hospital if you sustain an injury to your kidneys. Your kidney is more in danger of injury that other people’s kidneys. If you get injured and think your kidney could have sustained some damage, go to the hospital right away. Damage to your kidney could lead to internal hemorrhage, intense pain, blood in the urine, and your kidney not being able to function properly.;
, Drinking lots of water every day will help to clean your kidneys out regularly. You should try to drink at least 8 to 10 glasses of water a day, but if you have the chance to drink more than that, more is even better! Carry a water bottle around with you so that you can stay hydrated even on the go.


You can drink other hydrating beverages like coconut water and electrolyte boosters like Gatorade on top of drinking water. If you get bored with plain water, squeeze some lemon in there to give it some flavor.
 Unsaturated fats lower the amount of bad cholesterol in your body and can help to cushion your kidneys. Saturated fats, on the hand, contain cholesterol and can harm your body if you eat them a lot. Stick to unsaturated fats for the most part.Examples of unsaturated fats: Vegetable oils like olive oil, raw nuts, fish, salmon, tuna, and flaxseeds.

Examples of saturated fats: Animal products like red meat, cheese, and lard. Coconut and palm oil are also forms of saturated fats, though they do not contain cholesterol like animal products do. Red meat also increases your chances of developing kidney stones.
 Phosphorus is an essential nutrient but when you consume too much of it, it can lead to your body sending calcium into your blood. When your kidney is weak, it can’t remove phosphorus from your body as well as it normally can. Excess amounts of phosphorus can gather in your body, causing bone and cardiac problems.Foods with very high amounts of phosphorus include:


Carbonated drinks and processed foods.
Pumpkin seeds, Romano cheese, scallops, pork chops, and beef.
 Whole grain products help your kidneys to lower cholesterol and have the added benefit of helping you sleep well at night.Try to replace less healthy carbs like white bread, rice, and pasta with products like:


Whole wheat bread and pasta, brown rice, barley and oats.
 Some foods are more kidney-friendly than others. In particular, there are three herbs—coriander, parsley, and turmeric—and two root vegetables—garlic and ginger—that are great for the health of your kidneys.


Coriander and parsley: Both of these herbs help to cleanse your kidneys. You can add them to your food, take extracts, or drink their juices.
Turmeric: Turmeric contains curcumin, antibacterial, antifungal and anti-inflammatory properties. You can drink turmeric tea or take supplements.
Garlic: Garlic contains allicin, that has antibacterial, antifungal, and anti-inflammatory properties. You can add more garlic to your diet, eat the cloves, or take garlic supplements.
Ginger: Ginger contains gingerols, which work in a similar fashion to allicin and curcumin. You can eat raw ginger, add it to means, drink ginger tea, or take supplements.
 Both of these substances can do damage to your kidneys, and to the rest of your body. While an alcoholic drink every once in a while will not do too much damage, avoiding both alcohol and cigarettes is the healthiest route you can take, particularly if you are concerned about the health of your kidneys.
 Exercising helps your body in a variety of weights. By exercising, you can keep from gaining extra weight that can put more pressure on your kidneys. It can also keep your cholesterol, sugar, and blood levels at healthy amounts. Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes, five to seven days a week. You should perform a combination of aerobic and strength training exercises.Aerobic exercises include walking, biking, swimming, and running around while playing your favorite sport.
Try light strength training, but do not jump into heavy lifting, as you could injure yourself. Try lifting lighter weights and then work your way towards the heavier weights.

Give yoga a try. Yoga is also a great way to strengthen your body while also becoming more flexible.
 Epsom salt baths can reduce the stress you feel that can cause your kidneys some distress. Taking a bath with epsom salt also helps your body to expel toxins that get built up in your body. When your body has a little extra help expelling toxins, everything functions better—including your kidneys.

