 The Microsoft Store can be accessed by a quick web search. The store's home page will show a variety of Microsoft products.;
, Select Office from the list. This will take you to the Office product page.
 There will be a variety of packages to choose from. You can us the bar at the top to find Office products for home and student use, for business use, and for Mac computers. Click on the version you have decided to download.


Beneath each bundle will be a list of Office products that come included. Make sure that the bundle you pick has everything you need.
 Check to ensure that your system will run the product you are purchasing. Beneath the "Buy and download now" button, you will see a list of what operating systems that version of Office is compatible with. If you can meet these requirements, click the “Buy and download now” button.


Detailed system requirements are available at the bottom of the page.
Office 2013 will only work on Windows 7 and 8.
 If you are done shopping and ready to purchase, click “Check Out”. Be ready with your payment information.
 If you have not signed in to a Microsoft account, you will be asked to do so or you will be asked to create one if you don’t have an account yet.
 Once you are logged in you can proceed with putting your payment information. You may pay with PayPal or your credit card. If you already have payment information assigned to your Microsoft account, you can use that as well.
 After your payment has processed, you will be given a link to download your software. The file will be downloaded to your computer's Downloads folder, unless your browser is configured to download to a different location.
 Once you have downloaded the installer, double-click it to begin installing Office. You will be able to customize your installation and choose which applications you want to install., If you've already purchased Office online before, you can redownload the software by visiting Office.com/Setup. You will be asked to enter your product key, and then will be given links to download the version that you purchased.

If you purchased a physical copy of Office and have lost the disc but still have the product key, you can install the trial version of Office from the Office website, and then use the key to activate it.

