 Fashion is a large part of being a sloane - it's important to wear tweed, polo shirts, gilets, skinny jeans tucked into Ugg boots, loafers for men, and brands such as Ralph Lauren, Jack Wills and Lacoste. Their websites will give you some examples of the sort of sloane fashion that is around. It's expensive for what it's worth - but if you want to look like a Sloane, you're gonna have to part with some money. If you're looking to be like the traditional Sloane Ranger, investing in a green Barbour wax jacket & a pair of Hunters is an absolute must. Watch out for the end of season sales!;
, No Sloane is seen without her colourful pashmina (http://www.mypashmina.co.uk do beautiful ones for under £30), pearls and Louis Vuitton handbag. Well. It doesn't have to be Louis Vuitton, but if you can afford it, it's worth it. Just make sure it's not scruffy looking. Black is the best colour because scratches are hidden, it never goes out of fashion and goes with every outfit.
 All Sloanes are attractive, because they can afford to be. Blonde hair/blonde highlights are fantastic, and the typical style is a side parting with a sweeping fringe, with lots of hair tossed over the top to create height and volume. A Sloane's hair is never thin, and usually is either slick straight or tousled and wavy. If you want to wear it up a messy bun or ponytail is perfect. As for makeup, never fall into the trap of overdoing it - Sloanes always look like they are wearing hardly any. Try to go for warm colours with pastel overtones, with smoky eyes, but never vampy with heavy eyeliner - make it as natural as possible. Carry around a cute bag for touch-ups throughout the day.
 Fruity with musky undertones are perfect - try Amor Amor by Cacharel or Hypnose by Lancome. Go around the perfume aisles and see which works best for you - but never make it too overpowering.
 A slick black iPod and a flip phone/slide phone are definitely in at the moment. Carrying around a battered Nokia is not. Carry them in your handbag and listen to them on the train...or in your private taxicab!

, Call your friends "darls" or "babes", abbreviate names, words, exclamations!

, Sloanes love their sport. No wonder they're all so toned and beautiful! Typical sports include tennis, sailing, golf, horse riding, polo, lacrosse and hunting. Try to take some sports up, as if you get invited to an exclusive game of golf - you don't want to look uncultured, do you?

, They'll show you the ropes, introduce you to the hottest parties and the wild public school life of southern England.

