 It is normal to feel hurt and disappointed after being turned down by someone. To help yourself recover from the initial sting of being turned down, you can try doing something that usually makes you feel better, such as:


Enjoying a favorite hobby, such as playing an instrument, painting, or baking.
Taking a long bubble bath.
Going for a long walk or bike ride.;
, The reasons for being turned down don't necessarily have to do with you exclusively. Rather than immediately picking apart all the things that you did wrong, take a step back. Sometimes you won't know all the details of why you were rejected. Focus on what you can do for the future.When a negative thought keeps popping back up in your head, recognize this. Redirect your thought to something productive and positive.
Avoid making assumptions that small personal details like the wrong handshake, the wrong word, or the wrong outfit can define what happened. While what you do matters, fixating on every detail will make you anxious and stressed.
 In life, we all take risks in order to find work, love, and success. No one is immune to mistakes. The difference is what you do after being turned down. While in the moment you may feel like a failure, think about the strength you had to ask someone out, seek a competitive job, or get noticed for a talent. Being turned down is part of life's risk-taking. It shows that you're willing to push your limits and not afraid to go for it.
Putting yourself out there may mean that you'll be even stronger and more confident in the future.
 Being turned down is not the end of the world, literally. It can feel in the moment that way, but this too will pass. While you may feel like others are judging you or noticing what happened, the most likely scenario is that no one really cares what happened except you.Being embarrassed is something that happens to everyone. While it feels bad in the moment, this feeling is temporary.
Focus on how you can control your negative thoughts. For example, if you're turned down for a date, focus on what that person is missing out and what you have to offer, rather than thinking you're no-good.
 Love yourself. While you are not perfect, no one else is either. See yourself as having worth and value. Surround yourself with people and things that bring you joy.Practice self-affirmation. Make a list of qualities that you like about yourself--both external and internal. Choose one quality to write about. Write a brief paragraph about one of your strengths and what you have to offer.
Say these words of affirmation to yourself, "I fully accept myself and know that I am worthy of great things in life" or "I choose to be proud of myself."

