 If the possum is using a structure to get to the plant, make the structure difficult to climb. Wrap galvanized iron sheets around posts and over beams of structures, such as pergolas. This will stop the possum from being able to grip the surface with its claws.


This also requires ensuring that there are no trees or shrubs next to the structure that allow the possum to ease itself down from.
You can also use a plastic garbage can with the bottom cut off and a slit up the side. Put it around the trunk of a tree so that the possum is unable to climb up the tree.You can wrap sheet metal around the trunk of the tree to make it difficult to climb.You can also place thick netting around the trunk. The netting will catch the possum's feet and discourage them from climbing.
 Branches should be far enough away from fences and structures so that a possum can't jump to them.This, in combination with blocking access to climbing the trunk of the tree, will give you the best chance of saving your tree from being decimated.


The good news is that while possums can jump, they can't jump very far.An agile, young possum can jump approximately 2.5 meters from a fixed, stable base but less than 2 meters from a swaying tree branch.This means that trimming your trees so they are more than 2 meters from your garden fence or other structure should be sufficient.
 In particular, you should place netting over these plants while they are sending out new growth shoots or are bearing fruit. The netting will not keep possums out completely but they should make it difficult enough for the possums that much of the fruit will be saved.


Also remove any fallen fruit below fruit trees or bushes. Fallen fruit will attract possums to the area, so keep it to a minimum if you can.
 This method only works if your garden is closed in with fencing, as it stops possums from climbing over the fence. It will take about one day of your time to install this protection.


Attach a large PVC pipe running horizontally across the top of all of the fencing. This will be hard for the possum to grip onto.
Then apply non-toxic grease to the PVC pipe. When a possum now tries to get into your garden, you should find that it cannot get a secure grip or footing because of a the grease on the drum. This causes the animal to fall off without injury.
Make sure that there are no holes or other points for the possum to cross the fence.

