 Do you snore with your mouth open or closed? Learning to distinguish between kinds of snoring will help you to address the particular causes of that kind of snoring.


Closed-mouth snoring indicates that your tongue is the cause of your snoring, and that some exercises and lifestyle changes should help eliminate the snoring.
Open-mouthed snoring can be caused by sinus trouble or by posture in bed, and can be remedied by addressing those issues.
Snoring from any position might indicate apnea or other significant issues that will require more substantial medical treatment to address.;
, Alcohol, sleeping pills, coffee, and fatty foods before bedtime can all increase snoring by making your throat muscles relax and narrowing your airway. Large meals and fatty foods likewise restricts your airflow by pushing up on your diaphragm.Smoking can also be a frequent cause of snoring, and is a health hazard in general. If you're a smoker and struggle with snoring, consider quitting.
Consider losing weight. Fatty tissue in the back of the throat is often the cause of snoring. Losing even a little bit of weight can be greatly beneficial if you want to stop.
If you regularly take any kind of medication, talk to your doctor about alternatives. The drugs you're ingesting might be making your snoring worse.
 Dryness is often a cause of snoring, so using a humidifier or taking a hot bath or shower before bed can help alleviate snoring by keeping the breathing channels moist.
 While it may sound strange, singing or instrumental practice that strengthens the throat muscles will firm the tissue of your throat and mouth. Doing some simple mouth and throat exercises like singing will strengthen your throat so that it does not relax and block air when you sleep. The throat muscles involving in playing the didgeridoo are perfect for preventing snoring.


While you're driving to work, turn up the radio and sing as loudly as you want to the tunes. Singing several times throughout the day will give your throat a workout and keep your sleep more sound.
If you're not into singing, develop some exercises. Stick your tongue out as far as you can, then relax. Repeat 10 times. Stick your tongue out again, and try to touch your chin. Hold. Repeat with trying to touch your nose. Repeat 10 times.

