 Sickle cell anemia is inherited, so it's present at birth and can be life-threatening to babies and young children due to hyposplenism (reduced spleen function), which increases their risk of getting serious infections. Antibiotics, usually penicillin, are commonly given to infants and young children (but also adults in some cases), to help prevent bacterial infections.Infants with sickle cell anemia can begin taking antibiotics at about 2 months old and often continue for the first 5 years of life.
Infants need to take liquid penicillin, whereas older children and adults can take the pills — usually twice daily.
The most common life-threatening infection related to sickle cell anemia is bacterial pneumonia.;
, In addition to often feeling tired and fatigued from lack of oxygen in your bloodstream, episodes of severe pain are commonly experienced by people with sickle cell anemia.To manage these periodic episodes of pain, often called sickle cell crises, take over-the-counter medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) for a day or so until the crisis resolves itself. The painful episodes can last for a few hours or even a few weeks at a time.


Moderate-to-severe pain occurs when the sickle-shaped red blood cells reduce or block bloodflow within the smaller blood vessels in the chest, abdomen and limbs.
The pain tends to be felt more in the joints and bones — in other words, it's typically a deeper pain a than superficial one.
For especially severe episodes that last for more than a few days, your doctor might prescribe a stronger medication, such as opiate drugs.
 Applying heating pads or moist herbal bags to your body during painful sickle cell episodes might help as the heat tends to open up (dilate) blood vessels and allow the sickle-shaped red blood cells to pass through.Moist heat is a better choice over electric heating pads because it tends not to dry out your skin. Use microwavable bags filled with some type of grain (bulgur wheat or rice), herbs and essential oils.


Heat the herbal bag in your microwave for about two minutes or so and apply it to your achy joints, bones or abdomen for at least 15 minutes, three to five times daily.
Adding lavender or other soothing essential oils to your herbal bag can help reduce the discomfort and anxiety caused by your sickle cell crisis.
Taking a bath is another good source of moist heat. Add 2 cups of Epsom salt to the hot water for best results — the magnesium in the salt can further soothe your achy body.
Ice and cold compresses should be avoided as they may cause sickling.
 Red blood cells are made within the bone marrow of your long bones and require certain nutrients to be produced regularly. One of the most important nutrients for making and replacing red blood cells is folate (vitamin B9), which is also called folic acid when in supplement form.As such, if you have sickle cell anemia, take folic acid supplements daily and/or regularly eat foods rich in folate.


Vitamins B6 and B12 are also important for healthy red blood cell production and possibly triggering anti-sickling behavior.
Good sources of these B vitamins include: meats, oily or fatty fish, poultry, most whole grains, fortified cereals, soybeans, avocados, baked potatoes (with skins), watermelon, bananas, peanuts and brewer's yeast.Recommended daily dosages of folic acid range from 400 to 1,000 mcg (micrograms).
Multi-vitamins (without iron) may also be recommended.
 When taken regularly, hydroxyurea (Droxia, Hydrea) is a drug that helps to decrease painful sickle cell anemia crises and it may also reduce the need for blood transfusions in some moderate-to-severe cases.Hydroxyurea likely stimulates the production of fetal hemoglobin in children and adults, which helps to prevent the formation of sickle-shaped red blood cells.


Hydroxyurea is the only drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration to prevent pain episodes in sickle cell disease.
Fetal hemoglobin naturally occurs in newborns, but they quickly lose the ability to produce it within a few weeks or months.
Hydroxyurea was first used only for adults with severe sickle cell anemia, but now more doctors are giving it to children with good results.Be cautious of potential side effects, which include a greater risk of infection and a possible link to leukemia (cancer of the blood). Ask your doctor if you or your child is a good candidate for hydroxyurea.
 If you have sickle cell anemia, there are a number of evaluations and screenings that are important in treating the condition and minimizing complications.Get a dilated eye examination, beginning at age 10, to check for sickle retinopathy. If test results are normal, get re-screened every one to two years. If results are abnormal, follow up with a retinal specialist.
Get tested for renal disease starting at age 10. If the result is negative tests should be done once yearly. If the result is positive, a follow-up test must be performed.
Regularly monitor blood pressure. Even slight increases in blood pressure can increase the risk of stroke in patients with sickle cell disease.
 Without enough oxygen in your bloodstream, your body feels tired, without energy and chronically fatigued — sometimes making it a chore to get out of bed in the morning. Supplemental oxygen, via a mask attached to a pressurized bottle of oxygen, can help you through a crisis or even day-to-day living, much like patients with severe emphysema do.Ask your doctor about the pros and cons of using supplemental oxygen for sickle cell anemia.


Breathing in supplemental oxygen won't force the sickle-shaped red blood cells to carry it, but it can saturate other healthy red blood cells and maximize what gets delivered to other tissues in your body.
Supplemental oxygen typically has a higher oxygen content than normal air at sea level. If you travel to higher elevations, carrying supplemental oxygen may avoid a sickle cell crisis until your body can adapt to the new conditions.
 Another type of treatment that deals more directly with replacing sickle cells with healthy cells is a blood transfusion. Blood transfusions introduce a high number normal red blood cells into circulation, which helps to relieve the symptoms created by the sickle cells.Healthy red blood cells live longer than sickle cells in the bloodstream, up to 120 days. In comparison, sickle cells tend to live no longer than 20 days.


In children and adults with severe sickle cell anemia and at high risk of stroke from blocked arteries, regular blood transfusions can reduce their risk significantly.
Regular blood transfusions have their own risks. They can increase the likelihood of infections and cause too much iron to build up in the body, which can damage internal organs such as the heart and liver.If you have sickle cell anemia and undergo regular red blood cell transfusions, ask your doctor about deferasirox (Exjade) — a medication that reduces excess iron levels in the body.
 People with sickle cell anemia have low levels of nitric oxide in their bloodstream, which normally keeps blood vessels dilated (opened up) and reduces the "stickiness" of red blood cells.Ask your doctor about getting treated with nitric oxide because it may prevent sickle-shaped cells from clumping together and clogging smaller arteries — studies have had mixed results on effectiveness.


Treatment involves inhaling nitric oxide gas, although it's difficult to administer and your doctor may not feel comfortable with the procedure.
A supplement that may increase blood levels of nitric oxide is called arginine, an amino acid. Arginine is safe to supplement with and has no known side effects.
 A bone marrow transplant (or stem cell transplant) involves replacing the affected bone marrow with healthy marrow from an appropriately matched donor.It's a lengthy and risky hospital procedure that involves destroying all the bone marrow in the anemic person with radiation or chemotherapy, then injecting them with stem cells from a donor. It is the only available curative option for sickle cell disease. Ask your doctor about the pros and cons and if you're a candidate for it.


Not every person with sickle cell anemia is a candidate for a bone marrow transplant and matching donors can be difficult to find.
Only about 10% of children with sickle cell anemia have matched donors with healthy stem cells in their families.Risks of a bone marrow transplant are numerous and include life-threatening infections due to a destroyed immune system.
Because of the risks, transplantation is typically recommended only for people who have severe and chronic symptoms related to sickle cell anemia.
 This is of great importance in patients with sickle cell anemia. They are highly susceptible to viral and bacterial infections due to the loss of spleen function that often occurs in early childhood; therefore, in addition to prophylactic antibiotics in childhood, immunization against some diseases are also key. These include the standard childhood vaccinations, as well as immunizations against influenza, bacterial meningitis and certain types of pneumonia.
 There is less oxygen at higher altitudes, which can quickly trigger a sickle cell crisis if your body isn't used to such conditions.As such, be cautious if traveling to high-altitude areas (mountainous regions) and consider using supplemental oxygen if you do go.


Consult with your doctor before any trips to high-altitude areas and balance the benefits against the health risks.
Only fly on airplanes with pressurized cabins (which includes all commercial flights on larger planes) and avoid flying in smaller, unpressurized aircrafts at high altitudes.
 It's important to keep your blood volume up, especially if you have sickle cell anemia. Low blood volume (common with dehydration) makes the blood thicker and more likely to stick or clump together and can trigger a sickle cell crisis.Prevent dehydration by drinking at least eight 8-ounce glasses (about 2 liters) of purified water per day.


Avoid drinking liquids with caffeine, which acts as a diuretic (makes you urinate more frequently) and can reduce blood volume.
Caffeine is found in coffee, black tea, chocolate, most soda pop, and virtually all energy drinks.
Increase the amount of fluids you drink per day if you exercise a fair bit or spend time in a hotter climate.
 Another possible trigger for a sickle cell crisis is temperature extremes — either getting too hot or too cold.Getting too hot increases sweating and can lead to dehydration and low blood volume. Getting too cold causes blood vessels to constrict (get smaller), which hampers blood circulation.


Stick to places and vehicles with air conditioning if you find yourself in a hot and/or humid environment. Wear clothes made of natural fibers (cotton) that can breath.
Keep yourself warm in cold climates by wearing layers of insulated clothing, such as wool. Keeping your hands warm by wearing gloves is especially important for people with sickle cell anemia.
 Heavy-duty physical demands on your body increase its need for oxygen, which can trigger a sickle cell crisis because there's not enough hemoglobin to carry the oxygen to needy cells.Wile some regular exercise is good for health and circulation, avoid the strenuous stuff, such as long-distance jogging, cycling and swimming.


Instead, focus on low-impact exercises such as walking, light aerobics, yoga and non-strenuous yard work.
Lifting light-to-medium weights is okay to build and maintain muscle, but heavy lifting is not recommended for people with sickle cell anemia.

