 Before you research types of used guitars, decide what your budget is beforehand. Bass guitars are usually cheaper when used, but different models will be pricier than others. Think about what you need this guitar for and what quality you'd prefer so you don't overspend.

If you are a hobbyist or new player, commit to a certain budget beforehand so you're not lured into buying a more expensive brand.;
, Talk to more experienced bass players and ask them what they'd recommend for you. Tell them your experience level and what you're hoping to get from your new guitar. Ask them what model they used and why they chose it.

You can also ask them where they got their guitar and whether it was used. If they bought theirs new, ask them if they know of any used instrument stores in the area. A fellow musician will have your best interests (both quality and price) in mind.
 Bass guitar brands range in price and quality. Your needs as a musician and your personal style might fit one brand better than another. The most respected brand for bass players is Fender because it offers a variety of guitars depending on a player's skill level, musical style, and budget.Other popular brands include Yamaha, Music Man, and Ibanez.No one bass guitar brand is necessarily better than another, but certain brands are superior in specific qualities. Research the pros and cons of each brand and determine which best fits your musical tastes.
 Most brands will have a range of guitars, with more complicated models for advanced players. A model in your playing range will fit you best regardless of which company made it., Starter bass guitars are an inexpensive option for new players. Most companies offer affordable starter basses made from lower-quality hardware but still very playable and user-friendly., Bass guitars traditionally have four strings, but five-string, six-string, and beyond models exist. The more strings you have, the wider range of notes your bass will be able to play. The cheapest used models will be four-string guitars; they will also be the easiest to play. If you're on a tight budget or you're just starting out, choose a four-string guitar.If you're an experienced bass player on a budget, avoid used starter basses: opt instead for a bass with richer tonewoods and better hardware. Your bass will be a little pricier but will fit your needs for a longer time.
 Fretless base guitars offer a smoother sound but usually require more skill. If this used guitar is your first bass, make sure you find a model with frets. New players don't have the muscle memory or trained ear required to play with fretless guitars.