 Your full mailing address should appear at the top of your letter. Do not include your name before the address, but you may include an email address and/or a phone number below the mailing address if desired.You may place the address on the right or on the left.
 After you have written your address and any other contact info that you wish to include, skip a line and include the date. Write out the date in full to include the month, day, and year.For example, “April 22, 2016.”

, Your recipient’s name along with his or her full address should go on the left side of your paper for business letters. Place the address after the date with one space dividing the two.Skip a line after your address as well. Your salutation ("Dear ___," or “To whom it may concern,”) goes on the next line.
 Starting off letters with “Dear” is standard, but it might not always seem appropriate. For example, “Dear” might seem too personal for a complaint letter or for a business correspondence.Think about who you are writing to and whether or not using “Dear” suits your purposes. If you are hoping to get to know the recipient better, such as by teaming up on a project, then “Dear” is probably appropriate.If including “Dear” makes you uncomfortable, then you can always leave off the “Dear” and just open the letter with the recipient’s title and name. For example, you could simply open with “Mr. Parker,” and then follow with your opening line.
“To Whom it May Concern” is another alternative, but this is even more distant and businesslike than leaving off “Dear.” Only use this opening phrase if you do not know the name of your recipient.
 Before you write your recipient’s name on the letter, take a moment to determine the best way to address him or her. In most cases, business letter should address recipients in a more formal manner, such as by using any titles the person holds. You can also consider how the person has addressed you in letters and your relationship with the person.



Consider the person’s title and position. If the person you are writing to has a special title or position, then you should include this in your Salutation. For example, if the person is a doctor, then you might begin your letter with “Dear Dr. Jones.” If the person is a general in the military, then you might begin your letter with “Dear General Wilson.” People who have a PhD or LLD at the end of their names should also be addressed as Dr. Check the letter you are responding to. If you are writing a letter in response to another letter, then checking to see how you were addressed may help you to decide how to address your recipient. For example, if the letter you received starts with “Dear Ms. Johnson,” then you should also start your letter with “Dear Mr./Mrs./Ms. ____.”Think about how well you know the recipient. You may also want to consider how well you know the recipient when deciding how to address your letter. Are you on a first name basis? Or do you use a title when you address the person? Keep in mind that even if you have called the person by his or her first name in the past, it might be too informal for a business letter. If you are in doubt, err on the side of caution and address the person in a formal manner, such as by including Mr., Ms., or Dr.
 No matter why you are writing, it is a good idea to set a pleasant tone to improve the chances that your recipient will be open to your message. Even if you are writing to complain or for some other unpleasant purpose, never start your letter by saying something rude or demanding. Instead, try expressing well wishes to your recipient or congratulating your recipient on an accomplishment.


For example, if you want to set a friendly tone in the beginning of your letter, then you might start by saying something like, “I hope this letter finds you well.” Or, “Congratulations on your promotion!”

, While it is good to open a business letter in a friendly way, it is also important to get right to the point and state your purpose for writing. You can let your recipient know why you are writing by using a direct, simple template that begins with: “I am writing because/to…”You can tailor this opening for a variety of purposes. For example, you might start with something like, “I am writing because of our similar interests,” or, “I am writing to voice a complaint,” or “I am writing to propose a partnership between our companies.”

