 Toe cramps may be caused by dehydration, so make sure that you drink plenty of water.Try to drink at least six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day to stay hydrated. If you are active, then you may need to drink more.
 You may also get toe cramps because of a mineral deficiency.One way to ensure that you are getting enough minerals is to take a daily vitamin that includes 100% of your daily value of vitamins and minerals.


Make sure that the multivitamin you choose contains sodium, magnesium, calcium, and potassium. A deficiency of any of these three minerals may cause leg cramps.Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for how to take the supplement and talk to your doctor if you have any questions about choosing the right supplement for you.
Eat a well-balanced diet as well to help prevent toe cramps. Include plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein in your diet., Uncomfortable shoes may also lead to food cramps for some people. Try to choose low-heeled shoes with wide toe-boxes. Avoid narrow toed shoes that make it hard or impossible for you to move your toes.You should be able to wiggle your toes in your shoes.
 Stretching your toes and feet more often may also help to prevent toe cramps.Make sure that you stretch your feet, toes, calves, and legs before you do any exercise and before you go to bed.
 You can also wear toe stretchers at night if you are prone to toe cramps while you sleep. Toe stretchers keep your toes separated from each other and help to stretch the small muscles around your toes as well.


You can find toe stretchers in the beauty section of drug stores. They are meant to be used to keep toes apart during a pedicure, but they may also help prevent toe cramps.
 Strengthening exercises can fortify the foot and tendons and muscles that act directly on the toes. One exercise is doing calf raises. Stand with your hands steady against the wall or a chair. Raise your heels up, hold for five seconds and then come back to neutral. Repeat eight to 10 times.


You can also work on towel curls. Place a flat towel on the ground. Put your foot over the towel, and attempt to roll it up using your toes. Once you do, use your toes and foot to roll the towel back out. Do this exercise about three times a week.
 If your feet and toes get cold, then this may lead to cramping as well. Wear socks or slippers around the house and wear warm socks with appropriate footwear when you go outside.


Try using a heating pad to warm your feet if warm socks are not enough.