 This homemade trap is very easy to make and set, all you need are some common household items. Many of these items can be replaced with other similar items you may have at home, but to begin gather the following: An empty toilet paper tube
A deep bucket or trash can - Ensure it’s tall enough that your pet rat would not be able to jump out of it once inside.
Scotch tape
Weights for the toilet paper roll (two quarters will work great)
Bait you know your rat will like

, Find a counter or elevated tabletop your rat will be able to reach. It’s important that the elevated space is higher than the bucket or trash can you are using for the trap, otherwise the rat won’t be able to fall in.


Place the bucket or trash can alongside the table or counter close enough that you could roll a marble off the counter and into the can.
Put cloth or bedding down at the bottom of the trash can to pad it for your rat.
Make sure the bedding does not raise the bottom of the trash can far enough to allow your rat a chance to escape.
 You will be placing the toilet paper tube so a bit less than half of it is hanging off the edge of the counter. If you are using a paper towel tube or something else, you may want to cut it down so the rat won’t have any opportunity to back out once it has entered the trap. Flatten one side of the tube slightly so it can’t easily roll around.
Tape the quarters to the opposite side of the tube at around the point the tube is hanging off the edge so it balances the tube from tipping on its own.
 You will need at least two pieces of a bait your rat likes. Raisins work very well for this trap but you can use other treats you know your rat tends to respond well too. Using a bit of peanut butter can help ensure your bait stays in place at the end of the tube by acting as a glue to keep the raisin in place.


Place one piece of bait a few inches from the mouth of the toilet paper tube to get your rat’s attention. Place another piece of bait at the end of the tube hanging off the ledge.
 Check the trap often to see if the tube has fallen off into the can. You may not want to leave the trap set overnight if you are concerned about it being in the bucket for too long at a time.


Check every two hours or so to make sure your rat doesn’t go too long without water.
Cup your rat with two hands as you take it out of the trash can so it can’t escape again.