 There are different kinds of treatment centers you can check into. If you don’t feel comfortable facing your eating disorder and treating it in a co-ed situation, consider finding a gender-specific program.If you are a woman and want a female-only program, or you are a man who wants a male-only program, you can search for a program that caters to your needs.
According to the National Eating Disorders Association, gay and bisexual men face higher pressure to be thin, which leads to a higher risk of eating disorders. If you are a gay or bisexual man and would feel safer in a LGBT-friendly center, there are many centers that specialize in LGBT issues in addition to eating disorders.
Transgender people often have a higher risk for eating disorders.If you are a transgender man or woman, you can search for centers that specialize in LGBT issues as well as eating disorders. Trans Folx Fighting Eating Disorders is a good resource to check out for support and help finding a center.
 Some people who suffer from eating disorders may have specific treatment considerations. Knowing these considerations can help you find a center that is geared more specifically towards you and your needs.For example, if the treatment is for a child, teen, or adolescent, then a center that focuses on adolescent eating disorders needs to be chosen. Treatment for adolescents differs than, for instance, a woman who has been hiding an eating disorder for a decade.
Some centers help women with eating disorders who are pregnant. These centers aim to help keep the mother and baby healthy.
Eating disorders associated with weight loss surgery is a very specific problem since it is tied to obesity. Treating an eating disorder connected to a weight loss surgery requires expertise in that area.
Having diabetes and an eating disorder requires certain medical precautions. Knowledge of how to approach diabetes and eating disorders is pivotal for staying healthy and receiving proper care.
Athletes face certain struggles that need to be addressed. For an athlete with an eating disorder, coaches and trainers may be part of the treatment process.
 The location of the treatment center should be considered when choosing an eating disorder center. Some treatment centers may be in your town, others may be in nearby major cities, while others may be in a different place altogether. Figure out what is best for you and your situation before you choose.Many eating disorder treatment programs require a family therapy component. If this is something you need, you may want to choose a center closer to home and your family.
Think about whether you want to receive treatment close to your home. Some people may feel uncomfortable going to a center close by.
If you want to go to a treatment center in a specific geographical area, like in the desert, the woods, or at the beach, consider that when making your choice.
 Some centers are more specialized than others. For example, there are rehabs based around faith, spiritual, or religious beliefs. If this is something you believe will help you, talk to your spiritual leaders, search online, or discuss your beliefs with the centers you are considering.For example, you may be able to find a Christian, Jewish, or Islamic rehab program.
Some centers may have a blanket spiritual approach, but are willing to tailor the treatment program to your personal religious beliefs.