 The website tsa-usa.org is a great place to start.;
, When first meeting someone with this neurological disorder, it may or may not be clear that this person has TS. Some cases are very mild and only include motor or vocal tics. Other people have it worse. Their tics consist of yelling, flailing their limbs, and even facial tics that interrupt their speech.
 That is very impolite. If need be say that it is a little distracting. Be honest, but never rude.
 Don't be pushy, though. First ask the person if they are comfortable talking about it. If they are, ask away. Make sure your question is intelligent and not something such as "Can't you just stop?" No. They cannot just stop. TS is much like Parkinson's in that you simply don't have complete control over your body.
 It has become more common in stand-up comedy, but also tv shows and films, to make jokes about TS, especially about a symptom called coprolalia. A person whose tics include coprolalia will use swear words without being able to control them. Not all people with Tourette's Syndrome show this symptom. If they do, they are often treated negatively by strangers for being "rude", or laughed at. They are not being rude, nor is it funny or hilarious. Tourette patients with coprolalia do not "have an easy life" because they "get to swear whenever they want". Do not swear loudly at someone who annoys you, then grin and say "I have Tourette's". This makes light of a symptom they have to live with every day., If someone has a tic that interrupts speech (either motor or vocal) let him or her get out their thought. It's can be very irksome when people don't let you finish your sentence. Even if it takes them a whole minute to say "I would like some ice cream," it's nice to say it.
 There will be those who bully, taunt, or insult your friend. Back them up and make them feel like someone cares. TS, among multiple disorders it's related to, will cause depression. Being made fun of makes you feel like total crap, so stick up for those who can't help it.
 If the person feels as though they can relax around you and talk to you openly, they will actually exhibit less tics than usual.
 It is okay to ask questions, but don't make it the topic of all your conversations. Pretend the person doesn't have it and go on with your lives as you usually would.
 Ignoring the tics, pretending they don't bother you, or just not reacting to them can be great. People with TS have enhanced bursts of tics when they are stressed. If people notice their tics they will become more stressed out, resulting in an increase their tics, making them unhappy about not controlling themselves which will stress them out further, increasing their tics yet again. It is a horrible cycle.
 This can antagonize or anger the person and they might react badly.

