 Eating the right kinds of food can help relieve cancer-related fatigue. Work with your doctor to come up with a diet plan that will help keep your fatigue in check and get you the nutrition that you need. Your doctor may also be able to refer you to a dietitian who specializes in working with cancer patients., Dehydration can contribute to fatigue. In general, doctors recommend that you get at least eight to twelve cups (about 2-3 liters) of fluid daily.If you are maintaining your weight, try to get most of your fluid in the form of water.
If you are trying to gain weight, drink high-calorie fluids like fruit juice, milk, or sports drinks.
You can also get fluids from hydrating foods like soup or Jell-O.
Try to keep track of how much fluid you are getting every day, so that you can see how well you are meeting your goals and adjust if necessary.
 Protein can boost your energy and help you maintain or build lean muscle mass. Incorporate some of these healthy, high-protein options into your diet:Meats like fish, poultry, beef, or pork
Eggs
Nuts and nut butters
Soy products (soy milk, tofu, edamame)
Dairy products like milk, cottage cheese, and yogurt
High-protein vegetables, like beans, peas, and other legumes

, Healthy fats, like unsaturated fatty acids and omega-3 fats, can help your body create more energy. Omega-3s may even slow tumor growth and reduce some of the side effects of chemotherapy.Choose foods that are rich in healthy fats, such as:Nuts, like walnuts or almonds
Healthy oils, like canola, safflower, and olive oil
Fatty fishes, like salmon, herring, or albacore tuna

, Dietary fiber can help regulate your blood sugar levels, and has also been shown to be of great benefit in fighting cancer related fatigue.Make sure you get plenty of fiber-rich foods every day, such as:Cereals containing at least 6 grams (0.21 oz) of dietary fiber per serving, like oatmeal, Raisin Bran, or shredded wheat
Legumes and beans
Whole wheat pasta
Fruits and vegetables
Bread with 3 grams (0.11 oz) of dietary fiber per slice

, If your appetite is reduced due to your cancer medications, spreading out your meals throughout the day can be a good strategy for getting enough food and keeping your energy levels up.Keep high-protein snacks on hand to eat throughout your day or while you are on the move.
Stock up on healthy, pre-packaged foods, like fruit cups, cheese sticks, yogurt cups, and canned soup. These foods make good snacks or small meals that require little time and energy to prepare.
 A variety of dietary supplements may be helpful in managing cancer related fatigue and other cancer symptoms. However, some dietary supplements may interact with your medications or cause other adverse effects, so they should be used with caution.Always talk to your doctor before starting any supplement. Try to choose supplements that have been evaluated by a third party verifier, like USP.
L-carnitine and ginseng are two supplements that have been shown to be particularly helpful in fighting cancer fatigue. Talk to your doctor or a cancer dietitian about whether these supplements would be appropriate for you, and what dosage they would recommend.

