 Whether you are trying to get vital records for personal use, such as a birth certificate to get a job, or for performing an ancestry search, list the records you need.


Birth and death records will be stored with different agencies than marriage or military records.
Some counties and states may have date ranges of the records that are readily available for copies. Trying to find your great-great-grandparents' marriage certificate may be different than finding your parents'. For example, at the state level, Pennsylvania only maintains certain records from 1906 to the present.Some states will issue unofficial copies of vital records. These copies are not valid for legal purposes and intended for information only, such as genealogy.;
, Most states commonly restrict access to vital records, such as certified birth certificates, to the parties named in the records, immediate family, and legal representatives.


State laws vary, but, in general, if you falsify the relationship in order to get a birth certificate copy, you may be subject to prosecution for fraud. Furthermore, if you use the document to falsify identification, you may be subject to criminal penalties for identify theft.Contact the agency that stores the records if you have questions about your eligibility.
 Other than military records, most vital statistics are kept at the state and local level. Birth and death records are usually kept at the state level. To find a birth, marriage, or divorce record, you will likely be dealing with the county.


Certificates and indexes of divorces may be available from the state vital statistics agency. However, if you want to see any of the details of the case, you will need to go to the county where the divorce was granted and the case files are stored.
 The federal government does not maintain indexes of vital records, but the National Center for Health Statistics has compiled a directory of contact information for the appropriate state agencies.The state listings are very clear as to the date ranges available in the state database. If your request falls outside of this range, you will have to contact the county where the record was generated., The procedure for pulling a record will vary by state and county. Some states have online request forms, but most will require you to make your request in writing with an original signature attesting to your eligibility to receive the record. Follow your states procedure carefully to ensure prompt processing of your request.


At the county level, you can often make the request for marriage and divorce records in person. If the public court file is readily available, you can review it and request print-outs or copies for a small fee (usually .25 to .50 per page.)
If you want to see a marriage or divorce file that is more than two years old, contact the court clerk's office first. Not all counties have scanned the archives and older files may be warehoused off-site. If so, the clerk will need to request it for you. There should not be a fee for this service.
 In general, your request should have as much information as possible. Your records request does not have to be typed. It can be neatly written in dark ink and signed in blue ink to indicate an original signature. Keep a copy when you mail it to the office in case it gets lost. Processing time varies, but you should allow at least four weeks.


A birth certificate request should include full name, sex, name of parents, and the date and place of birth. Your request should also include your relationship to the person named in the record, contact information with a phone number, and the reason for the request.Requests for marriage or divorce records should include the full name of both parties, birth dates, and marriage or divorce date. At the very least, you will need a good approximation of the year. This narrows the search and helps prevent duplicate results.
A complete and detailed record request will yield faster and more accurate results.
Before you file your written request, contact the agency about options and fees. In some states, you can get an unofficial certificate for the cost of copying and postage. If you need signed clerk-certified documents, expect to pay $15 to $25 for the first copy.There is no state or county where you can review birth or death documents or receive copies for no charge.
 If you are a veteran, next of kin, or authorized representative, you can receive copies of the Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) and military medical records. If the discharge date is less than 62 years before your request, the records are considered non-archival and can usually be obtained at no charge. Records of service with a 62-plus year discharge date are archival and may be subjected to search and copy fees.
 For modern records, either use Standard Form 180or submit your request via the online eVetRecs system.To receive military records, you will need the full name, social security number, approximate discharge date, date and place of birth, and service number if known. incomplete requests may be rejected. You must also state your relationship to the veteran and your reason for the request.


For most requests, you will receive a "record of separation," which includes dates of duty, last assignment and rank, specialties, decorations and awards, and type of discharge., When military records are at least 62 years from the discharge date, the military sends them to the National Archive. To access archived records, use Form SF-180 and follow the instructions for mailing to the National Personnel Record Center.The fee for receiving archived military records from the NPRC range from $25 to $70. There is no way to get full records of military service that is free of charge.
 There are very few records databases that are available free of charge. The primary exception is https://familysearch.org. Family Search is a non-profit organization created and maintained by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.The service is free to browse and use. You can create a free account to build a family tree.
You do not have to be a member of the Mormon church to use the service.
The documents will not include specific records such as birth certificates or death certificates. What you will primarily find are general public records such as census reports. These census reports can be very valuable in helping you refine your records search for vital records.
Images can be downloaded to your computer or saved.
 There are several online databases recording locations of historical graves. Some, like "Find a Grave"are community and volunteer efforts. Locating graves can help you determine which state or county to contact regarding locating death certificates.
 Using information from the census and other records you can contact the historical society for the state, county, or town of interest. Many states have digitized birth and death indexes and state military records. You can search by name, year, or type of record you are seeking.


Most images will be available to view and download free of charge. You may have the option to purchase a high-resolution version of the image., Many counties, especially smaller ones that have not gone fully digital, maintain historical ledgers of legal actions including marriages and divorces. Often called "the big books" these compilations of records can usually be viewed during regular business hours. Contact the court clerk about accessing these records.


Because of the size and fragility of these indexes, you may not be able to photocopy them. A historical marriage ledger can weigh in excess of 20 pounds and photocopiers can cause fading of fragile ink. Ask the court clerk about rules on photographing the pages and bring a notebook for taking down the information.
With legal actions that have court case filing numbers, such as divorces, you may be able to view the physical file or a microfilmed copy. Ask the court clerk for information.

