 Before you start any type of investment, make sure to decrease your levels of debt, or pay off your debts entirely. Especially if you’re saddled with student debts after graduation (or credit card debt), paying these debts off should be your top financial priority. If you begin investing while still paying off student loans, credit card debt, or another type of debt, you run the risk of losing money in your investments and being unable to pay off the loans.If you do have credit card debt, consider moving your card balance to a card that offers 0% interest, such as the Chase Slate card, the Citi Diamond Preferred card, or the Discover it card. This will keep your debt from increasing—however, the 0% interest rates expire quickly, so you’ll want to pay off the card ASAP.
 Before you begin investing, you’ll need to put together a personal monthly (or annual) budget. This will allow you to generate the money you’ll need to make your first set of investments. Plan for your investments as a part of this budget, but first make sure that your income will be enough to cover mandatory expenses.Once you’ve stabilized your budget, you can add a new category: money to invest. Begin by setting aside $25 a month, and in 20 months, you’ll have enough to begin investing.


When beginning to plan your budget, calculate your total monthly (or annual) income and total monthly (or annual) expenditures. Mandatory expenses include categories like: rent, utilities, food, transportation, and health insurance. Then factor in optional expenses, including clothing and entertainment. Decrease your amount of expenditure until you’re taking in more money than you’re spending.
 Your credit score can be an indicator of financial health, and a good credit score (above 680) will help you be able to open new credit cards, take out bank loans, and open new investment opportunities in your future.Your credit is an important part of your overall financial wellbeing and, if your credit suffered during college, it’s important to raise your credit after college.


You can raise your credit score by always fully paying off your credit card bills and paying off loans (including student loans) on schedule. If you only pay the minimum payment on your credit card bills, you’ll end up paying potentially hundreds or thousands of dollars in interest.

