 To be self-aware means to have the ability to see your true self without blinders. It involves accepting yourself as you are, and recognizing that you are all fallible. No one is perfect. Just as you provide others with empathy, patience, strength, humility, and love during stressful or challenging times, you need to show this for yourself too. Everyone makes mistakes, experiences stress, and has issues that arise throughout life, and the best way to get through all of this is through self-awareness and acceptance. Through self-awareness, you can learn what you need to do to make changes in life to resolve pending issues and in turn make you a better individual.
 If you’re feeling helpless or overwhelmed, it’s a sign that you need to take some time off and reflect. Identify the practical issues you’re dealing with. Then ask yourself which internal issues are driving these problems.For instance, if your grades have been slipping lately, the root cause could be something like perfectionism or depression.
If you have persistent negative thoughts about yourself, explore them. Try to identify the underlying fear or insecurity that’s causing them.
 Look at your own life from the perspective of a neutral stranger. See if you can identify any recurring patterns of problematic behaviors. Getting outside yourself can make it easier to be objective about the issues you’re facing.If you’re having a hard time viewing your life in an objective way, ask a trusted friend or family member to help you identify your negative behavior patterns. You might say, "Hey, I have trouble getting perspective about some of my issues. What are some negative patterns or habits you see me doing that limit my growth and well-being?"

, Escapism can take many forms – playing video games, browsing the internet, or even working too much. Simplify your life and drop any unnecessary distractions to get a clearer sense of what your problems are.For instance, you could decide to cut out movies and stop working overtime while you’re dealing with personal issues.
A little escapism isn’t always bad, but when you’re trying to face your problems, it will only hinder your progress.

