 Wait a while after you stop vomiting or have diarrhea before you try to eat any solid foods. Children should wait at least 6 hours after they stop vomiting before starting solid foods.You can usually begin to add bland foods back to your diet the day after you have diarrhea.


If nausea is a problem in keeping food down, take sure you can keep liquids down for a while before you try eating any solid food. First try "clear liquids," like chicken broth alone, then advance to "full liquids," such as chicken noodle soup or smoothies. Next, try soft foods like mashed potatoes, and then finally a full general diet.
When you feel well enough to try solid food and nausea is no longer an issue, only eat easily digestible foods a little bit at a time throughout the day.;
, The BRAT diet includes bland foods like bananas, rice, applesauce and toast.These foods can absorb fluid, add stool bulk and tend not to stress your already sensitive stomach.


Bananas can also help to replace some of the potassium that your body has lost from vomiting and/or diarrhea., It is thought but not proven that papaya aids digestion and can help with constipation. It has enzymes that break down proteins, making them easier to digest. The tropical fruit also promotes a healthy environment in your stomach. You can try papaya extract pills if you can’t find the fruit readily available.
 Ginger helps with nausea, gas, increases bile and gastric juices, relaxes digestive muscles and can aid discomfort. You can drink a cup of ginger tea, chew on fresh ginger, or eat a piece of candied ginger.Fresh ginger can be very intense so be careful when you first put some in your mouth.


The recommended limit for ginger intake is no more than 4 grams of ginger a day. You should start with 1 gram a day in divided doses every 4 hours, if needed., Fennel is an anise-flavored herb that is often used for stomach complaints. It can help with heartburn, bloating and colic as well as other stomach issues. Fennel relaxes digestive muscles and alleviates stomach discomfort. , For some people, a serving of plain yogurt with active cultures can be beneficial for an upset stomach. The active cultures in yogurt are a type of bacteria that live in your gut and help with digestion. Eating yogurt can increase the number of these good bacteria in your digestive tract., This herb is popular for use after a large meal, usually in the form of mint candies. It's believed but not proven that peppermint, in particular, can help to settle your stomach and relax digestive muscles. It also tastes great and freshens breath.
 Once you have been able to eat the BRAT diet, try some other foods such as skinless chicken, soft fruits and vegetables and sherbet. Introduce new foods in small amounts over time. If you get sick again, go back to a liquid diet and wait until you feel better before introducing solids again.


Use smaller portion sizes when you first start incorporating food into your diet again, especially if you haven't eaten solid food in a few days. Sometimes it's not the food itself but an amount that the stomach isn't used to that can cause indigestion.
You can usually resume your normal diet by 48 hours after vomiting or diarrhea.
 It’s important to stay hydrated, especially if you are vomiting or have diarrhea. Water can also help flush out whatever is bothering your stomach. Be sure to drink your water slowly so it doesn’t also contribute to the problem.


If you have such bad nausea or vomiting that you are not only not able to eat food, but you also cannot keep down liquids, you need to go to the emergency room to be admitted to a hospital for IV fluids. You should receive IV fluids until you can tolerate liquids again.
 Drinking warm herbal tea can be very soothing to a sensitive digestive system. Peppermint, chamomile and ginger tea can all be effective for stomach upset.Try sipping a few cups of tea throughout the day to help with nausea, indigestion and stomach pain.
 They are easy to digest and will help keep you hydrated.
 Sometimes swallowing can be difficult when you are very nauseated or vomiting. You still need to get liquids in you, though, as often as possible. Ice chips can be a good source of fluids because they melt slowly and can provide some cooling relief.
 If your upset stomach is caused by acid reflux, buy some Tums at a drug store and take the recommended amount. If this is a chronic problem, see a doctor. You may need a prescription medicine, such as an HH2 Blocker, such a famotidine, or a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), like omeprazole., Additionally, soda often contains citric acid and sodium benzoate. These chemicals can bother a sensitive stomach, so it’s best not to drink soda when you don’t feel well.
 Chocolate may also contain milk or nuts which are not easy to digest for many people. It’s a good idea to stay away from chocolate and items with caffeine, such as coffee or energy drinks, when your stomach is upset.
 Fatty foods include meats, soft cheeses and fried, oily foods like french fries. These foods will probably make you feel even worse, so don’t eat them when your stomach is upset.
 Foods that contain a lot of acid like citrus and tomatoes can make acid reflex feel more intense, which may intensify your pain.They can also be irritating to a stomach that is upset. Avoid things like spaghetti sauce, orange juice and other tomato products while your stomach hurts.
 However, if you are used to eating spicy foods, then eating them with an upset stomach might not cause as many problems for you than for someone who is not used to them. Just be careful when you start to eat spicy foods again that your stomach does not react negatively.
 Alcohol can contribute to acids in your stomach. Additionally, alcohol is difficult to digest and metabolize and may really irritate your stomach. It is best for you and your stomach that you do not drink alcohol when your stomach hurts or you are already nauseated.