 The thought of teaching sex education for infants can be daunting and taboo, but most parents, guardians, and caregivers already teach infants sex education without even knowing it. From age 0 to 3, children will begin to explore their bodies, learn the differences between males and females, and start to form their own gender identities. Sex education for infants takes the form of teaching children about their bodies and helping them form healthy relationships and bonds with caregivers. If you are teaching infants about their sexual health, you are most likely their parent, guardian, or primary caregiver. Most institutions do acknowledge the importance of sex education for infants but it is unlikely there are any formal educational programs out there for children that young.
By making the conscious effort to teach infants about their bodies, about genders, and by promoting good relationships, you are creating a positive foundation for their future sexual well-being.
 Children start to learn body parts as infants and are often told to show caregivers their nose, eyes, and ears, for example. At this time, infants should also be taught the correct names of their genitalia. By teaching children early, they will become comfortable and familiar with their bodies and be more aware of sexual or reproductive health problems as they age and will be more likely to seek help.


Use opportunities like bath time or diaper changes to teach infants about their bodies. It can be as simple as pointing to a child's genitals and saying, "That is your penis" or "That is your vulva".You can also start to make associations between sex and genitalia by saying, "Females have vaginas" and "Males have penises". However, it is important to understand the difference between sex and gender and decide how you would like to teach your child about gender.
 Many children will develop curiosity about the body as young as 2 years old. They may start engaging in behaviours such as asking each other about their bodies, peeking at each others bodies in bathrooms, or even showing private body parts to each other. Young children may also start to hug, kiss, and touch each other. At this point, it is important to talk to children about the basic rules of privacy, such as:Your body is your own. Children should learn that their body belongs to them and no one can touch it without their permission. They should be taught how to say "no" to kissing, hugging, and other types of physical contact they don't want whether it is appropriate or not.

Good touch versus bad touch. Children should be taught how to recognize appropriate and inappropriate touching. A good way to teach this is to use The Underwear Rule. This means touching anywhere that is covered by underwear is inappropriate. They should also be taught to consult with a trusted adult or family member when bad touches happen.

Good secrets and bad secrets. Teaching children that there are bad secrets and good secrets helps prevent sexual abusers from manipulating children into keeping secrets like if they are being touched inappropriately or being abused.
 By two, a child will begin to understand what gender is and even identify their own gender identity. However, it is common for children to experiment with their gender identity through role playing and dressing up. It's important to be aware of your child's gender expression so you can prepare for certain situations:


Some children may start to show signs of being transgender.
Children may ask questions or make assumptions about what is correct behaviour for a certain gender.
Other people or children may disagree with a child's gender expression and cause the child distress.
 Children at this age will begin to ask questions about babies such as "Where did I come from?" or "Where do babies come from?" You can start to tell young children the basics of reproduction:


"Babies grow in the uterus of a woman."You may use different language like, "You came from mommy's belly" or "Mommy made you".
"A male and female is required for reproduction." or "Mommy and daddy made you".
It is always recommended to use accurate and correct language to eliminate confusion in the future and allow children to be comfortable with talking about reproduction.

