 When you are dealing with stressful situations, they start to build up and fester, making you more stressed. Talk to your counselor about the benefits of keeping a journal. Write down every activity, thought, or event that makes you stressed. Once you start getting your stress out, you can work with your counselor to let those stresses go.


You can also work with your counselor to identify places to change your thought patterns from the way you respond to stress., Work with your counselor to create a mental place where you are happy and free from stressors. Then, when you find yourself in a normally stressful situation, mentally take yourself away from the stress and go to your happy place.


This will help you relax in the moment and let the stress fall away.
Transitioning to this will not be easy. Work with your counselor to learn ways to push away the negative situation so you can find your happy place.
Your happy place may be a cabin in the woods, a ski resort, a boat on a lake, or any other place that makes you relaxed and happy., When you are dealing with stress, it may be hard to stop doing it. Work with your counselor to come up with a word or phrase to say to yourself to stop stressing about a situation. Ask your counselor for help learning how to come to push stressors out of your mind without them backing up.


The phrase you pick can be as easy as “No” or something more like “Don’t do this to yourself.”
Once you determine your word or phrase, say it to yourself or out loud whenever you find yourself stressing about things., When you are in a stressful situation, try doing deep breathing exercises. Work with your counselor to learn how to visualize your stress leaving your body as you exhale.


The breathing exercises have the added bonus of calming your body as well as your mind., Exercise helps boost your mood and reduce your stress. After a hard, stressful day, go for a run, do some yoga, go to a dance class, or take part in any physical activity that you enjoy doing. Work with your counselor to determine ways you can expel even more stress when you exercise by using positive thinking techniques to push away stressful thoughts.


This has the added benefit of improving your health as well.
Try to exercise at least three times a week to get the mood boosting help you need., After all the hard work you and your counselor have gone through to relieve stress in your life, you need to make sure you stick to your coping strategies every day. Find time to do something that helps you reduce stress every single day, even if the say wasn’t that stressful.


This can be as simple as listening to your favorite song, watching your favorite TV show or movie, taking a long walk, or talking to your best friend. It depends on your personal preference.
This will give you an overall better attitude and help you combat triggers when they do start to stress you out.