 Wear a long dress, a long skirt, or pajamas. If it's warm out, you don't need pants. If it's cold, wear a pair of sweatpants. Try to find something that buttons down so that doctors can quickly remove your clothing if necessary. Once you arrive in the maternity ward, most hospitals will provide you with a nightgown to wear through the birth.


If your water has already broken, you may just want to wear a long dress or skirt. Your pants will become soaked with amniotic fluid before you get to the hospital. Alternately, wear a loose-fitting top and loose-fitting elastic pants, and use a sanitary napkin.
If your water has not yet broken, you should be fine wearing sweats or pajamas.;
, In the end, if you are having your baby in a hospital, it does not matter what you are wearing before you arrive at the hospital in active labor. You will be asked to change into a hospital gown upon your arrival. By this point, what you are wearing will be the last thing on your mind!, Cotton is best. Try to avoid underwiring and harsh straps in bras; you will be more comfortable if you wear elastic straps instead. It's best not to wear anything underneath a long dress.


If you are expecting to go into labor at any moment, make sure that you are wearing old underwear. When your water breaks, your underwear will be ruined.
 The hospital will provide you with one of their gowns to wear during labor, but you have the option to bring your own nightgown. You do not have to use the one the hospital provides for you. There are pros and cons to both options, but ultimately the choice is up to you.Some women prefer to use the gown that the hospital provides because they don’t have to worry about getting it dirty. The gown will be stained with blood and other fluids during labor, and these may not come out in the wash.
However, some women don't worry about this, and prefer to wear their own gown. You may feel most comfortable in your own gown, even if you buy it new and only wear it this one time. Consider whether your peace of mind is worth the price of a nightgown that you will only wear once.
For long or stalled labors, your physician may ask you to walk the halls of the hospital to hurry things along. If you overheat easily, be sure that your nightgown is long enough for you to comfortably walk the halls without donning a robe. Some women become overheated during labor.
 A small ponytail, a simple braid, or even a messy bun should do the trick. You can also just keep your hair down, if you don't mind it being in your face. If your hair is long, bring an elastic ponytail holder to tie it back. If your hair is short, an elastic headband can help keep hair out of your face. Most women sweat during heavy labor and delivery, and keeping the hair off of your face will make you that much more comfortable.
 It's okay to go barefoot in the hospital. You should be in light, loose, light-colored clothing that will keep you as cool as possible. If you start to get too hot, ask for cool water or ice chips.

