 Make a list of meaningful images, symbols, and words that could serve as potential components of your sleeve. Think of interests, values, and signs that you won’t regret having on your body in the future.You can look for inspiration in tattoo magazines, like Inked (http://www.inkedmag.com/), or shops’ online portfolios. Keep in mind your sleeve will be a major investment of time and money, and it’ll have more meaning for you if you come up with your own imagery.;
, Sleeve tattoos typically cost hundreds or thousands of dollars and have such a level of detail that getting it done in one sitting is impossible. You might have a set vision of what you want your sleeve to look like, but try to be open to including new images you might discover in the future.


Completing a sleeve over time offers the opportunity to add meaningful images that represent life events, like a visual diary.
As you discover new images to add to your sleeve, you can use smaller patterns, colors, and other compositional elements to keep the sleeve cohesive as it develops., Framing larger images with smaller patterns will lend a sense of composition to your sleeve. Work with your tattoo artist to incorporate the framing motif into your first sleeve tattoo and include it in later additions.Examples could be your birth month’s flower or your favorite flower, vines and leaves, cloud patterns, stars, or waves. These elements can reappear throughout your sleeve and unify its other elements.
 Choose simple, basic colors that will resist fading and give your sleeve continuity. As you add to your sleeve over time, a unified color scheme will help it become a more intentional, cohesive work of art.Ask your tattoo artist, “Can you suggest colors that are easy to replicate in tattoos I'll add to the sleeve in the future? I want to avoid having multiple shades that might clash or seem mismatched. Which color scheme would work best for my skin tone and fade the least?”

, A good tattoo artist will help you design your sleeve from the first piece and plan for later additions. Bring your list of tattoo ideas, which is called a brief, to the artist, and try to be as descriptive as possible in conveying your ideas. Ask the artist to sketch some designs, and consult with them about color, spacing, unifying motifs, and other compositional elements.A good tattoo artist will take pleasure in helping you create a meaningful, unique design, so finding the right artist is vital to starting a sleeve tattoo.

