 Your sister needs to be a fairly sound sleeper for this one: sneak into her room once she's soundly asleep and quietly drizzle honey over her face. Be ready to be woken up by her shrieks in the morning!


Be sure to hide the evidence: put the honey back in the kitchen and wash the spoon you used.
 This is a great prank to do along with the sweet-face prank: Remove the shower-head in the bathroom that your sister uses, and place a chicken bouillon cube in it. When your sister rushes in to wash the honey off her face (and hair and hands!) she'll be doused with warm broth! It may help to grind the bouillon cube up a bit so that it will dissolve more quickly once the water runs through it and so that you'll be able to screw the shower-head back on tightly.
This pranks works best if your sister has her own bathroom; you don't want to accidentally prank your parents! Otherwise, you'll have to slip into the bathroom right before you know she'll be using it.
 Here's a variation on a shower-prank: Swap out your sister's favorite shampoo with honey. When she's ready to suds up, her hair will be a tangled, sticky mess!


You want your honey “shampoo” to be thin enough to actually squeeze out of the bottle, so you may want to experiment with mixing it with a bit of water, or even mixing the honey in with a small amount of shampoo or conditioner to get the right consistency. Make sure that it's still mostly honey, though!

, Get several packets of funky-colored Kool-Aid and dump them into your sister's shampoo or conditioner. Red or green are fun choices.


Unless your sister is half-asleep when she's showering, she'll probably notice that her suds are neon colored, but it will still be fun to hear her screams, and she'll have to scramble to find real shampoo to get the color out!

, Once your sister has finally managed to wash her hair of all the junk you pranked her with earlier, she'll want to fix her hair up pretty. The surprises haven't ended yet, though: While she's showering (or the night before) carefully pour a small amount of baby powder into the nozzle of her blow-dryer.


When she turns it on, she'll be blasted with a powdery spray! Back to the shower.
 This is a great trick to play on your sister, particularly if she's devoted to slathering on sun-screen every day. It's simple, too: just empty her regular lotion and refill the bottle with a self-tanning moisturizer. In a few days she'll be wondering why her complexion looks different!


To be extra devious, you can do this with her face moisturizer in addition to her body lotion.
Try to find a self-tanning lotion that has a similar scent to her regular lotion or she'll be on to you before it can take effect.

