 Phobias are powerful, and it is often difficult for someone suffering from a phobia to identify that their fears are irrational, and disproportionate to their real danger. Be supportive, and encourage them to explain the feelings associated with their phobia. Ask them about any traumatic experiences they may have had in public spaces, and try to understand when and how their fears are triggered., Without shaming or condescending to the your loved one, explain that public places are not inherently dangerous. Remind them how crucial going out into the world is for leading a full and happy life. If they are worried about disasters, injuries or becoming lost, help them to come up with a plan to deal with such incidents, while reminding them how unlikely they are to occur.Remember that phobias are not rational. Even if an agoraphobia sufferer understands intellectually that they are in no danger, it may be impossible for them to control how they respond. Be patient, and don't become impatient or angry.
Avoid encouraging them to remove themselves from public places, so long as they are not in any real danger. If they begin to have a serious panic attack, however, you should calmly guide them to a place where they can feel safe.
 It can be comforting and encouraging to someone suffering from agoraphobia to see that someone they know and trust is comfortable in a situation which is causing them distress. Maintain a positive, calm attitude, and go about your business as if nothing is wrong. Encourage them to accompany you to public places often, especially during times when they will not be especially crowded or stressful. The more exposure they get to the source of their fear, the easier it will be for them to overcome it.
Avoid drawing attention to your loved one, and allow them to explore the situation without interference. If they seem distressed or fearful, gently ask them how they're feeling, provide encouragement, and continue about your normal business.
 Only a mental health professional can diagnose someone with a phobia. A counselor or therapist will know exactly what treatment options to pursue, including exposure therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, and medication. If they are finding it difficult to get to their appointments because they are afraid to leave the house, offer to accompany them or give them a ride.