 When you wake up in the morning, roll over onto your back right away. Practice a quick warm up pose, involving deep breathing and stretching, to wake yourself up from sleep.


Place your feet together and open your knees. Place one hand on your stomach and one on your chest.Take slow, deep breaths, inhaling through your nose. Make sure your hands rise up. You want your body to expand with your breaths. Hold in the air for a few moments and then exhale naturally. Repeat for 10 breaths.;
, Once you've woken up a little with deep breathing, there are several yoga poses you can do in bed lying down. It's easiest to transition into these poses after the breathing exercise.


The "Happy Baby" helps soothe and stretch your back. Draw your knees to your ribcage while keeping your hips on the mattress. Grab your feet around the big toe area and pull your knees down towards your rib cage. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths.The "Supported Shoulder Stand" involves using your pillow to prop up your hips. This increases blood flow, which can help wake you up. Try to elevate your hips above your heart with the pillow and then stick your legs straight up in the air. Try to keep your legs as straight as possible, with minimal bending of the knees. Try to hold the pose for 10 breaths or more.The "Fish Pose" involves bringing your hands under your hips while curling your back. Lift your chest above your shoulders. Hold for 5 to 10 breaths. This is a particularly energizing pose, so try to do it as the sun is coming up.The "Supine Twist" allows you to add some movement into your poses. Lie flat on your back and hug your knees to your chest. Hold your legs behind your knees and, using your forearm, slowly bring your knees to the right side of the bed. Then, move them to the left side of the bed. Repeat for 5 to 10 sets., You can also make use of your bedroom wall when doing early morning yoga. If you're a beginner at yoga and holding your legs for some of the poses is difficult, feel free to prop your legs up against your wall. With time, you should be able to do the poses without the use of the wall., Once you've done a series of lying down poses, move to the upright position. There are many energizing yoga poses you can do sitting in your bed.


In the "Seated Eagle," sit in a cross legged position on the mattress. Wrap your right elbow over your left elbow so your arms are entwined with your fingers touching. While dropping your shoulders, left your elbows upward. Lengthen your spine, take a few breaths, then round the spine from chin to chest in order to stretch the lower back. After 5 to 10 breaths, uncross your arms and then repeat the process.For the "Child's Pose," kneel on your mattress. Make sure your big toes are touching but separate your knees so they're as far apart as your hips. Move your head forward until it's between your thighs. Stay in the pose for as long as your feel comfortable.The "Pigeon Pose" is a somewhat more advanced pose, so unless you've been doing yoga for a bit you might want to hold off. However, if you're experienced in yoga it can be a great way to stretch your legs. Keeping your hands shoulder distance apart, stand on all fours. Then, move your right knee between your hands, allowing your outer right leg to rest on the mattress. Stretch your left leg backwards so your foot is lying flat on the mattress. Stay in the pose for as long as is comfortable. Then, switch the position of your legs.