 website. The first thing you will need to do is open the browser of your choice. Once the browser is open, type in www.yahoo.com in the address bar at the top of the screen, and hit Enter on your keyboard. You will be taken to the Yahoo! home page.;
, Mail account. Once you are on the website, you will need to get to your mail. If you notice in the top-left corner of the screen there is “Mail” button located in the purple bar running across the top of the screen. Click on that to continue to the log-in screen.


You will now be asked to log in with your Yahoo ID and password. You will see two boxes for this information on the right side of the screen; click on each box, and enter in the appropriate information.
When you’ve entered your log-in details, click on the “Sign In” to access your Yahoo! Mail inbox.
 After logging in, your Yahoo! Mail inbox will load on the screen. You will see on the left top of the screen, below the Yahoo! Mail logo, are five small pictures.


The first one is an envelope and your inbox; this will be the default selection.
Directly right of the envelope is a small book with a picture of the top half of a person. This is your address book. Click on this to move on.
 Once on your address book has loaded, you are going to want to get to the Fix Duplicates menu. This is located on the right side of the screen below your number of contacts. The second option down reads “Fix Duplicates”; simply click on it to load a new screen.


This new screen will automatically search all your contacts so you do not have to look for the duplicates yourself. When it is done searching, it will list the number of contacts along with the duplicate matches.
In order to fix the duplicate, click on the name of the accounts you want to merge or delete.
 Now a screen will load up, and on the left side, it will list all of the e-mails/contact information that will be merged. Above each name is a check box. If you do not wish to merge the contact(s), you will need to manually click on the check box so that it is blank.


Ideally, you want to make sure they are all checked so that your duplicates problem will be fixed.
 Once you have made sure that the appropriate boxes are checked, you can look to the right and see what the contact information will look like once it is all merged together. Once you are sure you want to merge the contacts, scroll down to the bottom of the page, and click “Save and next.”


This will bring you to your next duplicate to merge. If you do not have any left, it will bring you back to your address book.
This is how you fix duplicate contacts on Yahoo! Mail.

