 Just exploring the forest every day to collect free items is definitely worth your time. Item prices are different depending on their category, also every category has high priced items. Especially in the fall, if you collect all the items in this season, you will get at least 1000G per day.;
, Since you don’t have to invest any money, and also because the game time is stopped when you are in the mine, this is the easiest way for a beginner to earn money:


At the beginning of the game (especially when you haven’t had the bin yet), your bag can carry only 3 items at a time. If you are running back and forth from the mine to the farm to sell the three best priced ores, you are doing it wrong. All you need to do is mine around the first floor of the mine for the 10G bags. These bags are automatically collected and changed to the gold immediately after you get them
Buy the bin first. After playing for a while, you might get annoyed from the bag that can carry only 3 items and you’ll want to buy the bigger one, but that is a mistake. Another bigger bag will allow you to carry 5 items, and you will need to buy the second bag so you can carry up to 9 items. Instead, you should buy the bin first, the price may seem high (the bin costs 5000G) but it can carry up to 30 items. The main reason for buying the bin is so you can go mining in the deeper floor and collect ores to sell for a higher price. Therefore, you can say that this is an investment for better living.
 You are an owner of the farm, why don’t you go farming? Every type of plant gives a different amount of profit. So, the trick is always to choose the best type of plant for that season, depending on its renewability and how quickly it grows.


The most profitable season for farming is fall. Also the sweet potato is the best plant since you can harvest it every 3 days. So, as long as you have free space in the farm, just plant sweet potato. This will lead you to spend time for hours to water all the plants, but it is the time that you will earn a ton of money and trust me, by the end of fall you will be a millionaire.
 You need to buy the first chicken and take care of it for a while to get the egg. But there is no need to buy other chickens to fill up the hen house since you can have more chicken by hatching eggs. Chickens are easy to care for, and they produce an egg every day. Also, you can throw egg in the hot springs to turn it into a spa-boiled egg which you can sell at a higher price.

