 Your hearing loss does not mean that you need to give up all of your favorite things. Many of your favorite activities may remain unchanged, or may only need to be slightly modified to account for your hearing loss. With some creative thinking, you may find that you can still find fulfillment and enjoyment from favorite hobbies and pastimes.


For example, many movie theatres offer captioned movies, providing portable devices that can be positioned to your comfort on your seat’s armrest.For showtimes of nearby captioned movies, go to http://www.captionfish.com.
You may be able to find local sports leagues that cater to deaf players through your community park district. You may also find that you can continue to play in your regular leagues if you ask for some modifications (the referee waves their arms instead of blows a whistle, for example).
 There are many different assistive products that have been developed to help people with hearing problems hear better, or, for those with total deafness, communicate and be alerted. There are several types of technology that hearing-impaired or deaf people can use:


Assistive listening devices (ALDs). These are devices that can help amplify or clarify sound for people with hearing loss. These work in conjunction with hearing aids or cochlear implants, and utilize electromagnetics, FM radio signals, or infrared light to transmit sound, and are often used in public places.Augmentative and alternative communication devices (AACs). These are tools that aid in communication and help a person express themselves. These can be as simple as a board with pictures on it (for example, you point to a picture of food when you are hungry), or as complex as voice recognition software that converts speech into text (called Communication Access Realtime Translation, or CART).Alerting devices. These are devices that alert a hearing-impaired person with lights, vibrations, or loud sounds. They take the place of devices that typically alert with noise. For example, you might get a smoke detector with a strobe light, a doorbell with a blinking light, or a baby monitor that can vibrate when the baby cries.Consider getting a hearing dog. A hearing dog’s job is to alert a deaf or hard of hearing person to a sound they are not able to hear. The hearing dog helps the person gain awareness of what’s happening in the environment by paying attention to the dog’s reactions., If you are an American, for example, you are entitled to support services and/or reasonable accommodations for you to be able to perform successfully. This is covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Different countries may have different laws in place to provide services for the deaf.


For example, a “reasonable accommodation” for a deaf person in the workplace might be to have a sign language interpreter present for a big meeting, or to communicate with your supervisor primarily via email.University students can receive help from their school’s office of disability services, or office of deaf/hard of hearing services. Reasonable accommodations your school may be able to provide may include sign language interpreters, transcription services, and assistive listening devices., You are not alone. There are many resources available that can help your quality of life and provide support. You could ask other Deaf people for suggestions for local services, or you could consider other options:


Check with your doctor or local hospital for suggestions about local resources.
Ask other classmates or an instructor in a sign language class.
Connect with your local community health department or resource center to learn about local deaf resources and what services may be available to you.
Gallaudet University provides a comprehensive list of organizations that work with or provide information to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing. Learn more at https://www.gallaudet.edu/clerc-center/info-to-go/national-resources-and-directories/organizations.html.

