 You should take into account the coarseness of your beard hairs, the texture of your skin, your preferred shaving method, and other details when choosing a razor. Generally speaking, for heavy-bearded men with more sensitive skin, it is generally good to use a traditional multi-blade razor.


Electric razors are convenient and quick, requiring less preparation before shaving than safety razors, and are somewhat gentler on sensitive skin. For some types of hair, however, they tend to leave an uneven or patchy shave on the face. More traditional razors work well on all types of skin and for all types of hair.
Individuals who get shaving bumps can use specially designed razors, typically marketed towards men with coarse hair. The key is for the razor not to cut too closely, so that the hair does not fail to emerge from the skin as it grows. Use of a pre-shave, liquid or talc, and a post-shave treatment for shaving bumps also can help.
If you have acne and need to shave an area, try both an electric and a safety razor to see which is more comfortable. Soften the hair with warm soap and water and then shave as lightly as possible.;
, Shaving with a dull razor is how cuts happen, and it makes the skin very irritated. Only shave with sharp, clean razor blades.


Before you shave, it's common to fill the sink with cold, clean water to use for rinsing the blade. Hot water will only make the blade expand and dull up, so it's common to use cold water on your razor., If you've got a beard, it's important to use clippers or scissors to trim the hair as short as possible before going using the razor. Electric clippers are best for this purpose. Take the guard off and trim your beard away completely.









Never lather up a full beard and attempt to use a razor on it. This will be extremely painful and ineffective at removing the hair.
 Use a good, natural exfoliant face wash and wash your face with warm soapy water. Blot dry.
 Shaving oil is used to nourish the skin and lubricate the razor as it glides across your face. It's a different product than shaving cream. Put a few drops of shaving oil in the palm of your hand and rub it into your beard before applying a hot towel and shaving cream, allowing the razor to glide across your skin evenly and comfortably. This will help to reduce razor burn.
 Traditionally, barbers would heat mens' faces with hot towels to open the pores and soften the beard hairs for a closer and more comfortable shave. Today, some people like to use a hot flannel at home to simulate the same effect. The heat and moisture will help to soften your beard (if you have one) and lift up the hairs, as well as open your pores.









Be careful that the water isn't too hot. Hot water slackens skin and pulls moisture away. The towel you use should be comfortably warm, but not piping hot.
 While it might seem old-fashioned, applying shaving cream with a brush will further help to soften your beard and exfoliate your skin. It also helps to float the whiskers out away from the blades while you are shaving.









If you're short on shaving cream, gel or foam, use conditioner or speciality shaving oil. Letting the lubricant sit on your face for up to a minute can amplify it's effects. Avoid using a bar of soap, as this can leave a residue on the blade, dulling the edge and eventually causing rusting; even on stainless blades. At a push, you can use a liquid soap as these are formulated differently.
Natural shaving creams are preferable to glycerine-based creams or gels, which can tend to dry out the skin and leave it irritated. Go for shaving creams made of all-natural oils and other products for the best and most comfortable shave.
 When you finish washing your face, you should start right away before your pores have a chance to tighten up and your skin is still damp. This is the best way to get the closest and most comfortable shave possible. Don't wait around while you do other morning rituals. Shave immediately.
 Hold your razor in your dominant hand and use your other hand to pull your skin tight and create as smooth a surface as possible for the razor to glide across. This is especially helpful when you're working around hard-to-shave areas like the nasolabial folds between your mouth and nose, as well as your jawline.
 Run your hand across your face. One direction will make the hairs stand up (against the grain), the other will make it lie flat (with the grain). You want to shave in the latter direction. Keep the flat of the blade almost parallel with the face to remove the bulk of the hair.


Use short, light, downward strokes while you're shaving to keep the blade sliding across the foam and removing the hairs tidily.
 Your shave should be a slow, comfortable, and thorough process. It's not something to rush through while you're driving to work. Start with one side of your face and work steadily towards the other side, doing small sections at a time and completely shearing the hair off of each section before you move on. It saves you time and aggravation to do it right the first time.
 Swirl it around in the filled sink and tap the razor against the side of the sink to free up clogged hairs. It's especially important to keep multi-blade razors from clogging with shaving cream and little hairs, or it'll be less effective at shaving your face.
 Run your fingers over your face to find any rough areas that you may have missed. Look for missed patches near sideburns, around your mouth and near your nostrils.









Apply shaving cream and gently pass the blade over the area across the grain, but not directly against the grain. Pay special attention to hairs on your neck and jawline, which generally do not grow straight up or down, but in many different directions that simple up-and-down motions can miss.
 Applying cold water as soon as possible after your face has been shaved is the best possible way to close your pores and finish the shave. Cold water also helps to close up the cuts and stop bleeding.









If you've cut yourself, you can then apply witch hazel to soothe the cuts and prevent razor burn. Then add small pieces of moistened kitchen paper or toilet roll to the cuts that still bleed.
 Shaving balms based in aloe and tea tree oil can help prevent dry skin and razor burn. Use all-natural products to keep your skin moisturised and healthy, applying a small amount and working it thoroughly around your beard area.









Remember the scene in Home Alone where he slaps aftershave on his face and screams? Yeah. It burns. But only if the aftershave is alcohol-based. It's important to avoid alcohol-based aftershaves, which dry out your skin considerably and really irritate the face.
 Rinse and dry your equipment thoroughly, and store in a dry place. Clean equipment is less likely to introduce bacteria and infection to your open, freshly shaved pores. Change the blades as needed. A dull blade will leave your face feeling raw and sore, and is much more likely to cause razor burn.
 Shaving once every couple days can help prevent your hairs from thickening, and making your next shave more irritating. The more consistently you shave, the better the quality of your shaves will be, and the better your complexion. Shaving removes dead skin and keeps pores from clogging, especially if you practice good hygiene after shaving.Use a styptic pencil if you are susceptible to nicks and cuts. When using a styptic pencil, simply wet and gently spread across the area where the nick occurred. The material on the pencil will constrict the blood vessels near the cut, and prevent anymore blood from coming out.

