 Classic (or Swedish) massage is a gentle form of massage that relies on kneading, stretching, and rolling the muscles in the direction that the blood flows to the heart to help relax you. It is often done with oil to reduce friction. Try this approach for your aching neck.You can easily book a classic massage. Try at nearby spas, health clubs, or gyms. Beware of so-called “massage parlors,” however, as many are fronts for prostitution. If you are in the United States, look for someone who is certified by your state’s regulatory board.
Tell the masseur or masseuse that you’d like them to focus on your neck and/or back.
 An alternative to classic massage is the Thai method. Thai massage may be helpful for painful back or neck pain. It differs from classic massage in that it doesn’t use oil and pulls, stretches, and compresses muscles rather than kneading them. This type of massage can be more rigorous than others — some people liken it to yoga.Ask at local spas and health clubs if they offer Thai massages. You can also search on the AMTA’s website.
Make sure that the masseur is qualified to give Thai massage. This technique’s intensity can cause injuries if done improperly.
Also be sure that the masseur knows about any health conditions you have, like high blood pressure, heart disease, skin problems, or diabetes.
 Tui Na is a Chinese form of massage that uses the idea of acupressure and the manipulation of pressure points to relieve pain around the body. Some people think that it can help with neck pain and that the compression of these points brings balance in the body’s Qi.Expect a session of about 30 to 60 minutes. The technique will resemble a classic massage in some ways — rolling, kneading, gliding, and pressing the muscles in your neck.
However, in Tui Na the masseur will apply pressure to certain points alongside massage, the idea being to re-establish proper energy flow.
Some people think that this technique can improve neck pain, but also pain in the shoulders, back, legs, arms, and elsewhere. Your masseuse may ask you to try Chinese medical herbs, as well.
 If you find that treating your trigger points provides some relief, you may want to consider seeing a trigger point therapist for a full professional session. Several health professionals can be trained in trigger point therapy, from massage therapists, to chiropractors, physical therapists and even physicians.

