 Spanish is the most-spoken Romance language in the world today, with upwards of 400 million speakers worldwide. It is spoken in Spain and across Central and South America.



"Hasta la Vista"

Meaning: "See you later"
Pronunciation: Asta-la-VEE-sta



"Despedida"

Meaning: "Farewell"
Pronunciation: Des-peh-DEE-dah



"Adios"

Meaning: "Goodbye"
Pronunciation(s): ah-THYOHS (European Spanish); ah/DIOHS (Spanish of the Americas)



"Te veo despues"

Meaning: "I'll see you later"
Pronunciation: day-VAY-o-des-pwace



, Portuguese is the official language of Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique, Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, and São Tomé and Príncipe among others. It has an estimated 250 million speakers worldwide, with 182 million speakers in Brazil alone."Adeus"

Meaning: "Goodbye"
Pronunciation: Ah-deh-ooSH



"Adeus

Meaning: May you go with God blessing.


"Tchau" is an informal way to say Goodbye and reserved to very close friends, it's considered Slang

Meaning: "Bye" or "Ciao"
Pronunciation: CHOW



"Até Logo"

Meaning: "See you later"
Pronunciation: Ah-TaY-Loh-GOO



"Até amanhã"

Meaning: "Until tomorrow" yo man
Pronunciation: ah-TAY-ah-ma-NYANG



, French is the official language in 29 countries. People speak it in regions in Canada, across much of central Europe, and even in Africa. It is estimated that there are 113 million native French speakers in the world, and approximately 170 million who either speak it as a second language or are currently learning to speak it."Adieu"

Meaning: "Farewell"
Pronunciation: ah-DYØH



"Au Revoir"

Meaning: "Goodbye"
Pronunciation: oh-VWAHR



"À bientôt"

Meaning: "See you soon
Pronunciation: ah-bee-EN-toe



"À demain"

Meaning: "See you tomorrow"
Pronunciation: ah-DE-mah



, Italian is closely descended from Latin. It is spoken in Italy, Switzerland, San Marino, and the Vatican City, as well as across the world by minorities. Many people who speak Italian are bilingual, meaning they speak other languages in addition to Italian. There are approximately 85 million Italian speakers worldwide."Arrivederci"

Meaning: "Goodbye"
Pronunciation: ahr-REE-va-DER-chee



"Addio"

Meaning: "Bye"
Pronunciation: ahd-DEEH-oh



"Ciao"

Meaning: "Bye"
Pronunciation: CHOW



"Buona sera"

Meaning: "Good evening"
Pronunciation: BWOH-nah-SEH-rah


"Buona Notte"

Meaning "Good Night"
Pronunciation BWOH-nah-NO-tay



, The Romanian language is primarily spoken in Romania and Moldova, with approximately 24 million speakers worldwide.Although it descended from Vulgar Latin, Romanian was influenced by Slavic and Greek languages in the Middle Ages.



"La revedere"

Meaning: "Goodbye"
Pronunciation: LA-re-ve-DEH-re



"Rămas bun"

Meaning: "Farewell"
Pronunciation: RAH-mas-boon



"Pa"

Meaning: "Bye"
Pronunciation: PA



