 Give yourself a monthly, weekly, or daily ration that gets a little smaller each time so that over time you are using less.While you don’t have to reduce your amount or frequency drastically (for example, from four bowls to one in one day), each time you use, try to use a little less and a little less frequently.
 Store your supply somewhere that is difficult for you to easily get to. This will discourage you from using because of the trouble you have to go through to get it. Additionally, the time it takes you to get your supply will actually increase the time that you aren’t using.


Put things in different places. For example, keep your lighter in the kitchen, your bowl/cigars/papers in the bathroom, etc. This way, gathering everything together will make you have to take even longer to get started.
 Decreasing your exposure to triggers will make it easier for you to limit your use of marijuana. Although it doesn’t have to be forever, distance yourself for a while from people, situations, and places you associate with using.Let your friends that do use marijuana know what you are doing and that you are still friends, but you might be seeing less of them. For example, try saying, “Hey, guys, I’m not toking as much these days, so I might not be around as much. I still wanna hang out, but sometimes I’ll be doing other things.”
Don’t go to places where you are used to using marijuana (parties, shows, clubs, parks, etc.) as often. Although, this may be impossible (for example, if you are used to using at home), try to avoid the places that you associate with marijuana use or at least go there less often.
 Limit your use by filling your time with new activities. This will help distract you from using marijuana. Fill the time that you would have filled with marijuana with new hobbies and activities.Think about the things you’ve been wanting to do, and do them; learn a new language, try a new sport, take a class, or join a club.
 The more time you spend with people who don’t use marijuana, the less marijuana you are likely to use. These relationships can also serve as a support system, as well as improve your sense of connectedness, and expose you to new things.
 Limiting your marijuana intake will be easier if you celebrate your successes, no matter how small. Rewarding your efforts is a good way to encourage yourself, as well as distract yourself from using marijuana.

