;
,


What about self-controlled flight of the smallest gnat or mosquito with amazing "piloting" skills—showing very interdependent activity: could that instinctual ability be by intelligent design. "Was transmitting of instinct by chance?" Creationists say it was intelligent design not chance.
Mosquitoes avoid imminent danger. "What danger. Why react if by chance; why phobia, no reason, if no design?"
Precision use of senses for coordinated physical action, simple as crawling or walking or as organized as being coordinated with eyesight"Why is there seemingly quite purposeful actions like motility, travel, feeding, digestion, reproduction, etc. Could that be by purposeful design?" It is to creationists.
 (These are some expectations of many who propose evolution as fact or theory).
 It is related to the mentioned presuppositions and seems nearly dogmatic. Evolution does not meet science's own standards of what has to be found in order to be highly verified data while considering other viewpoints.
,,,, Are there no other choices? How can non-designed, intricate inter-dependencies at every level of life be intricately linked through mutual dependency — "with there being absolutely no driving reason to do so"?, Ask yourself what, indeed, would be the chance of such a contrivance to survive genetically through the eons? How could it ever be possible that evolution not be immune to a sterile, "random chaos" driving mechanism? Evolutionists may argue that all non-directed, undesigned, purposeless features get passed on through succeeding generations (presupposing unplanned origins). Whether or not they are beneficial, as there is no awareness of the process by the genetic system, how would the unrelated parts of a body, leg and/or rudimentary brain now all be correlated, by independent mutations-- billions of "failures" of the previously existing genetic processes corrupted with deadly "messes" from day one. Is it not just as logical that all mutations would be passed on and precipitate a total failure and extinction due to the extreme harshness of the milieu of life? How would anything still be alive at all?

, But, natural selection includes, originally, reproductive genetics from totally non-living material without a reason or known process to begin to truly live with digestion and energy. Modern science hasn't done that (has not formed a functioning, genetic, living cell from basic materials that were not provided by a preexisting life), but ancient dust, water and random stuff could do so?
~ Realize that the thousands and perhaps millions of related, (prerequisite) processes had to exist in exquisite detail, simultaneously before that basic life's previously unplanned formation, could bootstrap its own creation. All spontaneously fleshed out (yet not knowing how or why). It then had to sustain itself all by spontaneous, undesigned/non-purposeful means. Yet, it had to exist successfully (having inadvertently been alive and reproductive by no known means or reason). Then its genetic plans changed, spontaneously, called mutation, "ie: failure" of a previous genetics, map/plan, that had worked ("and it was good").


Study the pressure that brought us into modern life! "It" had selected, trillions of times, and "it" was good? That it is brainless, thoughtless mother nature: "invented" with no ideas; made genetic "blueprints" by anarchy, with no form of governance/not even kindergarten level skills, not even finger paint design capability. It just "used" sterile lava that had eroded into sterile, lifeless dust plus water, acids, bases, salts, static electricity. Dust, mother earth's chemicals were spilling all over, lifeless stuff, life-free watery, primordial-soup of "sterile mother nature" became life, with incredibly, interdependent processes. Life had to "pre-learn" self-maintenance, to feed itself, digestion, reproduction, making instincts before there were suggestions. Starting, basically from "lava-dust soup", in tidal pond or near warm water vents in oceans, primitive, chaotic stress, pressured to "form life". That's the stuff: you see how it worked, chance, from dust to dust; ashes to ashes.
?, Then joints were mapped by genetics, formed for the upper and lower parts of a leg or wing, while growing longer -- eventually forming an extremity, whether scaled, feathered or furry or not. If that joint were even a little bit wrong or out of place there would be no success, extreme discomfort to the bird/bat/mammal... even if the joint could flex and move.
 In essence, this would require: a nervous system, high symmetry, mobility, balancing capacity and coordination.
 "Do they clearly link to the next form.", "Where are these stages to be as conclusive as many claim evolution to be..."

