 If your direct actions have changed their mind about your love, then you've got some self-explaining to do. But if it's just a matter of attraction or chemistry it can't really be nit-picked. When it comes to a person who's so out of touch with romance that they cannot or will not allow themselves to be loved; it's a different animal completely. Behold.;
, This can be due to a chemical imbalance; a traumatic event such as but not limited to rape, abandonment, dishonesty, physical / psychological violence etc. They are in a self-preservation mode and it's not that they don't want to love you, but they cannot accept the fact that you have the best intentions for them and their heart. A lot of these people will get into relationships and romances only to sabotage them at a later date when they feel they are losing a grip on things / becoming sucked into something where they feel helpless.
 If you work together, this isn't going to be easy and a physical approach to the problem will be ineffective. In addition to limiting proximity, set boundaries for how you let them move about in your life. Don't let them spend the night with you anymore; cut the sex out of the equation (this is the hardest one to do); maybe you'll want to skip those daily lunches or little walks around the block. The point is that you want to wean your mind and body off of the person who's affecting your well-being.
 It does you no good to spend less or no time with Ms. or Mr. X if you're talking on the phone or computer with them 24-7. Cut that stuff out too. Your friendship is going to suffer, but you have to make necessary sacrifices if you want to reel in your heart.
 Trying to forget a love interest? Chances are the photo of you and that special person at the beach or bar together isn't going to do anything but remind you of how special they were to you. If you have the guts, burn the picture. If you want to keep it for sentimental value, do so. You might even think of giving it to the other person in the photo, explaining that you want them to have something to remember the fun times. Whatever you do...don't have it propped up on your desk or night-stand. Also get rid of that darn computer file with their name on it...you'll know the pictures are there and your mind isn't going to let you forget. Same goes with the my space, emails, and SMS / phone videos and photos. Get rid of all of that stuff.
 Rather their reasons for being with you are purely selfish or it's just a matter of ignorance on their part - they won't want to let go of someone who's in their life. This is the part where you have to confess your feelings to them...otherwise you just look like a jerk. After you tell them you had (emphasis on the HAD) feelings for them; explain that since they're not reciprocating that you've got to move on for your own mental health.
 Explain to the friends you trust that you're trying to get this person out of your heart / head and you could use the help / swift kick in the bottom if you attempt to win them back.
 You'll look weak and you'll find after much heart-ache and pain that you're right back where you started.

