 Signs of infection include reddening, swelling, or pus around the area where catheter had been removed. Fever may also indicate the presence of infection.


Continue to flush the area with warm, salty water. Bathe and wash as usual. While you may have discontinued baths when your catheter was inserted, showers are fine. Now that you've removed the catheter, you can take baths as well.
Your urine should be clear or light yellow. Presence of light pink urine is also normal for the first 24 – 48 hours following catheter removal, as a slight amount of blood may have entered the urinary tract. Urine that is dark red in color is a sign of blood, and foul-smelling or cloudy urine may indicate infection. If either of these are present, contact your medical provider immediately.
You may experience a slight rash on the area where your catheter has been removed. Cotton underwear allows for freer airflow to the area which aids healing.
 After removing a catheter, it's important to keep track of your urination patterns. If you have not urinated within eight hours of removing your catheter, contact your health care provider.


It's normal for urination to become a little irregular once your catheter is removed. It's common to find yourself needing to urinate more frequently than normal.
You may experience a slight discomfort when urinating. If this persists beyond 24 – 48 hours following catheter removal, this may indicate infection.
You may also find that you have difficulty controlling your urine flow. This is not unusual. Keep track of incidents that concern you, and ask your medical provider about these incidents at your next visit.
Keep a urination diary to help your doctor determine whether or not any further steps are needed on the path to your recovery.
 Drinking six to eight cups per day of water will help aid recovery of your urinary tract. Drinking a lot of water can help to increase your urine volume while also flushing out any bacteria or microorganisms in your bladder and urethra.Avoid drinking caffeine as it may irritate the bladder.Limit your fluid intake after 6:00 pm. Drinking too much liquid in the evening may wake you up during the night.
Elevate your feet when seated, particularly in the evening.

