 During a massage, outside distractions should be kept to a minimum. Traffic noises, outside music, and the sound of people's voices can disrupt the relaxing mood that makes massages so emotionally beneficial. The bedroom is the most obvious choice, but if there's another room in your house that's more removed from the main action in your home, consider using it as the massage room.


The massage room should be clean, without excessive clutter or messy areas that could make the person you're massaging feel anxious or stressed out. If you're using the bedroom and there's a pile of laundry in the corner, clean it up before you start the massage.
Choose a room with plenty of privacy. Find a place where you aren't likely to get interrupted by children, roommates or pets wandering in. If the door to the room has a lock, you may want to consider using it.
Make sure the temperature in the room is comfortable, so that the person you're massaging doesn't get too cold or warm.
 Professional massages take place on massage tables, but any flat, comfortable surface is appropriate for a home massage. You can use a bed, the floor, or even your dining room table, as long as you're sure it's sturdy enough to hold the weight of a person without collapsing.


Line the massage area with clean, soft sheets. If the person you're massaging tends to get cold, you could also line the area with a warm blanket or two. The surface you're using should be flat and smooth, so the person being massaged feels as comfortable as possible while also being supported.
Provide a small pillow for the person to rest his or her head upon during the massage.
 To give the most basic massage, all you really need are your hands. However, certain equipment can make the experience more effective and pleasurable. Prepare for the massage but setting up a small side table with these items:


Massage oil or lotion. Applying some oil or lotion before you begin rubbing the person's body will help your hands slide smoothly across his or her skin. This prevents chafing and irritating or painful friction.

Special massage oils are sold in health and beauty stores, but you could also use almond oil, jojoba oil or another cosmetic-grade oil from the health food store.

Make your own massage oil by mixing coconut oil with a few drops of essential oil, such as lavender, which promotes relaxation, or lemongrass, which is energizing.


A few clean towels. If you decide to use oil or lotion, it's good to have a few towels in case you need to wipe up spills or excess liquid as you go. You might also use the towels to cover parts of the person's body that aren't being massaged so they stay warm while you work on other parts of the body.
 The lighting in the massage room should be dim, but not dark, to promote a soothing but not sleepy atmosphere. Turn off the overhead lights in the room, and if the sun is bright, close the shades as well. Consider lighting a few candles around the room. If you want to use music to help the person you're massaging feel relaxed, choose peaceful instrumental music without a steady beat.
 Invite the person into the room and show them the bed or spot on the floor you've set up for the massage. It's up to you and the person you're massaging to determine what the person wears during the massage. If clothing is worn, it should be thin and lightweight, so that the massage can be effectively administered through the fabric.


Let the person know that he or she should lie face down on the bed or massage area.
You may want to leave the room for a few minutes so he or she has time to get comfortable before the massage begins.

