 The Kindle Cloud Reader can be accessed from any computer with an Internet connection. Visit the Kindle Cloud Reader at: http://read.amazon.com


Note that the reader works best when using Firefox, Chrome, or Safari. Your Internet connection will need to be active when you access the reader.You should be able to access the reader on a Windows, Mac, or Linux computer.
Before beginning, you should already have an Amazon account and at least one Kindle book linked to that account.;
, As soon as you get to the main page, you will be asked to sign into your Amazon.com account using your e-mail address and password.


Click on the "Sign In" button to send your details. If your information is correct, you should be redirected to your Kindle Library.
 The first time you launch the Kindle Cloud Reader, you'll be asked if you want to enable offline mode for future use. Make your decision and follow the corresponding on-screen steps.If you choose to enable offline reading, Kindle will install a browser plug-in or extension that allows you to read any e-book downloaded to your computer, even when you're offline. That e-book will only work on the computer you're currently working from, however.
To enable offline reading, hit the "Enable Offline" button. To skip this step, hit the "Not Now" button.
 Once your Kindle Library appears on the screen, find the e-book you want to read and double-click on the cover to open it.


If you've never opened the book before, it should open to the first page. On the other hand, if you have read the book from another location that was synchronized to your account, the Cloud Reader should open to the last page you were on. Any notes and bookmarks you made should be retained, as well.
 To advance forward one page, hit the right arrow key on your keyboard or hit the > button on screen. To progress back one page, hit the left arrow key on your keyboard or the < button on the screen.If you want to move to rapidly move to a different location in the book, select the top of the top of the screen, then slide the progress bar forward or backward to advance the pages.
Alternatively, you can select the top of the screen and click the "Book" icon. Different options will appear, allowing you to move to specific pages or sections of the book.
You can search the content of the book by hovering your cursor over the top of the screen until a search box appears. Type the search terms into the box and click "Enter" to navigate to all matching locations in the book.
 Select the top of the screen to show the reader toolbar, then hit the Aa button to alter your viewing settings.


From this area, you should be able to change the font size, background color, margins, columns, and reading location of the Cloud Reader.
If you want to view the page number or location, click the bottom center of the page instead of selecting the top of the screen. This should toggle the page number and location on and off.
 The Kindle Cloud Reader does allow you to leave bookmarks, make notations, and add highlights.


Click the "Toggle bookmark" icon at the top of the page to leave a bookmark.
To highlight or word or set of words, select the words and select the "Highlight" option that appears.
To add a notation, highlight the appropriate words and select the "Note" option that appears. Type the text of your note and select "Save."

, When you've finished reading, hover your cursor over the top of the screen to show the toolbar, then select the rotating arrow "Synchronize" button.


This synchronizes the last location you read with your other Kindle devices and online reading apps.

