 This chart shows a connection between the fingertips and the upper part of the head, such as the sinuses, eyes, brain, ears. The palm of the hand contains the larger inner organs.Reproductive organs such as the testes, ovaries and fallopian tubes are found connecting to the inner wrist just beneath the hand.
The thumb and the first 2 fingers contain more complex connections to the inner organs than do the outer 2 fingers.;
, The Indian reflexology chart (or acupressure chart) contains several key differences from the Western hand reflexology chart. The pressure points on the Indian chart are primarily located in the palm of the hand, while the fingertips are shown connected to the sinus region. The thumb contains connection to the brain and the pituitary gland.The Ayurvedic chart connects the inner world with the radial (thumb side), and the outer world with with the ulnar (little finger side).
In keeping with the inner/outer distinction, the connection with the eyes is found on the radial side of the palm, beneath the first 2 fingers (index and middle). The connection with the ears is found beneath the last 2 fingers (ring finger and pinky).
 This hand reflexology chart is unusual in that it doesn't include any areas of the wrist. Reproductive organs are shown connected to the area within the palm of the hand. The Korean, or Koryo Hand Therapy (KHT systems), chart is shown with hand supine and prone, and makes no distinction between left and right hands.The spine, in the Korean system, is shown to be connected to the central axis of the hand, along the line of the middle finger and extending down along the exterior of the hand.
Each finger is shown connecting to a different region of the body in this chart.
 For example, pinching the area between the middle finger and the ring finger may help with eye conditions such as conjunctivitis or eyestrain. If you have allergies, they might be helped by pressing gently on the adrenal gland area, which is found on the area sometimes known as the "Mound of Venus".You can also hold a golf ball and roll it with both hands over the areas of your hand to apply pressure.
If you suffer from tension or anxiety, try pinching the skin area between your thumb and your first finger.

