 Take measurements for the width and depth of your bed, as well as the height from the floor to the top of your box spring. To sew bed skirts, you need 2 depth-by-height panels, 1 width-by-height panel for the skirt, and 1 width-by-depth panel to cover the top of your box spring.


Add 1 inch (2.54 cm) to the width and depth measurements and 2 inches (3 cm) to the height measurement for the seam allowance. You now have the measurements that you will use for your panels.;
, If you want to make a flat paneled bed skirt, then you may use the measurements you have. For a ruffled bed skirt, you need to account for fullness; determine how full you want the skirt to be, either 2 to 3 times fuller than a smooth/flat bedskirt. A fullness of 2 is mildly full, while a fullness of 3 is extremely full. Multiply the width measurements for the skirt panels by the amount of fullness you want. Use the resulting dimensions when cutting your fabric panels.
 Wash and dry it first to account for any shrinkage, then iron it so that it is flat and wrinkle-free. Measure and mark your panels using a ruler, straight edge and fabric marker.
 You should have a total of 4 panel pieces (3 for the skirt and 1 for the main panel) to cut.
 Press the bottom edge of the 3 skirt panel pieces up 1/2 inch (1.25 cm), with the wrong side in, in order to create the hem. Additionally, press the 2 depth edges and only 1 width edge of the main panel under, wrong side in, 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Use a straight stitch along the pressed edge to give a clean, finished look to your hem. This will also help prevent the bed skirt from fraying over time.
 If you are making a bed skirt with smooth/flat sides, then you don't need to do anything before sewing them to the main fabric piece. If you are choosing to make a ruffled bed skirt, then you will need to gather your panels before you sew them to the main panel. To make gathered panels:


Set your sewing machine to a zig-zag stitch, on the longest available stitch length. You will be stitching 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in from the top edge (opposite of the hemmed edge) of the skirt paneling.
Line up cotton crochet thread in the center of the presser foot so that, when you sew, the zig-zag stitch encloses the crochet thread. Make sure you do not sew the crochet thread into place, as you will need to pull it through the chamber made by the zig-zag stitching in order to create the gathering.
Sew along the entire length of the panel.
Pull the crochet thread from either end of the panel in order to gather the fabric until the panel is the appropriate width or depth measurement.
Adjust the gathers until they appear to be evenly spaced.
Sew a straight stitch along the gathered edge to secure the gathers in place.
 Beginning at the hem edge, pin 1 vertical end of each lengthwise skirt panel to each vertical end of the widthwise skirt panel, right sides facing together. Allowing for a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance, sew the panels together along the 2 connecting vertical edges. When you are finished, you will have 1 continuous bed skirt panel that spans the circumference of the bed (not including the head end).
 Lay the main panel in place. It should cover the entire face of the box spring and extend over the unfinished top edge of the bed skirt paneling. Pin the main panel to the bed skirt panel around the entire perimeter. Sew along the edge of the main panel on all 3 sides that are edged by the skirt panel, using a regular straight stitch. Be sure to use the 1/2-inch seam allowance.
 With the panels all sewn into place, put the bed skirt over the box spring to check its fit. If everything lies smoothly in place, then you are finished! Otherwise, remove the bed skirt and adjust any mistakes accordingly.