 Open an Internet browser on your computer, and go to this site: http://www.malwarebytes.org/antimalware/.


Malwarebytes is a free anti-malware software that can protect your computer from new online threats that your antivirus can’t detect.;
, Click on the green “GET MY FREE DOWNLOAD” button, which lets you try the software for free for 14 days.


It is still a good idea to use the software despite it being a trial version because it will still wipe out the virus causing your Chrome to redirect pages.
 The next page should tell you that the download is automatically starting, and that you should see the download begin shortly. Wait for it to finish, and launch the installer by clicking on the downloaded file below your browser.



A shortcut icon of Malwarebytes will be created on your desktop.
 Do this by clicking on the shortcut icon on your desktop.


Upon opening the program, you can choose between tabs in the top portion of the window.
, Malwarebytes will then prompt you to select which drive on your computer to scan. Choose the drive you installed Chrome on, as well as the system files.


This is typically drive C:, but you can scan all your drives to be thorough.
 Click the “Scan” button to begin searching for viruses to obliterate. Just wait for the scanning to finish.
 Upon finishing, the software will ask you what actions to take regarding any threats detected. You can select the action by clicking the drop-down menu for each detected threat under the Action column.


Choose “Quarantine All” in the lower-left corner of the window to set the action for all threats to quarantine. This will remove the threats from the drive and store them in an isolated location where they cannot interact with your system files.
You can delete a threat by selecting “Delete” from the drop-down menu under the Action column.
 Click on “Apply” and the software will perform the actions you assigned to each threat.
 Just hitting the X button in the upper-right corner of the software’s window. Once the antivirus program is closed, you can restart your computer.
 To test if you’re still getting redirects, open your Chrome browser once the computer has fully restarted.
 Redirects occur often randomly whenever you click a link in a website, and it takes you to a page that isn’t even the link. Browse for about half an hour to see if there aren't any random redirects anymore.


If the viruses causing the page redirects were totally removed, you should not experience any page redirects anymore.

