 Character motivation is a big part of building an engaging character your readers will want to follow and get to know. Strong character motivation can also help you set high stakes for the story and allow you to get a better sense of your character’s arc. Your character’s arc is the journey your character will take as she tries to achieve her motivation.Your character’s motivation could be as simple as passing a math test or as complex as saving the world from mass destruction. Once you identify your character’s motivation, you can then build the rest of the story from there. Your main character’s motivation may be challenged by the story line or by other characters in the story, leading to drama and action in the story.
 An emotional trigger is a life event that has significant meaning to the character and changes the character. Think about what your character’s emotional trigger or triggers may be in the story. This trigger can act as a motivator for your character or act as a major event that then triggers change in your character.Some emotional triggers for characters include the moment of greatest fear, the moment of greatest courage, the moment of greatest sadness, the moment of greatest joy, the moment of deepest shame, or the moment of deepest guilt.
Though these emotional triggers may seem extreme, placing your characters in situations where they must confront their emotional triggers will make your story feel engaging and dramatic. It will also help you create characters who have strong opinions and strong emotions, which are often what help readers connect to characters in a story.
 Avoid falling into cliche character development and seek to instead surprise your reader completely. Play against type and give your characters surprising traits that will throw the reader off balance, in a good way.For example, maybe you are writing about a villainous mob boss. Give him a surprising trait, like an undying love for kittens. Or, maybe you are writing about a single mother, who takes care of her children and is also a bare-knuckle boxer. Work against stereotypes so your characters feel interesting and three dimensional, rather than one note or cliche.
 Often, characters who make poor decisions or take the wrong actions are more engaging than characters who always do the right thing. Don’t be afraid to let your characters do the wrong thing or choose the ill advised action. Lowering your character’s inhibitions can help to create stronger characters, leading to conflict and tension in the story.For example, maybe one character who has always been faithful to her partner has an affair, or maybe one character speaks without thinking in a meeting and offends her boss. Think of the moments where your characters make mistakes or act on a false assumption and lean into that to create stronger characters and a stronger story.
 Once you feel you have a strong sense of the characters in your story, you can check your knowledge by doing pretend interviews with each character. Create a set of basic questions, such as “What is your name?” “Where are you from” “What motivates you?” and fill them out as each one of your characters. If you have created well rounded and engaging characters, the characters’ answers to the interview questions should reflect your hard work as a writer.