 Anytime you create a photograph, you gain rights to the work. For this reason, you don’t need to file for copyright protection. Nevertheless, there are reasons to register:In the United States, you must have registered your copyright if you want to bring a lawsuit for copyright violations.
Also, you can qualify for attorney’s fees or statutory money damages if your pictures are registered.;
, You can register for a U.S. copyright online. You must submit a digital version of the work along with your application. You should, therefore, make sure that you have digital versions of your photographs.


If you take digital photographs, then you can easily upload a digital image.
If your photographs are not digital, then you can scan them and create a high-quality digital version.
 At the website, you can view a tutorial which will walk you through the online registration process.Generally, you will need to first create an online account.You can register a single photograph or an entire unit of unpublished photographs on one application, provided that one photographer created or contributed to all of the photos. Also, one person must be claiming copyright in all of the photos. You will also have to provide a title for the unit.Registering a unit is much less expensive than individually registering each photograph.
You will have to pay a filing fee, which you can submit online. The Copyright Office publishes a list of their filing fees, which you can access at their website., You can also register for a U.S. copyright using a paper application if you prefer to do so. You should get the form VA and fill it out. You can fill in this form online and then save it and print. Alternately, you could print it off and then fill in the information by hand.The form will ask for the following information:the title of the work, including previous titles
the nature of the work (i.e., photograph)
your name and date of birth
the year the work was created
the date the work was first published, if it has been published
your name and address
the name and address of the person claiming copyright (if you are not the creator of the photographs)

, If you have a question about how to apply for copyright, you can reach a Copyright Office staff member at (202) 707-3000 or toll free at 1-877-476-0778.You can also click the “Contact Us” button at the Copyright Office website and submit a question online.
 You should make a copy of your VA form for your records. You will need to mail the completed original form and the following to the address on the form:A copy of each photograph. If you are submitting a group application, then include one copy of each photograph in the group. If the photographs were published, then include two copies.
Fees. See the schedule published by the Copyright Office for the fee amount. You can pay by check or money order, payable to “Register of Copyrights.”, After submitting your application, the Copyright Office will review your submission. If it is approved, then you will be mailed a certificate of registration. Store it in a safe place.
 Whenever you post images, you should include a clear copyright notice beside the photograph. You can include this notice even if you don’t register your work.Make sure that the notice contains the following:Include the copyright symbol or the words “Copr.” or “Copyright.”
Add the year the picture is published on the website.
Include your name.
Also state “All rights are reserved.”

