 The insurance industry is regulated heavily, which means your policy errors will often be handled under favorable circumstances. Regulations will dictate how premiums can be collected, how claims must be settled, and what insurance companies must give you. Most states have the following laws in place:Insurance companies cannot misrepresent your insurance policy. This means if the policy you receive is substantially different from the policy you discussed with your agent, you may have a valid complaint.
Insurance companies cannot change your coverage without first informing you in writing. This means if your policy is different than the one you agreed upon, you may have a valid claim.;
, Find the errors in the policy or form you were sent. Highlight those errors and analyze them. Take note of every error regardless of whether it is minor or major. Minor errors, for example, would include spelling your name wrong, putting down the wrong address, or mixing up the make or model of your car. Major errors might include a difference in the price of your policy, a difference in the payment method agreed upon, or discrepancies in the policy itself (e.g., different deductibles than discussed or different coverage than discussed).# Compile official quotes you were given. When you begin discussing auto insurance options with your agent, your agent will ask you a series of questions. The answers you give will determine the type of coverage he or she will offer. The quotes your agent gives you are formal offers to enter into an insurance policy with the company. Therefore, these quotes have to be accurate and complete.


Quotes can give you great insight into what you agreed to in your auto coverage. For example, if the quote you accepted states your premium would be $600 every six months, that is how much your official policy should cost. If you get your bi-annual bill and it is for $800, you know there is an error.
 You should always take notes during or soon after conversations take place. This is particularly important when a conversation took place in-person or over the phone. These conversations have no paper trail so taking notes ensures you have evidence of the discussions.


These notes should be kept in a safe place where they can be accessed easily and conveniently.
Every note should include the date you spoke, how long you spoke, who you spoke with, and what the conversation entailed.
The notes may become necessary if your agent disputes an agreement you made while on the phone or in his or her office. For example, assume you and your agent agreed on the phone to take out a late payment provision in your policy, but the policy you received includes the disputed provision. If you have detailed notes of your phone conversation, you may help your agent remember their promise.
 These are particularly helpful if your dispute surrounds how much you owe. Past bills are a great indicator of how much you pay every month and what bills, if any, you are not receiving. In addition, your bank statements can help verify that the bills you have were paid in full and on time.
 If the error in question is minor, for example a misspelled name or address, look back at your correspondence to see if the error was your fault. For example, you may have sent an email stating your address was 1235 J Street, when it was supposed to read 1234 J Street.


Whether the error was your fault or not, it always helps to know how it came about.
 Minor errors can usually be addressed by simply contacting your agent. Whether you do this over the phone, in-person, or through an email, the error should be fixable within minutes. Do not be afraid to ask questions about how the error occurred. Furthermore, be sure you understand whether your policy remains in effect while the errors are being corrected, and how long it will take to finalize the corrections. For example, if your phone number is wrong on your policy, your agent should be able to go into your policy and change it immediately.


If your error is more serious, you should still start by contacting your agent personally. You and your agent have created a relationship that can work in your favor. For example, your agent may trust your conversation notes whereas a random customer service representative may not. In addition, your agent will know who to contact if he or she cannot take care of the error personally.
Always provide your agent with your policy number and copies of important documents., If your agent cannot resolve your dispute, you may have to make a written request to your insurance company. Whether the insurance company has a formal process or not, you want your request to be in writing so there is evidence of your complaint and a paper trail. Make sure you address your letter to the correct department and individual. For example, if you are disputing a bill, address your letter to the accounting or finance department.


Your letter needs to clearly state the problem you have and how you want it resolved. The letter should be as detailed as possible and should incorporate any evidence you have at your disposal. Be sure you include your policy number, name, and contact information. If you have any attachments (e.g., bills, bank statements, or quotes), add them at the end of your letter., If your error is small, ask your agent to send you an updated policy or insurance form. If the error was more major, ask that any correspondence take place in writing. This ensures you have evidence of every step taken, including how long it takes to complete them.


If your dispute remains unresolved after contacting your insurance agency directly, you will want the written correspondence to use in future resolution processes.
 Every state has a regulatory agency responsible for overseeing the actions of insurance providers in their state. Each state has different policies for the types of complaints they will hear and the process that needs to be followed.


For example, in California, if you want to take part in mediation, your dispute has to concern a filed claim (e.g., a claim that was denied) and the amount in controversy must exceed $2,000.On the other hand, the Texas Department of Insurance will hear almost any complaint, including poor customer service.Make sure your state department has the ability and willingness to field your complaint before you file.
 Visit your state's department of insurance website to best understand how the complaint process works. In Texas, for example, your complaint can take any form so long as it contains the following information:Your name and contact information
The name of your insurance company
The name of any agents involved
Your policy number
A copy of your insurance card
A description of your problem
What you think a fair resolution would be
Copies of any supporting documents you have

, Each state will require you to file your complaint differently. In Texas, for example, you can file your complaint online, over the phone, through the mail, in person, in an email, or through a fax. With that said, Texas does not accept links to online documents or pictures., Once the state receives your complaint, you should receive a letter acknowledging its receipt. Most states will conduct an investigation and contact your insurance company for a response to your complaint. Any response the state receives will be forwarded to you as well. The state will complete its investigation, usually within 45 days, and give you an explanation of their findings.


If an error is found, the department of insurance may be able to fine or reprimand the insurance company.If no error is found, the department of insurance will provide you with an explanation as to why no error was found.