 For most workers, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 provides up to 12 weeks of unpaid time off from work in order to care for themselves or a family member. This is subject to certain time conditions, including:


You must have worked for the employer for 12 months for at least 1250 hours during that year.
Your employer cannot deduct time when you were deployed or in training for the military reserves or National Guard.;
, In order to take leave under the FMLA, you must have a “qualifying condition.” These include:


Pregnancy.
Birth of a child.
“Serious health conditions.” This is the most subjective category, but this covers any "illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that involves inpatient care or continuing treatment by a health care provider" to you or a family member."Continuing treatment” for you or family members' serious health condition includes: incapacity for more than three consecutive days along with two instances of medical treatment (once with an ongoing regimen of treatment); times when you or a family member are incapacitated or being treated for a chronic serious condition; when you are incapacitated because of a long-term condition with no effective treatment; when you or a family member are incapacitated because of multiple treatments for restorative surgery, including recovery; or for a condition which would result in incapacity for three or more days without medical treatment., Although most employers are covered under the FMLA, it doesn't apply to every employer. Covered employers include:


Public sector employers, including state and local governments and school districts.
Private Sector employers that employ at least 50 employees for at least 20 workweeks during the current or preceding calendar year, and have at least 50 employees within 75 miles of the employee’s location., Even though the FMLA is for the employee's benefit, it has its own set of procedures and protocols to follow. Don't face reprimand, suspension, or termination due to a failure to follow the rules.


If your condition is foreseeable, you need to give your employer at least 30 days notice.
If the condition is unforeseeable, you need to give notice as soon as is practicable. This is usually one or two business days.
If you find yourself needing to take leave due to an emergency--a terrible car wreck, for instance, notify your employer within two business days after you leave.
The FMLA only entitles you to 12 weeks of unpaid time off. This can usually be taken consecutively or non-consecutively. Your employer may ask that you use your paid time off concurrently with, and in lieu of, your FMLA time., Your employer is entitled to ask for medical certification of your condition, but this entitlement is subject to conditions.


You do NOT have to provide medical records to your employer. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, your medical records are private. Specific knowledge of what is contained in those records is only between you, your doctor, and your health care provider.
Your employer is entitled to ask for medical certification. This is not the same thing as a medical record, but it does certify from a doctor or health care provider that you suffer from a qualifying condition. You can obtain this certification along with your diagnosis. Your employer can ask for re-certification no more than once per 30 day period.Make sure that the certification is detailed enough that it certifies that your condition meets the requirements of a “qualifying condition.”, The quickest way to make sure that your medical information ends up in the wrong hands is to speak with the wrong people.


If there is an HR department at your employer, you can always use HR to apply for leave. In fact, most employers large enough to have an HR department will require this.
If your employer allows, and it makes you more comfortable, you may also talk to your immediate supervisor., Although there can be legitimate reasons for an employer to make additional inquiries with respect to your leave, additional inquires can often be a veiled attempt to pressure you into returning to work. Know the circumstances when this is permissible.


Your employer can make additional inquiries—to clarify, not seek additional information-- about your health condition, but only to you.With your permission, and ONLY your permission, can they contact your health care provider. Usually, it will be a representative from their health care provider calling your health care provider. Even then, it is only to verify or clarify, not to obtain additional information beyond what is needed to certify your condition., The FMLA is not a law that primarily deals with privacy. The primary law governing the privacy of medical records is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA actually applies to healthcare providers and healthcare insurers, so many employers think it doesn't concern them. That's true in some cases, but not where FMLA is concerned.Since FMLA is a law pertaining to medical conditions, many of the privacy protections enshrined in HIPAA affect employers when an employee applies for medical leave. See Ensure Hipaa Compliance for more information about HIPAA.
 As an employer, you are entitled to seek certification of an employee’s claimed condition when they request leave under the FMLA. The Department of Labor provides a form which can be found at https://www.dol.gov/whd/forms/wh-380-e.pdf and https://www.dol.gov/whd/forms/wh-380-f.pdf. There are strict limits to what certification entails. In order to stay within the law, make yourself aware of what these limits are.


You may ask for contact information for the health care provider.You may ask when the condition began and how long it will last, along with appropriate medical facts.You may also ask for information explaining why the employee cannot perform the essential functions of the job. If the employee applies for leave to care for a family member, you may ask for a statement of the care they need.The employee pays for the certification. They must be provided written notice, and they have 15 calendar days to obtain it. If the certification is incomplete, they can be made to obtain a complete certification, also upon written notice., The employer may ask for clarifying information from a health care provider—such as clarifying who signed a form or what illegible handwriting says—as long as the employee’s direct supervisor isn’t making contact with the health care provider. Use a benefits manager or HR personnel.


An employer may also require the employee to get a second or third opinion to verify the initial certification. This is at the employer’s expense. Requiring a third opinion is only permissible if the second and first opinions differ, and the third opinion is final. Third opinions are also paid for by the employer., If an employer suspects that an employee is taking leave for longer than their condition would dictate, they may ask for recertification of the condition. The same conditions, such as written notice, apply to recertification as apply to certification.An employer may not ask for recertification more than once in a thirty day period., If an employee feels that their employer has shared their medical records improperly, they may contact the Department of Labor and the employer may face sanction. Therefore, it is best to take precautions so that this situation doesn’t arise.


An employee’s medical information, such as FMLA certification forms, first-aid records, employee medical complaints, results of medical exams (like DOT physicals), should always be kept separate from other records. Even non-medical records, like insurance claims, which may pertain to medical conditions, should be kept separate from medical records.