 When you send your dog to its designated spot, you'll tell it to sit or lay down there for as long as necessary. If your dog doesn’t already know how to sit or lay down, you’ll have to first teach it one of these commands.First, say the command calmly and clearly. Physically guide the dog into the appropriate position, then reward it with a small food treat as soon as it gets in that position. Repeat 10 to 20 times per training session to reinforce its association of following the command with a reward.
Use pea-sized food treats when you’re just starting out, then substitute food with a toy or verbal praise.
 Select a spot that’s still within view but at least eight feet away from the window or door. This is the spot you’ll teach your dog to go to when the doorbell rings or when it starts barking from the window.Examples include the doorway of an adjacent room, a mat or rug at the far end of a foyer, or a stairwell with a view of the front door.
 Choose a consistent command for your dog to follow, like “Go to your spot!” or “Mat!” Say the command, show the dog a treat, then toss the treat onto the mat or spot. Repeat this process 10 to 20 times.After about 10 repetitions, try pretending to throw the treat to the spot. When the dog goes to the mat, toss it the treat as soon as it gets into position. Don’t give it a treat until the moment it goes to its spot.
Make sure to use the same command with the same tone of voice every time you say it.
 Eventually, you should say the command and your dog should go the spot on its own. When it can reliably go to its spot, start mixing up when and from where you give it the command. Try giving the command from another room, and reward the dog when it gets to its spot., When you’re sure it understands the spot command, start telling it to stay or lay down once it’s in position.Say “Go to your spot,” and give a pea-sized reward when it gets to its spot. Then say “Sit!” or “Lay down!” and again offer a small food treat.
Repeat this sequence 10 to 20 times each day to reinforce the spot and sit or lay down command combination.

