 Set aside defined gender roles in your household and distribute the work equally. When you've settled down and made your love nest together, here are some ways to keep the woman in your life melting:



Make her breakfast in bed on the weekend. You can also cook breakfast or dinner for the whole family. If you're not already cooking for the family regularly, start making this a regular routine. Also. know what her favorite foods are. When you go grocery shopping together, add them to the cart as an automatic reflex. You'll send shivers of delight down her spine!
Do things without having to be asked. Take care of the vacuuming, the pets or the pile of dishes in the sink. Repair broken items around the house.
Take care of the kids for a day. Take them out and wear them out so they come home exhausted and don't want to hassle her! Or give her the special delight of arranging an entire day of playing with them and feeding them at home, allowing her to just sit back and enjoy the sound of her children laughing and enjoying themselves all day. This combination that will definitely make her heart melt: you caring for the kids while they are laughing with joy.
Take care of her when she's sick. Make special meals, fetch her mail, fluff up her pillows, rub her back, get the temperature "just right," rent her favorite movies, and if you have kids, tell her not to worry because you're taking care of everything.
When she's tired, run her a warm bath with something scented in the water, or give her a relaxing massage. Carry her to bed if she falls asleep anywhere else.;
, Gifts that are unique and thoughtful in nature are a lovely way to tell her that she's special.


Give traditional gifts in the beginning of the relationship, such as stuffed animals, your sweater or sweatshirt or a piece of jewelry. After you've been together for a while, start coming up with something a little more personalized so that she'll know you're into her.
Have the gift customized. For example, you can inscribe a special message on a mug, T-shirt or bracelet. Then, give her a note card that says, "I want you to know that I appreciate everything you do. I probably should tell you more. I think you're the complete package. So I'm giving you this bracelet to show how much I appreciate you," she'll melt.
Don't just buy the first bundle of flowers that the florist has to offer. Go out of your way to either select flowers that you know she loves or to find less common ones, such as violets or freesias. You can also pick wildflowers and give them to her yourself--she'll definitely melt.
Choose handmade chocolates from a hard-to-find artisan chocolate shop. Or if you're good at it, go all out and make them yourself!
Remember your anniversaries and arrange unique ways to celebrate them. And tickle her pink by mentioning an upcoming anniversary before she does!

, Saying things that make her melt depends on who she is and how well you know her. While you won't find a 1-size-fits-all formula, have a toolbox full of general sweet somethings that you can use until you know her a little better. Here are some of you might like to try:


Acknowledge her sense of humor. Tell her that she makes you laugh.
Ask her, "How was your day?" It's surprising how many times people forget this simple nicety. Yet, it means a lot because it gives her an open invitation to talk about herself. Ask specific questions about her job or about her day raising your children.
If you've been apart a few days, tell her you miss her. Something like: "Can't wait to see you; feels like it's been an eternity since we've been together."
If things have been flagging a little lately in the romance department, tell her: "Honey, I want to increase the romance in our lives."
Tell her there's no one else like her. She's unique, and nobody else in the world is as right for you as she is. Everyone likes being told how special they are. Doing this serves as an especially powerful tonic if she's feeling insecure. When you're getting ready to propose, tell her: "I cannot wait to spend every moment of my entire life with you."

, Your own special words for one another are a reminder of the unique love for one another and it's important to continue using these even as your relationship turns into everyday living.


Call her by a pet name. Some of the cute names women like may include kitten, love, sweetheart, sweetie, babe, gorgeous, darling/darlin', princess or a sweet nickname that you came up with on your own.
Tell her that you love her regularly. Few of us tell one another often enough that we love each other. For example, in public, say "Sweetie, I love you" loudly enough for people around you to hear, and then kiss her. Or call her or text her for no other reason than to say, "I love you."

, Book everything, create a small portfolio of the trip and ask her to "close your eyes" and then "open your eyes and look where I'm taking you" before placing the itinerary in her hands. If she's a hard worker who worries about time availability, try to clear the vacation time with her boss first.

