 This will effectively cool down the room by working to condition the air in that space only.A central air conditioning system has to work to cool down the entire house, which takes a lot longer. Installing a window A/C unit is easy to do, especially if you have a sash window.


If you don’t want to bother with installation or you have windows that aren’t ideal for it, consider buying a portable air conditioner. All you have to do is plug it in – no installation necessary., Take advantage of the cooler air by cracking a few windows at night before you go to sleep. You can capitalize on this cooler night air by setting up a fan or two across from a window to create a nice cross-breeze. Make sure you close the windows tightly in the morning to avoid letting hot air in. Close the blinds or curtains, too.Unplug all of the electronics in the room during the night, as well, to cool down the area even more., Humidity can make heat feel even more oppressive. If you live in a humid area, you might want to get a dehumidifier. These devices pull in the humid air of a room and circulate it around special coils before releasing it back into the room. You can pick up a dehumidifier at any home improvement store.


Dehumidifiers aren’t cheap, but they are usually portable, so you can bring it from room to room to maximize its usage.
For best results, place the dehumidifier in the center of the room you are trying to cool down., If you are using window curtains or drapes, get medium-colored ones with white plastic backing to efficiently block heat. Be sure to hang them as close to the window as possible. Shades are also very effective at keeping heat out – be sure to mount these as close to the window glass as you can to create a sealed space to trap heat. Consider getting reversible shades that are white on one side and dark on the other side.


In the summer you can position the white side facing out to reflect the sun and in the winter the dark side can be positioned to face out, which will absorb heat.