 Ensuring that you have the right items to care for your sick bear is important, as its health depends upon you. Be sure that you have the right medicines, as well as other equipment that you might need. Find a thermometer to check on its temperature, and use a stethoscope to listen to its heartbeat.;
, While it recovers from its illness, keep it entertained by allowing it to play games, watch television, or read books. Help it avoid boredom by offering it a variety of activities and keeping it distracted from its current health condition. However, avoid tiring it out. Be sure that it still has enough energy to recover.
 Stocking it up with nutrients is essential to speeding up its recovery. Stick to a schedule of three meals a day, along with snacks if necessary. Give it hot soup and fruits to provide it with good nutrition. Also, keep it hydrated so that the water can flush out the germs.
 When it is feeling poorly, you should remain with it so that it feels comforted. Wrap it in warm blankets, and give it cuddles so it can soak up your heat. Participate in quiet, relaxing activities with it, such as reading a good book together or watching television shows. Once it feels better, take it outside to breathe in the fresh air.
 If you have to leave it at home, make sure it doesn't feel lonely by leaving another stuffed animal with it. Also, leave it food and drinks in case it needs nutrition throughout the day. Be sure that it is properly clothed so it doesn't catch more germs.
 Since it cannot blow its nose, you will be expected to do it for them. Although this may be a disgusting process, hold a tissue up to its nose when it needs to sneeze. Be sure to wash your hands to remove any germs.
 You can make teddy medication by combining water and food coloring. You could also find an empty pill bottle to feed it from. Completing this step may speed up its recovery and make it feel happier. However, avoid giving it an overdose, which may result in health complications or serious internal injury.
 When it becomes sick, it may feel dirty because of all the germs. Dampen a sponge or towel with warm water. After squeezing out the excess water, dab it onto your teddy bear's fur before setting by a warm fire to dry off.
 When it feels ill, it requires much comfort and support in order to feel better. Occasionally feed it treats to provide encouragement. Give it new toys so that it feels better.
 If you have other furry friends, be sure to warn them about your sick teddy bear. Keep them away from it so that they too do not catch its illness. Remind them to treat your teddy bear kindly while it's recovering.

