 When you answer the questions, you want to sound like someone who does things on purpose and with conviction. This is the kind of person that people want to give scholarships to because it tells them that you’re actually going to go out, do things, and make their money count.


Don’t use words and phrases like “maybe”, “sort of”, “I try...”, or “I hope...”.
Do use words and phrases like “I’m sure...”, “I can...”, and “I will...”.
 You want your essay to be uniquely you. You want it to convey your story, not a story that could belong to anyone else. Find what makes you unique and work that into your essay. This can range from personal experiences to personal passions, and anything else you can think of., Use your essay to tell people what you’re good at. Show them your strengths and make sure to back up those strengths with examples. If you want to convey that you’re really organized, for example, tell them about how you helped your homeroom teacher completely revamp her storage system to be more efficient. Remember: don’t just tell...show.


For example, you can talk about your social skills. Tell them about how your frequent interactions with people have taught you to appreciate people from all walks of life and that

, You will also want to acknowledge that you do have failures or shortcomings. This humanizes you and makes you sympathetic. However, it is also very important to show how those shortcomings don’t hinder you. Talk about how you overcome them and how you work through your problems. This makes you look smarter and more competent.


For example, if you’ve had some bad grades in the past, talk about how you used to have trouble prioritizing but that you worked out a system to help you focus and stay motivated.
Another example would be if you didn’t have a lot of social extracurriculars, like cheerleading or clubs. Discuss how you are shy but that you are starting to find new ways to ease yourself into situations that make you uncomfortable so that you can improve your social skills.
Does your academic and activity background look really all over the place? Disconnected and random? Don’t worry about this making you look unfocused. All you have to do is play up how well rounded all of these activities have made you. “With these experiences, I am ready to handle any situation or hardship that comes my way with ease and excellence.”

