 Even within the same country, your brand of contact solution might not be available everywhere. To ensure that you do not run out, bring enough solution for the entire trip. It is better to pack too much than too little.Just remember that if you need to take more than 3 oz. you will need to pack it in a checked bag.


Pack your solution in ziplock bags in case the bottle leaks.
Don't transfer the solution into a different, smaller bottle to travel. While this may seem easier than buying a travel-sized solution, doing so can compromise the sterility of your solution.
Squeeze some of the air out of the bottle before you pack them. Air expands at high altitudes, which could cause the bottle to pop open while you're flying.;
, It is a good idea to bring an extra pair of contact lenses along. If you’re using disposable daily lenses, you might want to consider bring a few extra pairs. These will help prepare you in case of an emergency, like tearing or losing a lens.Keep your lenses secure within their case. You may even want to bring a larger decorative case so that you do not lose them in your bag or purse., While you might not use your eyeglasses on a daily basis, you should bring them along with you while you travel just in case. If anything happens to your lenses or if your eyes become irritated, you might have to switch to glasses., It is generally a good idea to keep a copy of your prescription with you. Even if you travel abroad, contact lens and eyeglass prescriptions are generally the same country to country. If anything happens to your lenses, you can replace them easily and without worry.If you are going to the UK or France, you will need a doctor’s prescription to get new lenses. Make sure that you speak to your doctor before your trip., If you are going somewhere where you might not have access to clean water, you might want to consider bringing daily disposable lenses instead. Bring one set for every day that you will be there, plus a few extra just in case. This will take away the hassle of cleaning your lenses while making sure that you do not put dirty water into your eyes.