 Whether you’re trying to discourage your pet from licking themselves or you, you can try to keep them occupied doing something else. By offering them something more enticing to do, you’ll stop your pet from licking lotions or creams. Many prescribed creams or ointments are rapidly absorbed, so by distracting the dog and playing with him immediately after application, this can give the cream enough time to sink in. Consider:


Offering your pet food or treats to distract them from the lotion or cream.
Playing with your dog after you apply the lotion or cream. This will be especially helpful if you’ve applied it to your pet.
Taking your pet on a walk or traveling somewhere with them. This way, your pet will focus their attention on their surroundings rather than the lotion or cream.
 You can also consider mixing a particular flavor that your pet doesn’t like into the cream or ointment. This way, you’ll turn your pet off to it.


Think about pre-made store-bought formulas used to repel cats or dogs. You'll probably just be able to spray the formula onto the cream or ointment. Make sure that the formula is safe for consumption.
Consult your veterinarian about what flavors or additives might discourage your pet from licking creams or ointments., A really effective way to stop your pet from licking cream or ointment is to apply an additional scent that they may not like. Such scents can often be applied via a spray bottle onto the ointment or cream. Ultimately, your pet won’t want to lick a cream or ointment that smells bad to them.


You may not even need to apply the scent onto the ointment or cream, but just on the general area of the body where the lotion or cream is applied.
The scent may conflict with the natural scent of the cream or ointment. Experiment to make sure you’re comfortable with the scent mixture before you use it.
As with adding flavors, consider using citrus to repel your pet from licking creams or ointments. Most dogs and cats dislike the smell of citrus.