 Bats are not aggressive animals and most survive off of eating insects. It is not common for a bat to attack a person, but like all wild animals there is a risk that the bat could be carrying rabies or another infectious disease.Wear thick gloves if you think you may come in contact with the bat or if you are going to attempt to catch it.
Secure children and animals in a room the bat cannot access.
Avoid direct contact with the bat if possible.;
, Bats navigate using echolocation instead of sight, so the vast array of sounds in your house can make it difficult for the bat to find its way. Once the bat flies into a room with a window or door that has access the outside, seal off that room to prevent the bat from flying deeper into your house.Turn off the lights in the room and the exterior lights outside the door or window.
Turn off any television, radio, or air conditioner near the exit that might make the bat avoid the area.
Try to avoid making a lot of noises, as they will upset the bat and make it behave in less predictable ways.
 Most bats do not want to be inside your house. They’re wild animals and prefer to stay in their natural habitat. The bat is probably looking for a way out, so providing it with an exit may solve your problem.Choose one exit that you intend to direct the bat to, but open other windows too in case the bat decides to fly out one of them instead.
Use sheets with push pins to block off any doorways without doors into other rooms.
 Hold a sheet up at arm’s length to create a makeshift barrier or wall out of the sheet in front of you. If you can get a friend or family member to help this process will be easier.Move slowly toward the bat with the sheets up to limit its flying space and usher it toward the open exit.
Position yourself and your friend in a way that makes flying in any direction other than the exit difficult.
Keep closing in on the bat and the exit slowly until the bat has no choice but to fly out.
 Now that the bat has flown out of the house, close all entry points the bat may have used to enter your home. The bat is not likely to return, but if it is confused you run the risk of it returning.


Close all doors and windows you opened to create an exit.
Check the rest of the house for openings the bat may have used and seal them off.

