 Find a large piece of cardboard about the thickness of a cereal box or the back of a notebook and trace the outline of your iPod onto it (leaving extra cardboard for later). Follow the contours of the bottom corners of the iPod. However, make sure the top corners aren’t blunted and round; instead, extend the line across the top of the iPod outwards and pull the straight lines along the sides of your iPod upwards to meet them so that the top corners come together in pointed, ninety-degree angles.


Don’t worry if your tracing doesn’t perfectly hug the edges of the iPod; instead, leave a slight overhang on all sides to allow the iPod to fit inside.;
, Place the cardboard on a cutting-friendly surface (ex. a cutting board or self-healing mat) and cut out the area of cardboard you just traced with a utility knife. Then, trace this cutout onto the cardboard and cut it out a second time, making sure the two are identical. When you’re done, test-fit them by sandwiching your iPod inside them. Make adjustments as necessary.
 The edging will cover the top, sides, and bottom of the iPod and will fit between the two face panels you’ve already cut out. You will need two separate edge strips: one for the top edge of the iPod and another for the sides and bottom:


Measure the length and width of the top edge. Cut out a strip of cardboard that is the same length as but about 1/16 of an inch wider than this edge. Don’t worry about accounting for the contours at the top corners; these won’t factor into this piece of edging.
Measure the length and width of the two sides and bottom. Either fold a sewing tape measure around all three sides for a continuous measurement or hold a ruler in place, line the top of the cutout up with the 0 mark of the ruler, and roll the cutout along the ruler for a continuous measurement. Cut out a length of cardboard to size, extending its length slightly to account for the fact it will have to bend around the iPod. (You can always shorten it later.)

, With this design, the cover flap sits over the front face of the iPod. If you don’t intend to use the iPod while it’s covered or don’t mind lifting the flap to access the front face, make the front flap the entire length of the iPod. If you want to make your cover functional, however, you can custom-size the front flap so that you can still access the screen and/or click wheel:


If you have an iPod touch, measure the length from the top of the iPod to top of the screen.
If you have an iPod with a click wheel, you can either measure the length from the top of the iPod to top of the screen (to keep both the screen and the wheel uncovered) or from the top of the iPod to the top of the click wheel (to cover the screen but not the wheel).
 The width is simply the width of the iPod while the length is the measurement you made in the previous step.
 On the face panel, draw either a hole for the screen, a hole for the click wheel, or both; on the bottom, draw a hole for the cable; on the top, draw a hole for the headphone jack and/or lock button; etc. Do not cut these out yet.


If you will be fitting something through the hole, such as a cable or jack, be sure to leave a little extra wiggle room.
 From top to bottom, the face-down panels should be: cover flap (upside-down), top edge (upside-down), back panel (right-side-up), bottom/side edge (centered horizontally), and front panel (upside-down). Make sure they are butted up against one another and tape them with scotch-tape for a light hold.


To make sure that the openings marked along the top and bottom of the edging are properly oriented, hold your iPod along these pieces as you set them in place, being mindful of whether an opening should be to the left or right.
 Find a brightly-colored duct tape at a crafts or office supply store if desired. Depending on the width of your iPod, you will need to apply either one or two long strips of duct tape from top to bottom in continuous piece(s), allowing the excess to overhang for now. Then, cut custom-sized strips to cover the edging that sticks out to the left and right. Smooth the tape over the cardboard for tight adhesion.When you’re done, flip the whole thing over and, using the utility knife, trip the excess tape.


Taping the panels this way will not only hide the cardboard on (what will eventually be) the inside of the iPod cover, but also form interior hinges along the edges, allowing the whole thing to fold around the iPod at the seams.
 Place the taped cardboard face-up on a cutting surface and cut the openings out with a utility knife, making sure to cut through the duct tape on the backing.
 Make sure the openings line up correctly and make adjustments as necessary.
 You can work horizontally, vertically, or both depending on what look you’d like and what makes the most sense for your iPod model, making sure to fold tape down over the edges of the cardboard as well. Just tape over the openings for now; you will cut them open again later. Be sure not to tape the front flap to the main body of the iPod.



Do not lay the cardboard shell out flat to duct-tape the bare side. Though it’s easier to apply tape this way, the shell won’t be able to bend when you’re done.
 Using your utility knife, slice across the openings so that you can fold the excess tape downwards through the hole, thereby covering the inside edges of the cardboard: if the opening is a square or rectangle, cut a big X between the corners and fold down the four triangles of tape to cover the interior edges; if the opening is circular, slice across the tape like pie as many times as necessary and fold down the resulting slices.



Do not simply trim away the excess tape, as this will leave the interior edges bare. (You could theoretically apply thin strips of tape here, but they would not last long on such a tiny area.)

, Glue either snap buttons or Velcro to the corners so you can keep your case shut.
