 This type of ratio still compares two quantities, but variables are introduced into the quantities on one or both sides. You will need to simplify both the numerical terms and the variables when figuring out this ratio's simplified form.



Example: 18x2:72x

, Remember that factors are whole numbers which divide evenly into a given quantity. Look at the numerical values on both sides of the ratio. Write out all factors for both numerical terms in separate lists.



Example: To solve this problem, you will need to find the factors of 18 and 72.

The factors of 18 are: 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 18
The factors of 72 are: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 72



, Go through both factor lists and circle, underline, or otherwise identify all of the factors shared between both lists. From this new selection of numbers, identify the highest number. This value is your greatest common factor (GCF) between the numerical terms. Note, however, that this value only represents a partial portion of your true GCF within the ratio.



Example: Both 18 and 72 share several factors: 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 18. Of these factors, 18 is the greatest.
 You should be able to evenly divide both numerical terms in your ratio by the GCF. Do so now, and write down the whole numbers that you get as a result. These numbers will be used in your final simplified ratio.



Example: Both 18 and 72 must be divided by a factor of 18.

18 / 18 = 1
72 / 18 = 4



, Look at the variable on both sides of the ratio. If the same variable appears on both sides of the ratio, it can be factored out.


Look at the power the variable is raised to on both sides. The smaller power must be subtracted from the larger one. Understand that by subtracting one power from the other, you are essentially dividing the larger variable amount by the smaller one.

Example: When examined separately the ratio of variables was: x2:x

You can factor out an x from both sides. The power of the first x is 2, and the power of the second x is 1. As such, one x can be factored out from both sides, the first term will be left with one x, and the second term will be left with no x.
x * (x:1)
x:1



, Combine the GCF of your numerical values with the GCF of your variables to find your true GCF. This true GCF is the term that must be factored out of your entire ratio.



Example: Your greatest common factor for this problem is 18x.

18x * (x:4)



, After you remove your GCF, the remaining ratio is the simplified form of your original problem. This new ratio should be equivalent in proportion to the original and the terms on both sides of the ratio must not share any common factors with each other.



Example: x:4

