 Unless you are a French citizen, you will need your passport to get to Paris. Be sure that you have a valid passport before you leave. If you do not have a passport or your passport is set to expire before or during your trip, renew it well in advance.


Check with your national passport granting body about the process and timeframe for getting a passport. In the US, a new passport generally takes one to two months to get, and is issued by the US Department of State.;
, Citizens of certain nations need to procure a visa in addition to a passport in order to travel within France. Check online or with your local French consulate to see if you are required to have a short-term visa to travel in France.British, US, Canadian, New Zealand, South African, and Australian citizens, as well as citizens of EU member nations, must have a valid passport, but do not need a short-term visa in France.If you do need to apply for a visa, contact your nation’s French Embassy or nearest French consulate to inquire about what, specifically, is required to begin the visa application process.
 Solo flight transfers can be difficult if you have a layover in a country where you don’t speak the language, or if you're not part of a large group worth holding the plane for during delays. Save yourself the stress by booking the most direct flight you can reasonably afford.


Check multiple travel websites include deals sites as well as airline sites. Each will have different deals and specials to make certain flights more affordable.If you do have a layover, take a look at airport maps to help familiarize yourself with the gate areas before you fly.
Share your flight itinerary with family or a close friend so that someone can check in and ensure you got to the city safely.
 Paris is divided into 20 neighborhoods, or arrondissements, with lower numbered neighborhoods closer into the city center. Take a look at the attractions you want to see and think about the neighborhood atmosphere you want to experience to pick the best arrondissement for your stay.


The 3rd and 4th arrondissements, often referred to as The Marais, are centrally located and have a good mix of cafes, sights, and shopping. It's safe for solo travelers, and close to many attractions.The 5th arrondissement, or the Latin Quarter, is filled with Gothic architecture, old markets, and boutique hotels. It's preferred by younger solo travelers as a place to meet students and other young adults on an adventure.The 18th and 19th arrondissements offer budget-friendly accommodations and have more of a neighborhood feel than the tourist-crowded city center. It's a great option for backpackers and other long-haul travelers., If you are traveling alone, hostels make excellent accommodations as they are not only budget-friendly, but tend to have inherently social atmospheres. Hostels allow you to find travel companions when you want them, but also allow you the freedom to enjoy solo travel.Some hostels will have both private and dorm rooms, while others will only have dorms. Know that staying in a hostel may mean sleeping on a bunk in room of between three and eleven other people of the same gender. Bathrooms are generally communal.
Some hostels have age restrictions for their guests. Check with a hostel before you book to ensure there are no age restrictions that could stop you from staying there.
Many hostels require that you bring your own towels and toiletries, and some may request you bring some of your own linen. Check with your specific hostel to see what is provided.
Hostels often offer organized group meals as well as tours and outings. Look at the hostel’s website or ask for a calendar to see what sort of social events your hostel offers.
 Sites like Airbnbmake it easy for solo travelers to find safe accommodations by renting a room, apartment, or house for short period of time. Accommodations may be shared, such as renting an individual room, or may include the whole home.


Studio rentals are abundant in Paris, and offer travelers the chance to say close to the city center, often for a lesser price than that of an mid-level hotel. They also offer more security for solo travelers since they aren't as publicly accessible as hotels.
Vacation rentals also offer amenities that hotels do not, like access to a kitchen and neighbors that can recommend different places to eat and things to do around the city.
 When traveling by yourself, the right hotel can be a great way to ensure that you stay safe and get the most out of your travels. Check online reviews before booking to make sure that you are getting a clean, safe hotel room.While not all are bad, budget hotels tend to be riskier in terms of risks such as bedbugs or having items taken from your personal belongings. Look into a budget hotel extensively before booking.
Hotels are often more expensive than vacation rentals or hostels, but generally come with more amenities such as daily cleaning and provided toiletries.
 The Métro is the city’s subway system, and one of the easiest ways to get around the city. Single-ride tickets cost €1,90, and can be purchased from vending machines within the Metro stations. Tickets can also be purchased in bulk for a discount.The Métro runs until 1am from Sunday to Thursday and until 2am on Friday and Saturday.
The Métro is generally safe for solo travelers, but is often crowded and getting on and off often needs to happen quickly.
Grab a Métro map from a Métro station or tourist office, and use it to plan trips in advance so that you know where nearby stations are, where you need to get off, and how to transfer between different Métro lines., Taxis in Paris are abundant, and are generally a quick way to get from one spot in the city to another. Taxi prices vary depending upon where you catch the taxi and your destination, but generally cost around €7-€12. Tipping is not customary, though rounding up to the nearest Euro is often seen as polite.Taxis in Paris are most easily hailed from a station de taxis, a taxi stand indicated with a blue sign. There are over 400 around the city. This is the best way to avoid fake taxis.
Taxis in Paris are subject to strict fare regulations, including a base fare and price per kilometer. Do not accept a “discounted flat-rate fare” from a driver. Make sure the meter is turned on before any taxi ride starts, and leave the taxi if the driver refuses to start the meter.Paris cab drivers are not notorious for knowing or taking the fastest route through the city. Research routes to your destination beforehand, and request that driver take certain routes to avoid them driving up fares by taking longer routes.
 Paris is often regarded as a very walkable city, especially within the city center. Walking around Paris is typically seen as a safe activity, but certain precautions should be taken to avoid higher risk areas, as well as pickpocketing common in the city center.The outer arrondissements are sometimes reported to have higher crime rates and be home to less reputable areas than the city center.
No neighborhood is considered entirely dangerous, but it is recommended that tourists walk along main roads in the outer districts and avoid such areas alone at night.
In the city center, it is recommended that you avoid carry large amounts of cash, and that you wear bags across the body from shoulder to hip, with the bag in front rather than behind you.
 If you are traveling to Paris for the first time, you may want to see some of the more iconic sites such at the Eiffel Tower, Arc de Triomphe, and Notre-Dame Cathedral. Seeing these sites alone allows you the chance to fully take them in and stay for as long as you’d like.


Booking a tour of famous Parisian sites, either individually or as a group, allows you to experience the sites with others if you would prefer that. It also often allows you to avoid the long lines for individual entry.
Look into booking your tickets in advance either online or through the ticket counter. That way, you can ensure entry on your planned days.
 Paris is home to a number of iconic museums, and traveling solo means you’re in control of what you see when. Take a full day to wander around the Louvre or Musée d’Orsay, or check out the Centre Pompidou or the Musée du Quai Branly as you walk through the city.If you plan on stopping in multiple museums, look into purchasing a Paris Museum Pass, which can offer entry into a number of museums and monuments for single price.
Entry into municipal museums such as the Musée D'Art Moderne and Musée Galliera are free for viewing of the permanent collections.The catacombs are part of the municipal museum system, but have an admission fee associated with them.
 Solo dining is a part of Parisian culture, but meals out in France are often long, drawn-out affairs. Be prepared to spend a few hours dining with yourself, or look for restaurants with counter seating or other solo-diner friendly options.Cafes and bistros are often favored by solo travelers because they allow for a nice meal at one’s own pace, but tend to command more immediate service than a restaurant.
Many bars also offer small plates and dinner options in a comfortable space where you can request the check as fast or slow as you’d like.Do not be afraid to try a restaurant by yourself if you really want to. Treating yourself to a nice meal is perfectly normal in Paris. Just be prepared to take your time at the table.
 Cafes are a prefered spot for breakfast, and often function as community hubs. Grab a pastry and café au lait, and sit down for as long as you please. Cafe are generally considered good areas to read, people-watch, or strike up a conversation with a friendly stranger.Cafes are regular areas for solo travelers to find one another and strike up a conversation or even make plans to see part of the city together.
Cafes make popular breakfast spots, but are generally open throughout the day for you to enjoy a coffee or cup of tea in between meals or sights.
 While Paris certainly has clubs and dancehalls like any city, it is home to a rich bar culture that allows solo travelers the chance to order food, snack alongside their drink, or just generally enjoy a night out. Many bars specialize in serving French wine, and are generally considered safe options for solo travelers to take in some nightlife.Like cafes, bars are great places to read, strike up a conversation with other solo individuals, or simply people-watch.
 Carry your passport, along with your credit cards, with you at all times. Keep them in a secure location, such as in a bag that you carry at the front of your body, and do not remove them unless absolutely necessary.Avoid hiding these items in areas such as your shoes, as while it may be inconspicuous at first, it draws greater attention when you need to access them, making you an easier target for mugging, especially if you are alone.
Make photocopies of your passport and keep them in your luggage or a separate place from your original passport. This can make replacing a lost passport somewhat easier.
 Travelers who come to Paris wearing Hawaiian shirts and baseball caps stick out to petty thieves. Work to blend in by wearing simple, clean, clothes in monochromatic or neutral tones and avoiding conspicuous shows of being a tourist.Avoid wearing combinations such as shorts and a t-shirt, as well as items like baseball caps and fanny packs.
Don’t worry about looking like a high-fashion Parisian. Simply try not to stand out as an easy target for scammers and pickpockets, since solo travelers are already an easy target for petty thieves.
 Wearing a Rolex watch or photographing everything on your iPad advertises to petty thieves that you have items worth stealing. Try to avoid frequent shows of conspicuous wealth in popular or crowded areas.Lock up your valuables in your hostel locker or hotel safe when available, and don’t take them with you unless you need them for a specific purpose.
Opt for inexpensive replacements of expensive accessories. For example, purchase a cheap watch that you wouldn’t mind losing or find a fake piece of costume jewelry to temporarily take the place of your wedding ring.
 If you plan on staying out late, especially if alcohol may be involved, try to find another solo traveler to act as your buddy. You can find them easily at a hostel, or may be able to find a temporary travel partner online using forums on sites like Couchsurfing.For women traveling alone, it is often recommended that you find other solo female travelers. They generally have your best interest at heart because they are in the same situation as you.