 Attorneys charge hourly rates based on their level of experience. Don't attempt to save money by retaining an attorney with little or no experience. An inexperienced attorney who spends more time researching your issues could cost you more in legal fees than an attorney with specific knowledge in your area of law.;
, You need your attorney's legal expertise. However, if you have a unique case that your attorney can benefit from, he may be willing to reduce your legal fees in exchange for the notoriety your case brings him.
 A flat fee arrangement occurs when you pay 1 amount for all the work your attorney performs. This type of arrangement will reduce your legal fees because you won't be charged an hourly rate every time you meet with your attorney, talk with her on the phone, or appear in court.
 A contingency fee agreement is based on the probability that you will prevail in your case and get a settlement. With that settlement, you pay your attorney an agreed upon percentage. The better the odds of you prevailing with a high settlement amount, the better chance your attorney would be willing to accept a smaller percentage.
 Some attorneys charge a minimum of a tenth of an hour or a quarter of an hour. Thus, if your attorney makes 1 call that lasts for 2 minutes, you could get charged for 15 minutes at his hourly rate. If you have an agreement that your attorney will charge only for the time actually spent on your case, your legal fees will be substantially lower.
 Your attorney will need information from you. However, giving her irrelevant information will result in your attorney spending more time on your case to find what's important, which leads to higher billable hours and increased fees.


Produce the information your attorney needs in a timely fashion. If she needs to ask you repeatedly for the information, her additional requests will generate more fees you have to pay.
Promptly return all calls from your attorney or her staff. Your failure to return her calls will result in additional calls or letters from your attorney's office, and therefore additional fees.
 The more you can do, the less you will be charged.
 Take notes or record your meetings. Come to the meetings with a list of discussion items. When you've finished the list, the meeting is over. Shorter, more productive meetings will equate to fewer billable hours for your attorney.


Review your notes or recordings of meetings on a regular basis. By refreshing your memory with your notes, you will have a better understanding of what your attorney is doing for you and less need to contact him regularly.
 Your attorney will give you copies of documents filed or received in your case. If you have an organized copy of everything given to you, you may be able to review your file and answer questions without contacting your attorney.
 Legal battles are emotional. Before you contact your attorney, determine if you are calling him because you have a concern regarding the legalities of the case or are calling because you are upset with the circumstances of the case. Venting to your attorney about issues not specific to your legal case will result in more billable hours, and therefore, higher costs.
 Every communication must be read, whether it is relevant to your legal case or not. Therefore, think about what you are sending to your attorney before you send it. Only send documentation that is relevant to your case. By sending fewer email messages to your attorney, you will reduce your costs.

