 The wrong media can place greater emphasis on financial concerns, thereby causing you more stress. Cut out media that you find has a negative impact on you, and try listening to and watching more positively-focused, uplifting content.Motivational and self-help style programs can help you refocus your thoughts, while biographies from people who have faced similar situations to those you face can help bolster your hope and may give new ideas.
 Studies show that materialistic people – that is, people focused on obtaining possessions and wealth – are less happy than others. That is because people who adopt a materialistic lifestyle are actually focused on raising their social status and impressing others. Instead of focusing on money and its effect on your social status, identify the things that make you feel happy and pursue them.If, for example, people around you all drive a certain type of luxury car, do not feel the need to have the same vehicle simply to fit in. Choose a practical car that fits your needs and budget, and allow your happiness to come from the ways in which you use that car, not from the car, itself.
 Cultivate a variety of hobbies and interests. Enjoying your leisure time will help you stop focusing on money and make you feel happier. Many things can be done free or affordably that provide rewarding end results.To cultivate hobbies and interests, make a list of things you enjoy. Focus on learning more about them or practicing them more often.
If you don’t have any activities or interests, visit your local library. Browse the books until you find one about a subject you are unfamiliar with. Read the book and decide if you are interested in learning more about it.
 Instead of focusing on money, try thinking about your support structure and how happy you are to have these people in your life. If you find thoughts about money creeping into your mind, send a quick message to someone who matters to you like your mother or father expressing thanks.For instance, you might send your mom a text that reads, “Thanks for taking me to all those museums when I was younger. I really learned to love art thanks to you!”
Try making a list of people you’re thankful for. Add one name to it each morning or each night. You could include teachers, family, and friends on the list.
You can also find a number of free gratitude apps for use on your smartphone that can help you take time daily to remember what you are grateful for.
 Instead of focusing on money, try focusing on how thankful you are for a roof over your head. You might reflect on the millions around the globe who are homeless. To refocus your attention away from money, think about how good you really have it.Focus on a few small, low-cost home improvement projects that may help you appreciate your home even more. For instance, you might consider painting your bedroom a different color, or changing the style of your curtains.
 If you’re focused on money, you are more likely to engage in unethical and selfish behavior. You might be more likely to, for instance, think of people who are not focused on money as lazy or dumb. You might put yourself before other people, which could lead to you look down on others instead of sympathizing with them.To avoid or limit your likelihood of being consumed by these behaviors, try focusing on how great it feels to donate to charity.
Help others who are less fortunate than you by volunteering at your local soup kitchen or food bank.

