 Fabric scrolls are more durable than paper so they are a great option if you want your scroll to last a long time. Different fabrics convey different looks, like antique or modern, so choose one that matches your intent. Light colored fabrics with no prints or patterns work best for scrolls with artwork or script on them. Many fabrics are nice options for scroll making:Muslin
Burlap
Lightweight canvas
Cotton
Silk

, Choose thickness of the dowels you would like to use. Heavier fabrics should use a thicker dowel, and lighter fabrics can use a thinner one. You may have to cut the dowels to the width you would like your scroll, making sure they are 1 to 2 inches longer than you want the actual fabric of the scroll to be.
 Determine how wide and long you want your scroll to be. Make sure the fabric is 1 to 2 inches less wide than the dowel size. Use sharp, fabric scissors to get the best cut when cutting your fabric.
 The best way to attach the dowels to the fabric is by sewing a tight pocket in the fabric for the dowel to slip into.


Place your fabric face down.
Wrap the top edge of the fabric around one dowel, making sure the fabric extends at least ½ inch beyond the dowel.
Use a pencil to draw a light line marking where the edge of the fabric is.
Remove the dowel, and sew the edge of the fabric so that it is folded back creating a pocket. Make sure the edge is lined up with the pencil line. Hand sew the fabric for the best results
Repeat the steps with the bottom edge of the fabric
Slide the dowels into the pockets.
 The best way to get your design on the fabric is to paint it on with fabric or craft paint. Another option is to silk screen your design onto the fabric. You can also draw the design with permanent markers or even print the design with a printer.If you decide to print the design on the fabric, make sure you check to see if your printer is able to print on fabric.
 Attach ribbon, string or twine to the top of your scroll so it can hang on your wall for all to admire. You can attach it by tying the two ends around the part of the top dowel that hangs beyond the fabric. This is an excellent way to attach the ribbon because it also prevents the fabric from slipping off of the dowel.Another way to attach the string is to glue it to the top of the fabric.

