 If you receive an unsolicited phone call or email, it typically is a scam. Take the caller's information and verify their identity, or ask to call back to the office they claim they represent.Keep in mind that the IRS will not contact you directly in this way, or ask for any personal information, such as Social Security numbers, over the phone.
The caller may claim that they just need to "verify" certain information. They will have information about you already, such as your name or address. They will tell you this information in an effort to make you feel comfortable, and as though the call is legitimate. Then they will ask for other information.
 The IRS will never take payment information over the phone or through email. Any unsolicited call or email that asks for credit or debit card information is a scam.One common scam involves an email or phone call telling you that your payment did not go through. The scammer will then ask for an alternate method of payment to take care of the problem immediately.
This scam normally happens after the deadline to file taxes. The scammers count on the fact that you will be worried about your payment not going through, and want to remedy the situation as quickly as possible.
Scammers may claim to be from the IRS, or from the tax preparation service that handled your taxes.
 If you have any questions about an email or phone call you've received, and think there actually may be some problem with your taxes, go to the IRS website yourself to check your records.The IRS operates Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs) that are empowered to resolve tax issues. You also can locate a TAC near you on the IRS website. You must schedule an appointment if you need to use a TAC.
If you go to a TAC in person, you must have a valid government-issued photo ID and your taxpayer identification number (typically your Social Security number).
Almost all tax issues can be resolved either online or over the phone, but you are responsible for initiating the call. Visit the IRS website to find the number you need and gather the information you'll be asked to provide before you make your call. You can find this information under the "Help and Resources" tab on the IRS home page., Common tax season scams don't just take place online or over the phone. Scammers also may send you letters or forms through the mail that you're supposed to fill out and return to them.These forms may require extensive personal and financial information, and they may look exactly like the official government form.
Go to the IRS website and perform a search for the form number. When you find it, carefully compare the two forms. If there are any differences, this typically means the form you've received was prepared by a scammer who is attempting identity theft.
If the instructions on the form or letter you've received are different from those that appear on the IRS website, call 1-800-829-1040 to find out if the form or letter is legitimate.
 If you are, or suspect you have been, the victim of identity theft, the thieves may try to file a false tax return so they can steal your refund. If you wait until the last minute to file your taxes, they may beat you to the punch.If you receive a notice from the IRS that more than one tax return has been filed in your name, or that you have a balance due, you may be the victim of identity theft.
If your wallet was lost or stolen, or if there was unauthorized activity on a credit card or bank account, someone may have stolen your identity.
You can call the IRS Identity Protection Specialized Unit at 1-800-908-4490 to determine what to do if you believe your tax records have been affected by identity theft. Operators are available Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. local time.

