 This is a good stretch for your back without getting up from your chair. To do a seated twist, simply sit upright with your back erect, and slowly twist to one side from the waist, moving your waist, stomach, back, and shoulders all in one direction. Once you have twisted to one side for 15-20 seconds, you can revert to the middle position and then twist to the other side. 








Make sure to do this slowly and carefully. If you twist too quickly or too far to one side, you can strain your neck or back. Try to avoid twisting to the point of causing a "pop," as this can cause misalignment.
To deepen the twist, you can place one hand on your opposite knee, and gently push back against it. If you are twisting to the left, place your right hand on the outside edge of your left knee.
Look over your left shoulder if you are twisting to the left. If you are twisting to the right, look over your right shoulder.
You can also place your arms on the side of the chair that you're stretching towards. If you are stretching toward the left, then place both arms on the left side of your chair.
 You can do this stretch, not only at your office, but while you are walking around town, sitting in your car, or even in the shower. To complete this stretch, sit upright with your back erect. Roll your shoulders back in a circular motion 10 – 15 times, and then pause, and roll them forward for the same amount of times. Repeat at least five sets of the backward and forward motion.









Look straight ahead while you are rolling your shoulders so that you don't strain your neck muscles while you perform this technique.
 This simple move stretches your shoulders and upper back. Place your right arm over your left shoulder and your left arm over your right shoulder, as if you were giving yourself a hug. Hold this position for at least ten seconds, breathing in and out to relieve the tension from your body.
 This move will stretch your back, neck, and shoulders. First, sit on the edge of a stationary chair. If the chair has wheels, wedge it against a desk or a wall. Place your feet together flat on the floor. Then lean over toward your feet, so your chest rests on or near your knees. Let your arms fall to the floor as if you are a rag doll. Then place your hands around your legs, with your right or dominant hand grabbing the opposite wrist, forearm, or even elbow.








Hold this position for at least 10 seconds and then release it. Repeat it at least two times.
 This stretch is simple but effective and stretches your upper and lower back. This stretch should push your hamstrings more than your actual back. Your spine extends all the way to your tailbone. So keep your back and butt on an even place. Touch your toes and then gradually try to straighten your legs. 








Hold the stretch for at least ten seconds, come up, and repeat the stretch at least five times.
 This technique is effective not only for stretching your shoulders but for stretching your upper back. You can do this stretch without getting up from your chair. Simply take your right arm and move it to the left side of your body, so your upper arm moves across your chest and your forearm is placed over the inside of your left elbow. Stretch up your left forearm so your right forearm is "trapped" between your left bicep and elbow, and move it closer toward your body as you feel the deep stretch in your right shoulder.








Hold the stretch for at least 10 – 15 seconds.
Repeat this process with your left side.
 Simply sit down with a straight spine and reach your hands straight in front of you, making them parallel to the ground. Then, press your palms gently into each other. Round your back slightly and lean forward for 20 – 30 seconds, pretending like you're stretching over a large round ball. Let your head and neck relax as you try this move. Return to the sitting position with your hands at your sides and repeat this process at least five times.







