 It is important to talk with an adult about how you are feeling, but keep in mind that some adults have trouble accepting that kids can suffer from depression. If the first adult that you talk with does not accept what you are saying, then you may need to talk with someone else. Keep telling people until someone listens to you. Think about an adult in your life that you know you can trust and who you feel comfortable with. Tell them how you feel and the things that are bothering you.Ask their advice about what you should do about feeling so low. Explain clearly that you think you might be depressed. Try talking to them like this.


”Can I ask your advice about something?”
”I just feel sad all the time, and it doesn't seem to be getting any better. What do you think I should do?”
”I was reading about depression, and it seemed to fit with how I feel. What should I do if I'm depressed?”;
, If you feel you cannot talk to your parent or your guardian about how you are feeling, talk to your doctor or school nurse. Doctors are familiar with depression and will be able to help you figure out if there is a medical reason behind how you feel.They will also be able to provide you with advice or help you seek other treatments if you both decide it is needed.
 If you feel depressed or sad all the time and nothing is getting better, it may be time to speak with a mental health professional.Talk to someone who can help you seek treatment. Treatment might involve therapy, lifestyle changes, or in rare cases medication.


If you cannot get to your doctor, consider talking to your school guidance counselor.Your guidance counselor will also be able to talk with you, help you with how you are feeling, or help you take the next steps.
You might also try visiting a psychologist or mental health professional who specializes in treating kids who are struggling with depression., Create a “support system” or a group of family, friends, teachers, peers, mental health professionals and medical professionals. These should be people who care for you and are interested in improving your health. Talk to the people in your support system about what you are going through. Call on these people to help you when you are feeling down.


”I've been going through something lately. I've been feeling sad all the time.”
”I am feeling really down today. Could you come and just spend some time talking with me?”
”I've been working on some ways to feel better. Can I talk to you about it?”

