 They may have recommendations about the type.;
, The ways in which you clean the leather will depend upon whether it has been treated with a special coating.


Finished leather has a special resin coating that is applied after the tanning process. It is more stiff, shiny and stain resistant than unfinished leather. It also often has a UV coating and is fade resistant. This is the most common type of finish for leather furniture.
Unfinished leather does not have a coating, in order to keep the original softness and rich color of the leather. It is prone to staining, fading and is more susceptible to moisture damage.
 Use the hose attachments to lift the cushions and vacuum the surface. This will remove dirt and dust that can cause stains.


If a noticeable layer of dust appears on your leather furniture after vacuuming, go over it with a microfiber cloth.
 If you leave for vacation, a sheet will protect the leather from accumulating dust that can lead to a tarnished look.
 Hardened or old stains are extremely hard to remove from leather's surface. Keep in mind that wetting the leather should be kept to a minimum.


Wipe water away with absorbent lint-free towels. Push the water outward in both directions from the place where it spilled. If the water stain leads to discoloration, you can achieve a less noticeable stain if you spread the water over a larger area in a thinner layer.
 Apply very lightly. Follow with a deep leather cleaning.



Buy lint-free or microfiber cloths. These will not need to be excessively damp to work well.
Dilute a surface cleaner with water. Dip the cloth into the cleaning mixture and wring it out to make sure it is merely damp, not soaking wet. Test this cleaner on the back or bottom of the furniture by wiping the area. Dry it with a cloth and wait 24 hours to see the effect the first time you try the cleaner.
, Wipe the surface again to "rinse" the cleaner from the surface.



For larger furniture, clean, wipe with a cloth and dry 1 small section at a time.
 It can be found in hardware stores or in tack sections of agricultural supply stores.
 Apply to the leather in a small section at the back or bottom.


Saddle soap can change the color of the leather, so test it 24-hours in advance if you are cleaning your unfinished leather for the first time.
 Apply them according to the soap's directions, covering the entire surface.


Most saddle soap requires you to leave the soap on the leather for a short period of time. Apply a cloth dampened with clean water if directed.
,, This improves the moisture of the leather and prevent cracking.


If you prefer to use a natural product with dark finished leather, apply a thin coat of olive oil to the surface. Let it sit for 30 minutes, then buff it with a clean, dry microfiber cloth.
 Products will have varying times and methods for treatment.

