 Or simply use some dry shampoo. In fact, washing your hair everyday is not good. Dry shampoo should not be overused too, but it's rather cheap and smells nice. Brush your hair if you have straight hair and gently stroke your hair if it's curly.;
, It can be playful, charming, elegant or sleek. Some variations would be 'The Donut' or the 'Braided Messy Bun'. Brush or stroke your hair and tame flyaway hair with hair-spray. If you don't have any, this is just a temporary solution, use water to weigh it down. There are many ways to achieve the look, but my favorite is to tie it into a high ponytail and wrap it around the elastic. If you want sleek and elegant, make sure it's tight and no hairs are out. If you prefer a young, playful look, tease your hair a little before tying it up.
 Messing with the bottom of our hair is fun and trendy. Some are easy and don't take long as well. One look would be have tightly curled ends. If you don't have a heat curler, go traditional! The dollar store usually carries some curlers. Just put them on the ends of your hair the night before. Plus, since it's only the bottom, they'll be easier to sleep on. Beware, the curlers on the middle part of your hair tend to get loose more easily. Another style would be to temporarily color them! Using soft, I repeat, soft pastels, to color you hair is messy, but can be kept tidy, and is bold. To start, get a water sprayer and lightly mist your hair on the bottom, about 30% wet or so. Then, choose a color, and rub downwards. Don't go up and down, that's just asking for tangles and hair loss. This works for dark hair too, but I would just suggest using darker colors. Lighter hair shades should stick with lighter shades, but the fun thing about this is, that you can experiment! Or, be even more bold and give yourself some highlights too! These usually last for a couple of days, so no commitment! You can let it air-dry or use a hair dryer, although that'll make it loose a bit of color. After that, use a straightener or curler to seal in the color. If you don't have one, I think it'll be fine to skip this step.
 My most favorite one is easy and cute. Grab a bit of hair at the front, and separate. These are going to act as innocent tendrils. Then, not adding the front hair you separated, proceed making a tiny ponytail. Of course, along with your tendrils, make sure to leave some hair on the bottom. I suggest collecting hair from the top to make your mini ponytail. Tie with elastic and add a cute scrunchie. Done, easy as pie.
 Want to make a braid? Try a fishtail or dutch braid. Curly long pigtails are super cute, yet still socially acceptable. It works well with straight hair too. Use black, and sophisticated elastics to be a bit more mature. Curling your hair, if you have straight hair, is fun and cute. Plus, they'll turn back into straight strands eventually, so you don't need to use a straightener! If you don't want to use curlers, or a heat curler, see some videos on how to get curls with house-hold items you probably already have!

, Give your hair a break from daily torture, and relax it a little bit! Tight ponytails and braids can cause hairs to be pulled, which will lead to hair loss. Loose low side-ponytails are super cute, and not as damaging to your hair. Loose buns look young and sweet.
 Especially if you're considering dying it a dark color. If you're not ready to make a huge commitment, try highlights or just dying your ends. Even better, use soft pastels. Which don't last long.
 Well guess what? They're true. It's always better to go natural and use as least as you can. Enjoy your locks and embrace them 'cause they're yours. Of course, it's always fun to play and mess around with them, but they're a part of us too, so treat them nicely.

