 One of the best ways to help your baby develop the ability to control their bodies and support themselves is by letting them spend time on their belly in areas where it’s safe to move around. The more they show interest in the world around them and try to begin using their arms and legs, the closer they will become to standing.Before your baby is able to support themselves on two legs alone, other types of movement help them prepare to do so. For instance, crawling, rolling, scooting, and creeping are all healthy and beneficial.
Place a baby that has shown interest in moving around on their belly. If they are able to get up onto their hands and knees or can otherwise move themselves, place a toy they enjoy touching and holding just out of their reach.;
, While playing with your baby, hold them around their chest, with one hand under each of their armpits. This is more developmentally beneficial than holding their hands or arms. More specifically, supporting their trunk helps them begin to learn how to use the muscles they will need to balance while standing., It’s the classic maneuver that many people default to when holding a happy energetic baby. Once babies are able to control the movement of their legs and arms, they often experiment with them non stop. Sit down and hold your baby facing you, with one hand under each of their armpits, and let their feet touch your lap. Don’t forget to play simple, rhythmic music as well - you’ll be surprised by how well they can groove, if only up and down.This activity is especially helpful for growing leg muscles and shifting weight from one leg to the other.
 Indoors, the best footwear is actually none at all. This is especially true if your baby will be allowed to play in rooms that have potentially slippery surfaces, such as wood or tile floors. Outdoors, however, you’ll want to get them into some shoes.Shop for baby shoes in the afternoon, as feet naturally swell a bit during the day, especially once your baby is walking.
When you check for a good fit, your baby should be standing up. Press the full width of your thumb between the tip of the shoe and the end of their toes, with enough room at the heel to squeeze your littlest finger in.
If they are able to walk on their own safely, let them do so for a few minutes. Remove the shoes and look for evidence of irritation. If there are any bothered spots, try a different pair.
Check the fit of your baby’s shoes every month. It will become a common theme: you’ll be surprised by how quickly your baby grows.

