 In the context of employment law, retaliation occurs when an employer or an employee takes a negative action against an individual because he or she complained about discrimination or a safety condition in the workplace. Retaliation also might occur, for example, if an employee didn't get promoted because he or she testified in an investigation related to alleged discrimination against another employee.With respect to discrimination and harassment complaints, an adverse action is any negative action that an employer takes to keep someone from opposing a discriminatory practice, or from participating in an employment discrimination proceeding. Examples of adverse actions would be firing an employee or failing to promote an employee when he or she deserved it. However, transferring an employee to a new position or assigning him or her a new supervisor may or may not be an adverse action, depending on the circumstances.
Retaliation covers all employees who have opposed an unlawful employer practice or participated in proceedings related to illegal discrimination or harassment. This includes employees who did not make a complaint themselves, but who are acting as witnesses to or had knowledge of the unlawful practice in the workplace.
Activities that might lead to retaliation include opposition to unlawful workplace activities, participation in an employment discrimination proceeding, or requesting a reasonable accommodation based on disability or religion. A protected activity would include, for example, an employee on a construction site who filed a whistleblower complaint regarding unsafe scaffolding. To suddenly lay that employee off would probably constitute retaliation.;
, A whistleblower is an employee who complains about an employer’s misconduct, most commonly having to do with health and safety issues in the workplace, shareholder mismanagement, or financial mismanagement. Each state handles the protection of whistleblowers differently, but what is clear is that in every state, whistleblowers are specifically protected from retaliation by the employer. Federal law also specifically protects whistleblowers in a variety of circumstances., If a retaliation claim by an employee is successful, that employee may be entitled to the reinstatement of his or her job and extensive monetary damages, including back pay that he or she was unable to earn due to the retaliation. In some cases and jurisdictions, employees may even be entitled to punitive damages., Specifically, make sure that both managers and employees know that discrimination or harassment of employees on the basis of a legally protected status is illegal and has serious consequences. This can include discrimination based on race, sex, age, religion, and national origin. Employees should always be totally clear about their legal rights to work in an environment that is free from discrimination and harassment on any basis. Both new hires and regular employees should receive periodic training on these issues.Laws that protect an employee against discrimination and harassment include the Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination based on race, national origin, religion or sex, the Equal Pay Act, which requires that men and women who do the same work be compensated equally, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, which protects employees over 40, the Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination against people disabilities, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, which prohibits discrimination based on genetics.
 Write a clear anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policy and make it widely available. Some ideas for effectively making employees aware of the policy might include:Distributing the policy to employees
Posting the policy in common areas, such as employee break rooms
Discussing the policy during staff meetings.
Including the policy in an employee handbook that is given to and is easily accessible to all employees.
 In some cases, it can involve other types of actions by employers or other employees. For instance, employees or applicants may complain about the following actions:Why they weren't hired
Why they were fired
How much they were paid compared to others
Whether work assignments were distributed fairly
Why they were or weren't transferred to another position
Why they weren't promoted
Why they were laid off
Whether they were given the opportunity to use company facilities
Whether they were given the chance to attend training
Whether they were denied benefits offered to others.
 Employers must comply with all federal, state, and local regulations that impact safety in the workplace. It must be made clear that employees also are responsible for following these policies and laws in their everyday work-related duties. Not only should all employees be trained periodically about these policies and laws, but new hires should be given extensive training about these issues, as well.
 This type of policy addresses how you will deal with employees if they violate company policies. It starts with fairly minor repercussions, based on the circumstances and the violation involved. The policy then calls for more severe consequences, up to and including termination, if the behavior continues or another violation occurs. Having a clear policy in place lessens the chance that an employee will accuse the employer of retaliation for making a complaint. It also lets employees know what to expect in the event that their actions necessitate discipline.In an unionized workplace, a collective bargaining agreement is likely to address all aspects of the employee discipline process. There also are likely to be procedures for an employee to appeal a disciplinary matter.
 When supervisors give employees a chance to air their concerns on a routine basis, it may avoid potential problems that become lawsuits in the future. This process also allows supervisors to address employee conduct before it becomes an issue that rises to the level of discipline., Whether a complaint concerns harassment, discrimination, or safety code violations, employers have a legal duty to immediately investigate and correct any problems or issue that they discover. Employers also need to address complaints in a confidential manner. If employers fail to respond to employees as required, they put themselves at risk of a retaliation lawsuit by disgruntled employees.Keep in mind that investigating an employee complaint is far less costly than defending a retaliation lawsuit. As a result, it is wise to spend the time necessary to investigate and resolve the complaint from the very outset of the matter.
 Look for applicants who have specific training in complying with anti-discrimination laws and health and safety laws, as well as how to properly deal with complaints. Management employees should clearly document any incident involving an employee complaint or policy violation in writing, as soon as possible following the date on which the incident occurred. This documentation can serve as important evidence in the event that a retaliation claim is filed.
 In this policy, you should do everything possible to encourage immediate frank, face-to-face discussions between employer and employees when issues related to discrimination, harassment, or safety arise. The policy should be detailed enough to provide alternative options for employees to report these issues to their employer and a clear description as to how the complaint will be handled.Any deviation from this policy serves as evidence of retaliation. All supervisors or managers who handle complaints must strictly adhere to all aspects of the policy.
If the workplace is unionized, a collective bargaining agreement is likely to address the handling of employee complaints. Any procedures outlined in the agreement should be followed strictly by management.
 Ensure that all employees understand that they have the right to complain about discrimination or harassment without fear of retaliation. Employees who don't feel that they have a safe means of complaining about these issues may allow resentments to build up until they act out against the company in some damaging way., It does not matter whether the employee is subject to an employment contract or is an at-will employee. State and federal laws protect all employees from these workplace conditions., This includes those employees who file a complaint and those who are required to give formal statements during an investigation of a complaint. This expressly tells your employees that you are aware of the law and intend to uphold it., Extensively document any counseling or discipline sessions carefully, in writing and at or near the time that the session occurred. You also should consider having a witness, such as another administrator or senior staff member, present during the meeting with the employee.Terminating an employee after he or she has made a complaint, even for a completely unrelated reason, will seem like retaliation. If you must, take disciplinary action against the employee, but make sure that you are following each step in the disciplinary policy outlined in your employee handbook properly.
 Failing to terminate an employee who has been found to discriminate or harass others is often the basis of retaliation lawsuit.The risk of a retaliation claim only underscores the need to properly investigate employee complaints, whether they involve harassment, discrimination, or safety concerns, on a timely basis and in a thorough manner.
 If an investigation reveals that an employee has contributed to or created an illegal workplace condition, you should discipline that employee in accordance with the stated disciplinary policy. Taking this step can help avoid a retaliation claim in the future from another employee who has been the victim of the illegal workplace condition., You should have access to an attorney who has extensive experience in employment law to give you advice when you are unsure about how to handle a situation that might result in retaliation. By consulting an attorney before taking any action, you may be able to avoid a potential retaliation claim.

