 If your dog has a short coat, is a puppy or a small breed, or is older you will need to purchase a vest or coat for your dog. The vest will provide your dog with the additional warmth it needs to exercise and play outside. A vest is necessary especially if you and your dog are going on a long walk or hike.Purchase a waterproof vest from your local pet supply store.
Always make sure the vest is dry before putting it on your dog.;
, Ice, salt, snow, and the cold ground can all crack, sting, and dry out your dog’s paws. This can cause discomfort, pain, and bleeding. In order to prevent this, apply petroleum jelly or another protectorate onto your dog’s paws before going outside.Alternatively, you can purchase dog booties from your local pet supply store. Booties will keep your dog’s paws warm and protected. Before going outside, acclimate your dog to the booties. Place them on your dog’s paws. Praise and reward your dog with treats for good behavior.
 Icy and snowy streets and sidewalks may contain chemical de-icers. De-icers can be harmful to your dog if ingested. Therefore, after a day of exercise and fun in the snow and ice, make sure to clean your dog’s paws and belly. Use a clean towel with warm water to wipe its paws and belly down.Also, use a dry towel to wipe down your dog to ensure that its fur is dry.
Bring a towel with you on your walks so you can wipe away ice and snow as needed.
 Your dog’s body uses more energy to keep itself warm outdoors in the cold. Therefore, you may need to feed your dog extra food so its body can create enough energy to keep it warm.During the winter months, feed your dog 15 percent more for every 20-degree drop in temperature., When outside, make sure to monitor your dog for signs of being too cold. Signs that your dog is too cold are shaking/shivering, whining or barking, hunched posture with a tucked tail, and lifting its paws off the ground. Other signs include changes in behavior (seeming anxious or uncomfortable), a reluctance to keep walking, or wanting to go inside.Take your dog inside if it is displaying these signs.
In general, if the weather is too cold for you, then it is most likely too cold for your dog as well. Avoid going outside on these days.

