 Make sure there's no makeup on your face left, then put on a primer to lock your makeup in place. If you wish, you can put on a moisturizer or a serum, but that's optional.;
, You want to create a smooth canvas and mask any veins or discoloration. Also,blend it well, so that you see no harsh edges.
 Your crease is the line you see with your eyes open/closed. If you have a monolid/hooded eyes (a.k.a you can't see the crease with your eyes open), apply it above, so that it is visible. Blend it well! Blending is key here; no harsh edges are allowed.
 It is the farthest point of your lid and extends up to the crease/fake crease. Then blend it in,bringing the color inside the lid. Again,blend it really well.
 Try to avoid shimmery whites because they don't look good in photos.
 Don't over blend, because you'll lose the intensity.
 Clean them with a fan brush (a special type of brush that looks like a fan) or makeup remover wipes (normal wet wipes are too harsh on the skin).
 This step is optional. Place a dot on your cheeks, nose, chin and forehead and blend with a brush, your fingers or a beauty sponge. Don't use normal sponges. Blend it down the neck too and make sure the foundation matches your skin tone. Don't use a darker/lighter one.
 Put a little dot (if it's liquid) or a little line/spot (if it's solid) and blend it with fingers, brushes or beauty sponges.
 Load it on your brush, then shake it a few times to remove excess, then lightly dust it all over your face. You can use a setting spray, if you wish, but the powder gives some coverage.
 Load the blush on a brush, shake off the excess, then put it on the apples of the cheeks (the area where you normally blush) and blend (if it's in a gel form, put a dot on the cheeks and blend with a kabuki brush (a type of brush)). For bronzer, put it in the areas where the sun normally hits. (Make a three form, starting from the sides of the forehead, to the part below the apples (the cheekbone) and down the chin). You can also contour your nose.
 It can be in any shade,ranging from nudes to vampy reds. You choose! If you wish,you can apply lip gloss,too! Try to put it in the center, to create the full lips effect. Only stay within your lips, don't overdraw them or you'll look like a clown.
