 After you have put in the times of the alarms, you will want to change the tone of the alarm. Listen to the tones that your device offers. Some devices like phones may have a variety of different tones. Others like a radio or an alarm clock might only have a few options. The best tones for you depend on what is the best way for you to wake up.If you like to wake up gradually, you way want to put soft, pleasant tones for the first couple alarms, and louder more urgent tones for the last ones.
If you are a heavy sleeper and need big loud noises to wake you, choose the noisier tones for your alarms.
 Using different tones for each alarm will stimulate you in the morning more than just using the same tone for each. No matter how you like to wake up, make sure that your tone on your last alarm is loud and distinctive. You want to be sure that it wakes you up and also that you can recognize it as the last warning that it's time to get up.
 Make sure that after you have put the time and tone of each alarm you activate it. How to do this depends on which device you are using, but many devices are intuitive. When you turn the alarm on, also make sure that the alarm is set at the right time of day. Having an alarm set for 6:00 PM rather than 6:00 AM will cause you to oversleep. , Now that the alarms are on, you will want to place them. Don't put all the alarms in the same place, such as on the bedside table. Putting the alarms in different places is an effective way of making you physically exert yourself to turn them off, which will make you more awake. Even if your first alarm is on your bedside table, make your last alarm go off far enough from your bed that you have to get up to turn it off.
If you are only using one device, such as your phone, make sure that the device is not directly next to you. Every time it goes off, turn off the alarm but leave it in the same place so that you have to get back up again to turn it off.
 If just placing your alarms in different places isn't doing the trick, consider hiding one of your alarms or placing it in a hard to reach spot. The thirty seconds that you take to find it or retrieve it will do the job of waking you up. If you hide your alarm, make sure you can still hear it. Turn your clock up to the highest setting if you are covering it. Also make sure to test it on a day you don't have to be up at a certain time.
A good way of hiding your alarm clock is to place it out of reach on a high shelf. The effort of using a stool to reach it will wake you up so you won't want to snooze any more.
There are alarm clocks specifically designed to roll away from you. When you hit the snooze button, these alarm clocks roll of the bedside table and away across the floor.