 There are three kinds of Nerf guns that take darts – Nerf Dart Tag blasters, Elite blasters, and N-Strike blasters. They each take a specific type of dart, so you’ll need to know which type of gun you have before you select darts.There should be a sticker on the side of your gun that says what kind it is.;
, All Dart Tag blasters take dart tag darts. Some Dart Tag blasters have clips and some don’t, but they all take the same kind of darts, so you can't go wrong as long as the package has the right name on it., Most Elite blasters take elite darts. However, the Centurion blaster takes MEGA whistler darts. Make sure you know which Elite blaster you have before you buy the darts.


All of the Elite blasters look pretty similar, except for the Centurion. The Centurion blaster is very thin and long and looks like a machine gun. It should also say "Centurion" on the side of it.
 The Nerf N-strike series uses a few different types of darts, depending on the type of gun you have. The darts for this series aren’t interchangeable like the Dart Tag or Elite blasters, so be very careful when selecting your darts. The name of the gun should be on the side of the gun, either on a sticker or etched in to the plastic.


The Stampede ECS, Raider Rapid FireCS-35 Blaster, and Longstrike CS-6 all take clip system darts.
The Barricade RV-10 and the Maverick Rev-6 take Whistler darts.
The Maverick uses suction darts.
The Nite-Finder X-3 uses glow-in-the-dark suction darts.
The Reflex IX-1 and the Jolt Blaster take Elite darts.
 Some Nerf guns use discs instead of darts. Those guns will usually have a drum that the discs go into, and you’ll notice that the drum is way too big for the darts. Don’t get darts if you need discs!, Different types of Nerf guns can take different amounts of ammo. If you can only load one dart at a time, you don’t need a huge pack of ammo. Overbuying your ammo increases the chances that you’ll lose it., Online retailers like eBay are a great option for buying new darts for your Nerf gun. You can filter your search by brand, the type of gun you have, or the darts you need. You can also use Nerf's official website, although if your gun has been discontinued, it might not be listed.Some online retailers might charge a shipping fee, so look for that information before you order online.
 Some toy stores will periodically have sales on Nerf gun ammo and accessories. If you don’t need ammo right away, waiting for a good deal can help you save a lot of money, especially if you have multiple types of Nerf guns., Most stores that sell Nerf products have the corresponding ammo stocked near each gun. Look on the shelves for the type of gun you have and check around it to see if the ammo is nearby. If it’s not, look for the particular ammo your gun takes.
 Depending on the Nerf gun you have, you might need a clip. Make sure your clip is in good working order before you buy new darts. If the clip is smashed or broken, your darts may not load properly.