 Common reasons for changing a minor child's name include marriage, partnership, divorce of the parents, and adoption. A child's name can be changed for other reasons as well.
 The process for changing the name of a minor child is substantially the same as petitioning for a name change as an adult, and you can follow the same steps. When completing the Petition for Change of Name, both biological parents must sign the Petition before a notary public.


Provide the last known address of the non-petitioning parent, unless that parent is deceased or has signed this Assent form, numbered NHJB-2121-P.If one biological parent is deceased, you will need to present a copy of the death certificate to the notary and court clerk.
 Take your Petition copies to a notary public and sign them in the presence of the notary, who will notarize them. Bring a valid photo ID.
 File the Petition with the court clerk, along with a certified copy of the child's birth certificate and an Assent form signed by the other parent, if applicable. The clerk may instruct you to complete additional county-specific forms. If a hearing is required to inquire into the reasons for the name change or to permit another parent to object, the clerk will give you a court date.


To acquire a certified copy of a birth certificate, submit a signed written request and photo ID to "Division of Vital Records Administration, Archives Building, 71 South Fruit Street, Concord, NH 03301-2410." Include a check for $15.00 payable to "Treasurer, State of New Hampshire," and a self-addressed stamped envelope., Change the child's name on Social Security cards, driver's licenses, bank accounts, medical records, passports, and others, as applicable.


To get a new Social Security card, locate your local office here. Mail this application or deliver it in person, along with the court order, birth certificate, and photo ID.
To change the name on the child's driver's license, visit your local DMV with the new Social Security card and old driver's license. The child is required to notify the DMV of the name change within 10 days of the date of the court order changing his or her name.