 Books written by scholars on one specific subject are called monographs. They provide in-depth analysis on that topic by a scholar in that particular field of study. Although often written for an academic audience, a monograph can help you learn about World War I and any specialized topics about which you may want to know more.Search online or in bookstores for scholarly monographs about World War I. These books are often published by academic presses, but may also be from mainstream publishers aimed at a wider audience.
Find books by prominent scholars of World War I. You can do this by searching online or consulting the bibliographies of other works. Some prominent scholars of World War I are Christopher Clark, Fritz Fischer, Jay Winter, Paul Fussell, John Keegan, and Mark Mazower.
Check the back of the book for information about the author. In general, scholars teach or are affiliated with universities.;
, Classes that cover World War I often draw on textbooks. These are a great way to help you learn the basics about the war as well as the factors that contributed to its beginning and final outcome. Check at your local bookstore or online to find a textbook about the war that interests you.Recognize that textbooks are not just doorstoppers. In fact, some of the best textbooks about World War I and related subject are short and relatively easy to read. They provide an overarching narrative that gives you needed context to understand the war in all of its complexity.
Search the web for course syllabi on World War I. These will often have lists of required books, including textbooks, that you may want to read.
Look for textbooks from academic publishers such as Oxford University Press or Cambridge University Press. For example, Oxford University Press offers a series called “Very Short Introductions” that includes topics that discuss World War I.Search for textbooks at online booksellers, which often make suggestions based on other textbooks or books you buy on a specific subject. For example, James Joll’s “The Origins of the First World War” is considered a standard textbook for any class on this subject. By purchasing this book or showing interest in it, the site may also lead you to related suggestions. This might include “The Cambridge History of World War I” edited by Jay Winter or Modris Ekstein’s “Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age.”

, World War I tore apart the physical and proverbial landscapes of Europe. It left about 16 million soldiers and civilians dead, which had a significant impact on societies across the globe.Memoirs are primary sources that were written either during or immediately after the war.Choosing different memoirs to read about World War I can also help you learn more about it. Some of the classic memoirs about World War I include:


Vera Brittain’s “Testament of Youth”
Robert Graves’ “Goodbye to All That”
Siegfried Sassoon’s “Memoirs of an Infantry Officer”
Ernst Jünger’s “Storm of Steel”
Erich Maria Remarque’s “All Quiet on the Western Front”

, Just like memoirs, there is a wide variety of other primary sources available to consult about World War I. These include archives and newspapers. Reading different primary sources can help you better learn about mentalities during the war. In turn, these may help you understand why certain decisions were made that affected different aspects of the war such as the homefront, medicine, or battle tactics.Visit an a local or national archive and speak to an archivist about what collections may be of interest to you in gaining further information on World War I. In many cases, universities also have archives or primary source collections that can help you learn.
Access the archives of publications such as newspapers and magazines. You can often do this online or may be able to find hard or microfilm copies at local libraries. Keep in mind that universities may also have access to these resources.
Check for institutions that provide primary sources including photographs or documents. For example, the German Historical Institute provides a website called “German History in Documents and Images” that provides digital images and translated documents with an explanation for context about World War I. It has not only documents produced in Germany, but about Germany from the United Kingdom and United States.