
You have a high speed internet connections at each node.
Your internet connection works even without power supply.
You have an alternate source of power to ensure continuous transmission even during power outages.
All your systems are connected to an inverter, so that the transmission is not lost during the switch-over form one power source to another.;
, These are the places from where the teacher is teaching (transmission) and where the students are located (reception). The first prerequisite for creating a Google+ account is having a Gmail account. Log into your Gmail account.On the left side of your Dashboard bar(The strip at the top)you will have an icon "+you" by clicking the icon you can create a Google+ account.


Create Gmail accounts for all the nodes (transmission and reception). The Google+ accounts operate through Gmail accounts.
 It is necessary to connect the various nodes with each other by sending and accepting contact requests.
 The transmission node should create subject-wise circles and include the relevant reception nodes in the circle. Similarly, the reception nodes should also create each subject circle and include the relevant transmission node in the circle. The process is very easy – just drag and drop the relevant nodes in the circle.


You can create an unlimited number of circles but be sure you can manage the number you do create.
Have a clear and specific classification for the circles and ensure that all the nodes follow the same classification. This will avoid confusion between nodes.
 This way you can transmit videos & Photos.You can also transmit Power Point presentations,or any file from your screen by clicking the option "share your screen"

, Test the system and the network at each node. View the audio and video quality and clarity. Make any necessary adjustments to perfect the connections.
 Conduct a few trial sessions on topics of general interest to enable the students and teachers to get acclimatized to the system.


The transmission node should select the relevant circle before starting the hangout.
All the nodes should log in to their Google+ accounts at least fifteen minutes before the schedule of the virtual class. The relevant reception nodes will automatically receive the transmission once they are logged in.
The transmission node should ensure that all the reception nodes are logged in before requesting the teacher to start teaching.
 And when you succeed, share the methodology and success stories with other teachers, to encourage more educators to make use of this easy and enjoyable method of information sharing and learning. If convenient, you might even like to write a few "How to" articles on virtual teaching to help others learn more from your own experiences.

