 Being the primary source of what's happening with or changing on Facebook itself is an assured way of getting yourself noticed. Relay information about privacy changes, interface changes, Facebook usage and skills news, etc., all before your friends do. They'll come to expect you to be the source of this knowledge and look to you for it, and will most likely share it widely on your behalf, garnering you more kudos in the process.;
, This will help you to get more and more likes from the people who matter – your friends, but most of all, your friends with like interests. But most of all, it proves to your friends that you are always on the pulse, at the coalface, and ready for action!

, Don't just slap in links and photos - alone these won't do a thing but sit there. As well as ensuring that your information is recent and fresh, it's important that you provide analysis along with your information. This isn't about being long-winded though; practice providing insightful, concise, and pointed comments to engage your friends in discussion and thought. Be sure to bring your expertise to bear by incorporating thought-provoking questions, conclusions, and statements to round off each analysis.
 Whether it's something you do, look at, wear, send, eat, whatever, be sure to find a way to include a visual representation of it with you at the center!

, This is a large part of the role of a tastemaker or influencer. If you want to influence others to be involved in your causes and trends, you'll have a dual role of motivating and educating. Ask yourself:


What is the message I aim to get across with this particular trend today? Can it be summarized neatly or is to too disparate? If the latter, how can I find a way to make it have more impact in smaller chunks?
What will I be passing on to my friends that they don't already know? Am I adding shades of depth that they're not aware of in an area they're familiar with? What value am I adding?
How can I get my friends to actively do something and not just respond virtually? What methods can I use to motivate them (prizes, videos, reward or tally boards, etc.), and how can I track what others are doing actively (ask them to show photos/videos, send in stories, etc.)?

, Respond to all comments made in a timely fashion so that your friends know you're there and you're listening.


Try to analyze your outreach and impact. At this stage, the tools available to accurately gauge your impact are disparate and you need to compile impact by drawing things together. You can use analytical tools, web engagement tools, Facebook statistics, and see whether you're gaining more friends; as well as getting feedback about the viral nature and quality of what you've shared. Deeper knowledge of how other influencers within Facebook are dealing with your information will not be as apparent but do what you can to draw together the feedback and analytics and learn from these to improve each time.
 This will give you more standing with your friends and gives you access to a world of advice, support, and examples that you might not otherwise be privy to. Linking up will require careful approaches, being tenacious and offering something that is worth the other influencer supporting you as part of their Facebook campaigns too. Do your homework and be well respected before seeking to link up.

