 A big part of resolving a crisis of identity is to learn and explore. This includes questioning what you think you know about yourself and the world and being open to change. At college, you have access to all sorts of views, ideas, and opinions that are different from your own. Start with classes.Are you dealing with ethical upheaval? Why not take courses in philosophy or political science – these will open up the big questions of life to you, as well as suggest ways that you can make a difference.
What about a crisis of identity in your faith or spirituality? Try enrolling in a religion course. A survey of major world faiths can be enlightening and give you new insights. Some people feel the same way when taking courses in science, too, like biology or astronomy.
If you are questioning your sexual, gender, or racial identity, you may be interested in taking some courses in cultural studies, too. Consider signing up for a course in post-colonial studies, Alterity studies, or Women’s studies, for example.
 Ideally, college is a marketplace for ideas. You’re lucky enough to be in a place where you can seriously explore new views, not just in classes but on your own time. Interest yourself in and engage with new ideas, whether you want to find out more about politics, faith, sexuality, or something else.


Make time to read, for one. Your college puts all sorts of library resources at your disposal, including books, newspapers, magazines, and online access to journals. For instance, if you’re questioning your faith you might read something by an atheist, like Richard Dawkins’ The God Delusion, or by a person of faith, like C.S. Lewis’ Mere Christianity.
Go to talks and debates on campus, too. A political debate might give you a better sense of who you are as a voter and citizen, for instance. A debate on ethics might make you more attuned to issues of social justice.
 Consider spending a term abroad studying, if you have the chance. Travelling and living in a different country and culture is often a catalyst for self-growth and discovery. It forces you to confront and adapt to attitudes, values, and practices that you’ve never been exposed to before, giving you a better sense of self.Most people who study abroad come back with a better sense of maturity, self-confidence, and ability to accept ambiguity. They also report having a better view of their own cultural values and biases.
Talk to your college’s Study Abroad Office if you’re interested in traveling for a term. Your school might also hold Study Abroad Fairs, workshops, and information sessions.
Keep in mind that some of these programs are costly. But there may also be opportunities for work-study, where you can pay your way by working or as an intern or volunteer abroad.

