 To travel to any foreign country, you need the proper government issued documents. In order to enter Fiji, you will need your U.S. passport. The expiration date must be at least 6 months after your departure from Fiji.If you do not have a valid passport, you can apply for one at a post office near you. You will need to provide identification such as a birth certificate and photo i.d.
Be aware that it can take several weeks or even months to receive your passport. You should also be prepared to pay approximately $100 for the document.
You do not need a travel visa to enter Fiji if you are staying for less than four months. If you plan to stay longer, you can contact the Fijian embassy in Washington, D.C. to learn about the requirements.
 After your long flight, you will likely be excited to relax at your hotel. Make sure to devote some time to finding the hotel that will best suit your needs. It should reflect your travel style and your budget.When searching for hotels, you should consult reviews. Websites such as Trip Advisor rate hotels and tell you what to expect in terms of the rooms and location.
Pay attention to amenities offered at each of the hotels that you research. Maybe you like the price of one, but it is lacking the private beach that you want. Take your priorities into consideration during your hotel hunt.
Use a travel site such as priceline to help you compare prices. Then read reviews of the hotels that you are considering.
Take into account how close the hotel is to Nadi Airport. You may have to travel by sea plane to get to your resort.
 Anytime you are traveling to a foreign country, it is a good idea to gather some background information on the place you are traveling. There are likely to be some cultural differences that you should be aware of. For example, in Fiji, it is important that you dress very modestly whenever you are away from your resort.If you venture away from the resort, you may wish to visit a Fijian village. Take care not to wear a hat, as it is considered insulting to the chief of the village.
You should also research the weather. Although it is generally very warm, it is cooler in the months from May to November. You might want to pack some light layers for the evenings.
Try to learn a little bit about local customs before you arrive. For example, bargaining is traditional in Fijian culture. Be prepared to negotiate the price of goods if you shop at local markets.

