 A lack of assertiveness is often a problem for people with DPD, so assertiveness training may be a part of therapy for DPD.During assertiveness training, a therapist may teach a patient why it is important to be assertive, explain what being assertive means, and help the patient practice being assertive.For example, if the patient has a hard time saying no to his or her spouse, then role play might be used to help the patient feel more comfortable with saying no.
If you have DPD and want to become more assertive, talk to your therapist about this.
 Self-confidence is often low in people who have DPD.Someone with DPD might doubt his or her ability to accomplish difficult tasks or perhaps easy ones without assistance. Therefore, another goal of therapy might be to help the patient build confidence.


For example, the therapist might encourage the patient to use positive affirmations or to make a list of all of his or her strengths and read it every day.
 People with DPD fear being alone.A goal of therapy might be to get someone with DPD to spend increasing amounts of time on his or her own.


For example, the patient might start by spending 15 minutes alone if that is all that he or she can bear. Then, the patient might step by step work up to spending an hour or two -- or a morning or evening without extreme anxiety. To ease tension during this time, the patient might have to use relaxation techniques for relieving stress, such as occasional deep breaths.
Or apply progressive muscle relaxation from-toe-to-head or vice-versa: tightening-and-loosening the toes once, also momentarily moving the ankles, flexing one area after another, and so knees, hips, wobbling the torso, abdomen, a small shrugging of the shoulders, moving the back a bit, turning the head to look up, down, left/right, then shifting the arms, wrists, hands, fingers, finally flexing the jaws and face, staring for a few seconds, opening and closing the eyes, flexing the forehead in small moves (spending a second on each section of the body, some simultaneously/in unison, or in succession/progression).
 People with DPD often have needy decision making skills, relying on other people to make decisions for them.Through therapy, a patient with DPD may learn a process for how to make decisions independently.


For example, the therapist might teach the patient how to use a pros and cons list to make difficult decisions.
 A person who has DPD sometimes falls into abusive relationships because of the need to always be with someone.Therefore, another goal of therapy might be to help the patient form healthier relationships and get away from people who abuse the patient.


If you are in an abusive relationship, then seek help right away to get out of the relationship.

