 Your baby will be delighted by your funny faces, and may try to imitate you if she can. Making funny sounds, sticking out your tongue, or twisting your face into a funny shape will be entertaining for a baby.Babies love to be talked to and have their attention focused on you.
You are likely your newborn baby’s favorite toy.;
, A baby can be entertained by his own body, if you help him. Try laying the baby on his back, and help him clap his hands together gently. You can also hold his feet and pedal his feet back and forth as if riding a bicycle.Talk or sing with your baby while you’re wiggling his body, or make funny faces.
Try pressing your lips against the baby’s skin and blowing. This will make an entertaining sound and sensation for the baby.
 Keeping toys and mobiles with strongly contrasting colors (black, red, white) will help keep a baby’s attention and stimulate his developing sense of vision. Brightly colored pictures, contrasting patterns, and things that move are entertaining for a baby to look at.The newborn baby’s visual sense is still developing, and he’s able to best focus on things 8–12 inches (20.3–30.5 cm) from his face. Farther away, his vision will be blurry.
You can also hold an object in front of your baby’s face, and slowly move it back and forth. The baby’s gaze will likely follow the object happily.
Babies enjoy looking at themselves, so you can offer a mirror for the baby to gaze at her own reflection. Choose one for children, which are made from durable and safe materials, rather than glass.
Remember that your face is also an “interesting object” for your baby, and will be one of your newborn’s favorite toys.
 Most babies love to explore sounds. For example, get a set of plastic keys and jingle them in front of the baby. A baby is easily entertained by something like this. If you can’t find a set of keys, try a toy that shakes or rattles.Other noisemakers include plastic rattles, maracas, or homemade rattles that you make yourself out of a tupperware container filled with dried rice or beans. Make sure your container is closed tightly so that no choking hazards are released.
Allow your newborn to close his fingers around a rattle, and he’ll slowly start to connect his body motion with the rattling sound.
 Your voice will be the most soothing sound for your baby early on. Babies and infants love repetition too, so making little musical sounds over and over will be very entertaining. For example, repeat the baby’s name in a “sing-songy” voice, pitching your voice first high, then low.Rocking your baby as you sing will make the activity more engaging for the baby.
Whatever you sing frequently to your baby will help soothe and entertain him during fussy times.
If you know how to sing traditional childhood lullabies, you’ll be more entertained, but know that babies will be happy to hear your voice singing or humming anything.
Your baby may not have the physical coordination necessary to play early childhood games like "Itsy Bitsy Spider,” but she will likely enjoy your singing and silly facial expressions.

