 In order to determine how you can best contribute, you need to find out what kind of a party your host is planning. If this information is not already included in the invitation, contact your host and ask for details, such as where the party will be held, if it’s a dinner party or just cocktails, and what kind of attire is appropriate.


For example, send your host a quick text saying something like, "Hey, super excited for your party on Friday! Just wanted to check and see what kind of a vibe you're going for—should I dress up for a cocktail party, or will it be pretty casual?";
, A nice bottle of wine is welcome at just about any party, and it doesn’t have to be expensive in order to be good quality. Just do a bit of research beforehand to make sure the modestly priced bottle you’re considering is up to snuff, or ask a liquor store employee for advice on selection.


In general, you can find a decent bottle of wine for 10-15 dollars (about 8-12 pounds or 9-14 euros).If the party is casual, you could bring a six-pack of affordable beer instead of wine. Beers like Corona, Tsingtao, and Heineken are widely available, cheap, and extremely popular., If you can’t afford a bottle of wine, or if the party in question is a potluck, you can still contribute meaningfully by bringing a scrumptious snack. Check out your kitchen cupboards and see what kind of a dish you could whip up without incurring significant expense. Just be sure to keep the party specifics in mind when deciding what food is appropriate to bring.


For example, if it’s a barbecue or informal potluck, you could whip up a simple potato salad or slaw or pick up a couple bags of chips at the store.If it’s a fancier cocktail or dinner party, put together a crudités plate by chopping up some veggies and dip.
If you’re bringing a dish from home, be sure to pack it in an airtight container.
 Your contribution to the party doesn’t have to be edible or potable. Instead, bring along a party-friendly game that will get guests laughing and talking. Cards Against Humanity, Twister, what?, and 5 Second Rule are just a few easy and fun games that require minimal set-up and coordination.If the party will be outdoors, you could bring a portable croquet set, a kickball, or a corn-hole board.
 Helping out your host by providing a party-friendly service is a great way to compensate for the lack of a concrete contribution such as wine, food, or a wrapped gift. It will free up your host to attend to other aspects of the party and their partygoers, as well as show that you’re trying to be considerate and helpful.


If you’re musically inclined, ask your host ahead of time if they’d like you to bring some playlists and attend to the music. Or, if you know your cocktails, see if you can help out mixing and serving other guests’ drinks.
If there’s no need for you to take on a definite role like bartender or DJ, you can help out in little ways throughout the evening. Pick up discarded cups or plates, mop up spills, and point people to the bathroom or coat room when needed.
 Even the politest partygoers and the mildest party will require some cleanup. Rather than leaving the host with the aftermath, you can stay behind and help to tidy up. Just be sure to confirm with your host that they’d like the help, as some people prefer to be alone after the highly social stress and responsibilities of hosting.This probably won’t be appropriate if the party is hosted at a restaurant or bar, but you can still help by asking the host if they need any help carrying gifts to the car, checking the area for any dropped or misplaced personal items, or driving ride-less guests home.
 Sometimes, the best way to be a gracious guest is expressing your gratitude in written form. If you’re artsy and have some free time, draw your own card and include a thoughtful note. If you’re hopeless with a pen and paper, buy a card from your local drug store—you should be able to find a nice one for under five dollars—and personalize it with your own written message.


This is especially important if you’re attending a birthday party for which you couldn’t bring a gift. The card and written message show that you spent some time, thought, and care on the birthday celebrant, even if you couldn’t spend any money.

