 Download the USB_Multiboot_10 application from http://multiboot-usb.en.lo4d.com/ and unzip the files to your desired location.;
, A Command prompt box (cmd) will appear. Press any key to continue.
 First, type H and an HP disk-storage format tool screen will open. Follow the instructions to format the USB drive. Make sure to check the Quick Format box. You can also format the USB drive using Windows FAT32 format if the program cannot find your USB stick.
 First, type 0 and press Enter so that USB Stick appears at the end of the line. Then, type 1 and press Enter and to select the Microsoft Windows XP path. (Browse to the CD drive or the path on the HDD where you have your XP installation files). If you receive a message about "winnt.sif," hit Yes.
 If you fill out the fields now, Windows will not ask you for any information during the installation.
, On the command screen, type 3 and press Enter; you will then see some files copying on the USB drive. If you are asked, "Copy XP and extra sources on the USB?", choose Yes. If choosing your USB drive while using Windows 7 prompts the message, "has not fat fat32 or ntfs format and is not valid", you need to open the USB_MultiBoot_10.cmd, search for VER | find "6.0." > nul, and change it to VER | find "6.1." > nul to reflect that you are running the script on Windows 7; fsutil  should then recognize your drives correctly.
 When you get the message, “File Copy to USB-Drive is Ready - OK – Success,” press Yes (make USB-stick in XP setup to be preferred boot drive U:) and press any key.
 On the first screen, press F2 to go to BIOS menu. In the BIOS menu, go to the Advanced tab and change OS Installation to Start. Then, go to Hard Disk Drives > Boot tab and select the USB drive as the first drive. Make sure it shows your USB stick as first in Boot Device Priority. Select Exit & Save Changes.
 This will start Windows XP setup install (format quick NTFS, create partitions).
 Select option 2 and 3. This installation takes around 20-40 minutes. After reboot, the computer will log in to your Windows XP user account.
 (Some people recommend that you first install the ACPI and Chipset drivers.) When you are done, restart the netbook and enjoy.

