 Some people, including yourself, don't give mixed signals on purpose. Rather, mixed signals are a sign of a deeper problem, usually a conflict between opposing values in relationships.For instance, some people always want what's on the other side. When not in a relationship, they want the connection of being in a relationship. When in a relationship, they want the independence outside of a relationship. Once they get one, the other value seems much better, so they move towards that instead. Therefore, as they get too close to someone, they instantly start moving away.
Some other pairs include control and spontaneity, freedom and responsibility, and novelty and stability. Each time the person gets one, the other becomes automatically more appealing.
 A person sending mixed signals may have nothing to do with you at all. In fact, it could be the person is insecure or has had problems in past relationships. In that case, they may have a tendency to hold you at arm's length, even when they want to be with you.If you suspect this is the problem, start a dialogue about it. You could say, "I sense that you really like me, but I feel like you want to keep me at arm's length. Is there a reason you have a tendency to do that?"

, Sometimes, a person will turn cold on you if they feel like you're doing it to them. Make sure you aren't guilty of doing the thing you're accusing the other person of.Try to think. Do you hold the person at arm's length? Are you warm one day but push the person away the next?
Do you cancel dates even when you don't have a good reason to?

, You may have been focused on the other person and their indecisiveness, but you might not have stopped to consider whether you want to be with that person or not. Check in with yourself to make sure you actually enjoy that person's company to see whether or not the person is worth fighting for.Do you like spending time with the person? Do you constantly want to spend more time with the person?
Are you interested in what the person thinks and feels?
Do you value their thoughts and opinions? The answers to these questions can help you decide whether you want to be with the person or not.

