 To gain access to the monastery you must bring a tribute of 1000 gold pieces and a sheep. You can buy a sheep from Onar's farm. Talk to the novice Pedro outside the monastery once you have the tribute. You will now be considered a Novice in the monastery.


In the expansion pack, Night of The Raven, you have the option to do an easier task to get into the monastery. You must go to the Water Mage ,Vatras, who will then tell you to see the Fire magician Daron. After completing a task for Daron, he will tell you to enter the monastery.;
, In order to know about the Test of Fire, you must serve the community. Each of the masters will give you a task, which you must fulfill to their satisfaction. In all, there are 4 masters who will give you tasks.


Master Gorax gives you two tasks to complete.
The paladin Sergio also gives you a task.
 After completing the tasks set out by fire magicians, you must talk to Parlan. He will assess your progress and award you with the key to the library.
 Specifically, you must read the farthest unoccupied book to the right. This book contains information on the Test of Fire, and upon reading it, a new diary entry is created for you.
 After reading about the Test of Fire, you must talk to Parlan, who will suggest that you talk to Pyrokar, the highest fire magician to be given the test.
 After a short conversation with Pyrokar, he will inform you that each of the three High Fire Magicians will give you their part of the test, which you must pass in order to become a fire magician. Talk to each of the fire magicians to receive their test. The tests will not tell you exactly what to do, but will give you hints or riddles instead.
 In order to pass Serpentes' test, you must defeat a magic golem, which can only be done with the sacred hammer. The sacred hammer is in the lower part of the monastery and is guarded by Garwig, a novice who never sleeps. Purchase a sleep spell from Gorax, and use it on Garwig. While Garwig is under the spell, grab the sacred hammer and head outside.
 From Orlan's tavern, you have to take the path between the one that leads to the monastery and the one that leads to Onar's farm. If you are on the correct path, you will see a few of your fellow novices and a camp made by Dragomir.
 Keep following the path till you come across a small winding hill with goblins on it. Defeat the goblins and continue on forwards. After a short distance, you will see a barren patch of land overshadowed by trees. The magic golem resides here. Equip the sacred hammer before approaching the golem. A single hit with the hammer will destroy the golem. Beware, no other weapon can damage it.
 Follow the path till you find a big lake surrounded by hillocks. Upon finding the lake, turn right at the fork in the path. The path leads you to a small rock cove covered in thick shrubbery. The shrubbery hides a cave. Enter the cave and take the rightmost path.
 If you take the correct path, you should see two statues and rays of blue light emanating from the ground. Agon, a fellow novice reaches the treasure before you can. Unfortunately, however you react to his victory, he attacks you. Defeat Agon and open the chest that lies nearby and obtain its contents. The chest contains a blank runestone. You will need this for the final part of the test, which is to create a Fire Arrow rune.
 Upon returning, go to the library and talk to master Hyglas. Hyglas will agree to teach you the formula to create the Fire Arrow rune, if you gather all the ingredients for it.
 Go to Gorax and buy one Sulfur and one Fire Arrow spell scroll. After you have these on hand, talk to Hyglas who will teach you the formula. After learning the formula go to the Rune table, and create a Fire Arrow rune. You cannot use it yet.
 After completing the tests, go to each of the High Fire Magicians and talk to them. Once you have talked to all the three High Fire Magicians, talk to Pyrokar again, who will swear you to an oath and give you the Fire Magician's robe.
 You can now use the previously created Fire Arrow rune, and any subsequent runes that you may create or obtain.

