 Create a bizarre contrast between your target and something else. This brand of humor is especially appealing to kids, teenagers, and fans of slapstick.



If toast always lands butter-side down and cats always land on their feet, what happens if you strap toast to the back of a cat and drop it? — Steven Wright

, Some comedians make dirty jokes the base of their lineup, while others just sprinkle them in here and there. A dirty joke or two helps the audience feel relaxed, piques their interest, and helps them feel they're "in on" something. It's an easy way to create rapport - after all, everyone can relate.



My wife wanted to name our baby girl, Anita. I had to remind her that our last name was Cox. — Bryan Cox

God gave men both a penis and a brain, but unfortunately not enough blood supply to run both at the same time. — Robin Williams

, What hasn't already been said? What unique angle do you have? You can also get people to laugh by saying something that wouldn't normally be said about a group or person that's perceived as innocent, like kids, your grandma, nuns, kittens . . . you get the picture.



A friend will help you move. A best friend will help you move a body. — Dave Attell

If God had written the Bible, the first line should have been ‘It’s round.' — Eddie Izzard

, Certain types of jokes seem to consistently elicit laughs even though we've all heard them before. Think "your mama" jokes, jokes about nagging girlfriends, and jokes about messy boyfriends.



Men want the same thing from their underwear that they want from women: a little bit of support, and a little bit of freedom. — Jerry Seinfeld
A grasshopper walks into a bar and the bartender says, 'Hey, we have a drink named after you!' The grasshopper looks surprised and says, 'You have a drink named Steve?'

, You're not going to get people to laugh unless they can see a bit of themselves in the joke. If they don't identify with either you as the joker or with the target, you're going to have some blank looks on your hands. When people relate to a joke, it gives them a cathartic release - and that's why people like jokes in the first place, isn't it?



Roses are red, violets are blue, I’m a schizophrenic, and so am I. — Billy Connolly

Ladies gotta say no to their husbands at the movies. They gotta say: 'No, we are watching back-to-back cancer movies. And then this movie about a cat.' — Tina Fey

, Puns fall into this category, as do blond jokes, baby jokes, and knock knock jokes.



I will not talk to someone who has less than 10 toes. I am LACK TOES INTOLERANT. — Gilbert Gottfried

