 People leave the military because of retirement, pursuing higher education, pursue a civilian occupation and more. Whatever the reasons for these people who leave the military must be replaced. An estimated 353,000 new recruits are welcomed by the U.S. Army. The army must attract qualified candidates and train them to be able to accomplish its mission. Recruiters play an important role in this process. Advertising is not enough to win recruits. These are the people who go and watch schools, communities, youth groups and where this can be achieved to maintain its strong numbers.


Each branch of the armed forces used different criteria for the selection of its recruits. The common denominator is that they employ experienced enlisted personnel to sell their product. Military recruiter is an expert on and advocate for its product. Thus, he or she can provide every information, guidance, opinion and stories about the U.S. Army. They are mechanics, cooks, administrators, electricians or whatever you can name work within the group. They know the enrollment criteria and have good public relations skills;
, Although most of the first interviews with recruiters occur in the recruiter's office, there are cases where the recruiter might suggest another venue. However, the best setting would be the recruiter's office. Meet with your recruiter to his own office gives you the opportunity to see for yourself its environment.


Before the interview, your recruiters have asked you to bring more possibly a social security card, birth certificate, driver's license or high school diploma. You can start the process by providing your social security card.
Dress appropriately for the day and know the company you are interviewing.
Most information can be seen in their websites. Write down any questions you may have.
 Addressing the moral demands of enrollment is easy as any law-abiding citizen is qualified to join the army. If you have any previous violations of the law (only minor cases can be tolerated), immediately reveal this to your recruiter (see below).


Check out some more specific guidelines for joining each branch of the service. Requirements vary form branch to branch and between different countries, so reading up on the specific requirements, application process, and joining procedures is vital. Here are some articles to help get you started:

How to Join the Army
How to Join the U.S. Army
How to Become a Marine
How to Join the Navy
How to Enlist in the United States Air Force
How to Join the U.S. Army Special Forces
How to Join the Army in the UK
How to Join the SAS



, If you have violated the law, you can still join the army by providing a moral waiver. Waivers are not granted automatically. The recruiter can offer help for you if you receive a waiver.


If a particular recruiter refuses to help you with the legal disclaimer, you can find another recruiter who can help you with your concerns. The level at which an exemption may be granted depending on the weight of the offense(s). The process can take some time depending on the level of the approval authority.
Write a statement about your violations of law/abuse. You need to write a statement about the violation of the law. To do this, it is essential that your letter appears to be sincere and well thought out. It's the only way you can tell the authority to grant exemption on yourself.
Never look like you blame others for the offense. Take responsibility for your actions. Take your time, write legibly, read the grammar and check your spelling and grammar. Be polite and do not make derogatory statements about the authority (police, courts, judge, etc.); stress that you can provide the army (U.S.) as competence, work ethic, and more.
 Most, if not all, militaries around the world require physical screening tests and medical examinations, so you'll need to make sure you're in good shape to pass. Ask your recruiter for specific details on what the test is likely to include for your desired branch and position.
 Your family's position on the military shouldn't in itself affect your decision, but military life is likely to be easier with the support of loved ones. If they're reluctant to see you join up, explain your reasons for wanting to join, talk with them about your options and career path, and ask for their understanding (and even enthusiasm).
 Some people who join the military are only looking to do a set number of years and move into another field; others seek to spend a career in the army and even become an officer. Talk to your recruiter about the options available to you, and what education, training, and signing commitment is required for each one. If you prepare with some idea of what you want out of the military career before you even join up, you'll likely feel more dedicated to your choice.
 For most militaries around the world, bootcamp is recognized as a time of "diving right in," and does involve some intense training to get you ready for military duty. Know what to expect and prepare yourself for the process.
 By this time, you will likely have worked through all of the steps of preparing with your recruiter and have a clear idea of what more you need to do to officially enlist. When you've fulfilled the requirements for preparation, it'll be time to sign on the dotted line and serve your country with pride!

