 If your stepchild is being bratty to you, ignoring you, or just being rude in general, it can make showing love to them feel impossible. However, you must remember that you are the adult and you must model appropriate behavior to them. Don’t let their actions dictate your behavior, but stay calm and courteous regardless.If you need to take a moment to excuse yourself, try stepping into another room and taking some deep breaths. Then, return when you feel calm enough to interact with them in a warm manner.


Greet them with a smile and with a “hello” each time you see them again.
Respond to them when they speak to you, even if they typically ignore you.
Treat them how you would want to be treated.
Remember that this situation is new for them as well and they are likely unaware of how to navigate it properly.
They may feel that showing kindness to you is a slap in the face to their own mother, so be empathetic to the range of emotions that they likely have.;
, If your stepchild is being unkind or combative with you, it is likely not the best idea to spend time with them alone until your relationship becomes more cordial. Plan some group outings with your stepchildren and your spouse so that you can get to know them better in a safe and fun context.


Plan a trip to the movies or to ride go karts. You can also go to the mall together or have lunch.
Let your stepchild know they can invite a friend if they want to. This may help to ease them into interacting with you.
 Sit down and have an honest and sincere chat with your stepchild. There may be some underlying issues they have with you that you are unaware of, and some of these issues may be out of your control. Though you may not be able to fix everything, recognize the sheer importance of being heard and listened to. Give your stepchild that respect.Try to validate what they are feeling and empathize with them.
Avoid giving them a lecture.
Pull them aside and don’t bombard them in front of others.
You might say something like “I have noticed that we aren’t really getting along as well as I would want us to. I wanted to talk to you about how we can work to build a bond and get along well for your dad, but also for us, too.”
If they don’t want to talk, respect that. Give them space and let them know you are here when they’re ready.
 Once your relationship has become at least cordial, you can begin considering spending more alone time with your stepchildren. Offer to pick them up from school more so you can spend a bit of time with them to yourself just to chat. They will likely appreciate you for doing things for them.


Consider having lunch together or going for a walk.
 Though there is certainly an age gap between the two of you, there are likely some interests that you both share in common that perhaps you could enjoy together. This will provide you with something to do together that you both enjoy and will deepen your bond.You could go thrift shopping together or watch a new television series together.
Consider exploring your stepchildren’s hobbies with them, even if you are not particularly interested. Invest time in learning more about their interests and helping to develop them just like you would with your own child.
 One other way to bond with your stepchildren is to start new traditions as a family. Your stepchild likely had traditions with their parents before you married their dad and they may feel that they have lost out on enjoying some of those things. Though you cannot recreate those moments, you can create new ones. This is a great way to further strengthen your family unit.For instance, consider making it movie night every Saturday and allowing a different family member to pick the movie each week.
Be careful not to replace old family traditions because this may upset the child. Instead, try to make room for some new traditions while keeping the old ones.
 Your stepchild may be showing resistance to you because they do not feel that they can trust you as of yet. However, you should work to correct that misconception by being dependable and honest. If you say you are going to do something, do it and if you tell them something, be sure it is the truth. The moment they feel that you have backed out on a promise, the greater the resistance they will show you.If you expect them to be trustworthy, you have to model that behavior for them.
If they tell you something in confidence, don’t share it with anyone unless it is related to their safety.
 Don’t make a big deal when they come over and treat them like a guest. This is their home, too and they should feel that that is the truth. Give them chores just like you would your own children and don’t let them get away with things just because you don’t get to see them all of the time. They will respect you more and view you as more of a mother figure if you behave like one.This doesn’t mean that you can’t do nice things for them or that you shouldn’t act excited to see them.
 If you have married their father after he divorced their mother, they are likely dealing with plethora of emotions like resentment, sadness, or confusion. Be patient with them during this time and offer your ear to them should they want to talk about it.You might broach the topic by saying something like “I know you are probably feeling a lot of emotions regarding your dad and me getting married. I don’t know exactly how you feel but I can imagine. And I want you to know that that’s okay and that I want to help you get through it if you want me to.”
Never bash their mother, even if you feel that she has done some wrong. If your stepchildren speak negatively about their mother to you, listen to them empathetically and then try to encourage them to bring these complaints to their mother and deal with the problem in a direct way.
 Just like you would with your own children, you should set boundaries with your stepchildren, as well. Talk to your husband about parenting and establish some mutual ground rules between the two of you and have him communicate those to your stepchild.Reinforce those rules even in his absence or else they will continue to disrespect you.
For instance, if your stepchild mouths off to you or is disrespectful, let them know immediately and tell them that you won’t tolerate that behavior.
 You should have an open and honest conversation with your husband about your place in correcting the children. You may feel uncomfortable disciplining them the way their parents do, and that is okay. But it is also important to be cognizant of the fact that you do want to establish a maternal bond with them and a part of establishing that is in disciplining them on occasion.Keep in mind that discipline will depend on the child’s age, the level of the biological parents’ involvement, and the situation. Younger children typically require more correction than older children. Teens may not respond to your correction as well as to their biological parents’ efforts to correct them.
If you are having trouble finding your role in disciplining, then you might consider talking with a therapist for help.
Perhaps your husband has talks with the children when they behave badly, but you don’t feel comfortable with this. You could, however, make them go to timeout or take their cellphone.
 At the end of the day, you wouldn’t even know these children if it weren’t for your spouse. A family is at its best when the household is built on love so make sure that you don’t lose focus on loving your spouse. The fact that you are trying to love your spouse’s children shows that you have love for him as well so honor that and keep your marriage strong.Go out on date nights regularly.
Communicate with your spouse regularly.
 Remember that love is built over time. Though mothers often love their own children before they are born, you are in a totally different dynamic with these children. Focus on loving them over time and remember that love is a verb. It is something you should do AND feel.Keep in mind that it is okay if your feelings take a while to catch up to your actions. Try to be mindful and loving with your actions and allow your feelings to develop naturally over time.
 Acknowledge that you are doing all that you can to be good to your stepchildren, but sometimes all of that good may not be good enough. As long as you are being genuine, kind, and respectful, you are doing your part in the relationship. This is not a popularity contest, it’s a family.Be sure to maintain your own individual relationships, interests, and hobbies. This will help you to maintain your self-esteem and identity.
 Your spouse will have a direct understanding of the child and may be able to provide advice on how to connect better with them. Talk to him about your frustrations and allow him to comfort and guide you on this journey to creating a stronger family.You could say something like “I am feeling pretty upset lately because I feel that Jenna doesn’t like me. I’m trying to be good to her but I don’t know what else I can do.”

, Your friends can also be a great source of support during this time as well. If you have any friends who have married someone with children, consider reaching out to them to see how they navigated those relationships. They will be able to give you advice that you may not have thought about.


Your friends can also be a great source of support for venting. Venting to your spouse about their kids may put them in an uncomfortable position.
 Sometimes, the best person to talk to during this process is yourself. Take some time to write down how you are feeling about the dynamic between you and your stepchildren. It can be cathartic and freeing to get your thoughts out onto paper.
 You may find that after all of the work that you have put in to bond with and love your stepchildren, that things have not improved. Perhaps you are feeling very distant from their or perhaps their resistant behavior has escalated. Whatever the issues that pervade, consider seeking counseling, either for yourself or for the family, so that you can move beyond these issues.