 All of the learning games for toddlers that are currently available to today’s parents were originally just someone’s thoughts on how to help a toddler learn a certain concept or skill.


The people that came up with the ideas are really no different from the average parents.
This simply means that anyone can come up with their own games for teaching their toddler new things.
 For example, someone came up with the idea of using a basket of various colors and styles of clean socks for teaching toddlers about colors, matching, and counting.


Another great idea for a homemade learning game for a toddler is to buy two sets of identical magnets and store them in a metal container. The child can use the lid as a board and stick the magnets with their pairs on the lid.
Of course, it is important that the magnets that are chosen will not pose a choking hazard.
 If the toddler is learning his/her colors, make some flashcards using index cards and markers. Color a spot (circle, dot, square) on the front of the card. Hold it up for the child to see.


Explain to him/her that if he/she gets four of the cards right in a row that there is a prize for it. Then, when he/she accomplishes what is asked, give him/her some free time or time on the electronics or whatever else the child may enjoy.
The cards do not have to have anything difficult on them. They can have pictures of people, if the child is still trying to learn words like “mommy,” “daddy,” and “nana”. The cards can have colors or shapes. They can have pictures of animals. Anything that the child can look at and name (or say) can be put on cards.
 If the child is really interested in the outdoors, the parents can use that to their advantage. Go outside with the child.


Tell the child to find something green, blue, orange, or any other color (that can be seen where you are, of course). Tell the child to point out all the green things. Make it a game by “competing” with the child to see who can say all the green/red/blue/purple/white things first.
Make it a physical game by trying to see who can run to the “blue flower” the fastest or who can skip to the “brown tree trunk” more quickly. The child gets to learn and practice his/her colors, spend time with the parents, and get some physical activity.
 Just about everything that a parent does while in the company of their toddler, from grocery shopping to cleaning the house, can be turned into a learning game by using imagination.


Aside from teaching the toddler through everyday things, it also makes these things more fun for both the child and the parent.
 Some parents choose to collect all sorts of previously used items in order to use them to make their own learning games or add them to a craft box for the kids to use.


As long as the item is clean, has no sharp edges, and does not pose a choking hazard, a use for it can probably be found. Some parenting websites offer lists of common items that have been proven useful.
Dollar stores are also a great source for inexpensive items, such as ice cube trays, that can be used in creating learning games for toddlers.

