 Online storage is a growing field, allowing users to back up their data to remote servers. Incorporating online backups into your backup routine can help make sure your backups are redundant, and will allow you to access your backed up files from anywhere you have an internet connection. There are a variety of services, both free and paid, that offer a wide range of features:


BackBlaze - Offers unlimited storage for a small fee per month.
Carbonite - One of the more established online backup services, Carbonite offers unlimited storage for a monthly fee. Carbonite is known for their automated backup solutions.
SOS Online Backup - Another older player in the backup game, SOS offers unlimited storage for all accounts.
 Services like Google Drive, SkyDrive (OneDrive), and DropBox all offer online storage, but they require you to manually keep them updated. Files are synced between all devices running that account, which means that if the file is deleted on the backup server, it is deleted on all your connected devices! These services also do not offer robust file versioning, which means retrieving an older version of a file can be difficult or impossible.


You can certainly use these services as a means of free storage, but they are not powerful enough to truly be called "backup services". You will have to maintain your backup manually.
 Any online backup service worth their salt should encrypt all files that are transmitted to and from their servers. They may have access to metadata, such as folder names and file sizes, but the actual content of your data should be unreadable to anyone but you.


Many services use private keys to encrypt your data. This means that it is highly secure, but you will lose access to it if you forget your password. In cases such as this, passwords are irretrievable and the data is lost.
 Nearly all online backup solutions come with software or a browser interface that allows you to set what is being backed up and how often. Set a schedule that works for you. If you are frequently making changes to files, you may want to backup every night. If you don't use your computer that often, a weekly or monthly schedule might work better.


Try to schedule your backup for a time that you are not using your computer. Backups can take up a significant amount of bandwidth and computer resources.

