 If a friend or family member has committed suicide, you are likely very upset. Before you attempt to explain the matter to your children, attend to your own feelings. Survivors of suicide may experience shock, anger that the person abandoned you, guilt that you didn’t see the signs, despair, confusion, and rejection.Brace yourself for these powerful emotions and reach out for support. Oftentimes, survivors of suicide may fail to reach out due to stigma regarding the cause of death. Don’t let that keep you from leaning on others. Look to close friends and family for strength and support.
It can also be helpful to participate in a support group for families affected by suicide. Listening to others share their stories can help you make sense of what you are going through and to eventually find healing.;
, When it comes to finally sitting down with your child(ren) to discuss a loved one dying of suicide, it may help to plan ahead. Think about how you will explain the death. Consulting with someone else like a spouse or other family member may also help you prepare for this difficult discussion.You may want to find a lead-in to start the conversation like “I’m sure you’re wondering what happened to your cousin Robby.” or “Did you hear about the Matthews’ daughter who died?”

, This isn’t a conversation you want to have over dinner or when your kids are playing a video game. Select a time when you can have the kids’ undivided attention and preferably be able to give comfort, if needed.


Depending on your child’s conversational skills, it may be intimidating to have a face-to-face.It may be most effective to have this discussion while you are engaging in an activity together, such as baking cookies or washing dishes. That way, you are in close proximity to one another, but not having to make constant eye contact.
If you see a need to stop the activity to comfort your child or reassure them, then you can do so. However, side-by-side conversations remove some of the pressure.
 Tailor your explanation to your child’s maturity level. Your children may have encountered death to some degree or another. Perhaps a grandparent died after a long illness or a favorite pet was run over by a car. Still, suicide is usually harder for kids to understand.You might say “Robby took his own life because he was very sad” to indicate that the person killed him/herself. An older adolescent or teen may understand suicide vaguely enough to comprehend what you’re saying and understand that it was that person’s choice.
However, if your kids are relatively young and if they knew the person, you may want to reassure them that it wasn’t anyone’s fault. Since younger kids sometimes internalize death as being a sign of something they did wrong, clarify “There wasn’t anything anybody could do. He was hurting so bad inside that he thought it was the only way to stop the pain. He didn’t know that he could have gotten help.”

, After you have briefly explained what happened to the person or what suicide is, open the door for your kids to ask questions. This is a time to clear up any confusion they have about suicide.


You might ask “Do you have anything you want to ask me about it?” to get your child talking.
If your child doesn’t seem to have any questions, you can move the conversation along by trying to get a better understanding of what they know about the matter. You might ask “What do you know about suicide?” or “Have you ever heard any kids at school talk about suicide?”, If your children ask for more information pertaining to the person’s death or ask more about suicide, try to be honest and straightforward in your responses. However, you should refrain from giving unnecessary details. You want to answer questions in brief, simple sentences. Tailor your language using words you think your child will understand and explain to the extent that you feel comfortable sharing.For instance, if your child asks “But, why was Robby sad?,” you might answer with “Sometimes, people seem okay on the outside, but they are really sick on the inside. Robby was very sick. And, he hurt himself because he thought that was the only way to stop the sickness.”

, Overreacting or judging what your child says can cut off the communication and make them feel like they have nowhere to turn regarding the subject. Listen thoroughly to ensure that you set the tone for future conversations about suicide, if they should arise.For example, if your child shares with you a time when a friend mentioned wanting to hurt himself, don’t interrupt and start parenting. Instead, let your child completely finish the story. Ask clarifying questions for better understanding like “Are you saying that…?” and then paraphrase what you heard to show you were listening.
Then, and only then, should you take the opportunity to share your concerns “I’m very upset to hear Peter was having these thoughts. It’s important for him to get help so that he doesn’t hurt himself. Have you ever had thoughts like that?”
Depending on your child’s answer (e.g. “Yes, a year ago, I was feeling like I might want to hurt myself.”), you may need to revisit the issue again in the future to verify that he or she is not thinking of suicide. Or, seek immediate treatment, if they currently are.
 Make sure that your child knows that you are ready and willing to listen and offer support if they ever have more questions about suicide, or if they have suicidal thoughts of their own. Just in case they don’t feel completely comfortable talking about their thoughts and feelings with you, remind them of other trusted adults they can talk to about the subject.You might gently remind them “You know I am always hear to talk, if you want. And if I’m not around and you have these thoughts, you can always reach out to a teacher, your school counselor, or another family member. I just want to make sure you know that we’re all here for you.”

, Many parents fear that bring up the subject of suicide will plant the idea in their heads. This is not true. In fact, discussing the matter opens the lines of communication so that your child feels more comfortable talking about the subject., Considering that suicide is the 3rd leading cause of young people in America between the ages of 15 and 24, this subject is highly relevant to your adolescent and young adult children.Of course, no parent wants to even entertain the idea of their child taking his or her own life. Yet, it happens.


Empower yourself and your family by getting the facts about teen suicide and recognizing how serious the issue really is. Denying that it can happen can only serve as a detriment from you identifying the signs and getting your child much needed help.
 Most of the time, a teen who commits suicide completes the act after an upsetting or particularly stressful life event. Still, the event itself may not be enough for you to recognize your child needs help. There are some behaviors that teens who are contemplating suicide typically demonstrate. These include:Having trouble focusing or paying attention
Engaging in reckless or risky behaviors
Thinking, writing, or talking about suicide, death, or the afterlife
Withdrawing from friends and family
Failing or underperforming at school
Showing no interest in activities they once enjoyed
Abusing alcohol or drugs
Feeling like life is meaningless
Experiencing changes in sleep or appetite
Acting angry or irritable

, The most important action you can take to help a teen who is considering suicide is to take him or her seriously. Don’t ignore or minimize the warning signs of suicide. Maintain an open and honest dialogue with your child, or suggest that he or she speak with a religious leader, coach, teacher, school counselor, or doctor that they can trust.If you think your child is at risk of hurting him/herself, seek professional help right away by taking your child to the closest emergency room, phoning a mental health provider, or contacting the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK.

