 Most official resellers who sell genuine sunglasses would let you know that what they are selling is authentic. So look for guaranteed authenticity.;
, Brand new sunglasses are always packed in a box and supplied with cleaning back and warranty card. Don't trust any seller who doesn't provide those items. The one and only case a seller can lack some of these items is when the sunglasses are not brand new and that can't be a good deal anyway. The vendor is highly unlikely to have a good explanation in any other situation.
 Don't fall for that trick; they say that so they don't get in trouble.
 Authentic sunglasses package usually has labels on every item supplied in it. For example Oakley has the "Genuine O Software" label sewn on the cleaning box.
 Since many fraud sellers are aware of what a buyer is going to look at first, they try to either fake a box supplied or use a box from a different model.
 Replicas are often packed in original boxes, the glasses themselves will have barcode labels torn off.
 Once you have it, look at the designer site and verify the model number is authentic, a current style, appropriate color, etc.
 Another good replica indicator is the price. It shouldn't be far away from the average eBay value. For example, usually Oakley sunglasses are sold for over 50 USD. Anything below this price should be treated more carefully.
 Consider research the work required to get a good deal when you find it. In the age of Internet every sunglasses company has its own website. You should take advantage of it. Browse the official website and make sure the model listed on eBay matches official one in color. It's amazing how many vendors sell wrong colored sunglasses.
 They may be copy and pasting the photo but selling you something that only looks similar. Make sure that the vendor doesn't use official photos. Well, in that case you should ask to email you a few real photos. When you get the pictures, look carefully for anything unusual.
 Some people use stickers with the designer logo and attach it to the lens to give the appearance of being legitimate. Fraud vendors build fake authority by doing that. Don't buy it.
 That word is just screaming that it's a fake item.
 If you're not sure about authenticity of the sunglasses you've bought, get them checked by manufacturer. Most of them provide this service totally free if you mail your glasses to their head office. Also any official dealer would verify the sunglasses for you as well.
 Official vendors won't avoid providing authenticity proof. Don't bid if the seller doesn't reply to request like that.
 If they say no, you should beware.
 See if they deal with real items or have been accused of selling fake items.
 They may have been kicked off or banned.
 By doing your part to police the opportunist you can make auction sites better for everyone.

