 The ACT is a multiple choice test with four sections: English, Mathematics, Reading, and Science. You can also take an optional writing test, in which you will be required to write an essay.The English test consists of 75 questions designed to measure standard written and rhetorical skills. You have 45 minutes to complete it.
The mathematics test consists of 60 questions designed to measure mathematical skills typically learned before the start of grade 12. You have 60 minutes to complete it.
The reading test consists of 40 questions designed to measure reading comprehension skills. You have 35 minutes to complete it.
The science test consists of 40 questions designed to measure a student's ability to interpret, analyze, evaluate, reason, and problem-solve with the natural sciences. You have 35 minutes to complete it.
The writing test consists of one prompt, which you will have 30 minutes to write about.;
, The whole purpose behind the ACT is to determine how ready you are for college, so any goal you create should be for the purpose of getting you into the college of your choice.


Know how high your score needs to be in order to get accepted to your first choice school.
Know whether or not the college you want to attend wants you to take the optional writing portion of the test. Since this part is optional, many colleges and universities do not need to see it, so you can skip taking it if that is the case. Many colleges and universities do want to see that score, however, so you should find out beforehand before opting out of it.
 There is a direct relationship between how much you practice and how well you do on the test, so if you want to ace the ACT, you need to study consistently for several months. An actual study plan will help you stay more committed to your practice.


Focus on the areas you struggle with most. While you need to practice all areas of the ACT in order to be truly ready, if you struggle with one subject more than the others, set aside a bit more time for that area than the others.
 You can find practice tests through the ACT website, third party test prep sites, and in books. Choose practice tests specifically set up in the ACT format so that you can study while also becoming comfortable with the way the test is set up.


If at all possible, take your practice tests at roughly the same time of day you can expect to take the actual ACT at. Since the test is usually held fairly early, taking practice tests in the morning will help your brain develop the early morning thinking habits it needs.
For the first week, test yourself on one timed ACT section each day. If you cannot complete the section within the expected time limit, complete it untimed to determine how much time you need and to give yourself a better idea of where you can shave off more time.
You can purchase an official ACT prep tests on the official ACT website: http://www.actstudent.org/onlineprep/

If you would rather not buy a test prep guide, the ACT website also offers free practice questions: http://www.actstudent.org/sampletest/

The ACT publishes a printed, official prep guide that you can buy, as well. This prep guide includes five retired ACT tests and writing tests.
Review the ACT “Question of the Day.” This question is available on the ACT website for free: http://www.act.org/qotd/


, The ACT covers a wide range of material, and the amount of material you need to study for is vastly greater than the amount of information you need for a standard high school test. There is no way to effectively cram for the ACT.


Moreover, cramming can actually hurt your chances since you might cause yourself more stress or confusion by trying to shove all the information into your mind at once.
 Essentially, you should brush up on the standard rules of English, especially as they apply to grammar. Vocabulary flashcards will not do you much good.


Noun-pronoun agreement can be difficult for many students because people often break these rules in common, everyday speech. For example, the sentence, "A student needs to have their materials ready," would be incorrect since "student" is a singular noun and "their" is a plural pronoun. The pronoun "his" or "her" needs to be used, instead.Make sure that you have a thorough understanding of how to use commas, colons, semi-colons, and dashes.
 You will not be given the formulas you need for answering the questions, so as you study for the mathematics portion, make sure that you memorize the most essential trigonometry, algebra, geometry, formulas and understand how to apply them.


Memorize both simple and complex formulas. Use flashcards to help you memorize them, if necessary.
Note that calculus is not tested on the ACT. Trigonometry questions may appear, but there will only be a limited number of these.
Algebraic variable manipulation and plane geometry are the most important subjects to study for the mathematics portion of the test.
 The science section will contain a wide range of charts, and you will need to understand how to read and interpret these charts in order to excel in this section.


Practice by making your own charts and graphs. Doing this can help you understand each chart type more effectively than merely reading different charts can.
When practicing for this section, try answering data representation sections first before answering more complex questions in the practice test.
Even though the science section does cover some science knowledge, the majority of the section tests your science reading comprehension.
 Complete a draft essay once a week using writing prompts suggested by study materials or teachers. Brainstorm, make an outline, and write a five-paragraph essay in response to the prompt.


A five-paragraph essay needs an introduction, three body paragraphs with supporting points, and a conclusion. Ideally, one of your body paragraphs will be a contradictory point with your rebuttal.
Ask teachers or strong writers to assess your work and review their critiques to improve your writing.
 Go for a short run, ride your bicycle, or work on a puzzle. The idea is to stimulate yourself without exhausting yourself.Physical activity gets the blood pumping, which can improve blood flow to the brain and make it easier to stay alert and focused during the text.
Similarly, mental stimulation can get the metaphorical gears turning in your head, preparing your brain for the problem solving it will need to perform on the test.
 A good night's sleep is very important since it allows you to wake up refreshed and recharged. Aim for a full 8 hours the night before the test.
 The breakfast you eat should be healthy but fairly normal in size. If all you usually eat in the morning is a bowl of cereal, opt for a healthier cereal option and hydrate yourself with orange juice.


Do not eat a large meal if you are not used to it, since eating a lot of food can cause you to slow down and become tired.
Do not drink a bunch of caffeine in the morning, either. You can have a cup of coffee or tea if that is part of your morning routine, but drinking a lot of caffeine in the morning to give yourself an energy buzz is risky since you will likely find your blood sugar and energy crashing halfway through the ACT.
If you have stomach pains or nausea associated with nervousness on the day of the test, do not force yourself to eat a lot. You should make sure that you are hydrated, and you should also try to put something light and tolerable in your stomach, but you do not need to make yourself sick over it.
 In short, you will need to have an appropriate ID, approved calculator, number two pencils, and your test ticket.


You should also lay out a route from your home to the testing center. If you have never been to the testing center, take a drive there before the day of the test to familiarize yourself with the roads.
You are permitted to use four-function, scientific, and graphic calculators. You cannot use calculators with built-in algebra systems, though (Texas Instruments TI-89, TI-92, TI-Nspire CAS; Hewlett-Packard HP 48GII or any model number beginning with HP 40G, HP 49G, or HP 50G; Casio Algebra fx 2.0, ClassPad 300, ClassPad 330, or any model beginning with CFX-9970G). You cannot use calculators built into a computer, writing pad, cell phone, or other similar technological device., Panic will only hurt you in the end, and if you think you will fail, you risk setting your sights on failure instead of success. Go to the testing center with as much confidence as possible.
 At minimum, you need to bring the essential supplies you prepared earlier: a student ID or other acceptable form of ID, an approved calculator, multiple number two pencils, and your test ticket.


It is also a good idea to bring a bottle of water and a small snack you can munch on in between sections. These could help keep you energized and focused during the test.
You should also bring your own watch so that you can keep track of the time on your own. Moderators are supposed to announce when your time is almost up for each section, but in case yours forgets to do so, you should use your own watch.
 Moderators tend to be pretty strict, and if you show up late, you might be disqualified.You can take the test at a later date even if you are disqualified for this one, but you might end up losing the money you spent to take the test on your originally scheduled date.
 You need to read each answer to each question in each section completely, even if you think you already know the answer from the start.


Some questions have several answers that could work, the the directions say that you need to choose the best one. If you rush and pick the first one that could work, you might end up missing a better answer listed after it.
 You need to pace yourself throughout the test in order to ensure that you have enough time to answer all the questions. If one question has you stumped or confused, make a mental note to come back to it later and move onto the next question.


Simply put, if you need to spend seven minutes on a question you might get right, you might not have time to answer two or three questions later in the test that you would actually know the answer to for certain. Answer the questions you know first before returning to the ones you have to mull over.
 There is no penalty for wrong answers on the ACT, so it is in your best interest to guess the correct answer rather than leaving a question blank.


Note, however, that there is a penalty for guessing wrong on the SAT.
 While your studying efforts should have prepared you for each section prior to the day of the test itself, there are a few key points you should try to remember that apply to specific sections.


Use the diagrams in the math section. All the figures are drawn to scale for each math problem, so if you get stumped on a problem with a figure attached to it, you can use that figure to help you solve the question.

Skim through the reading section and the questions before going into greater detail. The reading section usually includes a passage of prose fiction, followed by a social science passage, a humanities passage, and a natural science passage. After each passage, you will need to answer questions to test your comprehension of what you read. Skim through the section as a whole to identify your strongest topics and start on those first. Maximize your time by reading the question first and keeping them in mind as you read the passage.
Review the science section quickly. For many students, the science section proves to be the hardest, simply because you have a short amount of time to answer fairly complex comprehension questions. Read through the text quickly and circle main points or ideas rather than reading the passage closely. Doing so can save you the time you need.
 Stay focused on the writing prompt and stick to the issue as you write. You can discuss the issue in a broader context, but make sure that you use specific examples and answer the prompt question thoroughly.Do not skip lines or write in the margins.
Consider the prompt and make sure that you understand it.
Determine your perspective on the issue and jot down ideas. Also consider what others might say against your argument and figure out what you might say in response.
Think about the best way to organize your essay before beginning it.

