 Forcing the child is likely to worsen his or her fear. Just think how you would react if you were forced to hold a scary bug in your hand or to go bungee jumping. Allow your child to take his or her own time to adjust and overcome the fears. Support your child with all the love and care that you can.
 Your child will always follow your actions. If you freak out at something, probably the child will also react in the same way. Your child believes if something or someone is safe for you, it is safe for him too. Also, don’t make your child scared by freaking out every time you feel that the child might hurt himself. Instead, just walk to him to assist him and explain what he should and shouldn't do for ensuring safety, in a calm way.
 A young child cannot differentiate between reality and fantasy. Children do get scared of the fantasy characters that they watch on TV. Turn off the scary TV shows. Also, let your child understand the difference between fantasy and reality by explaining to him how movies and cartoons are made in a simple manner.
 Open all the doors, look under the bed; use light to show that nothing is there. If your child is frightened by sounds or shadowy images, discuss what could actually be causing these sounds in a non-judgmental way.
 Have the child describe to you the monster that he or she is imagining. Add silly things to that image, such as checkered underwear or a silly hat. Maybe you could pretend that this imaginary monster is asking to use the child's bathroom because he really, really has to go, or he is sad because he doesn't have many friends. Play on your child's empathy for it. This will humanize the image of the monster and make him more likeable and less scary.

Fill a spray bottle with a mixture of water and some lavender or other aromatic oil. Stick a big label on it that says "Monster Spray" and tell your child that this will keep all monsters away because, not only are they afraid of water, but the sweet smell makes their nose itch. Spray a few spritzes into the air and assure your child that any monster would have to be crazy to come in here now.
Put a dish by the door and fill it with a few candies, then tell your child that candy is a monster's favorite thing in the world but once they eat them they become soft and sweet, like puppy dogs.
Take a ball of yarn and lay a "monster barrier" around your child's bed. Tell your child that monsters can't cross that sort of barrier and if they try, they will go poof and are zapped away like magic.
 Make it clear that you will always be there to protect your child.

