 After you notice several of the symptoms for Cushing’s disease, have your vet take a look at your horse. If your vet verifies that your horse does in fact have Cushing’s, they might give you a prescription appropriate for your horse’s age and condition. Horses with relatively mild symptoms respond best to medication. Medications for Cushing’s include:Cyproheptadine, pergolide, and other medications that reduce the amount of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), two biological compounds that affect that the operation of the endocrine system.
Trilostane and other medications that suppress cortisol synthesis in the adrenal glands might also be useful.
Some medications – bromocriptine mesylate, for instance -- can reduce both cortisol levels and ACTH levels.Your vet will determine which medication would be best for your horse. Let your vet know if one medication isn’t working for your horse so they can recommend a new dosage or prescribe an alternative medication.
The medications will probably be orally administered, but they might be injectable. Always use medications as directed. Stopping the medication suddenly can cause problems for your horse.
 There are a number of nutritional supplements that could be beneficial to managing your horse’s condition. Magnesium, for instance, is one of the more commonly accepted nutritional supplements that might improve symptoms of Cushing’s disease. Chromium (or chromium picolinate) is another.These supplements are best obtained online but may be available at pet stores or stores that specialize in horse health.
After obtaining these supplements, use as directed. Directions for use vary based on your horse’s age and weight.
Talk to your doctor about administering additional nutritional supplements to your horse.
 Horses with Cushing’s tend to be insulin resistant, meaning they have high blood sugar levels. Therefore, don’t give your horse anything with high levels of sugar, non-structural carbohydrates (NSC), or starch. Mints, sweet feeds, and other candies could push your horse’s blood sugar levels over the edge. Avoid feeds with added sugar or molasses, such as extruded feeds you might provide for older horses.Even some pasture grasses can have high NSC levels.Avoid or restrict pasture-feeding, especially during spring and fall when NSC content in pasture grass tends to be highest. You can also use a grazing muzzle while they are in the field. These will help limit how much grass they eat.
 A horse with Cushing’s needs all the things a regular horse does, but because of its precarious health, it is important not to miss a single veterinary appointment or tooth-brushing session. Pay particular attention to your horse’s nutrition, ensuring it eats and drinks enough for its age and weight. Get your horse dewormed regularly and provide vaccinations as needed.If your horse has laminitis, consult a farrier and a veterinarian to ensure it gets special hoof care.
Your Cushingoid horse might have trouble regulating its body temperature. Provide blankets in the winter and clip its excess hair in the summer.

