 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to dry the pretzels, set the temperature to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (130 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully. Next, place a wire cooling rack over a baking sheet to catch any yogurt that drips off after the pretzels are coated.It’s a good idea to line the baking sheet with foil, wax paper, or parchment paper before placing the wire rack over it. That will make it easier to clean up the sheet when you’re finished making the pretzels.;
, Add 2 cups (500 g) of low fat yogurt in the flavor of your choice to a large bowl. Mix 5 cups (625 g) of powdered sugar into the yogurt one cup (125 g) at a time with an electric mixer until it is completely incorporated.You can use any flavor of yogurt that you like for the pretzels. Strawberry, blueberry, and vanilla are classic options.
If you don’t have an electric mixer, you can mix the yogurt and powdered sugar by hand with a whisk.
 After the yogurt and powdered sugar are completely mixed, use a pair of tongs to dip 3 dozen miniature pretzels into the mixture one at a time. Make sure that they are coated on both sides, and set them on the wire cooling rack on the baking sheet. Repeat the process with all of the pretzels.If you don’t have tongs, you can use chopsticks or even a pair of tweezers to dip the pretzels.
 When you’ve coated all of the pretzels with the yogurt mixture, shut off your oven. Place the baking sheet and wire rack with the pretzels in the oven with the door slightly ajar.You don’t necessarily have to dry the pretzels in the warm oven. However, it helps the yogurt coating set without the pretzels getting soggy.
 Leave the pretzels in the oven for 3 to 4 hours so the yogurt coating has time to fully set. Remove them from the oven, and store them in an airtight container.The yogurt covered pretzels should keep for up to 3 days.
 To arrange the setup for drying the pretzels, line a baking sheet with foil, wax paper, or parchment paper. Next, place a wire cooling rack on top of it so the baking sheet will catch any yogurt that drips off.Lining the baking sheet makes it easier to clean after all of the pretzels have set. None of the yogurt will actually make it to the baking sheet, and you can just throw the liner away.
 Add 2 cups (250 g) of powdered sugar , ⅓ cup (85 g) plain low fat yogurt, and 1 teaspoon (7 g) of seedless blackberry preserves to a medium size bowl. Mix the ingredients with a whisk until they are fully combined.It’s best to use plain, unsweetened yogurt so the coating isn’t overly sweet.
You can substitute your favorite flavor of preserves for the blackberry. Use a seedless variety, though, and strain out any large pieces of fruit or skin before mixing it into the coating.
 When you’ve finished mixing up the yogurt coating, dip 36 thin pretzel twists in one at a time. Use a spoon or wooden skewer to turn them over in the coating so both sides are coated and then lift them out onto the wire cooling rack. Repeat the process with all of the pretzels.If you have a pair of tongs, you can use them to dip the pretzels into the yogurt coating.
 If you are making the pretzels for a gift or special occasion, you may want to garnish them. While the coating is still soft, add a light layer of colored sprinkles to the pretzels.Adding the sprinkles is optional. You can leave the pretzels plain if desired.
You can substitute colored sugar for the sprinkles if you prefer.
 After you’ve added the sprinkles, leave the pretzels to dry on the rack for 3 to 4 hours. For the best results, serve the pretzels immediately.Store any leftover pretzels in an airtight container, but try to eat them within a day of making them.
 Set your oven’s temperature to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (130 degrees Celsius), and let it heat fully so it’s warm enough to dry the pretzels. Next, place a wire cooling rack on a large baking sheet for the pretzels to dry on.Line the baking sheet with foil, parchment paper, or wax paper before placing the cooling rack on it. You’ll have less mess to clean up that way.
 Place 1 cup (175 g) of white melting chocolates or chips into a medium microwave-safe bowl. Heat the white chocolate on high in 30 second intervals, stirring after each interval. Continue until the white chocolate is completely melted.You can melt the white chocolate in a double boiler if you prefer.
 Place ½ cup (125 g) of blueberry yogurt in one medium bowl and ½ cup (125 g) of vanilla yogurt in a separate bowl. Next, add a 2 ½ cups (312 g) of powdered sugar to each bowl, and mix until it’s fully incorporated into each yogurt flavor.You can use any flavors of yogurt that you like for the pretzels. If you prefer, you can also use 1 full cup (250 g) of a single flavor of yogurt and mix all of the powdered sugar into it.
 When the powdered sugar is fully mixed into each flavor of yogurt, add half of the melted white chocolate to the blueberry yogurt mixture and the other half to the vanilla yogurt mixture. Stir well until the white chocolate is fully incorporated into each mixture., When each flavor of the yogurt mixture is fully blended, coat 1 16 ounce (454 g) bag of miniature pretzels in the two flavors. Use a pair of tongs to dip the pretzels and lif them to set them on the cooling rack to dry.You can coat half of the pretzels in the blueberry flavored yogurt mixture and the other half in the vanilla, or break the flavors up to have more of your favorite.
 Once all of the pretzels are coated, shut off your oven. Set the baking sheet with the pretzels inside, and leave the door slightly open. Allow the pretzels to set for 3 to 4 hours before serving them.Store your leftover pretzels in an airtight container. They should stay fresh for 2 to 3 days.

