 Having some nice workout clothes can be a factor in your exercise motivation. Being comfortable and feeling happy with your appearance when working out is one barrier that can be overcome. Having good workout clothes can also help you identify yourself as someone who exercises.


Have enough clothes that you can exercise daily and don’t have to resort to quick hand washing in the sink., Once you have some workout clothes and sneakers, be sure you don’t hide them away in a cupboard where they are out of sight and out of mind. Leave them somewhere visible so you have frequent visual cues and reminders to exercise.


You can also leave some exercise gear, such as dumbbells or a balance ball, in a prominent place.
For example, you could put a pair of dumbbells by the sofa, and then when you sit down to watch TV you can prompt yourself to stand up and do some curls.Leaving your gear around will help you keep exercise in mind, and help you to come to identify yourself as an active person.
 Music can be a good motivating tool to get you moving and keep you moving. The type of music can be anything that inspires you or gives you a buzz and some energy. Listening to uplifting music before and during exercise can really help.Getting a portable music player can be a good way to keep you motivated if you’re out for a run or are working out in the gym.


Music can also help keep you focused and in the zone by blocking out distractions.
Choosing upbeat songs can give you subconscious encouragement to keep your pace up with the music.
 Gadgets that track your exercise habits and physical activity are becoming more and more popular. If you’re the sort of person who likes to monitor progress and be able to quantify what you are doing, a monitoring fitness gadget could be perfect for you. Something as simple as a pedometer can help you see how much or how little you walk in a day.


Research suggests that people who wore pedometers tended to walk a thousand steps a day more than when they weren’t wearing them.You can also get simple apps on your smartphone that will help you monitor yourself and keep track of how much exercise you get.

