 Speakers draw power, and some stereos may not be able to handle too much extra draw. Refer to your stereo's documentation when installing new speakers, especially if you are adding additional speakers or replacing existing speakers with high-power replacements., Some speakers are designed to fit into existing speaker locations, while other will require modifications such as cutting away the panel or installing mounting brackets. Take all of this into consideration when choosing speakers to install.
 The tools you need will vary wildly from car to car. The location of the speaker you are installing will also have an impact on the tools you need. In general, however, you will probably need the following:A variety of screwdrivers. Phillips, flat head, offset, and more.
Torx driver
Drill and bits
Allen wrenches
Wire cutter/stripper
Soldering iron
Crimping tool
Panel removal tool
Electrical tape

, Before working on anything electrical in your car, it is always recommended that you disconnect the power. Locate your battery and find the appropriate socket wrench that fits the lug on the battery terminals. Disconnect negative (black) terminal and move the cable gently to the side.


See this guide for detailed instructions on disconnecting a car battery.
 There are too many different possibilities to be covered effectively in this guide. For specific instructions for your speakers, refer to the included documentation or look up the manual on the manufacturer's website. Always defer to the manufacturer's instructions.
 These can usually be pried off, though there may be screws to remove. If you are doing this on the front of the dash under the windshield, you may need an offset screwdriver.
 Speakers are usually screwed into the panel, so remove all the screws before trying to pull the speaker out. Take care not to rip out the wiring harness that is usually present. The speaker may be glued to the enclosure, so you may have to pry it off.


Unclip the speaker from the wiring harness after removing it from the panel. You will be plugging your new speaker into this harness. If there is no harness, you will need to cut the wires.
 Sometimes the speaker you are inserting will not fit exactly into the existing enclosure. If this is the case, use your drill to cut out enough space for the speaker. Make sure to measure the new speaker and mark the enclosure so that you don't cut away too much.
 Most speakers simply clip into the existing wiring harness. If you don't have a wiring harness, you will need to solder the new speaker to the existing speaker wire. Make sure that the positive and negative wires are properly connected. The positive terminal on the back of the speaker is usually larger than the negative one.


Avoid using electrical tape to hold bare wire together, as it will likely warp and lead to a bad connection down the road.
 Before mounting the speaker, reconnect your car battery and then test the speaker. Make sure that the sound coming out isn't distorted, and that the speaker is visibly moving at higher volumes. You'll want to ensure that it is properly wired before you finish the mounting process.
 After confirming that the speaker is working properly, mount the speaker using any included mounting brackets and screws. You may want to use an adhesive to help keep it in place. make sure that the speaker is secure so that it doesn't rattle and create excess noise.

