 If you are choosing your leather based on a certain type of real leather, then try to decide the color scheme and pattern you would like. Research examples of names, colors, and patterns.Faux leather fabric is available in styles that mimic a number of animal hides, such as ostrich, reptile, calf, bison, gator, or pigskin.
Patterns, such as tooling, are common to faux leather fabric. Choose floral designs, paisley designs, cowboy motifs, symbol designs or a woven look as alternative textures.
Faux leather also comes in a few different finishes. You can choose shiny, pearl or metallic finishes. Micro-suede is a type of faux leather that is prized for its finish.
 Before you purchase faux leather, you will need figure out exactly how much you will need. This will enable you to accurately price your project in advance. An average sofa will require around 16 yards (15 m), while a typical loveseat will need approximately 11.


As a precaution, always purchase just a little bit more than the minimum needed. , Depending on the particular store, craft or fabric store may have anywhere from 5 to 20 different faux leather options, available by the yard. A craft or fabric store is the best choice if you want to touch and examine faux leather options before buying. Shop around at a few different stores to find the best product and price.
 Shopping online will give you the widest variety of options in terms of both selection and quantity. The major disadvantage of buying online is that you cannot actually see or touch the product. Additionally, depending on the size of your order, the shipping costs may be high.


An online upholstery fabric outlet will have large quantities of upholstery fabric in different colors, patterns, and finishes.
Search for eco-friendly faux leather options.
 If you are an interior decorator or designer, you may qualify for discounts from certain retailers. Attend an interior designers conference or search for online retailers that offer discounts for designers. Speak to other designers to ascertain tips and industry bargains.