 You'll want to make sure you are documenting anything that concerns you about the teachers behavior or classroom policies so that you have an accurate account you can present to an outside party if need be. Don't just rely on memory. Write down dates, specific incidents, parties involved etc. Be thorough.
 Hopefully, your parents will be able to reassure you and help you come up with a plan to solve the problem on your own. If not your parents may need to set up a meeting with the teacher.Make sure your parents don’t go into the meeting angry.
You and your parents can decide if you need to be present for this meeting.
Ask your parents to call up a classmate’s parents to see if they are having similar trouble with the teacher.
 Some difficult teachers are trying to gain authority over the class. Asking them for advice shows that you see them as a respected authority figure."What types of things do you look for when grading homework assignments?"
"I'm really enjoying your class, I just want to make sure I'm getting the most out of it."
See if they offer extra credit opportunities.
Ask if they have suggestions for the best way to study for an upcoming test.
"Are there any supplemental texts you would suggest I take a look at to further my understanding of some of the material?"

, If you continue to feel unfairly treated by your teacher then you should take your concerns higher up. Ask for a meeting with the vice principle or Dean.Try to separate the person from the issue. Don’t say I’m having trouble with Mr. A. Say you are having trouble in Mr. A’s class.
Avoid using derogatory language about the teacher.
Write a list of your concerns before the meeting.
Express your concerns in a clear and calm voice.
 Before you take the problem to an outside source, see if you can work it out one on one with the teacher. It is possible they aren’t aware you feel treated unfairly.


Choose an appropriate time to talk with your teacher. Either after class or at the beginning or end of the school day.
Don’t be aggressive or rude.
Tell them how you feel. "I'm sure it's not intentional, but sometimes I feel singled out in class in a way that makes me uncomfortable."
Be open minded to the teacher’s point of view. "I understand you have reasons for the way you do things."
If you find yourself getting upset, walk away until you have calmed down. "Do you mind if we take a break from our conversation? I'm feeling very overwhelmed and I need a minute to gather my thoughts."

