 top loin steak. This is probably the best value for the type and quality of meat it is. This type of meat will run about $1.50 or $2.00 a pound.;
, These vegetables will run you about a dollar, max.
 Begin by boiling two pots of water and pour one sliced potato into the boiling water. One bag of potatoes runs around $3.00, so one potato will cost about 25 cents, which is cheap for something that is really tasteful and filling.


You can use half of a red and half of a russet potato to create a better texture for the final product.

Allow it to boil and turn it down to simmer for 20 minutes.
Poke it with a fork to ensure it's done boiling--if the fork goes through easily then it's time to take it out!
Drain the potato and add in milk, butter, salt and pepper. You can now begin to mash them!



,,,


Don't leave the vegetables in for longer than eight minutes if you want to avoid the vegetables from becoming too mushy. The longer you boil the vegetables, the softer they will be.


Take a little salt and pepper and sprinkle it onto the steak.






Rub it into the meat to ensure better flavor. You can then flip the steak over and do the same thing to the other side.
 Then set your heat to high. The best way to cook steak is to sear it and seal in that flavor because you want all of the juices to stay in there. If you flip it more than once than all of the juice will come out and it will end up being a really dry steak.
 When the oil beings to pop it means it's time to put your steak on the pan. You'll be able to hear it sizzle.


To handle your meat, use a pair of tongs because if you pierce it with a fork the juices will be able to escape. One of the best tips to making a good steak is to keep all of the flavors locked in.



The best way to know how firm your steak should be is to touch your index finger and thumb together and to feel the firmness of your thumb mussel (right below your thumb). This would be the firmness needed for a rare steak.






Touch your thumb to your middle finger and test out the firmness of your thumb muscle to determine what a medium-rare steak should feel like.






Now touch your thumb to your ring finger and that's a medium steak.






If you put your thumb to your pinky finger you'll feel how a well-done steak should feel like.
 Don't give in to the alluring temptation and take it off too soon--allow the juices to sizzle and give the meat more flavor.
 Try a little bit of garlic powder, onion powder, and/or crushed red chilli

