 Acute back pain normally clears up on its own. But consider contacting your doctor if your back pain is severe or doesn’t get better with normal rest and at-home treatment, which indicates a chronic condition. Also, make an appointment if the pain spreads down one or both legs and past the knees, or causes weakness, loss of control, or tingling in the legs.Back pain usually resolves itself within two weeks or less with rest and home treatment. If not, or if your pain is severe, see a doctor.
If the back pain is new, try to continue your daily activities as best you can. You can also use cold compresses – like a package of frozen vegetables – or over-the-counter pain relievers like Ibuprofen.
Seek medical help immediately if your back pain ever causes bladder or bowel problems, is accompanied by a fever, or is the result of a fall or other traumatic event.
Also, consider making an appointment if you start to have back pain after age 50 or if you have a history of cancer, osteoporosis, or drug and alcohol abuse.
 Your doctor will want to do her own diagnosis and will need to ask you a series of questions about the pain. After doing a self-assessment, you should be prepared to share your past medical history, the source and kind of pain, and other information. This can be critical to a correct diagnosis.Write down personal information in advance, like physical and emotional stresses in your life. Also note other medical conditions for which you’re being treated, names and dosages of medicines you’re taking, and any recent injuries to your back.
Expect questions from your doctor like, “When did the pain begin? Where is it centered? Do you have any other symptoms? Is the pain constant? Does it affect your everyday functioning? How do you rate the pain on a scale of one to 10? Do you do heavy physical work? What other kinds of activities do you do?”
The doctor may examine your back and your ability to sit, stand, bend over, walk, or lift your legs.
 During your appointment, feel free to ask the doctor questions about your back pain. Doing so will help you to understand the underlying issues but also to ease any anxieties you may have. You need to be informed about your body – consider it a right.Ask questions like, “What is the most likely cause of my back pain? What started it? What can I do to prevent a recurrence?”
Make sure that you understand the diagnosis. For example, if the doctor tells you that your back pain is likely from sciatica, ask her to explain what this condition means, how it occurs, and what the possible causes and solutions are.
Inquire what sort of diagnostic tests you’ll need, if any. If it helps, also write down your questions before you go to the appointment.

