 To prepare the squash for the salad, you’ll need to roast it. Set the oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (220 degrees Celsius) to preheat it and ensure that it will be hot enough.Keep an eye on the oven so you know when it’s fully preheated. It will likely beep or flash a light to alert you.
 Place ½ an acorn squash and ½ a small butternut squash that have both been chopped on a foil-lined baking sheet. Drizzle 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive or vegetable oil over them, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Roast the squash in the oven until it’s tender, which should take approximately 20 to 25 minutes.When you chop the acorn squash, cut it into ¾-inch (1.9-cm) pieces. Cut the butternut squash into ½-inch (1.3-cm) pieces.
After you take the squash out of the oven, be sure to let it cool completely before mixing it into the salad.
 In a small jar, combine ½ cup (118 ml) of vegetable oil, ⅓ cup (79 ml) of spiced apple cider, and 2 teaspoons (10 g) of dijon mustard. Season the mixture with salt and pepper to taste before putting the lid on the jar and shaking well to combine the dressing.After you mix the dressing, taste it to see if you like the flavor. Add more salt, pepper, and/or apple cider if necessary.
If you don’t have a jar with a lid, you can mix all of the dressing ingredients in a bowl with a spoon.
 Add 6 cups (450 g) of mixed salad greens to a large bowl. Next, carefully arrange 4 slices of chopped bacon, 3 sliced, hard boiled eggs, 1 chopped, baked chicken breast, 1 chopped celery stalk, 1 thinly sliced avocado, 1 thinly sliced apple, ¾ cup (75 g) of chopped white cheddar cheese, 1 cup (125 g) of candied walnuts, and ½ cup (60 g) of dried cherries in rows over the greens.You can use any mixed greens that you like, but romaine, arugula, and radicchio are good options.
Any apple will work in the salad, but Gala or honeycrisp are especially tasty.
You can make your own candied walnuts or purchase them at the grocery store. They’re often sold as glazed walnuts.
 After you’ve arranged the ingredients over the greens, pour the dressing over them. Distribute it as evenly as possible across salad. Divide the salad among bowls, and serve immediately.The recipe makes approximately 2 to 4 servings.

