 If your curious how will you know when your pet is hungry or if you want to see how much health your pet has and such, just look at the rectangular box on the left side of your screen. Here is an image of what it should look like.;
, If you just started playing Neopets, you should be eligible to get a "Newbie Pack", there's a link to get your Newbie Pack on that page if you haven't got your Newbie pack yet. The Newbie Pack includes some basic color Paint Brushes (you cannot trade or sell these Paint Brushes), and Potatoes.There are two ways to get to your inventory.


If you're on the Neopets homepage, hover over the image "shops" and click Neopia Central. Now, you will see a bunch of links. Click the link that says "Inventory".






Another way to do this is to look on the top right corner and click on your Neopoints. Now, you should be on a page where it says "Your Items" (it's written in bold).
 So now you know where to look when you want to go to your inventory. You can feed your Neopet from your inventory, If you have food, that is. The Newbie Pack also comes with some Potatoes, which you can feed to your Neopet (if your pet isn't stuffed already!) So, once you got your Newbie Pack, go ahead and try to feed your Neopet by clicking on the picture of the food you want to feed it. . You can buy fish very inexpensively and many pets will be glad to eat these.
 You may be wondering, how in the world do I entertain my Neopet? Well, there's many, many ways to keep your Neopet busy! Here are some things you may consider for your Neopet:


Get a Petpet - I prefer getting your little friend a Petpet because first of all...Petpets will FOR SURE keep your Neopets entertained! Plus, with a Petpet you get to go to the Symol hole, and if your looking for a Petpet you can just use the Shop Wizard or simply look on trades for one.







Get a toy, or toys Get a bunch, or just one toy! Toys are the best things to keep your Neopet busy, but be careful, some Neopets don't like certain kinds of toys! So I recommend you should try not getting expensive toys for your Neopet unless you know for SURE that your Neopet will like the toy, and is not scared of it!







Go on Tours Yes! You can even take your Neopet on a tour! The most famous, popular tour around is the "Tiki Tour". To go on a Tiki Tour, go to Mystery Island! It only costs 50 NP (neopoints) to go on a tour (and plus, you get an avatar at the end of the tour too!) so it's worth to go on one! Plus, your Neopet will just LOVE seeing the fabulous views of Mystery Island.
