 In order to have access to each part of their coat, you’ll need to put your Labradoodle in a secure area either on the floor or on a grooming table. If they are unable to stay still during the grooming process, enlist the help of another person to hold them still while you’re working. Fleece coats are much easier to take care of than a wool coat, especially when the fleece coat is wavy rather than curled.Remove their collar and any other accessories before you begin.;
, For brushing, you’ll want to work in sections starting at the head and moving down the body. Part the hair at the skin and work on one individual section at a time. It is better to work in small sections at first, especially if you are not accustomed to grooming at home. , Slicker brushes have fine wire bristles that will help to remove mats and tangles from your Labradoodle’s thick fleece coat. As you’re brushing, you want to make sure that you are brushing the hair all the way down to the skin. Many people only brush the surface of the coat and leave mats to form close to the skin.


If you are unable to brush out any small or large mats, you will need to shave the hair right to the skin. A professional groomer may be able to get the mat out without cutting the hair, so it can be worth going in for a consultation.
 While mats can occur anywhere on your dog’s coat, they tend to occur on the chest, neck, armpits, and behind and under the ears. Spend a little extra time brushing these sections with the slicker brush to ensure that no mats have formed., For general maintenance, you’ll need to brush their coats once a week to prevent matting and tangles. Each time you brush their coats, look out for any skin irritation. If you see any redness, flakiness, scabbing or unusual skin texture you may need to consult your veterinarian.By brushing frequently, your dog will become accustomed to the process and you’ll be able to identify any skin problems early on.
 Mats occur when the hair close to the skin becomes extremely knotted and tangled. The best way to deal with mats, if they aren't too large or too tightly knotted, is to try to untangle them using your fingers. After you've broken apart some of the larger knots, use a comb to try to untangle the smaller knots. If you're able to, try to hold the fur closest to the skin so there is less pulling, which can be painful for your dog. Large mats may need to be cut out. In more extreme cases of matted fur, your dog's coat may need to be shaved.Regular brushing is the best way to prevent mats from forming.

