 Think about the storage system you are using right now and decide whether or not you need a new way of storing your makeup. You will be surprised how just getting different containers can make your collection much more manageable.It could be that you have an adequate storage system, but you need to find a better way to categorize and organize the makeup you have. If this is true, you do not need to buy any additional storage.
Often times, a disorganized collection can be the result of an inadequate storage system. Your storage container or containers may be too small for your collection, or their compartments may not be the right sizes for your makeup items. In this case, you will want to get new makeup storage.;
, You don’t necessarily have to buy new makeup storage. You can find containers around your home that can act as excellent storage for your makeup. Bring all of these over to your makeup. If you end up not using them, you can put them back.Clear mason jars are great containers to hold items like makeup brushes.
Spice racks can be great makeup organizers, because they can display your makeup in tiers so that you can see all of your products clearly.
Ice cube trays are great organizational systems for small compact makeup items such as individual eye shadows.
Silverware drawer organizers are also great for storing makeup because they have multiple compartments.
If you can afford it, go to your dollar store to get a tray with dividers.
 If you don’t have a good enough makeup storage system at your home, you will need to buy some containers. Before going out to purchase them, take a picture of your makeup, and of the separate categories you have created. Write down the specific categories of makeup that you don’t have room for.


For instance, if you don't have enough room for lipstick, write down "Lipstick" and take a picture so you can remember about how much you have.
 There are containers and displays made specifically for storing makeup. These containers have compartments that are sized specifically for makeup products and are clear so you can easily see your makeup. You can buy these containers at stores like The Container Store, as well as at stores like Target or Walmart., If you need storage for your blushes and powder, don’t buy a container meant to store small items like eye shadows or lipsticks. Refer to the pictures that you took of your makeup. See what items you need to store, and then find containers that are built for these items.Containers with deep, narrow compartments are best for lipsticks and eyeliners so the product can stand upright.
Wide, shallow containers are good for items like blush, bronzer or powders.
Small, shallow containers are well suited for individual eyeliners.
You can often find acrylic organizers that have a variety of compartments meant for different makeup items.
 You want to be sure that the makeup organizer you are buying not only has enough space for the products you have now, but will fit products you buy in the future. This way you can avoid more organizational problems down the road.
 If you have a lot of loose eye shadow pans, buy a magnetic makeup palette like a Z palette. Glue magnets to the back of your eyeshadow pans, then put them in the palette. This is a great way of consolidating your eyeshadows.If you have eye shadows that are still in their little pod packaging, you can pry the flat circular pan of the eyeshadow out of the packaging and put them in the magnetic palette.
Take a sharp object like tweezers or a thin spatula to pry the pan out of the packaging. Then you can glue a magnet to the back and put it in the palette., If you are a professional makeup artist, you probably have a huge collection. Buy a makeup trunk at a beauty supply store that will fit your entire collection. This will give you a way to easily transport your makeup to your different appointments.
 Your new makeup organizers may take up more space than your system before. Clear out enough space on whatever surface you use to display your makeup to comfortably fit all of your makeup organizers and containers. A crammed, crowded space can make your collection look disorderly and unorganized.
 This will help you transfer items into the containers. Place makeup items into containers. Put your brushes in the cup/can (bristles facing upward) and then divide your makeup into sections.Doing the dividing will help you not have to dig through things. Also, you can put hair ties in other sections if wanted. Also pins, clips ties ect.

Put foundations, powders, and concealers in one section. That way, you will have them at hand without having to dig through your makeup.
Put mascaras and eyeliners in another section. This will help tremendously because you will have all products in one place.
Put lip products in one section. It's good to have all of these products separated so you don't have to dig around or if you leave a product open, it won't get on another.
Put eye pallets in another section. If you have any other products that I have not mentioned, divide them up and put them into sections also.

