 Most of us find it easier to avoid sugar when we're full and satisfied. Eating a well-balanced diet helps drown out our need for sugar.


Eat a colorful variety of fruits and vegetables. Focus on getting in the recommended daily minimum of five servings, and focus on deeply colored options like kale, broccoli, berries, and apples. These tend to be packed with vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. Avoid starchier veggies, like potatoes.
Do not be afraid of fruit. Natural fruit is high in fiber, vitamins and minerals. While fruit is sweet, this is natural sugar and most people tolerate it well without any issue.
Go for healthy carbs, with the previously discussed low glycemic index. Whole grains, such as whole wheat pasta, whole grain bread, and brown rice are a good option.
Enjoy healthy fats. Not all fat is bad. In fact, we need a certain amount of fat in our diet to nourish our brain, heart, and cells. Healthy fats include monounsaturated fats, found in olive, canola and peanut oils as well as nuts and seeds, and polyunsaturated fats such as those found in fatty fish like salmon, herring, and sardines.Healthy protein, such as cheese, fish, poultry, beans, and nuts. Red meat and processed meats should be avoided. Most Americans actually overestimate the amount of protein they need. Adults should aim for only .8g, or 2.2 pounds, of lean, high-quality protein a day. , While the metabolic effects of eating throughout the day are still debated, there are other benefits to the practice. When we eat more often, we feel less hungry and are less likely to overeat or make poor eating choices. After 3 hours without food, blood sugar begins to fall and by the 5-hour mark it plummets. This leads to poor eating habits, as people grab whatever's available to refuel fast and often opt for fast food or other convenient junk food., After a 7-8 hour fast, our bodies need something to refuel in the morning. Skipping breakfast has a similar effect to waiting too long between meals. It makes us far more likely to overindulge later on. What we eat for breakfast is important.


Be careful with breakfast cereals as these are often high in sugar, some of them nearly 37% sugar. It's not just the obvious brands, like Lucky Charms and Fruit Loops. Honey Nut Cheerios and Honey Bunches of Oats are also sugar-heavy. Try whole wheat cereals instead or opt for porridge or oatmeal.Many convenient instant breakfast or breakfast-to-go options, like breakfast bars, instant oatmeal, and breakfast pastries, are loaded with added sugar. If you're in a rush, it's better to grab a piece of fruit or a cup of natural yogurt instead.