 When you're making your own stickers, the sky is the limit in terms of design. Use whatever drawing materials you want: colored pencils, markers, pastels, crayons, anything. Make sure the markers, pastels, or other drawing utensil are not washable.Draw the sticker designs on a thin piece of paper, such as loose leaf paper or paper from a notepad. Consider these creative options when you're thinking up sticker designs:



Draw a self-portrait, or portraits of your friends or pets.
Cut out neat pictures and words from magazines and newspapers.
Print out pictures you find online, or pictures you've uploaded to your computer. Print them on thin computer paper, rather than photo paper, for best results.
Use sticker sheets you find online with premade stickers you can print out.
Make pictures using rubber stamps.
Decorate the picture with glitter.;
, Use scissors to cut out the designs you drew or printed. Make the stickers as large or as small as you like. For fun edges, use scrapbook scissors that cut in fun designs.









Try using a paper puncher to make heart, star, and other shaped stickers from patterned paper.
 This glue is safe for kids to use as they brush and lick the stickers. It acts as an adhesive that will bind the stickers to most surfaces but doesn't include harsh chemicals.To make it, mix the following ingredients in a bowl until they are thoroughly combined:









An envelope of plain gelatin
4 tablespoons boiling water
1 teaspoon sugar or corn syrup
A few drops of peppermint extract or vanilla, for flavoring.Use different kinds of extract for fun flavors! Apply different flavors to different kinds of stickers, make stickers for your friends with surprise flavors, or use certain holiday-themed flavors for Christmas, Valentine's Day, or Easter.
When you are finished with the glue, store it in a pill bottle or airtight container in the refrigerator. The glue will gel overnight. To liquefy it, place the container in a bowl of hot water.This glue can also be used to seal envelopes, too.
 Turn the stickers upside down on a sheet of waxed paper or aluminum foil. Use a paint brush or a pastry brush to paint the backs of the stickers with the glue mixture. When you're finished, let the mixture dry completely.









There's no need to soak the stickers completely with the adhesive; just brush on a light coating.
Make sure the stickers are completely dry before you use them.
Store your stickers in a plastic bag or a box until you are ready to use them.
 When you're ready to stick the stickers to various surfaces, simply lick the back, like you would a stamp, and press them down against the surface for a moment. The homemade glue is quite strong, so be careful where you stick them.








