 Children often mirror the same behaviors they see in their own parents. If you blow up, stomp, hit, or react inappropriately to a situation that angers or frustrates you, your child will likely do the same. Look at your child the next time he gets upset and determine if you react in the same way.


After you have an episode, write down how you behaved. Pay attention to the way your child reacts the next time they are upset and consult your list to see if they behave the same way you did. If so, you likely know why your child acts the way they do., If you yell at a child who is angry, you’re only going to make the situation worse. Instead, take a deep breath and think about what may really get them to calm down. The way you behave to their anger will teach them how to respond.


Ask yourself how you can calm your child down while still displaying the values and behaviors that you hold dear and want to instill. Screaming at or spanking your child probably isn’t what you want. So, take a moment and try to keep your cool while dealing with your child. This peaceful and calm behavior may eventually cause them to change theirs and act more like you., All too often parents tend to focus on what the child does wrong, instead of paying attention to what they do right. By only pointing out their flaws, your child may not know when they react appropriately. Pointing this out shows them this is the behavior you are looking for.


If you notice that your child doesn’t yell when they are upset, tell them how proud you are that they were able to control their emotions. Over time, they will crave this praise and continue to express behavior that you find pleasing., No one ever said parenting was easy. This is especially the case when you have an angry child. In order to be the best parent you can be, you need to find ways that recharge you and allow you to take care of yourself.


Exercise, meditation, yoga, or even getting a break once a week from your child may be all it takes for you to be able to relax and find your inner peace. If you find it hard to find family or friends to watch your child so that you can take this time to yourself, consider hiring a babysitter. The money you spend will be well worth it to both you and your child.