 If you're entering a cave that is right next to your main house/shelter, then obviously you won't really need a base. However, when you're exploring a cave or ravine a distance away from your home, you should always build a base. There's no need to make it fancy; a small cobblestone or dirt room will do. Your base should be on the surface (not underground) or at least not very far underground (for example, just inside the cave would be perfectly fine). It should be easily accessible from both above ground and inside the cave or ravine, and ideally it should be near a source of wood. This way, you can easily stop mining to go to your base, so that you can refresh your supplies and gather more wood for torches, tools, etc. You'll need a furnace, crafting table, at least one double chest, and preferably a bed.;
, In a cave or ravine, you could find yourself in many situations - you have no idea how large the cave system will be, what you'll find inside, or how many monsters you'll have to fight. Don't be afraid to spend several in-game days gathering tools and materials to take with you. Below is a list of items you should take.


At least two full stacks of torches - You can truly never have enough torches!
At least 4-5 pickaxes - Wood is useless, and while gold mines blocks faster than any other type of pickaxe, it doesn't last long. You should use iron if it's available, but if not, stone works, and of course, always use diamond pickaxes whenever you can.
1-2 shovels - Digging through dirt/sand/gravel/etc. with a pickaxe will wear down your pickaxe faster and is less efficient, so you should bring along at least one shovel. If you have an iron (or diamond) shovel, one should be enough, but if you have to resort to stone, you should probably bring along an extra.
At least 50 ladders - It's a really good idea to bring along some ladders, especially if you're entering a ravine. Many caves have ledges you won't want to jump off of, and a ravine is going to be very deep and have lots of long drops.
Around 30-40 blocks of dirt or cobblestone - Small gaps can easily be crossed with a small bridge of dirt or cobble, and if you have to cross a pool of lava, you're going to need something that won't burn up. You shouldn't worry too much about bringing a large amount of dirt/cobblestone, though, because you'll have easy access to lots of cobblestone when you're underground.
2-3 swords - Stone is okay, but iron or diamond is ideal. There will likely be many zombies and skeletons, and probably some creepers, so you want to arm yourself properly.
Armor - A full set of leather armor would work fine, and so would even just boots and a helm made out of iron. You don't need much, but let's face it - no one can detect every creeper before it's too late. With a good set of armor, you'll be a bit better protected.
A bed - If you're playing with someone else, you should take a bed along so that you can hide out in a little hole or walled-off section of the cave so the other player can skip to daytime when they need to.
At least 1 bucket of water - If you're careful, you won't need to use this, but many cave systems have lava, and you can put out flames with water if you do catch on fire.
A bow and as many arrows as you can get - Use your bow against creepers and other enemies as you see fit.
At least 8 steaks/porkchops/bread/etc. - Food is essential for mining. You need your health to regenerate, because even when you're leaving the cave, you won't last long if you've only got a few hearts left and your hunger bar is low.
A crafting table - You can do without this if you built a base, since you can make torches without a table and you should have brought lots of tools. If you do choose to bring one along, you can restock your pickaxe/sword/shovel supply from inside the cave, and you can also make a furnace or a chest to store items. If you don't, you can always go back to your base.
 When you're in a cave, it's easy to lose direction.


A really excellent, simple way to keep from getting lost underground is to only place torches on one side of you. For example, if you're right-handed, only place torches on your right - you'll be able to remember that it's your right because you should be able to remember that you're right-handed. When you want to go deeper, keep the torches on the side that you're placing them on. When you want to return to the surface, keep them on your other side. It's really easy to do and it's quite efficient.
Try to remember where you've been and where you are. If you forget which passage leads where, or where you have already explored, it's easy to get lost.

Always place torches and keep the cave well-lit. If you don't, you will not only miss iron/coal/etc., but you will also lose track of which areas you've already seen.
 After a while of playing Minecraft, you should be able to easily distinguish the sounds made by various monsters - zombies moan, skeletons rattle, spiders have a sharp hiss, etc. In a cave, you'll need these sounds to warn you of enemies. Use your senses to your advantage. Of course, you won't be able to detect creepers unless you see them - you'll just hear the "tsss" sound as they explode behind you. However, this sound gives you a split second to leap away and take a bit less damage.
 Lava is extremely dangerous, and burns your items when you die; water gets in your way and hides valuable ores from you when it flows across the cavern floor. Fill any buckets you need to, then block the water/lava source block with cobblestone or dirt.
 If you don't have enough torches to see where you're going or if you only have one pickaxe that's about to break, or you're out of swords, go back to your base and restock your supplies. This should be easy if you use the trick about keeping torches on one side of you, and you'll have a chance to put valuable items in a chest and go back with room for more in your inventory.

