 Keep countertops clean to protect them from stains. Stains, buildup and dullness will result on the surface of your wood countertop if it is not cleaned regularly.


Remove any spills and debris before a stain has opportunity to set in by cleaning the area quickly.
Wash the wood with soap and warm water.
Rub lemon juice onto stains. Add abrasion to the surface to increase the cleaning power by sprinkling a little salt on with the lemon juice.
Mix 1 tablespoon hydrogen peroxide into 1 cup warm water. Pour some of the solution onto a stain. Wait a few minutes. Rub the area with a cloth.
Use wood bleach or oxalic acid on the stain. Rinse the area with water to remove any residual chemicals.
Sand wood countertops to restore a fresh surface. First use 120 grit sandpaper to remove the stain. Then switch to 180 grit sandpaper to smooth the surface.
Do not use vinegar to clean a wood countertop unless the wood has been sealed. Vinegar can dissolve the glue that binds the wood together and can leave the wood pithy or splintered because it eats away at the wood's density.;
,


Pour a generous amount of warm mineral oil onto the countertop. Oils help prevent warping and cracking. The wood will only accept the amount of oil it needs, so do not fret about applying too much.
Make sure any oil you use is food-grade. Cooking oils should not be used. They will turn rancid with time and exposure to air, giving off a foul odor.
Use a rag to rub the oil into the wood.
Apply oils with the grain of the wood.
Allow the oil to soak into the wood 20 to 30 minutes.
Wipe the surface with a cloth or paper towel to remove any excess oil.
 The wax fills in any open pores and small cracks or abrasions.


Melt paraffin wax or beeswax in the microwave, and add it to mineral oil at a 1:4 ratio.
Apply this mixture to the wood while the wax is still warm. Spread it over the surface with a cloth.
Allow the surface to cool and dry, and rub the cloth over it again to polish the surface.
Reapply wax once a month to maintain the surface.
 If left standing on the countertop, water can damage the wood. Other liquids and foods can stain the wood.


Apply coats of polyurethane to the countertop surface. A sealed surface makes the countertop easy to clean but is not recommended for cutting surfaces.
Select a urethane that is FDA approved to ensure the substance is safe to be in contact with your food.
Apply at least 3 coats to get a good, solid coating.
, Wood kills a lot of bacteria so it is naturally a good choice for countertop material. Countertops are made from hard woods that do not allow for bacteria penetration. You should, however, clean your countertop with an all purpose cleaner to remove any surface bacteria.
 On occasion, hairline and a little larger cracks can occur in a wood countertop. These are quite normal and do not mean that you have a defective countertop. You should clean any cracked countertops often and apply a finish over the countertop as soon as possible to seal cracks.
 Some warping is normal for a wood countertop since wood is a material that is responsive to changes in humidity. Under normal and suggested conditions, your wood countertop will not warp to the extent that it will render the countertop unusable.


Keep humidity at a fairly consistent level, avoiding drastic fluctuations, by regulating your heater, air conditioner, humidifier or dehumidifier.

