 Temporarily dye your hair blonde in case you don't end up liking the color. If you permanently dye your hair blonde, you won't be able to change it! Curl your hair with a good curling iron or wand to get Mackenzie's waves. However, for natural waves, sleep in with a tight French braid overnight, and in the morning, you'll have natural waves when you take out the braid. You don't have to curl your hair every day, though. In fact, in the books, Mackenzie styles her hair a variety of ways!

Style your hair nicely, but not too fancily. Make sure to brush it in the morning, and maybe take a brush to school if you need to. Pinterest has lots of good hairstyle ideas, but here are a few.

Simple braid(s)
French braid(s)
Dutch braid(s)
High/Low/Side ponytails

Fishtail Braid(s) (might fall out or get too loose during the day, so be careful)

Simple Bun(s) (can be difficult and might fall out during the day)
Half up/Half down
Experiment with the place you part your hair
Curled/Straightened
Wavy high ponytail



, If you don't want to do that because of the cost of eye contacts, you can skip this step.
 It is stated in the books that Mackenzie always bats her long lashes. However, refrain from curling your eyelashes too often, since it can be harmful to them! Instead, stick to wearing fake lashes or using volumizing mascara that will help thicken your eyelashes and increase their length.
 To ensure you get the good, natural results you desire, be sure you have purchased makeup that perfectly matches your skin tone. (Even if you think no one will notice, a wrong color will stand out more than you think!) Wear a little bit of eyeliner, mascara, and―most importantly―Brand lip gloss. Mackenzie is completely obsessed with lip gloss and always wears it.


Be sure to wear colors that complement your face. Don't wear colors that look bad on you, even if Mackenzie wears them.
 It's best to save your money for other items you might want in the future instead of spending it all just to be like Mackenzie.
 Some brands that Mackenzie wears are "Juicy Couture", "Vera Bradley", "Jimmy Choo", and "Prada". Wear pink clothing, and make sure they don't have any designs on them (like a plain pink blouse).


Remember that Mackenzie loves fashion. She drew fashion illustrations and entered them in her school's Avant-Garde Art Competition. She also did a Fashion Column for her school newspaper. Consider becoming a Fashion Expert.
If you are unable to go shopping or don't have enough money to purchase designer brands, you could ask someone you know if they have any designer clothes that they cannot fit in or don't want anymore.
You don't need to buy a lot of designer clothes if you can't afford or find any. Clothes that look good on you and match other things you have are just as good.
Consider buying a small Vera Bradley cross-body bag. They are not too expensive, and people will easily recognize it as a Vera Bradley product.
Other brands you could purchase items from are "Michael Kors", "Neiman Marcus", "Burberry", "Fendi", "Tom Ford", "Yves Saint Laurent", "Coach", "Guess", "Louis Vuitton", "Kate Spade", and "Gucci".

"Tommy Hilfiger", and "Ralph Lauren" are other brands you could wear.
 You really only need one or two, and they do not have to be a designer handbag. It is a good idea to purchase a plain black one first. If you have enough money and confidence, you can move on to more colorful ones.


Buying a Vera Bradley crossbody bag is a good idea. They are relatively cheap and colorful, and they stand out. Everyone will notice it and know that you are wearing a Vera Bradley bag.
Obviously, if you are not allowed to bring bags to school, do not bring them.

