 The Siberian Husky, although generally child-friendly, needs to have social boundaries – no jumping, grabbing, chasing, bolting, or pulling – established. Children should follow similar boundaries – no teasing; roughing; chasing; pulling hair, tail, or ears; or tug-of-war. Children should help train your husky under adult supervision so that the husky becomes comfortable and familiar with all family members.
Teaching children to gently pet and touch a husky, instead of pulling or hitting, helps build a trusting friendship and affection for each other.
 Other than bringing home a puppy, an unfamiliar husky’s background should always be taken into account around children. Find out if the husky was raised or socialized with children previously to bringing them home. Check to see if the husky ever received training for contact with children. Visually watch your husky around children to identify irritability, nervousness, or growling. Naturally, Siberian Huskies have an instinct to chase small animals and sometimes children. Because huskies see small animals, like cats, as food, they might mistake babies or toddlers as part of the pack (family) and mistakenly attack them.
Always have a new dog on a leash around children so that you remain in control and can prevent any injury.
 Few children will understand the meaning of a dog’s body language unless they are taught to identify aggressive behavior. Angry dogs typically bark, growl, show their teeth, and stare at their target. Children should never approach a dog under these circumstances. Instead, the child should immediately stop moving, stand up straight with arms at their side and legs close together, and look away from the dog to avoid eye contact. If the dog attacks anyways, the child should drop to the ground, curl up with knees to the chest, and arms covering the face with fists over the ears. Disengage by being quiet. , Training should begin several weeks or months prior to a newborn’s arrival. Obedience training – how to sit, stay, lie down, or approach – should commence immediately and continue until your husky becomes reliable.


Practice at home with a baby doll to simulate situations, smells, and new sounds where it is essential for your husky to obey a command. Make sure not to get lulled into a false sense of security. If your husky is not obeying commands completely and regularly it might be best to seek out a good obedience school or trainer.
To prevent the dog from jumping, wildly sniffing, or misbehaving in general, the mother should greet the husky upon arrival without the baby for a few minutes until the excitement winds down. This also presents an opportunity for your husky to sniff mom’s clothes for new smells. Once your husky is relaxed the baby can be introduced.
It is natural to give more attention to your newborn baby than to your dog. Nevertheless, do not neglect your dog or make him jealous. Prepare in advance by gradually reducing the amount of attention the dog normally receives a few weeks in advance of the baby’s arrival.
Infants are different from children. Dogs usually identify children as people but this is not always true with infants. Become familiar with your dog’s “typical” behavior and reactions around children. Check to make sure the dog imitates this behavior around the baby. 