 Choosing the right glucose meter is the best way to be able to check your blood sugar yourself. Some glucometers store your readings in their memory while others do not, and the machines vary in how much blood is needed and how easy they are to use. Start by thinking about what you need in a glucose meter – prioritize easy of use, price, memory capabilities, and whether there are extra functions.Look at some of the different products that are available and compare them to find the best one for you.Some special functions that machines may have include checking for ketones (for Type 1 diabetics), using alternate languages, “flagging” capabilities, and being able to upload data to a computer.
The doctor or specialist who takes care of your diabetes probably has a lot of experience in helping patients choose the right blood sugar monitor. Ask something like, “Do you have a brand of glucose meter that you recommend?”
Read user reviews and check ratings. Some meters are more reliable than others in terms of readings, integrity of data archived, and especially accuracy.Take the time to check into consumer ratings and comments, so you are sure to get a quality machine.;
, It’s easy to obtain a glucose meter kit – you can get one at your local pharmacy or on the internet. Most kits contain lancets (testing needles), a lancing device, testing strips, and a meter to read the results. Buy from recognizable sites like Amazon or directly from the company’s website, and only buy new products.


Before buying your glucometer, check what test strips will be easily accessible to you. Glucometers use specific test strips, and some are much more expensive or harder to get than others, so choose a machine for which the strips will be easy to get., Before you buy your glucose meter, check with your insurance to make sure they will cover the brand of machine and test strips you need.Your doctor can probably give you a prescription for your glucometer, which will help keep costs down. Try to purchase test strips, which can be expensive, at online retail websites. You can also try to save money by using a pharmaceutical assistance program.


When getting test strips online, check the expiration date on the strips and determine if you can reasonably use all those strips before that date.
 Carefully read and study the pamphlet that came with your meter. Different meters can vary in how they operate. Some now have advanced functions such as pattern recognition. Carefully read through the instructions and make sure you understand exactly how to use the device. If you have any questions, contact your doctor before using the machine.


It may be a good idea to bring your glucometer to your next doctor's appointment and ask them to show you how to use it.
 Most glucometers come with a means to test their accuracy. The kit may include a pre-treated test strip or a liquid for you to place on an unused test strip. You will then insert this strip into the machine and check the reading against the limits provided in the instruction manual.
 Do you need your reading to be a fasting blood sugar? If so, do not eat for 8 hours before you check your sugar. It’s best to take your reading first thing in the morning, and simply not eat after your dinner the night before. However, for those with Type 1 diabetes, fasting for more than 8 hours may cause hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), so it might be necessary to have a snack before bed. You might want to check your blood sugar immediately after a meal, or two-hours after you eat (a postprandial reading).Discuss your goals with your doctor. They should be able to explain what you want to accomplish with your blood sugar readings, like, “Some people need to check their sugar before and after each meal, but you can just check right before you eat.”

, Your glucose meter may automatically turn on, but glucometers can differ in when you insert the test strip.You may need to insert the test strip before you lance your finger or you may need to put blood on the strip and then insert it into the machine.


Be sure to insert the correct end of the strip into the machine.
 Pull off the top of the lancing device and put the lancet into the device. Push the lancet into the device until you hear a click, or can feel that it is pushed down all the way into place.


Most lancets will have a small cap over them, hiding the needle. Be sure to remove this before placing the lancing device cap back on. To remove it, simply twist it counter clockwise or clockwise and pull it off.
Place the cap back on while rotating the cap on the end of the lancing device.
 The glucometer will have a readout area that will alert you when it is ready. It may say "Place sample on strip" or it may use an icon, such as a drop of liquid, to show that you can insert your sample.


Many machines are automatically coded, especially newer models. Others require you to look at the screen to check that the number displayed is the same as the code on the packet of strips. Read your instructions carefully to know if you have to check this.

