 This method of filtering is the cheapest of all the filtration methods. It works by connecting the filter body, containing a filter pad, with a siphon tube. The siphon tube pushes the wine through the filter.This is the cheapest method, but it is also the slowest. The slowness of this process also causes the filter pads to collect yeast and other particles from the wine.;
, The wine is forced through the filter pads. There are three different grades of filter pads.Coarse filter pad. This type of pad adds polish to the wine without losing body or color.
Polish/medium filter pads. This is the type of pad that winemakers most commonly use. It adds polish to wine without removing too much body or color.
Sterile/fine pads. This type of pad should be used last after the other two pads. The greatest amount of yeast is removed with this pad. It also helps remove the effects of oxidation in your wine.
 Make sure to affix any other attachments to the intake siphon tube. Position this below the barrel or storage unit.
 Fasten the outtake siphon tube to the release on the barrel or storage unit. Prepare a bottle for the wine to flow into at the other end of the filter pad. Make sure that the system is hooked up properly, and the filtration plates are set up right to prevent leakage.Complete any steps in the winemaking process, except cold stabilization, before filtering. Your wine should be in the barrel or storage unit and ready to be bottled prior to beginning gravity flow filtration.Sterilize your filtration system before using.
 Wine should begin to flow towards the filter pad where it will slow down and trickle through to the bottle.
 This method is best if you are dealing with one or two gallons of wine at a time. Allow 45 minutes to an hour to filter one gallon of wine.
 This type of system produces a coarser filtration. For a finer filtration, you will need a mechanical filtration system.


As wine begins to get stopped up behind the pad, tilt the siphon tube back toward the barrel or storage unit, remove the filter pad, and replace it with a new one.
 Use water and sulfite solution. Rinse thoroughly with water.