 Angelina’s face is dominated by her expressive, beautiful eyes. She keeps the focus on them with her makeup, not on her lips, which are naturally full.


Make sure that you choose eye shadow colors that closely match your skin tone and aren’t too dark. Angelina prefers eye makeup that looks natural. Put the eye shadow on your eyelids from the lashes to your brow. Put a slightly darker shade in your crease, extending it out to the edge of the eye.
Try eye shadow in taupe or light gray. You could also use peach, nude, or light brown colors.
For an awards show, Angelina might vamp it up with a smoky eye look. She has used Terracotta Loose Kohl Powder in Deep Charcoal Black. , Mascara and liquid eyeliner are too things she is almost never without. These are key parts of her signature look.


Angelina has long eyelashes. It’s probably best to apply two coats of lengthening mascara to get the Angelina’s look, which is almost all about the eyes. You could use false eyelashes, but don’t overdo it. Try using black liquid eyeliner, only on the top lash line. Start where the lashes start to grow and extend slightly past the end of the eye in cat eye fashion.
You won’t find her using pencil eyeliner much or putting it on the inside of her eyes or underneath the bottom lashes. If she does, it’s done lightly. , Gone are her goth days. Since she became a mother, Angelina’s makeup is more likely to be softer and more natural looking.


Use a brown eyebrow pencil to better define your brows. Angelina’s eyebrows are not too thin and are very well defined. Simply draw the pencil over your natural brow shape. Get them waxed at a salon to create the right shape.
One makeup artist says Angelina never wears blush on her cheeks. Instead, she smooths hydrating moisturizer on her face and then a light layer of medium coverage oil-free foundation, such as Laura Mercier Foundation in Honey Beige. She also uses Stila Cover up Stick in Shade B under her eyes to hide dark circles. She dusts Mineral Veil Powder on her face. But she uses makeup lightly.
The goal is to enhance natural beauty, not to be able to see the makeup or pancake it on.
 Angelina’s makeup artist has said she rarely puts bright or dark lipstick on Angelina’s mouth, preferring taupe or neutral colors. That’s largely because her lips are already so beautiful and large.


MAC’s Blankety shade, Clinique’s Long Last Soft Shine Lipstick in Glow Bronze and Mac Kinda Sexy are shades that Angelina would wear. She’s also said she likes Urban Apothecary’s Charm and Chantecaille Brilliante Glosses in Love and Charm. Every now and then she goes bold, wearing bright red lipstick, for awards shows or film premieres, like she did at the Cannes Film Festival premiere of Inglourious Basterds. But it’s the exception, and you almost never see her wearing dark or bright lipstick in casual wear.
 Angelia’s lips are naturally plush. If yours aren’t, you won’t look like her. There are certain tricks you can use to look like you have thicker lips, though.


Use taupe or nude lip liner to draw your lips slightly larger than they really are. This will make your lips look bigger. Then cover the lips with natural colored lip gloss or lipstick. You can use concealer to apply highlights to the middle bottom portion of your mouth to look more like her.
She wears Blistex lip balm.
Some Angelina fans turn to lip augmentation to get plumper lips through injections, but Angelina’s look is all natural so it’s a better idea to try to plump up your lips with makeup tricks. , . Angelina is known for her dewy, pale, healthy skin. You won’t find her with the faked tan look.


To get this look, apply foundation on your face. Then take foundation a few shades darker and apply it to the cheekbones and sides of the face. Remember to blend in all makeup at the jaw line. Put a base on your face, such as Urban Decay Primer Potion.
Use a brush to apply highlighting foundation on the nose and under the eyes, on the chin and on the forehead in a T formation. Set it with translucent powder.
One technique involves applying light gray and then peach eyeshadow on the cheekbones to accentuate them. Or you can use light brown eyeshadow to define the nose. You can use a makeup brush to soften the contouring. Angelina has well defined cheekbones. You can also use gray eye shadow to better define the lips and the nose. Then warm up the gray areas with powder. Then, apply primer/concealer to the inside of the eyes and by the eyebrows. , Angelina’s makeup artist has said Angelina avoids harsh soaps on her face and always wears SPF. She is a fan of high-end skin creams. She takes care of her skin on a daily basis.


You may find Angelina putting creams on her face like La Prairie’s Skin Caviar Luxe Cream and YonKa Advanced Optimizer Crème Serum.
When she was pregnant, she used products from Bella Mama, a skin care line for pregnant women. , Angelina’s eyes are a blue-green color. If your eyes are not naturally that color, you can use colored contact lenses to achieve the look. You can make your eyes look bigger by putting white eyeliner in the water line of the eye. 