 Before you can brush your dog’s teeth, you’ll need to get a specially designed dog toothbrush from your vet or from a trusted pet store. Dog toothbrushes are made using soft materials which are angled to facilitate brushing, making the structure of their teeth easier to get to.


PetroDex, Nylabone and Petco likely have quality toothbrushes for your dog.
Please do not use a human toothbrush to brush your dog's teeth as it is irritating to his gums.;
, A variety of toothpaste products that are safe for pets are commonly available in pet stores and through veterinary clinics. Pet toothpastes come in flavors that are appealing for dogs, such as poultry and seafood.


Avoid using human toothpastes on your dog as they often contain abrasives and high-foaming detergents that should not be swallowed or inhaled by dogs.
 You can make your pup homemade toothpaste using bouillon or chicken cubes, baking powder and coconut oil. To make the toothpaste:


Dissolve the chicken cube in a bowl, add some baking soda, cinnamon and solid coconut oil (not melted). The baking soda and cinnamon will act as an abrasive to remove the plaque and tartar from your dog’s teeth while coconut oil helps to combine all of the ingredients together.
Spread some on your toothbrush for immediate application and keep the rest in a resealable container. It should keep for around a week.

Don’t allow your dog to eat this toothpaste however, as it may cause adverse effects.
 Most dogs aren’t big fans of having their teeth brushed at first, but hopefully with practice you can make it a reasonably pleasant experience for both of you. Try to choose a time when your dog has had a decent amount of exercise, so he’s tired out and more inclined to sit still for the procedure.


You may, at least initially, need to give your dog incentive to make him cooperate with you. Train him to associate teeth brushing with rewards, like a treat or play time.
 Speak pleasantly and soothingly to your dog as you brush his teeth, as this will help to keep him calm.


Don’t overdo it on the brushing the first couple of times - only bush for a minute or two and stop if your dog gets agitated.
As your dog gets used to having his teeth brushed, you can slowly build up the brushing time and brush more frequently.
 Oral rinses and gels will help to prevent plaque build-up and bacteria. Chlorhexidine is the most effective anti-plaque antiseptic, as it binds to the oral tissues and tooth surfaces and is gradually released into the oral cavity.


Chlorhexidine is safe for pets and rarely causes problems, though it does have a bitter taste if additional ingredients are not added to make the taste more pleasant for dogs.
A chlorhexidine rinse is applied by squirting a small amount inside the cheek on each side of the mouth. The gel is applied by smearing it onto the teeth. The dog’s tongue and lips will then spread the rinse or gel around the mouth naturally.
 Rawhide chew treats can be helpful if chewed daily, especially if they contain an anti-tartar ingredient. It won't be hard to convince him to chew on it either as it's an activity most dogs enjoy.


These treats are inexpensive and widely available at most pet supply stores.
 There are many synthetic bones and chew toys that are specially designed to strengthen your dog’s gums and teeth. Just make sure you’re providing safe objects for your dog to chew on. Hard objects can cause broken teeth.


Talk to your vet about what kind of toys are best for your dog's teeth. Different breeds and sizes of dogs will require different sized and shaped toys.
 Dogs are carnivores – they chew on bones in the wild. However it is not recommended that you give your dog cow hooves, dried natural bones or hard nylon products to chew, because they are too hard and do not mimic the natural effect of a dog tearing meat off a carcass. These hard products are associated with broken teeth or damaged gums.


If you're unsure what to buy your pup, look into reviews of products, talk to the staff at your favorite pet store, and ask your veterinarian specific questions about the products you're looking to buy.
 Remember that chew toys are only of benefit if they are played with frequently and over the long haul – you can increase the dog’s willingness to chew by smearing palatable peanut butter or soft cheese on the product.


A tablespoon or two, depending on your dog's size, should be more than enough.
 Dogs should be monitored while chewing a chew treat or toy, as they may swallow large pieces, leading to a variety of digestive system disorders.


If you notice your dog's toy falling apart, it's best just to buy another one. Have your dog regularly chew on two or three to keep them lasting longer.
 Avoid feeding your dog chicken bones and long bones that splinter. They provide no benefit and may cause constipation and other problems.


Talk to your vet about a diet that balances your dog's nutritional needs, weight, and oral hygiene. Tackling one isn't enough – you'll want to tackle all three.
 It’s important to be able to recognize the signs of dental decay in your dog, so you can consult with a veterinarian as soon as possible. The main signs of dental decay include:


Bad breath
Loosely fitting, discolored teeth covered by dental tartar.
Bleeding gums.
Poor appetite and a reluctance to eat hard food.
 Even with healthy teeth, your dog should have his teeth checked by a professional every six to twelve months, just like you. Your vet should include a dental examination with a normal checkup, but ask for it if they don’t.


Though cavities are less likely for your pup than you, many dogs still suffer from oral and dental issues like bad breath, loose teeth, sore and infected gums, and rotting tooth sockets. It is very important to realize that maintaining dog dental health and oral hygienic is necessary to keep your dog healthy and friendly!

, If your dog has a lot of plaque or tartar build-up, you may need to schedule a cleaning with the vet to have the plaque removed. The vet will use specialized instruments to clean your dog’s teeth.


If a dental cleaning is necessary, it is advisable to do pre-anesthesia blood work to make sure your pet does not have any underlying problems. This is a quick procedure that you can likely do the same day.

