 When you or your child has chickenpox, it will likely be accompanied by a fever. To combat fever and reduce any pain, use over the counter fever reducers such as paracetamol or acetaminophen. Read all packaging information before taking any medication. If you are not sure if the medication is safe to take, do not give or take it before talking to a medical professional.



Do not give aspirin or aspirin-containing medication to treat fever or other symptoms of the chickenpox. Taking aspirin while you have the chickenpox can cause Reye's syndrome, which affects the liver and brain and can be fatal.Talk to your doctor about ibuprofen use. In rare instances, it can cause adverse skin reactions and secondary infections.;
, The major symptom of chickenpox is intense itching at the site of the pox. There may be times when the itching is unbearable or causes too much discomfort. When this happens, take over the counter antihistamines such as Benadryl, Zyrtec, or Claritin to help relieve the itching. Talk to your doctor about dosing of these medications for children; they may be especially helpful at night when you want to sleep.


If you find that you or your child are in severe pain or discomfort, see a medical professional. The doctor might be able to provide a prescription strength antihistamine., It is important to stay hydrated while you have the chickenpox. There is a possibility of dehydration while you have the chickenpox. Drink plenty of water throughout the day. Also drink other hydrating liquids, such as sports drinks.


Popsicles are a great way to help children stay hydrated if they don't want to drink enough water., Sores may develop on the inside of the mouth when you or your child get the chickenpox. These can be very irritating and cause you pain, especially if you eat the wrong foods. Try soft, gentle foods such as warm soup, oatmeal, pudding, or ice cream. If there are especially painful sores inside the mouth, avoid eating foods that are salty, spicy, acidic, or too hot.


You or your child can occasionally suck ice cubes, popsicles, or suckers to ease the pain of sores inside the mouth., If you or your child has chickenpox, stay at home or keep them at home as much as possible. Do not go to work or school or let your children who are infected go to school. You do not want to spread the virus to anyone else — chickenpox is easily spread through the air or contact with the rash. Plus, you do not want to make the symptoms worse through overexertion.


Once the sores have scabbed over and dried up, the virus is no longer contagious. This generally takes five to seven days.