 Grow your own, or ask around at produce stands or farmers' markets in late summer. Pickling cucumbers are smaller than most salad cucumbers, perhaps 1 to 1 1⁄2 inches (2.5 to 3.8 cm) in diameter and 3 to 6 inches (7.6 to 15.2 cm) long. Plan that 6 to 7 medium pickling cucumbers, or about one pound, sliced, will yield about 3 cups. Thus, for six quarts of sliced cucumbers, you will need about 8 pounds of cucumbers.;
, Do not peel them. Measure the sliced cucumbers until you have about 6 quarts. Cut out any bad spots as you go.
 Leave them in half-rings, or if you prefer, aim for bite-sized lengths.
 Cover the cucumber and onion mixture in this brine. Let the mixture soak for three hours.
 If you prepare them ahead of time, store them upside-down on a clean towel, covered by another clean towel.
, Bring the vinegar, sugar, and spices to a boil in a large saucepan or pot. Then, add the drained vegetables to the mixture and bring the combination to a boil.
 Boil about an inch of water in the bottom of a wide saucepan. Remove the saucepan from heat and place the jar lids individually into the water. Let them sit for a minute or two. Do this immediately prior to use.
 Leave 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of head space (space between the top of the food and the jar rim). Pour the hot pickling liquid over the vegetables, leaving 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of head space. Stir the pickling liquid as you go to keep the spices mixed in.
, Use a lid wand to lift the seals out of the hot water. Center the seal on the rim of the jar. Screw on the ring so that it is snug but do not over-tighten. (The idea is to contact the wax sealing surface firmly without displacing it altogether.)

, Fill the canner with hot water until the tops of the jars are at least an inch below the surface of the water.
, The next day, check the seals by pressing down in the center. The seal should not move up and down or make noise when pressed.
 Clean the sealed jars with dish soap in room-temperature water and label them with the contents and the date. Allow the jars to dry thoroughly before storing them.

