 If you are noticing a lot of ice build up in your freezer, it may be a sign that something isn't functioning correctly. One potential problem is is blocked airflow. Freezers need to have proper airflow around the cooling coils and vents. If any of the freezer's vents or coils are dirty, blocked or clogged, this could cause an issue with ice build up.Condenser coils are usually located in the back of the freezer, towards the bottom of the refrigerator. You'll likely need to remove a panel to access them.
Some refrigerators will have condenser coils that run up and down the entire back of the fridge.
Use a soft brush to gently remove dust and dirt from the coils.
Check the vents inside the freezer itself. Make sure there is no ice or food items clogging them up.
Your freezer may be too close to a wall to allow for proper ventilation. Try moving your freezer away from any walls or tight spaces.;
, Your freezer door should create an airtight seal when it's closed. However, if the seal itself is old or warped, it may be allowing air to flow in and out of the freezer. Airflow will cause ice to build up rapidly in your freezer. Check your freezer door's seal to make sure there are no spaces where air is escaping.Make sure something in the freezer isn't holding the door open a bit.
There may be a tiny space where air is entering the freezer. Run your hand along the edge of the seal to feel for any loose or cold areas.
You may need to replace older magnetic seals if they are no longer functioning.
You can try wiping the seal down to remove any buildup that may be preventing an airtight lock.
 Setting your freezer's temperature either too high or too low can cause excess ice to build up. In order to prevent these freezer crystals from accumulating, it can be a good idea to take a look at your freezer's thermometer. Try to adjust the thermometer to an ideal temperature to reduce the amount of ice that is forming in your freezer.Your freezer should be set to 0°F or -18°C.
Make sure you don't change the temperature by opening the door too often or by not closing it all the way.

