  The age at which you begin to collect Social Security benefits affects the percentage of benefits you will actually receive. Choosing the optimum age at which you should apply for benefits depends on many factors.  Consider your life expectancy and financial picture to decide how long to wait.Waiting until full retirement age allows you to collect 100 percent of your Social Security benefits.  If you were born before 1938, full retirement age is 65 years old.  For those born in 1938 and after, full retirement age can be up to 67 years of age.

 To determine your full retirement age, refer to the Social Security Administration’s retirement chart at https://www.ssa.gov/planners/retire/agereduction.html.

 If you can wait until age 70 to collect Social Security, you can collect an even higher monthly check.

For example, persons born after 1943 earn an increased benefit of 8 percent per year of deferral.



 You can begin collecting Social Security as young as age 62.  However, you will receive a permanently reduced amount.  If your full retirement age is 67 and you begin collecting at age 62, your benefit amount will be reduced by 30 percent.

 If you have other financial resources, it makes sense to delay collecting Social Security benefits until you are of full retirement age.

 If you will have high expenses in your retirement, such as if you devote much of your retirement income to an entrepreneurial goal or if you are in poor health, it may make more sense to begin collecting Social Security benefits at a younger age. This make sure that you have a steady enough income through this time to support your living expenses. 


,  Apply for your Social Security Benefits three months before you want them to begin.  You can choose to begin collecting Social Security before you stop working.  If your full retirement age is over the age of 65 and you want to wait to apply for Social Security, you should still apply for Medicare three months before your 65th birthday.You can apply for retirement benefits or Medicare online at https://secure.ssa.gov/iClaim/rib.

 To apply by phone, call 1-800-772-1213 or TTY 1-800-325-0778.

 To apply in person, visit your local Social Security office.  To find your local office, visit the website https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp and enter your zip code. 

 If you live outside of the United States, contact the nearest Social Security office, U.S. Embassy or consulate.  You can find the contact information by visiting https://www.ssa.gov/foreign/ .  


, If you have a spouse who has not worked enough to qualify for their own Social Security benefits, they may be able to qualify for spouse's benefits. These benefits follow the same age rules as regular benefits. That is, a qualifying spouse must be at least 62 years of age and will receive benefits at that age at a lower amount than they would at their full retirement age. Former spouses (from divorce) who were married to you at least 10 years may also be entitled to spouse's benefits.,  When you apply for Social Security benefits, you will need to provide documents to prove your identity.  The documents must be either original or certified by the issuing office.  You can mail them or personally bring them to your locally Social Security office.  The documents will be copied and returned to you. 

 If you don’t have all of the required documents, the people in the Social Security office can help you to get them.

 You will need your Social Security number.

 Have your birth certificate from the state where you were born.

 Bring your W-2 forms from your last year of employment.

 If you were in the military, bring your military discharge papers.

 If your spouse or children are applying for benefits, bring their birth certificates and Social Security numbers.

 If you were not born in the United States, bring proof of U.S. citizenship or lawful alien status.

 Provide the name of your bank and bank account numbers so your funds can be directly deposited into your account.
  If any circumstances arise that affect your ability to collect your benefits, you must immediately notify the SSA.  These changes include a change of address, marital status or direct deposit accounts.  Also, if your citizenship status changes or you are leaving the United States for more than 30 days, you must notify the SSA.  Finally, the SSA must be made aware if you are convicted of a criminal offense, become unable to manage your funds or die.