 Clean your house properly. Sprinkle Gangajal or water from Ganga river to purify the surrounding.;
, Spread the red cloth on a raised platform and keep a handful of grains in the center.
 Place the kalash in the middle. Fill it with 75% of water and put one supari, one marigold flower, a coin and some rice grains. Put 5 mango leaves in the kalash and arrange them in a circular design on the neck of the kalash.
 Keep a small Puja thali on the kalash and make a small flat mountain of rice grains. Draw a lotus with haldi over it and place the idol or Goddess Lakshmi in the center. Place some coins in front of it.
 Lord Ganesha is given first importance in every puja. Therefore, on the right side (South-West direction) of the kalash, place the idol of Ganesha. Apply a tilak of haldi and kumkum. Put some rice grains on the idol. Light a Diya with Ganapati Puja Oil and White Madar Wick to get the blessings of Lord Ganesha

, Now place some books or anything related to your business or wealth besides the arrangement.
 Light a panch mukhi diya (oil lamp with 5 wicks) with Lakshmi Puja Oil along with Lakshmi Grace Wick and place it in a thali along with some haldi, kumkum and rice grains. (sandalwood paste, saffron paste, abeer and gulal are optional)

, Start the puja by applying tilak to the kalash. Apply the same to the lota that is filled with water. Now offer some flowers to each of them.
 Take some rice and flowers. Join your hands together and close your eyes. Recite the Diwali puja mantra of goddess Lakshmi or just chant her name and meditate for few minutes to invoke her.
 Offer the flower and rice grains to the Goddess after the prayer.
 Now pick up the idol of Lakshmi and place it in a thali. Bathe it with water followed by panchamrita. Clean it with water again. Wipe the idol and place it back on the kalash.
 Now apply haldi and kumkum (sandal paste, saffron paste, abeer or gulal) along with rice to the idol. Place the garland cotton beads around the neck of the Goddess. Place some marigold flower and some Bel leaves. Burn few agarbatti and dhoop.
 Offer coconut and place a supari on a supari leaf. Now put some haldi, kumkum and rice over it. Pour some puffed rice, coriander seeds and cumin seeds over the idol. Place some mithai, Diwali sweets, fruits and money or gold ornaments in front of it.
 Worship the idol by performing the lakshmi puja aarti.

