 While it may seem like a better idea to let your new dog relax during the first few days of its arrival, it is important to let it know exactly how things work in its new home from the start. Being lenient for this initial period will only serve to confuse your new pet and make it more difficult to establish the rules later on. Be kind but firm in letting it know what will and won’t be allowed.For example, do not let your new dog climb onto the furniture if it will not be allowed to do so later on. If it jumps on a couch or chair, firmly say “No” and gently guide it off.;
, To get your new dog settled comfortably, and to adjust to your new pet, make sure that you and your family members are all on the same page about your house rules and uphold them accordingly. It is important that your new dog does not get mixed messages from its owners about how it should be behaving. If necessary, write out a list of the most important pet-related house rules and hang it on the fridge or wall where everyone can see it. Some rules might include:


“No pets on the couch”
“Don’t feed the dog any table scraps”
“The dog should never be walked without its leash and harness”

, During its first few days with you, make sure that you don’t overwhelm your new pet with social activity. While it is still adjusting to your home and family life, your dog should not be burdened with extra stress or over-excitement (e.g. meeting friends and relatives). Adjustment periods vary between dogs based on breed, age, and history, but a minimum of 3-4 days should be allotted to getting your new pet acclimated at home., Your new dog will likely be a bit jumpy for the first few days that it spends in your home, while it adjusts to new sounds, surroundings, and routines. Make an effort to announce yourself when approaching it so that it doesn’t get startled or feel ambushed. Use a soft but clear voice to greet your dog (e.g. “Hi Spot, it’s me!”) and let it gradually get accustomed to your presence., If you have children, help them adjust to your new dog by explaining everything that their new pet will need (food, walks, grooming, training, etc.). Tell them clearly what behaviors to avoid (such as approaching the dog to play while it is eating), and explain that they will have to be patient with their new friend. Supervise games while they play with the new dog, have them feed it treats and make lists of tasks they can do to help with its care (e.g. filling its food and water bowls)., If you have other dogs or cats, let them meet the new dog in a neutral place before bringing it home, like a friend's house. Animals can be very territorial, so meeting a new dog at home can cause aggression or defensiveness in your other pets. Make sure that there is plenty of everything at home (e.g. toys, food bowls, sleeping spots) and supervise play for the first couple of weeks to make sure your pets are getting along.Make an effort to keep your pets routines the same while phasing in your new dog. Keeping all your animals happy and comfortable will help for a smoother transition.

