 You can also look online on social networking sites like Facebook or Pinterest; many people like to post healthy recipes there as well. Even if you don't end up making the dishes you discover, recipes can still help you come up with new ideas to improve your cooking.;
,, Though many people immediately think of teriyaki sauce or common combinations like cauliflower and cheese, you can also cook vegetables with soy sauce, Worcester sauce, and countless other tangy sauces. If you can't think of anything or are bored with your current palette, go to the store and just grab a random sauce off the shelf- surprise yourself with new exotic flavors!

, Many people also love to add nuts such as almonds or peanuts into their veggie stir-fries or stews. These not only can add more flavor to your meals but are also great for your body and skin. Your dishes will taste good and make you feel good.
 Spices can help mask the taste of certain unappealing vegetables and can also introduce you to brand new flavors and experiences. Even if you're simply boiling some broccoli, adding a little bit of Cuban spice can really deepen your palette. Chilli peps up lots of vegetables, especially tomatoes, peppers, (which are really fruits, obviously), and any vegetables enjoyed in a stir fry or curry.
 You can make a pasta dish with asparagus tips, try a new take on avocado, make some roasted pumpkin desserts or invent a new Australian-inspired vegetable dip: there are infinite possibilities! Try researching foreign vegetables and taking a trip to your local fresh food market to discover new tastes.
 Over done or undone vegetables are not nice. Whilst not everyone agrees on exactly how all vegetables should be cooked, experiment with the vegetables you may have tried before and not enjoyed to perfect your cooking techniques. Asparagus, brussel sprouts, aubergine and cabbage, amongst others, are all disliked by many people because they haven't eaten them cooked properly. Try cooking your veggies following a recipe, or through your own experience, and tasting them just before you think they're done. Still don't like it? Cook on and try again just when you think they should be ready. Still don't like it? Try cooking for half as long again from when they are undercooked. If you don't like it then, you probably don't like that veggie, at least not cooked that way.
 Just because you don't find a particular vegetable tasty boiled, doesn't mean you wouldn't enjoy it fried, or mashed. Almost all root vegetables can be fried. Beetroot crisps or 'chips' in the U.S., lightly seasoned with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper are a tasty alternative to potato-chips or crisps. Make chips, or 'fries' as they are known in the U.S. from parsnips - these are a great accompaniment to a quiche, ratatouille or bean casserole. Turnips and swede, boiled and mashed together with butter, cream and seasoning is great with a nut roast, or any other type of roast for that matter.
 Pretty much any veggie can be made tastier by coating it in batter and frying it. If you want a healthier alternative, grate or finely slice your chosen veggie, combine with a little egg (find a vegan as alternative if possible) and flour, mould into patties and bake or fry. Sweet Potato, broccoli, carrots and courgettes can all make tasty fritters., If you want to make veggies tastier and are not a vegetarian or vegan, meat is the obvious choice. Try leeks, pan fried with bacon, pea and ham soup or fried potatoes, tomatoes and chorizo. If you like your protein meat free, try brussel sprouts with chestnuts, green beans stir fried with cashew nuts or grated carrots as a salad dressed with orange juice and olive oil dressing sprinkled with sesame seeds or black poppy seeds., Simple vegetable kebabs, with or without a grill friendly cheese such as Haloumi, are enjoyable and easy to make and great to eat. Mushrooms, courgettes, tomatoes and aubergine all lend themselves to being sliced thickly, threaded onto a skewers then grilled till tender.