 Detaching temporarily from someone can be useful in helping you determine whether or not you want to continue being in a relationship with that person. Rather than breaking up with a romantic partner or cutting off a friend, pull yourself away emotionally so that you can think about what to do without causing the drama of an all-out breakup.Breaking up on impulse can make you regret your decision later, causing you to want the relationship back. Detaching slowly and carefully considering your actions can help you make a final decision that you don’t go back on later in life.
You might want to detach from a romantic relationship because you realize that over time, you and your partner have changed, or because they have a negative character flaw they are unwilling to work on.
You might want to detach from a friendship because your friend has developed damaging behaviors, or because you realize they are never going to change a negative behavior.
You might want to detach from a parent if they are overbearing or consistently rude.
Take time to write out a list of pros and cons of detaching. Figure out if there are consequences you will need to plan for, such as loss of financial support or a change in lifestyle.;
, If you are considering detaching from someone temporarily to think about things, find friends or relatives who will support your decision rather than nag you about it. You should also ask people you trust for advice about how to respond to the person you are detaching from.


When seeking advice or support, say something like, "Do you think I could tell you about my situation, and you could tell me what you would do?"
You also need others to provide a distraction so that you fill the void the other person was filling.
Go to others when you need help with things like fixing the computer or advice about a decision.
 Detaching emotionally means that you are pulling away inwardly, not banishing the other person from your life. If you live with them, for example, you can still share all practical activities, such as eating meals together and discussing events and other superficial topics.If you have children together, it is important to continue the daily routines, even if you have activities with the children that you usually do together. This includes things like attending sports games or putting them to bed.
To give yourself an emotional boundary during a conversation, keep the topics superficial and avoid discussing how you feel about things (i.e., sharing your opinion) and asking for advice. If you are asked a personal question, you can say that you do not want to discuss it at the moment.
 Even though your partner or friend may be confused by your behavior, you don't have to confide in them that you are trying to detach. Doing so may open the door for them to get angry, try to convince you to stop, or other such behavior. However, you should be prepared to answer their questions honestly. If they directly ask you what you’re doing, say, “I am taking the time to think about our relationship.” Be prepared to explain what you mean and answer any questions truthfully. “We’ve had a rough year, I feel emotionally exhausted, and I am taking the time to process how I feel about it all. I hope that you will give me the time to do that.”
Do not treat this is a game. You are serious about thinking about the relationship. You are not withholding emotional intimacy to get attention.
 It is advisable to take a physical break from the person you are detaching from, even if a short one. Take a weekend trip by yourself or with friends so that you have a change of scenery and perspective. You may still be interacting with them in your daily life, but a weekend getaway can refresh your perspective and help you come to a decision.


Taking a step back from a situation can help you see it from a wider angle, perhaps noticing things you didn’t see before.A physical break also means a break from physical intimacy. You cannot truly emotionally detach from someone you are having sex with.If you decide to stop having sex with someone, they may ask why, so be prepared with your answer about thinking about the relationship.

