 There are a variety of growth serums that you can purchase at your local pharmacy, beauty shop, or department store. These products are advertised to increase the thickness and fullness of your eyelashes. They often contain various ingredients such as natural peptides, vitamins, and oils. Review the label on each product to see what it contains, or ask a specialist at a beauty salon or cosmetic shop for recommendations.


Look for products that contain prostaglandin analogs. These are ophthalmic solutions that many think may help with eyelash growth. However, their safety and efficacy have not been scientifically proven.Products that contain keratin, a protein that promotes cell growth, have been praised for supporting hair growth and strength.Consider trying eyelash serums that contain this protein.Some products are sold as regular mascara with additional oils and vitamins that support healthy eyelashes.;
, There are many eyelash growth serums on the market that you can buy over-the-counter. Since these are considered cosmetics by the FDA, their success rate, safety, and efficacy have not been completed evaluated.Before using an over-the-counter product, talk to your doctor or ophthalmologist to see if using these products is safe for you.
 Over-the-counter eyelash serums are typically sold with a mascara wand applicator or a small brush applicator. The small brush allows you to more easily apply the product directly to the root of your upper lash line, but the mascara wand applicator allows you to coat you upper and lower eyelashes from root to tip.


Perhaps a mascara wand applicator would be easier for on-the-go, fast application. A small brush may be great for those who wish to thoroughly apply the product to each root. Think about which applicator would be easier for you to use on a day-to-day basis.
 Over-the-counter eyelash growth serums that are sold at everyday shops and pharmacies can cost between $8 and $20. Luxury brands that are sold at salons, department stores, and cosmetic shops can cost between $40 and $100.Prescription serums can be very pricey in comparison to over-the-counter products. They can cost around $1000 each year, and most insurance companies do not cover the costs., In the U.S., Latisse (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) is the only FDA-approved prescription eyelash growth solution.It is applied daily via a sterile, one-use applicator brush.This product was originally used to treat the eye disease glaucoma, but doctors and patients noticed that the solution promoted hair growth. Talk to your doctor or ophthalmologist to see if using a prescription serum is appropriate for you.
 Most eyelash growth serums are considered to be safe, but it is important to ensure that you will not have an allergic reaction to the product you choose. Before applying the product directly to your eye, apply a small amount of the product on your cheek, neck, or forearm to see if it causes an allergic reaction. Monitor the area for 24 hours.


If you have an allergic reaction, do not use the product.
 If you wear contact lenses, be sure to carefully remove and store them before you apply any prescription or over-the-counter eye serum.You can re-insert your contact lenses 15 minutes after you have applied the serum., Use a gentle cleanser and warm water to wash your face before applying any products onto your lashes. Make sure your face and eyes are clean and free of dirt, oil, and make-up.A clean surface will allow the serum to better adhere to your lash line.
 If you are using a prescription eyelash serum, your doctor or pharmacist will provide you with a container of solution and a set of disposable applicators. The serum should be applied to the upper eyelash line every evening with the sterile, one-time-use applicator. Remove the one-time use applicator, and add one drop of the solution onto the applicator’s brush.


Since a prescription eye serum is an ophthalmic solution, it will not cause harm to your eye. You do not need to rinse your eye if the serum comes into contact with it., Close your eye and spread a thin coating of the serum across the roots of your upper lash line, working from the corner of your eye outward.Do not apply the medication to the lower eyelid. The medication will spread to your lower lash as you blink.
 Some over-the-counter products can be applied directly onto your eyelashes using a mascara wand. Work the product through your upper and lower eyelashes. Begin at the base of your lash line, and wiggle the wand in an upward motion to completely coat each eyelash., Since the serum promotes hair growth, be careful not to apply it anywhere other than your eyelashes or lash line. Otherwise, you may experience unwanted hair growth elsewhere. Blot the corner of your eye with a tissue after application to prevent any excess serum from spreading to other areas of your skin., Use a gentle cleanser, unscented soap, baby soap, or a dish detergent and lukewarm water to clean the applicators for the over-the-counter products. Gently wash them with the soap of your choice, rinse them thoroughly, and place them on a flat, clean towel to air dry. The brushes should dry within 6 to 8 hours.If you are using a prescription serum, discard each applicator after every use to avoid eye and skin irritations and allergic reactions., Before you begin using a serum, close your eyes and take a photo of your eyelashes to document how long and full they were prior to using the product. Continue to take a photo each week to track your progress and to see if the product is working for you.


Most eyelash growth serums claim to start working within a few weeks. It is important to remember that a product that works for someone else may not work for you. Each person’s body will react to differently.You may see little to no change over a period of a few months, or you may see rapid growth within a few weeks.
 Using eye cosmetics such as mascara, eyeliner, and over-the-counter serums run the risk of causing bacterial and fungal infections, including pink eye or conjunctivitis.As you use the product, be aware of any changes to your eye or the area around your eye. If you experience red, itchy, or burning eyes, stop using the product and talk to your doctor right away.
 Some patients have reported that prescription serums have altered the color of their irises. Others have reported that their eyelids have darkened along the lash line where the product is applied. If you notice these side effects, talk to your doctor to see if continuing to use this product is right for you. The symptoms typically resolve when you stop using the product.