 In order for your posts to be as popular as possible, they have to do more than impress your friends. Your friends are more likely to share your post if they think it will impress their friends too. Accordingly, think about how to appeal to your friend’s friends.For instance, word your posts in a way that is accessible to as many people as possible.
Instead of using language that is specific to just your social group, for instance, use language that you can imagine your friends would use in their own social circles too. This will make people more likely to share your post instead of reinterpreting it.
 On weekdays, Facebook traffic is highest during the after work and early evening hours. That said, the most traffic of all occurs on Saturday and Sunday mornings. Posts during these times are likely to get the most interaction.Your particular friend group may be more active at different times than the norm, so do a bit of experimenting to see when your posts get the most traction and get in the habit of making posts at this time.
For instance, young adults may be more active later in the evening. If most of your friends are of a certain age, think about the time of day they are most likely to be checking Facebook and make your posts accordingly.
 Asking questions or soliciting advice is a great way to get interaction with your posts. You can do so in the interest of humor, or when you’re in need of actual information. You can even ask a question in a humorous manner than can still wind up with good advice from your friends.For instance, post something like, “Anybody else sick of paying for oil changes?” Not only will you get a bunch of agreement, your friends that know of good deals on oil changes, or that may even know how to teach you to change your own oil, will likely chime in too.
More casually, you can solicit interaction by providing something for people to do. For instance, write a fill in the blank post, such as “The weirdest combination of foods I eat together is _____ and _____.”

, One of the best ways to generate interaction and popularity is by getting specific people’s attention. Accordingly, tag the friends you think are most likely to interact with your posts, or that may have the most helpful advice or interesting commentary to add.