


Surprisingly, a "Chav" is somebody who - wears Burberry, polo shirts with upturned collars, tracksuits, "bling" and listens to hip hop, Rock 'n' B, Drum 'n' Bass etc.
A "Chav" is actually an alien from another world who does all of these things but also displays an even worse set of characteristics such as: being rude to everyone (including, if not especially their best friends); having extremely bad manners and a terrible command over the English language.
The almost total inability to talk properly is the staple of Chavs. A Chav can also be identified as someone who tries to act like they are black, or possibly Jamaican, but ironically sometimes secretly(or not so secretly) harbours racist views.
They have also proved time and time again to be bullies.
Avoiding someone simply because they look like a Chav, or enjoy "Chavvy" things is no better than being a Chav, who often hate or at least look down on those who display different characteristics to their own.
Someone who dresses like a Chav, but is a nice person, is better being described as "Chavvy" than an actual Chav.
By instantly judging anyone that looks like they may be a Chav, you are in fact no better yourself.;
, It is well known that Chavs are usually found in large groups, gangs, and even "posies".


It is also well known that these can be found in poor urban areas. It is often a fair judgment to say that any poor urban or suburban areas contain large amounts of Chavs. Avoid such places, or spend as little time there as possible.
Chavs are infamous dwellers of council houses, and these too are likely to have at least one Chav in every one of them.
City centers are often favourite haunts for Chavs, who will gather their in large groups, admittedly this is rarely to do anything productive.
If you stay away from these areas you may not need to deal with Chavs too often.
 Almost all schools have a massive population of Chavs.


They usually dominate the school, are the most popular kids, the "toughest" kids and the most common.
This can be a problem if you wish to avoid them. Do not panic, this can be easily achieved. Think to yourself, where would a Chav choose to hang out at school? Where would a Chav rarely go?
It is likely that there are quiet corners of the school that can act as a sort of refuge or safe haven for you and your friends. If you are an accomplished and hardworking student, you will likely be in higher classes, or groups, where few Chavs are admitted. This is not the case with all schools though.
The key is to remember that groups of Chavs will likely cause trouble and try to cause you some sort of grief.
They can be very childish, throwing things around the class, insulting the teacher, seeking attention and even blatantly bullying a member of the class.
However, one Chav is much less of a threat, only the most tragically disturbed Chavs continues their anti social behaviour when they are left alone.
A Chav in a classroom of normal children usually goes into a state of quietness until they are reunited with their Chav friends.
It is even possible that sometimes a Chav, if not with other Chavs might occasionally do something that might possibly be considered as a friendly gesture.
Sometimes, such interaction with a "lone Chav" may gain you some sort of respect and safety from the group as a whole, and you may be described as "safe"; but talking to a lone Chav should not be seen as a guarantee of some sort of protection against the rest. It is likely you will become another victim as soon as a Chav is surrounded once more by their "crew".
Join an anti-Chav student alliance at your school. This will a group of good, respectful students, who work against chavs using more powerful tactics than just pure violence and unintelligible language. Such organisations will provide support to the vulnerable, and if you want to make a difference, you can help. Ask senior students in your school about this.



If a Chav is already trying to trouble you then there are a few things you can do.
Try to look confident - Do not look scared, as Chavs can sense this. Almost like dogs.
Be nice- Smile and try to be upbeat, do not speak unless spoken to, but try not to appear miserable, you will be even more of a target for bullying.
Avoid eye contact - never stare at a Chav. This is especially important if you see Chavs in the street. Chavs are actually extremely insecure, which is why they attempt at displaying such a mean, "bad boy" attitude; and staring at them almost always provokes hostility.
Try to act invisible, but do not ignore a Chav if they Try to communicate will you, this may infuriate them. Instead Try to keep a low profile and do nothing that may make you a threat or a victim.

