 You can do this by checking through your phone book or using an internet search engine.;
, Lots of agencies today now have websites but there are others who you may have to call in order to find out what they want. Look into the types of models they represent. Look into any requirements they suggest. Find out what photos they want.
 Unless they stated otherwise, agencies will want to see the minimum of one head shot and one body shot. Whilst you do not have to have these done professionally, it does help to have some taken especially for the purpose of sending them off to agencies. If you cannot afford or do not want to have photos taken professionally, have a friend take some pictures of you or use a passport photo booth for the head shot.
 The cover letter should make a note of your vital statistics (as in height, dress size, bust, waist and hip measurements for girls, inside leg measurement if you know it and shoe size) and explain, briefly, why you want to be a model and why you think you have what it takes. Your resume should include things like past modeling work, past acting work and any drama/dance training you have had in the past.
 A lot of agencies will now accept e-mail submissions but do check with them beforehand that they do so. You may be better off with regular mail anyway- agencies receive a lot of junk email and some admit to losing new model applications due to cluttered inboxes!!

, Practice your photo face in front of a mirror, practice your walk and flick through magazines to get some idea of how models pose.
 If you have waited a month and still not heard anything, you can safely assume your application has not been successful. If nobody has accepted you, repeat the process. The majority of agencies do not mind you re-applying (in fact, a lot of agents probably have forgotten your first application with in five minutes of decided to reject it!) provided you wait a decent period of time between applications. Read the agency's website to see if it mentions anything about re-applying. If it doesn't, wait at least six months. However, don't make the same mistakes over. Change your look. Tone up. Get professional photographs done. Freelance for some experience in-between applications. Apply to different agencies. Re-work your cover letter. Apply by mail instead of e-mail. Whatever you think may have held you back last time, change it this time!

