 It's easy to take your spouse for granted. If you see someone every day, you may forget to keep them informed on what's going on with you. However, sharing small things about your day-to-day life can help foster feelings of friendship.Keep your spouse involved in your day-to-day life. They should know what's going on with you, emotionally and otherwise. Make a habit of checking in. Ask things like, "How was your day?" after work.
Share your own emotions as well. Let your spouse know about the interesting thing that happened at work, how you're feeling about an upcoming event, and your daily emotions. For example, share an anecdote about a funny thing a co-worker said at lunch.;
, In the business of day-to-day life, it can be hard to remember to simply spend time together. Small things, like watching a movie or going on dates, are important. They can help keep your friendship with your spouse strong long term.Look for gaps in your schedule. Are you both free Saturdays? Are Thursday nights less work intensive? See where you can find time for one another.
Do things together. Whether it's a regular Friday night date night, or simply agreeing to watch half an hour of television together each night, small interactions are important for a strong relationship.
 Eating is an easy way to foster friendship. As you need to eat each day to maintain the energy for work and other events, why not eat with your spouse? Regular meals together can help foster feelings of friendship, love, and togetherness.If possible, find one meal you can share together no matter what. For example, you could both agree to get up an hour earlier each morning to eat breakfast together.
If you're both too busy to eat a meal together each day, find one day a week where it's plausible to eat together. For example, you could agree on having lunch with your spouse every Thursday.
 Play is as important to adults as it is to children. It can foster feelings of love and friendship. Incorporate play into your daily interactions. Identify activities you both enjoy and try to do them together.Play can mean different things to different people. Think about what you enjoy doing. Do you both like long walks? You could try taking a walk together each weekend.
Create a plan if necessary. For example, you both enjoy eating out and seeing movies. For a full evening, this may end up costing you around $100 if you go to a nice restaurant and then see a film, purchasing refreshments in the process. Make a point of putting away about $20 a week to save up for a movie and dinner at the end of the month.
 Technology can be a wonderful way to foster friendship. If you have a cell phone or a laptop, use this to talk to your spouse throughout the day. You can send your spouse quick texts about how your day is going and ask them what's going on with them.If you and your spouse have to maintain a long distance relationship for a period of time, technology can help with this as well. Use your laptop or smart phone to video chat with your spouse, for example.
 Communication is important in a marriage. You should talk to your spouse regularly to maintain your friendship, especially if there is something bothering you. Look for a time to talk when your spouse will be free and relaxed.For example, you do not want to demand your spouse's full attention while they're on their way to bowling night with their friends. This is unlikely to go over well. Wait for a better time to talk.
Instead, let your spouse know you want to talk on a Saturday afternoon when neither of you have other obligations.
 During communication, you should listen as much as you talk. If you want to nurture a friendship between you and your spouse, listen with the goal of understanding your spouse better and fostering empathy.Do not interrupt when your spouse is expressing themselves. Do things like maintain eye contact and nod on occasion to show you're listening.
Repeat what your spouse said when they finish talking and ask questions to make sure you understood. For example, say something like "I'm hearing you're stressed out at work" or "Is all this stress because of your boss or other factors?"

, Honesty is the most important part of any relationship, and dishonesty will eventually lead to problems and may even end a relationship. If you notice dishonesty, address it right away. Talk to a mental health professional for help. When talking to your spouse, be honest about how you're feeling. Do not hold back, especially if something is bothering you. It's best to address problems head on.The truth can hurt, but it's important in a healthy relationship. If your spouse did something that hurt you, say so. For example, "I know maybe you didn't mean anything by it, but it hurt my feelings that you went to see that movie without asking if I wanted to go with you."
In turn, be willing to admit when you're wrong and offer an honest apology. For example, "I'm sorry. I didn't realize you wanted to join us for the movie. I will try to remember to ask you next time."

, Conflicts will arise and you can damage your relationship with your spouse by attacking or blaming them. Use statements that begin with "I" rather than "you" when addressing something that's bothering you. This way, you're focusing on your own feelings rather than objective judgment.For example, do not say, "You get really distant when you're busy with work and it shuts me out." This can sound accusatory.
Instead, say, "I feel shut out when you're busy with work because you're a little distant."

, Good friends do not keep score. Friends have confidence things will balance out in the end. They do not keep track of gestures to make sure everything is perfectly equal. Do not do this with your spouse.For example, try not to keep track of who initiated the last date night or who got the better birthday present. Such things are not important.
Remember, you and your spouse both have unique strengths and weaknesses. Keep these in mind. Maybe you usually plan date nights, but your spouse simply isn't great at planning. Maybe your spouse does certain things better than you, like buying more sentimental gifts.
 Appreciation can help to solidify a positive relationship.Friends need to feel appreciated in a longterm relationship. If you want to maintain a friendship with your spouse, show them you appreciate them. Express the things you like about them each day. It can be easy to take someone for granted in a longterm romance. Appreciation is key to avoiding this.For example, say something to your spouse like, "I always appreciate how you remember to turn the coffee pot on in the morning when you get up before me. Even though you don't drink coffee, you remember how much I like it."

, Make sure you appreciate and care for your spouse as much as they care for you. Try to listen as much as you talk and make an equal effort to spend time with your spouse. If things start to feel one sided, talk it out. Think of concrete ways you can find the balance again.For example, maybe your spouse feels you've been busy with work lately and haven't been communicating as much. The two of you can agree to find a time to go out together and talk regularly.
 Good friends root for one another. Be your spouse's personal cheerleader. Encourage them to pursue their dreams and celebrate their achievements.For example, your spouse is a budding writer. Encourage them to submit to literary journals. Give them the time they need to write.
If they get accepted into a journal, do something to celebrate. Buy them a nice dinner or have a small get together with friends.
 Things like birthdays, anniversaries, and other big events should be celebrated in a strong friendship. Make a point of doing something for big events, even something small. If your spouse does not love big birthday parties, for example, at least make them a nice breakfast in the morning.Make a point of surprising your spouse once in a while too. This will help to keep things interesting and exciting, while also letting them know that you appreciate them. For example, you may want to surprise them with concert tickets, breakfast in bed, or a small gift.

