 How will you talents assist you in your new business? Decide which of the above you are best suited for and what you are most interested in. That decision will determine your primary function as a children’s entertainer.;
, The best, most professional entertainers will take the market. The others will not last long.
 Research the children's market in your business area. Check the demographics for your area. You need to have an area where there are many families with children that can and are willing to pay for your services, which doesn't mean the wealthiest, just child-centered.
 You probably need a business license from the city, county or the state. If you have a home-based business you may need a home business occupation permit. You will need liability and may have other insurance needs. Some training schools may provide liability insurance.
 Purchase the supplies you will need for your work. For example, a balloon artist will need balloons and a balloon pump. Don't let anyone talk you into buying expensive supplies, costumes or other merchandise you do not need for your business. Purchase low cost costumes or have a seamstress make them for you. Start simple and keep your profits high.
 Attending a reputable school will enhance your credibility. There are several schools available that provide training in each specialty of the children's entertainment market. Ideally, you want the instructors to be someone who is currently working professionally in that specialty to keep them up to date. Take pictures of your school experience for a portfolio. Avoid schools with low tuition but whose primarily purpose is selling supplies to the students. Your purpose for attending a school is for your training and not to enhance their sales. You need to control the cost of your supplies.
 They are hired for banquets, trade shows, fairs, theme parks, schools, carnivals, company parties, health fairs, restaurants, cruise ships, birthday parties, hospitals, libraries, community organizations, baptism parties, store grand openings, housing developments, Sweet 16 parties, school holiday parties, resorts, and senior facilities. To protect yourself you should have a signed contract for each job you do. Beware of working for another entertainer or an agent. It is a gray area and can cause you problems with the IRS. This is because of recent changes in subcontracting laws and the emphasis on improper classification enforcement at this time.
 You can use the pictures from your school training and any other pictures you are allowed to take on your jobs. To gain initial experience you can do volunteer work at community functions, hospitals, your kid's school, etc. Ask if you can take pictures there as well. Some restaurants will let you work there for tips only. That is a good way to establish yourself as an entertainer in your area.
 Use your portfolio information to establish a website. Many people use the Internet to find the services they want. Be sure to create a local listing on the search engines. A good website will help you by attracting the search engines such as Google and cause your site to be viewed often. There are also sites on the Internet that will advertise your site for a low monthly fee.
 But the good news is that the best will prevail and the others will fail. This will take the children's market to a higher level and provide a good income to those who are skilled and operate in a legal and professional manner. The parents and children will benefit because of the greater safety provided by a skilled, ethical entertainer.

