 If you didn’t get a part, try volunteering for the theater crew. If you enjoy theater and dream of doing it professionally one day, taking a backstage role for this production could teach you things about the theater that may come in handy in the future.


Even if you don’t anticipate pursuing theater as a career, learning more about what goes on behind the scenes at a production can help you appreciate shows that you see even more.
Working backstage will give you the chance to build skills that go far beyond the stage, including those in business, technology, management, and design.
 Working on costumes for a play may mean you learn some new sewing skills, or you may spend time hunting through dress racks at the thrift store. No matter what you do, you will be creating an important component of the theater experience.


Your work will help set the mood and era of a play. A character’s costume helps further develop the character by giving the audience clues to their social status, age, or occupation, among other things., As a member of the set design crew, it will be your job to develop the scenery for the play. All props and background scenery will become your responsibility.You may learn basic carpentry skills as you build sets.
You may raid your grandma’s attic looking for useful props.
You may paint huge background scenes to be displayed behind the actors.
 Learn more about the technology of the theater by working on the production’s sound and lighting. You will gain good technical experience and provide essential enhancements to the show itself.


A sound designer will work with actors to amplify their voices, as well as acquire any necessary sound effects or music needed in the production. Sounds can help establish time and place, change the mood, or create audience expectation.Working on the lighting helps create mood, shifts emphasis from one character to the next, establishes time, and makes the actors and scenery clearly visible to the audience., The “house,” or the physical theater and lobby itself, can give you some business and hospitality experience. You can sell tickets, help people find their seats, and distribute programs.You could also work in promoting the show by designing flyers and posters to be placed around your school and in your community. You could learn how to reach out to the media to inform them of the upcoming performance.You could design the programs used for the performance.

