 Many states have fill-in-the-blank forms you can file to modify alimony, and these forms can help guide your research and understanding of your case.If you can't find a form, you may be able to find motions to modify alimony that were filed in other cases in the same court that you can use as a guide, but make sure you adapt the language to fit your particular situation.;
, Since alimony laws differ widely among states, you must first check your state's law to find out if alimony can even be terminated at all, and if so, under what circumstances.


In some states such as Utah, the obligation to pay alimony ends, regardless of any change in the receiving spouse's financial needs, if he or she lives together with someone else in a romantic relationship.However, in other states, courts review the circumstances more closely and may not terminate alimony even if the receiving spouse is cohabiting with someone else.The typical test courts use to determine whether the alimony you pay should be reduced or terminated because your ex-spouse lives with someone else looks at whether the relationship is permanent or marriage-like.The primary consideration generally is whether the financial needs of your ex-spouse have changed due to the new living situation, so you also must prove that their cohabitation comes with economic consequences.However, often simply sharing expenses is not enough--your ex-spouse could have a roommate with whom he or she shared living expenses, but this typically does not rise to the level necessary to end alimony. In these states, cohabitation means the two have a long-term romantic relationship.
When deciding whether alimony should be terminated because of cohabitation, courts look at factors such as whether the couple lives together, how long they've lived together, their intimate or romantic involvement, whether they have any shared accounts, purchases, or investments, and how the community views their relationship., Since you typically have the initial burden of proving that your ex-spouse is cohabiting with a new partner, you must provide the court with sufficient evidence of cohabitation.


Keep in mind that this may involve hiring a private investigator to watch the house and report back with photos or other evidence that demonstrates the other person lives there, such as the cars being in the driveway, the other person getting the mail, or the other person leaving the house to work every morning.In many circumstances, it can be difficult if not impossible to prove that your ex-spouse is cohabiting with a new significant other. You should assume your ex-spouse will not admit to cohabitation because he or she knows that making such an admission would result in a reduction of alimony payments. Additionally, he or she may be keeping the relationship a secret or attempting to hide it so alimony can continue.Aside from hiring a private investigator, you may be able to find out quite a bit of information on your own. For example, you can look at your ex-spouse's social media accounts to find evidence of how the relationship is classified or what friends say about the relationship. He or she may have posted pictures with the new significant other, or there may have been an official change in relationship status on his or her account.If you and your ex-spouse have children together, find out whether the new partner shares parenting duties. For example, he or she may pick up the kids from school, or attend sporting events or other extra-curricular activities to support the children.If your kids are old enough, you might consider asking them about the role this person plays in their lives.
 Because alimony modification can be complex, an experienced family law attorney may be best suited to ensure your rights are protected.


The standard by which your motion is evaluated may vary depending on when your divorce order was issued, how long you've been paying alimony, how your alimony was classified by the court, and other factors. A family law attorney with experience in alimony modifications will understand all the elements that come into play and how best to argue your case before the court.
 In addition to your basic motion, the court will have a certificate of service and other documents that must be filed at the same time.


Additionally, the document through which you request modification of the original alimony order differs among states. Some states refer to this document as a complaint or petition, while in others it is a motion.
If your state requires the filing of a complaint or petition, this typically is considered the beginning of a new court case rather than a continuation of an old one. As a result, there may be other forms you need and the filing fees may be greater.
If your court has limited forms available and you have to create your motion from scratch, look at other motions filed in the same court so you can make sure you've formatted it correctly. Typically you'll want to type rather than hand-write your motion using a standard font such as Times New Roman.Check other motions filed in the same court as well as the court's rules (available from the clerk or on the court's website) to ensure you're using the correct font size, line spacing, and margins.
 Typically the caption of your motion will be the same as the caption on your divorce documents.


If you don't have fill-in-the-blank forms, you can use the format from your divorce decree as a guide. Keep in mind that even though you're filing this motion, typically the name of the case will stay the same. So, for example, if your wife filed the initial complaint for divorce, she remains the plaintiff here.Likewise, the court's name and location and the file or reference number will be the same as that of your original divorce case., Whether you are the plaintiff or defendant generally depends on your role in the original divorce case.


Begin your motion by providing your name and whether you are the plaintiff or defendant. In some jurisdictions you also should indicate the state or county where you reside.State that you are moving the court to modify its previous order and reduce or terminate your alimony obligations for the reasons you set forth., To proceed further with a reduction or termination of alimony, you must make a prima facie ("on its face") showing of cohabitation.In most states such as California and New Jersey where modification of alimony is allowed based on cohabitation, the courts use a burden-shifting process. Essentially, as the moving party you must show that your ex-spouse's circumstances have changed enough (as a result of his or her cohabitation with someone else) since the divorce was granted to justify a change in the alimony order.Once you've made this showing, the burden of proof shifts to your ex-spouse. He or she must prove the arrangement doesn't result in enough of an economic benefit to justify the reduction or termination of alimony.Courts call this shifting burden of proof a "rebuttable presumption." When you provide sufficient evidence that your ex-spouse's economic situation has changed as a result of the cohabitation, the court presumes that the amount of alimony you pay should be reduced or eliminated because of that change. It is then up to your ex-spouse to rebut that presumption by proving that he or she still has the same or similar financial need as when the divorce was finalized., Once you've presented your case, you can close your motion or petition by requesting the court reduce or terminate your alimony obligation.


Your closing sentence should be a separate paragraph from the rest of your motion, beginning with a phrase such as "for the foregoing reasons."You also may choose to simply ask the court to modify the previous order., You'll want to leave some space to sign your name and type your name and contact information below the signature space.


If your court has forms for you to use, these areas may already be formatted. Typically you still will have to type your name and address under the signature line.Check to see if there are notary public blocks included on the forms or on examples you've found. If a notary block is included, this means the document must be signed in the presence of a notary before it can be filed., Some jurisdictions require you to sign your documents in the presence of a notary public.


If the court requires you to include any affidavits or other documents, these often must be notarized.Additionally, some jurisdictions require any documents filed to be verified if you are not represented by an attorney. You must sign your court paperwork in front of a notary public to have the document verified.
Once you've signed your documents and notarized as required, make at least two copies of everything you intend to file with the court. You will need one copy to serve on your former spouse and one copy for your records; the clerk will keep the originals for the court record.Some courts may require additional copies. You can find out from the clerk how many copies you'll need., In most cases you can use certified mail to serve the motion on your spouse.


You typically must fill out a certificate of service or request for service document to file with the court along with your motion. The clerk of court will have blank forms that you can use for this purpose, or you may be able to download one from the court's website.Although using certified mail typically is easier, you may also choose to use the sheriff's department or a private process serving company to serve the documents on your former spouse personally. If you do so, this method should be indicated on your certificate or request for service.Keep in mind that if you choose personal service, you typically must pay a small fee to the sheriff's department or process server before the documents will be delivered.Hold on to the certified mail returned receipt when you get it, because you will need it to fill out proof of service and file with the court.
 You generally must file your motion in the clerk's office of the same court that issued your divorce decree.You will have to pay a filing fee, which typically will be under $100. If you are unable to pay the filing fee, you may be able to have the fees waived. The clerk will have an application that you'll have to fill out and provide the court with information about your finances to find out if you qualify for a fee waiver., Some courts may require you and your ex-spouse participate in mediation or a settlement conference before the judge will hear your motion.The clerk will be able to tell you what else is required from you when you file your motion. In some cases, you may have a hearing scheduled right away, while in others, you must contact the clerk to schedule a hearing after service is completed.Even if the court doesn't order mediation, you might still consider it as an alternate means to resolve the dispute. Litigating a motion to modify alimony can be a very expensive, stressful, and time-consuming endeavor, and mediation can allow you to come to an agreement more quickly and in a more amicable way., Most courts provide a limited discovery period before your hearing so you can gather information to prove cohabitation.


Financial records and documents are the main sources of information you must request from your ex-spouse. You have the best chance of having your alimony obligation reduced or terminated if your ex-spouse and his or her new partner are demonstrably sharing financial obligations and have joint accounts or bills.If the court is going to look at how the cohabiting couple's family and friends view their relationship, you may have to get depositions from people close to them to learn this information and find out other facts about the general perception of the relationship.If your ex-spouse's paramour claims he or she does not live with your ex-spouse, you may need to request other documents as well, such as utility statements, to determine whether he or she does in fact live somewhere else.For example, extraordinarily low utility bills each month generally would be an indication that no one is living in the residence and only minimal water and electricity is being used asa result.
If third parties have knowledge of facts related to your ex-spouse's new relationship, you may want to call them as witnesses. Check with the court clerk about the process for having a subpoena issued for anyone you intend to call as a witness.
 You must show up in court on the date your hearing is scheduled or your motion will be dismissed.


Try to arrive at the courthouse at least 30 minutes early so you have time to go through security and find the courtroom where the hearing is being held.Organize all your papers and the evidence you want to present before you arrive, so you can find anything you need easily without disrupting or delaying the court. If you plan to present any documents, make sure you have at least three copies – one for you, one for the judge, and one for your ex-spouse., Since you filed the motion, typically you will be the first party to tell your side of the story to the judge and explain what you want the judge to do.


You may call witnesses to testify on your behalf, if there are others who have knowledge of the situation that supports your motion.Speak clearly and succinctly, and stick to the facts. Avoid getting overly emotional or throwing insults or accusations at your ex-spouse.Speak only to the judge (or the witness, if you're asking questions), and don't interrupt when the judge is speaking. If the judge asks you a question, allow him or her to finish before you begin your answer. Address the judge as "your honor.", After you've finished presenting your case, your ex-spouse will have the opportunity to present details about his or her situation.


Don't interrupt your ex-spouse when he or she is speaking, and try to be respectful. Each of you get the chance to tell your respective sides of the story.Typically you will have the opportunity to cross-examine your ex-spouse and any witnesses he or she calls to the stand. Remember that you are only allowed to ask questions; you shouldn't use cross-examination as an excuse to badger or insult your ex-spouse., Once both sides have presented their evidence to the judge, the judge decides whether to grant your motion.


Essentially, the judge must decide whether the ex-spouse is capable of surviving without alimony payments as originally ordered.Keep in mind that while the judge may decide to reduce your alimony payments, judges seldom terminate alimony entirely on the basis of cohabitation.Even if the judge rules in your favor, understand that if the cohabitation ends for any reason, your ex-spouse typically can return to court and ask for an order resuming full alimony payments.In some states such as Utah, if you prove cohabitation the judge will end your alimony obligation retroactive to the date you filed your motion, which could mean you are entitled to a refund of payments.