 Don’t wait until the last minute. By planning ahead, you can decide on a romantic gesture or present that fits the occasion, and you'll have the time to execute it. It also gives you time to order online if you need to.;
, Take some time to brainstorm three lists: a list of things she likes, a list of things you like about her, and a list of things you have in common, which can include inside jokes or memories. Use these lists as inspiration for gift ideas.


For instance, if you know she loves cooking, you could get her an apron printed with some of your favorite pictures together.
 Many people appreciate practical gifts. Be careful with this option, though; you don’t want to give something too boring or mundane. A good question to ask yourself is, “Is this something she will eventually wind up buying for herself if I don’t?” If the answer is yes, don’t buy it. A good gift should be something she loves and/or can use, but she would not buy for herself.For instance, maybe she keeps eyeing a fancy kitchen gadget, but she never has the extra cash to shell out for it, which would make it the perfect gift.
 It's possible she's intentionally dropped a hint about something she may want. Alternatively, maybe you two have talked about something she's really into lately, which can help guide your gift. Using what she says as a source of gift-giving inspiration will ensure you get her something she genuinely likes, and show her that you listen to what she says.


For instance, maybe she's said, "Taylor Swift's music always makes me happy. I really want to get her new CD."

, If she has one, this is a fantastic resource for figuring out what she wants without asking her directly.Another source could be her Amazon wishlist, if it's public. Just make sure you're not buying her something that she already owns.
 "Love language" is a term used by Gary Chapman to describe what people need to feel loved. If you can figure out your girlfriend's love language, you can get her something she truly wants and make her feel loved. One way you can figure out her love language is to ask her to take a quiz at 5lovelanguages.com. Don't worry, she'll probably find it romantic that you want to know her love language.The first love language is words of affirmation. That means that person feels the most loved when she hears words of appreciation or affection.The second love language is acts of service, which means that person feels the most loved when you do actions for her, such as taking over a chore.The third love language is receiving gifts, which is as it sounds; this person feels loved when you shower her with gifts.For people who value quality time, just spending time with you is the most important thing.For people whose love language is physical touch, being close to you is important, from holding hands to having intimate moments., Use good judgment here; some girls will appreciate your consideration in asking, while others may find it strange. If you do ask her for help, avoid just asking, “What do you want?” Instead, ask her for a list of things or types of things she's had her eye on. This way she won't know exactly what she's getting.