 Unroll a length of deco mesh ribbon, curling it as you go so that it forms a tube. The diameter of the tube should be 9 to 10 inches (23 to 25 cm) wide. Cut the deco mesh to separate the curl from the rest of the spool.









You will need roughly 72 individual curls of deco mesh ribbon to create a full wreath. For a less full wreath, however, you can use 36 to 54 curls.
At minimum, this project requires two rolls of 21-inch by 10-yd (32-cm by 9.1-m) deco mesh ribbon. You can use more than this if you want more colors., Hold four curls of deco mesh ribbon together at the center. Fix them together with a pipe cleaner that matches one of the colors.








For a smaller, less full wreath, create bunches with two or three curls of deco mesh.
Twist the pipe cleaner around the deco mesh curls enough to hold them together securely. Leave enough excess pipe cleaner at the ends to fix the ribbons onto the wreath.
 Tie the center of the bunch to the inner ring of the frame by twisting the pipe cleaner ends around the wire. Twist the pipe cleaners enough to hold the deco mesh in place.









Fluff up the curls once the bunch is attached. Gently bend and position the curls so that half face inward diagonally and half face outward diagonally.
For this project, a 24-inch (61-cm) metal wreath frame works best., Place the bunches around the frame, spacing them apart evenly and twisting them in place using the remaining pipe cleaner ends.








The bunches should be placed a little more than 1 inch (2.5-cm) apart from one another.
It may help to leave a little bit of "wiggle room" between the pipe cleaner and the metal frame. Doing so will allow you to glide the bunches around and reposition them as needed. You can always make the twist tighter after the bunches are all arranged as you would like them to be.
Attach the bunches to both the inner and outer wires of the frame for a full wreath.
 Bend and reposition the curls so that some face diagonally inward and others face diagonally outward. The end result should be a full wreath with no empty space in the center and none of the wire frame visible.







