 If you have to wake up at 6 in the morning, then don't stay up until 1:30am! It's that simple. If you don't want to miss your favourite show, a lot of the shows are recorded and posted on the website for the network. Watch it after school on your computer. Also, you won't be catching up on sleep in class and missing the lesson.;
, It may sound pretty silly but it makes it so you have more time in the morning to get your school work together, do some quick studying, eat breakfast, or anything else that you have trouble getting done because you spent an hour and a half finding an outfit. If your school has a uniform policy, make sure that you have your uniform set out before you go to bed. It will save you the time of going through the closet to find it, which, believe it or not, normally takes 5-10 minutes!

, It will give you energy throughout the day to concentrate. Breakfast can be bacon and eggs, English muffins, or a cereal that is low in sugar (a breakfast burrito is good too)! If you eat in the morning you will concentrate more in class without having those nasty hunger pains.
 You'll find that actually listening to the teacher, no matter how boring it is sometimes, will help you understand your homework.
 If you do step number four then you should understand what you have to do and maybe you'll be able to get it done in class and have more time after school to do other things. Instead of chatting with your best friend, do your work and who knows, maybe your friends will start asking you for help when they don't know what to do.
 If you eat a bag of chips with a few cookies, you're wasting your money, not going to feel good and not going to be able to concentrate on your next few classes. It's also a good way to lose a few pounds for those on that diet to get slimmer before swimsuit season.
 Have you ever seen those kids who always seem to be writing something down in their notebooks, always raising their hands and getting every answer right? Those are their notes! They use them to look back to for studying and to answer questions with.
 Try to get home as soon as you can so you have more time later to hang out with your friends.
 If you don't, you will be distracted by them, and will be tempted to use them. Make sure the place is comfortable enough to work at but not so comfortable that you will fall asleep; make sure it isn't really cold so you get all comfy in a big sweatshirt but make sure it isn't really hot because that will make you really tired.
 Just make sure it doesn't drive you away from the work. Also, keep some "brain food" nearby, like fruits, vegetables, or maybe a sandwich. Just don't use anything messy!

, Look in your agenda and see what you have to do. Example: in math, you have to do page 537, numbers 2-28. So instead of putting it off, just do it! That's only 27 problems!

, Let's say for the same example above, you have three days to complete it. Rather than doing it all in one night, why not just do ten a day?

, The possibilities are endless. Just remember to put your outfit out before you go to bed at night.
 She/He may be surprised to see that you are interested in doing your work.
 Go to the library, and research your topic. Find magazine articles, newspaper clippings,or how they dressed, what they imported/exported,and what were the most important things that happened during that time period. Find key information.
 If you have 1 month to do a book report, spend the next day getting books from the library, 1 week reading it, etc. It's a lot easier when you have a plan.
 Ask them to take you to Walmart, Longs Drugs, or any other store near you that sells tri-fold boards or BIG posters. If you wait until the night before your project is due, you will be in trouble and you may not have enough time to do everything you need to.
 If you get a Tri-Fold Board, put a time-line on one of the tri-fold parts, and on the other one, put the most important thing (if it's a company) they sell and (if it's a time period) how the people dressed and what music they listened to and (if it's a person,artist, or band) their music or any random fun facts about them.
 Do the essay before you do your board. In your essay you always need a topic paragraph, 3 body paragraphs, a conclusion, a bibliography, and a reference page.
 Start out with something that will catch their attention. For example: if it's on the atomic bombs, dress up as a mad scientist or the person who made them and act out what you say, jump around. You could start out with, "BOOM! (Jump towards the students) In (year A to year B) the Atomic Bomb was created! I, (whoever made the atom bomb), was (and so on). " The reports can be really boring when you hear them so try to keep the students awake and not falling asleep. If you see someone starting to get bored, improvise and wake them up!

, Get some help and make your board colorful with bold fonts and rainbow colors.

