 You can use nearly any type of corn as long as the kernels have been properly and thoroughly dried.This tutorial covers the process for whole kernel frozen corn.


The easiest option, however, would be to use uncooked popcorn kernels. You won't need to dehydrate popcorn since it's already adequately dry. Use the same amount of popcorn to kernel corn, and skip directly to the "Grinding" instructions.
You can also use nearly any variety of home-grown corn if you're feeling more adventurous, but the process can be more time consuming since you'll need to dry it on the stalk. Field or dent corn is the preferred variety for this method, but sweet corn could be used, as well.;
, Electric and hand-operated grain mills are the probably your best options since they'll allow you the greatest degree of control for your effort.


Note that hand-operated grain mills may require considerable strength to use, especially when grinding something as large and coarse as corn.
For small amounts, you could use a mortar and pestle, spice grinder, or coffee grinder.If you don't have an actual grain mill, high-powered blenders (Blendtec, Vitamix, etc.) may also work.Standard blenders are not strong enough, though, so you should avoid using one for this process.
 Open one 16-oz (450-g) bag of frozen corn kernels. Spread the corn over one dehydrator tray, keeping it in an even layer.


You can dry the corn directly from its frozen state. If some of the kernels are fixed together by ice, though, gently tap the chunks of corn on your counter or table to break them apart.
 Place the dehydrator tray into the dehydrator and set the temperature.Since the temperature needs to be so low, it's really best to perform this process using an actual dehydrator rather than an oven. Most ovens will not reach low enough temperatures to dry the corn without cooking it.
 Check the corn kernels after 6 hours pass. Remove it from the dehydrator if it's completely dry; otherwise, continue dehydrating the corn as needed, checking it every 30 to 60 minutes.


To check the status of the corn, take a few kernels and try to manipulate them between your fingers. Properly dried kernels should no longer feel pliable
If the corn doesn't feel pliable anymore, perform a second test by dropping a few kernels on a hard surface, like a counter or table. They should make a distinctive "click" sound when ready., If you plan to make the cornmeal immediately, simply transfer the dehydrated corn to a medium mixing bowl and set it aside. Otherwise, place the corn into an airtight plastic bag or container.


Resealable plastic bags work well enough if you plan to make cornmeal within a week or two, but for longer storage, use a canning jar or an airtight plastic container.
You can store the dry corn at in dry, dark, room temperature conditions if you plan to use it within a month. For longer storage, consider keeping it in your refrigerator or freezer.
 Adjust the mill plates/stones to the machine's coarsest setting. Place the dried corn into the hopper, then crank the handle to grind it through the machine.Make sure that you have a bowl or other container beneath the grain mill to collect the processed corn.
When using an electric grain mill, you'll need to switch on the power instead of turning a handle.
The exact method for adjusting the mill plates will vary by machine, so you'll need to consult the instructions for your grain mill to determine the proper procedure. Usually, though, you can adjust the coarseness using a knob on the side of the machine.
Note that you should work in batches of about 2 cups (500 ml), which is the approximate amount used in these instructions. When making larger quantities of cornmeal, work inn multiple batches.
 Dump the coarsely ground corn into a fine-mesh strainer. Gently agitate the strainer from side to side to separate the finely ground pieces from the coarser chunks.Ideally, you should use a mesh strainer with gaps measuring between 1/32 and 1/16 inch (0.8 and 1.5 mm). Larger mesh strainers may pass pieces that are too coarse to be classified as meal.
Collect the small pieces that pass through in a separate bowl placed beneath the strainer. Return the larger pieces caught in the strainer to the hopper of the grain mill.
 Adjust the mill plates again, setting them to a medium-grade coarseness. Grind the large pieces of cracked corn through the mill as before.


It's important to change the coarseness to a finer setting during this step; otherwise, too few of the larger pieces won't be ground down any further.
 Transfer the newly ground corn pieces back to the fine mesh strainer. Rock the strainer from side to side, allowing the finest pieces to pass through into the previous collection bowl for your cornmeal.


You'll likely collect more cornmeal during this sifting than you collected during the first, but in most cases, you'll still be left with a notable amount of coarse grain caught in strainer.
 Adjust the grain mill once more, setting the machine to medium-fine consistency. Return the larger pieces of ground corn to the hopper, then grind them through the machine a third time.


While the machine needs to be set to a finer degree of coarseness, you'll probably need to avoid using the finest setting. Even at cornmeal consistency, ground corn can be too coarse to pass through most mills' finest setting.
 Sift the ground corn through the mesh strainer one more time, collecting the fine meal in your original bowl and retaining the coarser grits.


At this point, you should have more cornmeal than leftover grits, and the amount of cornmeal should roughly match the original amount of dried corn you began with.
If you're still not satisfied with the amount of cornmeal produced, however, you can pass through the coarse grits through your grain mill one more time. Afterward, sift them again using the mesh strainer. The amount of cornmeal produced by a fourth pass will likely be less than the amount produced by the previous two passes. Moreover, beyond a fourth pass, additional passes through the grain mill may become even less beneficial.
If you're okay with the amount of leftover grits, however, consider saving them and preparing them as you would prepare store-bought grits.
 You can use the cornmeal immediately after you make it. In fact, using it the same or next day will allow you to retain the maximum amount of nutrients and flavor.


Use homemade cornmeal in any recipe calling for cornmeal, including cornbread, cornmeal mush, and cornmeal-based fish batter.
 Cornmeal you don't plan to use immediately can be transferred into freezer-safe containers and stored in your freezer.


Pack the cornmeal into an appropriate jar or other container, leaving about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace. Close the jar and place it into your freezer, storing it there for as long as 9 to 12 months.
You can usually use the cornmeal directly from the freezer without thawing it, but for temperature-sensitive recipes, thaw it at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes before use.
 This is another way to save leftover cornmeal that should prevent it from turning rancid.


The best way to vacuum-seal cornmeal is with the use of an actual vacuum-sealing machine and the appropriate bags or storage containers. Exact instructions will vary by machine.
If you do not have the actual machine, however, you can mimic the process using standard plastic bags.

Place the cornmeal in a heavy-duty resealable plastic bag. Press out as much air as possible, then seal the bag, leaving only 1 inch (2.5 cm) of open space along the seal.
Suck out as much of the remaining air through a straw inserted into the opening. Do this step carefully to avoid accidentally inhaling bits of cornmeal.
When finished, quickly remove the straw and seal the remainder of the opening.


Vacuum-sealed bags of cornmeal can be stored in dark, dry, slightly cool conditions for up to 9 or 12 months.
