 If change moved vertically, we’d all have an easier time making personal modifications. The truth is, change does not typically follow a distinct path and there may be rocks in the road.


For example, in weight loss it is not common for someone to continue to lose weight every single day. Some days you may not lose any weight, and some days you may gain some weight. The key is not letting these inevitable fluctuations cause you to give up on your goal. What is important is that overall, you lose weight over time. Know that you can do anything you put your mind to (that is reasonable of course)!
Make a list of possible setbacks that may occur during your journey toward self-improvement. Identify ways to deal with each setback.
 Dwelling on what you did wrong does not help you achieve goals. However, focusing on what you can do now and in the future helps you to. Instead of letting the rock in your path stop your journey, focus on moving forward and learning how to better deal with rocks in the future. You can go around or jump over the rocks.


For example, if you wanted to lose weight and ending up gaining a pound over the weekend, instead of thinking negatively and giving up on your goal, think something like, "it's okay to have a little fluctuation in weight. I'm going to continue to feed my body healthy foods!"
Unlike what most people think, failure is not evil per se. It is a bad thing in the short run, but it is actually helpful in the long run! That depends on you. So don't fear failure and simply consider them as a potential foundation of a new understanding and strength. There is a reason great people failed a lot.
 Research indicates that individuals who accept their challenges can actually be more motivated toward positive change.Additionally, individuals who affirm or validate themselves often are more able to think about and understand their challenges.Recognize your strengths and your challenges, even if you have to list all of them down.
Understand yourself as an outside observer.Try to objectively look at yourself by observing your behaviors such as how you act, speak, and think around other people.
Assess yourself and what you do regularly. Allocate a time for this at the weekends. Some do that before going to bed every night. See what areas need improvement, and find out how to improve that, then write it down and read that everyday you wake up in the coming week until it is fixed.

