 Snowdrops do best in soil that drains well. If 5 to 6 hours after a heavy rain there are still puddles of water in an area, choose a different spot for your planting. Plan to leave at least 3 in (7.6 cm) between plants. Prioritize locations that receive full sunlight to light shade.Generally, full sunlight means that plants will receive 6 to 8 hours of sun throughout the day.
Watch the location where you'll plant your snowdrops throughout the day. At certain times, the angle of the sun might be blocked by trees or foliage.;
, If your garden is in an area with poor drainage but you still want to plant some snowdrops, you’ll need to add organic material to make the soil more hospitable. Do this by adding peat moss, compost, ground bark, or decomposed manure to raise the soil level at least 2 to 3 in (5 to 7.6 cm).You can find many kinds of organic, soil drainage improving materials (like decomposed manure) at most home and garden centers, nurseries, and florists.
 Use a shovel or a spade to dig holes that are deep enough that the pointed top of the snowdrop bulb will be 2 to 3 in (5 to 7.6 cm) beneath the ground. Remember to keep at least 3 in (7.6 cm) of space between plants.


When inserting a snowdrop bulb into a hole, orient it so the pointed end of the bulb faces upwards.
The best time to plant snowdrop bulbs is in late spring when the initial growth of foliage is dying back.
If you cannot plant your bulbs late in spring, buy grown plants that have just flowered but are still green and use these instead.
Grown snowdrops should be planted in late spring according to their care instructions. Buy these plants from nurseries and garden centers., Water will help the bulb settle in the ground. Expect most bulbs to sprout roots in roughly 1 to 2 weeks. However, even though the roots will be active, snowdrops won’t push up out of the soil until late winter or early spring.


After your initial heavy watering of newly planted bulbs, you’ll only need to lightly water it. In dry spells, you may need to water moderately, but do so cautiously. Snowdrops are sensitive to overwatering., Allow your snowdrops to keep their foliage until it withers and turns yellow. This will allow your plants to absorb and store more energy for next year. Once the leaves have withered, feel free to cut them with garden shears and remove them.


Trimming your snowdrops too early will diminish their health and appearance next year., Use a water-soluble fertilizer a few times throughout fall and winter in the areas your snowdrops will grow. This step is not required, but additional nutrients will enable next years’ plants to grow larger, healthier, and with fuller blooms.


Regular fertilizing can also extend the life of your bulbs. If you want your snowdrops to last as long as possible before having to replant them, be sure to fertilize.