 Nattokinase is an enzyme derived from fermented soybeans. This enzyme acts directly on clots to break them up and it also balances the levels of other chemicals that affect clot formation.There no known side effects of this supplement, but you may want to talk to your doctor about taking it, especially if you are on other medications.Follow the package instructions, but a common dosage is 100mg of nattokinase taken three times a day.;
, Lumbrokinase is another type of enzyme derived from earthworms. This enzyme works like nattokinase by breaking up any blood clots that may form in the veins.Lumbrokinase may cause mild nausea and bloating. Be sure to talk to your doctor before you begin supplementing with lumbrokinase.Follow the package instructions or consult your doctor for a recommendation, but a common dosage amount is 40-80 mg taken twice a day.
 Omega-3 oils contain EPA and DHA, which are omega-3 essential fatty acids. Your body uses these acids for many different purposes, including anti-inflammatory purposes. EPA and DHA prevent platelets from clumping together, which can help to reduce clotting.Try taking an omega-3 supplement or get your omega-3s from seafood like sardines, salmon, mackerel, cod, tuna, and shellfish.
 Evening primrose oil (EPO) contains gamma-linoleic acid, which is an omega-6 essential fatty acid. The way that EPO works to prevent DVT is not clear, but it has been shown to help to reduce clot formation.EPO may also cause mild nausea and diarrhea.Follow the package instructions, but a common dosage is 300mg taken three times a day. Also, make sure that you talk to your doctor if you are on anti-seizure medications, blood pressure medications, antidepressants or blood pressure medications. EPO may interact with some of these.
 Venous insufficiency may cause DVT, so taking supplements that act against this condition may be helpful as well. Bioflavonoids can help with venous insufficiency. Bioflavonoids are plant components that give berries their color, which is why berries are good sources of bioflavonoids. These antioxidants act on the veins to improve circulation, decrease micro-bleeds in capillaries, and reduce inflammation and swelling.


Rutin is a type of bioflavonoid that has been shown to be effective against venous insufficiency.Try taking 1–2 g daily. You may also want to talk to your physician for a dosage recommendation and to make sure that rutin will not interfere with any of your medications.
 Bromelain is an enzyme that is derived from pineapples. You can also get bromelain from eating fresh pineapple. Bromelain may increase prothrombin time (PT), which may help prevent coagulation.


Talk to your doctor about supplementing with bromelain and for a dosage recommendation. The recommended dosage varies from 80-320 mg two to three times a day.

