 Before even proceeding with making a product, clear away a suitable workspace and ensure that it has been thoroughly cleaned.;
, Every single time that you make a new preparation, be sure to thoroughly wash and dry the equipment that is being used.


It is preferable to keep equipment used for the preparation of handmade cosmetics for this purpose alone, rather than sharing the equipment with other household tasks such as cooking or cleaning.
 Without fail, storage containers should be sterilized in whatever manner is appropriate for the type of container.


This includes lids, stoppers, and any other attachments used with the container.
Glass containers are the easiest to sterilize. See wikiHow's article on how to sterilize glass jars for cosmetic products.
Ensure that the storage container is thoroughly dry prior to use unless the instructions say otherwise.
If you reuse makeup or cosmetics container, wash, dry and re-sterilize them thoroughly.
 The natural ingredients can easily react with the metal or non-stick ingredients.


Stainless steel or enamel are usually suitable for heating, boiling, or steeping plant-based concoctions.
Ceramic and glass are usually ideal for storage, heating (heatproof versions), or steeping plant-based concoctions.
Always use wooden spoons for stirring. These will not react with any of the ingredients.
 Labels are vital because they inform you quickly of the contents of the container, the date of production, and any other information you considered essential to provide. Without labels, it is impossible to remember when a homemade cosmetic was made or whether or not it contains ingredients unsuitable for some people.


Don't rely on your memory. It will fail you!
Keep a list of exact ingredients, especially where the ingredients might cause allergies or should not be used by people with certain medical conditions, or where it is not suitable for pregnant women, breastfeeding mothers, or children.
 Substituting ingredients can change the entire composition of a cosmetic and it won't necessarily be ideal. Follow the advice of the instructions, and only if you are confident that you know enough to deviate, allow yourself to do so.


If using herbs or flowers, fresh versions are usually preferable over the dried versions. Always get recently dried herbs or flowers if you intend on using them instead.

