 Try taking two to three days off from school or work. This helps limit other people's exposure to the virus and also helps you conserve energy to fight off the illness. Staying at home will save you the discomfort of being sick in a place of productivity and give you easy access to all the blankets, hot drinks and other comforts that you'll need to get well again. Also there's less chance of you catching any other illnesses, which is especially important when your immune system has already taken a blow.
 Try telling your doctor about your problem and ask about any medication for you to take. If they offer medicine, be sure to take it on the prescribed basis (most often this will be daily or twice-daily). Specialists for medication will help. They do not offer medicine for all things, usually a cold will go away within 3-7 days. If it is over 7 days, visit your local doctor., Staying hydrated will reduce the effects of many symptoms such as headaches and sore throat, while also preventing dehydration. Hot teas and soups are a good way to increase your liquid intake, while also helping to relieve sinus congestion and reduce inflammation in the nose and throat. Drink enough fluids to quench thirst. Getting enough fluids when you're sick is important, but getting too many may actually force your liver and kidney to work overtime in order to process it.Drink a little more than normal when you're sick, but don't feel like you need to drink 12 or 15 glasses a day.
A good indication that you are drinking enough fluids is that your urine will be almost clear.The deeper yellows imply higher concentrations of waste in your body that are not dissolving and diluting enough - so raise your fluid intake.
Avoid coffee at all costs. It contains caffeine that can run your body into even deeper symptoms of a cold.
 Your body needs all of its resources to fight the cold virus.If you do not give your body the rest it needs, you will do nothing but make yourself feel worse. Take frequent naps and don't overexert yourself with physical activity. Try to keep your head raised while sleeping, as this will assist with the drainage of your nasal passages.Try propping your head up with an extra pillow or cushion in bed - even if it feels a little strange. If your head feels like it's at a funny angle, try placing the second pillow between the sheet and the mattress, or under the mattress itself, so it feels less noticeable.
 Gargling salt water helps to moisten the throat and fight infection, as salt is a natural antiseptic. Try adding a teaspoon of salt to a glass of warm water and stir to dissolve. You can add a little baking soda to help take the "zing" from the salt away. Gargle this solution up to four times a day to temporarily relieve a sore throat. Just make sure the water is not too salty or that you don't do this too often or it could dry out your throat and make symptoms worse. If it's too salty, it will really hurt delicate membranes, your clue to add more water to the mix. Some pain, about as much as getting any water up your nose, is to be expected.
 Using either a humidifier or vaporizer in the room you are resting in can make you more comfortable by keeping the air moist.This is especially helpful if your nasal passages or throat are dry and irritated. Keep in mind that although humidifiers might help soothe your throat, they probably don't help relieve cold symptoms or shorten the duration of the cold.


Some studies have suggested that humidifiers and vaporizers may do more harm than good. That's because humidifiers can spread pathogens, mold, and toxins, in addition to causing nasty burns. Use your own judgement to decide if using a humidifier is right for you., It is important to stay warm during your illness, as a cold can leave you feeling weak and shivery. Wear plenty of layers during the day and cover up with extra blankets when sleeping or resting in bed or on the sofa. Staying warm will not get rid of a cold, but it will help you to feel more comfortable.


It is a long-standing idea that you can "sweat out a cold", but there is little scientific evidence to back this up. Although many runners swear a good run early in the symptoms and the cold never happens.
 These medicines cannot cure a cold, but they can certainly help to relieve symptoms such as headaches, congestion, fever and sore throat. Just be aware that all over-the-counter cold medications have common side effects including nausea, upset stomach, and dizziness. Make sure that you understand the risks associated with any medication you take and consult your doctor if you are currently taking prescription medications for other conditions.


Analgesics (pain killers), including acetaminophen, aspirin, and ibuprofen, may be helpful if your cold is accompanied by muscle aches, headaches or fever.Do not give aspirin to children or teenagers because it is linked to Reye's syndrome.Antihistamines are a common ingredient in many OTC cold and allergy medications, and help to control runny nose and watery eyes.
Cough suppressants, also known as antitussives, stop the body's reflex to cough. Only take them when your cough is dry and non-productive.A productive cough that helps your body eliminate mucus is good and should not be suppressed. Do not give OTC cough medications to children under 4 years old.
Only take over-the-counter medications that contain decongestants if your nasal passage is swollen, making it hard to breathe. They shrink the blood vessels in your nose to open your airway. Antihistamines can make you more comfortable, and will also make you drowsy so you sleep better while ill.
Thin the mucus from your cold with an expectorant so that you can cough it out if it is too thick or heavy to move.
 Tobacco use can temporally weaken the immune systemand increase the severity of many cold symptoms. You should also avoid coffee, caffeinated tea, and soda.
 There has been some scientific evidence to suggest that chicken soup slows down the movement of certain white blood cells which cause the symptoms of a cold.Additionally, the hot liquid from the soup may help clear the nasal passages and soothe your throat.


You should also consider adding a dash of red cayenne pepper to your soup as the heat from the spice will help to clear your head.

