 Stamp your foot hard onto the soil of the patch. If it feels hard on contact, you have a problem with compaction. This means that you will need to consider what is causing the compaction so that it does not reoccur after mending the bare patch.;
, Remove the dried up grasses. Clean up all the spots where the grass is already dried.
 This is best done with a garden fork.
 You can use as much lime as you want. The lime will help bring the acid level down so the grass can grow. Lime is safe to use as it will not burn the grass.
 Don’t use too much grass seed. Make sure that you are using the right type of grass seed for the region you are in.


If you’ve spread a little too much of the seed, just even it out by mixing with the soil.
 Covering the seeds with a little amount of soil or a layer of straw will help hold moisture and warmth and also protect the seeds from being eaten by birds.
 Water daily and keep people and animal from getting into the area while the grass germinates and starts to grow., Plant these into the dug-up soil of the bare patch. Keep well watered once you've shifted the runners into place.
 People and any heavy animals such as horses need to be kept off the repaired patch. Leave the roping off for a while to give the patch time to recover. Continue to keep it well watered but don't fertilise it.
 Here are some thoughts on what else will allow for recovery:


If the problem is high traffic, it is likely that the bare patch will return whatever you do. This means that you will need to consider ways to reroute foot traffic or use objects such as stepping stones to concentrate the foot traffic to one spot only and to discourage stepping on the lawn itself.
If shade is the problem, select a shade-happy variety of lawn unless the shade is constant and always cold, in which case, you might consider paving the area instead, as no lawn likes constant shade.
If it is poultry, create an area of the garden just for them, to keep them from tearing up the lawn to get at grubs and make dust baths. And if Fido keeps lying on the same spot, rubbing in the dirt, it's time to shift Fido to his own spot in the yard too.
If it is lawn grubs, treat the problem and have them removed. There are non-chemical possibilities; ask at an informed garden centre about the options.

