 The "action" of a guitar refers to the height of the strings off the fretboard. Players with a light touch can usually get away with lower action, while heavy players may need more height to prevent rattling strings. The most important thing is that the string height is comfortable for you and that you do not have any fret buzz. If you have a couple of guitars try these procedures on the least precious one first and then attempt it on your treasure.










Start by measuring the distance from the bottom of the string to the first fret. This will help you determine whether the nut slots have been cut to the proper depth. If this measurement does not match up or come close to spec, you should take your guitar in to have this done. The string height at the twelfth fret will determine if your saddle should be raised our lowered. Here are the some standard specifications for electrics:

1st fret treble side - 1/64" or .0156 (0.397 mm)
1st fret bass side - 2/64" or .0313 (0.794 mm)
12th fret treble side - 3/64" or .0469 (1.191 mm)
12th fret bass side - 5/64" or .0781 (1.984 mm)



, Assuming that your truss rod is adjusted properly, and that the angle of your neck is correct, adjust the height of your treble E string so that it barely clears a standard US dime placed on the 12th fret. A dime is slightly less than 2/32" (1.6 mm)) thick. You may want a slightly lower action, if you can manage it.










The G and B strings are adjusted similarly, but the bass E, and the A and D strings, which are coiled, can be further from the fretboard.
 Your guitar may be in tune on the first 12 frets, but when you get past the 12th fret and strike a chord it may sound terrible. If this occurs, you will know that you need to set your intonation. To do this, you will need to have a bridge that has adjustable saddles. Usually there will be screws on the bottom of the bridge that adjust the saddles forward or back, away from the top of the guitar. You should always set the intonation as the very last step of setting up your guitar, because every other adjustment that you make will change the intonation of your instrument.










To make adjustments, get your tuner and start on the low E string, checking the 12th fret harmonic (the note just above the fret), and the actual twelve fret E note. These should be the same. If they are not you will need to adjust the distance.

If the twelfth fret tone is higher than natural octave overtone, then lengthen the string by moving the saddle back towards the tailpiece.
If the twelfth fret tone is lower than the octave overtone, then you will have to shorten the string length and move the saddle up toward the top of the guitar.


Repeat this process for the rest of the strings and you'll have a fairly well intonated guitar. If you are a perfectionist, you can take your guitar into a repair shop that has a strobe tuner for even better accuracy.
 If a few specific frets buzz while you play them, you may have uneven frets. If you're brave, you can try to improve your frets by leveling them. First, make sure that your truss rod, action and neck angle are all set up properly; a neck with too much bow can exacerbate uneven frets. Then, if any frets are coming up, you can reset them with a plastic mallet.










If that's still not enough, you can sand down your frets. Make sure that your neck is as straight as possible (but don't break the truss rod) and make sure your guitar is resting on a flat surface, then cover your fingerboard and nearby finished surfaces with tape to protect them, leaving exposed only the frets. Get a sanding block with 100 grade sandpaper. You must then sand all the frets simultaneously with the sanding block. With the sanding block flat on the frets, any taller fret will get sanded down to the same height as the other ones.
If your frets are in very bad shape, leveling your frets will be too difficult and you may have to refret, that is, change all the frets on your neck. This is both hard and expensive, making it economical to consult a luthier for the job.
 The most important adjustment which is unique to the Floyd Rose, is to make sure that the tremolo bridge is properly balanced. First, check your truss rod as well as the angle of your neck and body. With your guitar tuned, look carefully at your tremolo bridge. It should be parallel to the body. If that is not the case, you must adjust the springs which are in the back of the guitar.










Tune your guitar again, and check the tremolo bridge. Repeat until the tremolo bridge is parallel to the body. Once that step has been performed, you must then re-tune, readjust the action, and finally the intonation. As you adjust the intonation, it is possible that the tremolo bridge will move and that the springs will need to be readjusted, in which case you will have to redo the intonation.
