 Although the refrigerator can be a handy place to hang recipes, notes, report cards, chip clips, and so on, these items can easily get transferred to your counter and forgotten. In some cases, things might get knocked loose and set on the counter. Keep your fridge clear of these sorts of things to prevent them from becoming counter clutter.

By keeping your refrigerator clear of these items, it will also contribute to the clutter-free atmosphere of your kitchen and counters., This can be something of a chore, especially if you're putting away heavy appliances, like a coffee maker. But when you tuck appliances away in cupboards or cabinets after using them, it can significantly reduce the cluttered appearance of your countertops.

A closet nearby your kitchen is another useful, out-of-sight place you can store large appliances typically left out on the counter.
When storing heavy appliances in cabinets, be careful that you don't overload the shelves. Doing so may cause the shelf to collapse, resulting in damage to your appliances., This can be difficult for some. If you’re the type of person who hates seeing things go to waste, you might donate your unused kitchen items to a secondhand store, to a friend, or to a relative. In many cases, things that you use less than once a year can be disposed of.If you have younger relatives just starting or finishing college, ask them if they could use any of your kitchen items before throwing these away. It’s likely they might need something you have.
 The kitchen is generally a central room in the home. Because of this, sometimes items that don’t necessarily belong there find their way into the kitchen. These items may include things like toys, vacuum cleaners, work materials, jackets (especially when draped on chairs), hats, and so on.Distribute these items throughout your home. You can keep the clutter from migrating from your kitchen counters elsewhere by following the motto “every thing in its place, and a place for every thing” and applying this to the rest of your home.

