 When you learn that you have a chronic illness, you may be surprised by the range of emotions you experience. Experiencing this range of emotions is normal. These emotions are often similar to the emotions that someone feels when they lose a loved one. Some of the emotions you might experience include:Denial
Desperation
Anger
Depression
Anxiety
Confusion

, People who suffer from a chronic illness often experience a cycle of grief and loss due to their illness and its effects. The grief may be the result of a loss of function, concerns about dying, or changes in their relationships. Keep in mind that these feelings are a normal part of this process.Look for ways to cope with your grief. For example, you might find it helpful to start a journal to express your feelings, or start a creative hobby to help you express your feelings, such as painting or playing an instrument.
 There are many emotions that you might feel when you are diagnosed, but no matter how you feel, you can take charge of your illness. While there may be parts of your life that you cannot control, think about the things in your life that you can control, such as your diet, exercise, hobbies, and social activities. Before each visit with your doctor, prepare a list of questions for your doctor.You might ask:


Can I still do my favorite activities, such as sports, hiking, gardening, etc.?
What are the side effects of the medication? Is there any way I can reduce my risk of these side effects?
Other than taking my medicine, what can I do to relieve my symptoms?
Should I exercise? If so, what types of exercise are most beneficial for this condition?

, The first step to combating negative emotions is to understand what they are. Many people feel fear, anxiety, anger, and depression after their diagnosis, but these can be overcome.Some ways that you can confront your emotions include:


Writing daily in a journal
Meditating
Talking to family and friends

, When you are suffering from a chronic illness, taking good care of yourself is crucial. Make sure that you are doing things to benefit your physical, emotional, and spiritual health on a daily basis. Some things you can do to take good care of yourself include:



Eating healthy foods.

Exercising regularly, such as by taking a daily walk.

Using relaxation techniques to manage stress, such as deep breathing, yoga, or meditation.

Getting plenty of sleep.
Doing things that make you happy, such as engaging in a favorite hobby or spending time with friends.
 Focusing on who you are outside of your illness helps you feel like a human being, not a list of symptoms, treatments and test results.If you are feeling sad about your illness, do an activity that you love or call a family member. To help you focus on your identity outside of your illness, you might consider asking yourself:


What are my talents and strengths? What special skills do I have?
Who do I love in my life? Who do I have that I can depend on? Who depends on me?
What do I love to do? What hobbies do I have?
What are three words that I would use to describe myself?

, Medications and other treatments can keep your symptoms under control, but you might have periods where your symptoms will flare up. These flares could be caused by changes to your medication or treatment plan, disruptions in your schedule, physical changes within your body, or exposure to something, such as an allergen, that triggers an attack. Understand that these flare ups are natural. They do not necessarily mean that your disease is worsening. You might, however, need to contact your physician and make changes to your treatment plan.

