 You can watch movies relating to Passover with your family or children. Not only can this entertain the whole family, but it can serve to remind everyone of the importance of the holiday. It can also open up a discussion the history of the Jewish people and the purpose of Passover.


One good option is the film The Prince of Egypt, which is appropriate and fun for children but also has music and acting excellent enough to entertain an adult.
Another good movie to watch is The Ten Commandments starring Charlton Heston. This is a classic and will appeal to both the young and old.
A good, morn modern movie to watch, especially if your family likes a little more drama, is The Devil's Arithmetic. In this film, a young Jewish girl (played by Kirsten Dunst) who is tired of celebrating Passover is magically transported back in time to a Nazi camp. She learns the true meaning of struggle, the importance of remembering, and the value of family and heritage.
 You can sing Passover songs, either modern or traditional, on your own or with your family or friends. Many can easily be found on Youtube but here are three good ones:


A good traditional song for the whole family is Dayenu, which is upbeat and great for singing as a group.
Shalom Sesame (A Jewish subset of Sesame Street) made an excellent Passover film that contains lots of great songs for young kids.
For fun takes on modern songs, listen to The Ein Prat Fountainheads "Dayenu, Coming Home" or The Maccabeats "Les Misérables, A Passover Story".
 There are a number of crafts you can make with children which will get them involved with and excited about the holiday, as well as allowing them to feel necessary and helpful.


Make a matzo house. This can be done similarly to making a gingerbread house and makes a great centerpiece. Make it extra exciting for the kids by building the matzo house with chocolate and caramel. Just be sure any candy you use is kosher for Passover.
Make a passover seder plate. You can get your kids to make and decorate a plate and bowls for the seder plate. This can be a good Passover activity for children of any age group.
Make an afikomen bag. You can also make a custom bag for the afikoman. Sew or buy a basic bag and let your kids decorate it with drawings, baubles, or any images related to Passover.

