 To be able to support the enormous number of iPad users, Facebook game developers make it a point to create a separate iOS version of their products, so players won’t be limited to computers alone. Tap the App Store icon from the home screen of your iPad to begin and see all the available applications that can be installed on your iOS device.;
, Enter the name of the Facebook game you’re playing on the search field at the top of the App Store screen, and press the Enter button on your keypad. The iPad version of the game should immediately appear at the top of the result list.


Examples of Facebook games available in the App Store are those developed by King, like Candy Crush Saga.
Keep in mind, though, that compatibility of the iPad version of the Facebook game varies from one app to another. If an iPad version doesn’t appear on your search result, the app is not compatible with your device or the developers might not have a version for your device. If this is the case, you may now skip this entire method and proceed to the next one below.
 Tap the “Install” button next to the title of the iPad app you want to get, and it will automatically be downloaded and installed on your iOS tablet. The installation process can take from as quick as a few seconds up to several minutes, depending on the size of the app you’re downloading and the speed of your Internet connection.


Once the app has been downloaded and installed on your device, tap its icon from the home screen of your iPad to launch it.
 Every iPad version of a Facebook app will require you to log into your Facebook account. This is so that the game can retrieve any progress or data you currently have with the web browser version. If you haven’t played the game yet on a web browser, you still need to sign into your Facebook account so that any progress you make on the iPad version will be automatically synced.


To sign into your Facebook account, simply enter your account email and password on the text field provided and tap “Sign In” to link the game to your Facebook account. You only need to sign into your Facebook account once during the first time you play the game.
If you already have the Facebook app installed on your iPad, some game apps only show a “Connect/Login with Facebook” button instead of an email and password text field. Tap this button, and the app will automatically retrieve your login credentials from the Facebook app and instantly sign you in.
 After logging in, you should be automatically directed to the normal or usual game screen of the Facebook game you’re playing, and you can begin the game.


Once you’re done playing, simply press the Home button of your iPad to exit the game. Any progress you made on the game will be automatically (no manual option) synced with your Facebook account while you’re playing the game while connected to the Internet, or the next time your iPad connects to the network if the iPad version of the Facebook game has an offline game mode.

