 Place a large pot on your camping stove. Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil and 1 tablespoon (14 g) butter, and heat them on medium until the butter melts completely, which should take approximately 3 minutes.You can use a Dutch oven for the recipe if you prefer.
If you prefer, you can use all olive oil or all butter for the dish. However, the combination usually provides the best flavor.
 Add 1 pound (454 g) of beef sirloin that’s been cut into thin strips to a large bowl. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons (16 g) of all-purpose flour over the meat, and toss the two together until the beef is well coated., When the beef is coated, add it to the pot. Allow it to cook until it is lightly browned, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Be sure to stir the beef regularly as it cooks so it doesn’t burn.
 When the beef is finished cooking, transfer it to a bowl and set aside for the moment. Add 1 cup (150 g) of diced onions to the pot, and saute them until they are slightly brown, which should take 2 to 3 minutes.Stir the onions periodically so they cook evenly.
 Once the onions have browned lightly, add 3 cups (225 g) of sliced cremini mushrooms to the pot. Saute the mushrooms until they are tender, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute white or shiitake mushrooms for the cremini if you prefer.
 When the onion and mushroom mixture is finished cooking, add the beef back to the pot, along with 2 teaspoons (2 g) of chopped fresh thyme and 1 cup (273 ml) of beef stock. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully mixed.You can substitute chicken or vegetable stock for the beef stock if you prefer.
 After the beef mixture is fully blended, raise the flame to bring it to a simmer. Allow the mixture to simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the beef is tender.There’s no need to cover the mixture while it simmers.
Stir the mixture every so often to ensure that it’s not sticking to the pot.
 When the beef is tender, remove the pot from the stove. Add ⅔ cup (153 g) of sour cream to the pot and mix in well. Next, season the mixture with salt and pepper to taste.Be sure to use full fat sour cream for the stroganoff.
 Just before you serve the stroganoff, stir in 2 tablespoons (8 g) of chopped parsley. Ladle it into dishes and serve.Beef stroganoff is often served over cooked egg noodles or rice, but you can enjoy it all on its own.

