 Start with 10 to 12 inches (25.5 to 30.5 centimeters) for a small rose.Use 16 to 17 inches (40.5 to 43 centimeters) for a larger one.Keep in mind that you can always trim off the excess ric rac.

The wider the ric rac, the bigger the rose will be. If you want a small rose, use thin ric rac. If you want a larger rose, use wider ric rac.Your rose can be any color you want. Pink, red, and white are great choices, but why not try baby blue, light purple, or even rainbow?;
, Overlap the ends and secure them with a drop of hot glue. The inner, scooped parts of the curves should be facing each other. The outer, bumpy part of the curves should be facing out., Pull the upper strip under the bottom one. Keep it straight and don't let it twist. The strips should naturally lock together at the curve. Continue "braiding" the strip to the other end, then secure it with another drop of hot glue., This is not completely necessary, but it will help hold the ric rac together during the next step. Do not sew right down the middle of the ric rac strip. Instead, sew it to the left or two the right of the strip. Make sure that you are catching both strips as you sew, however.

Use a thread color that matches your ric rac.
 Pinch one end of the ric rac strip, then start rolling it tightly towards the other end. Add a drop of hot glue every inch (2.5 centimeters) or so.This will help hold your rose together and prevent it from popping out when you go to finish it.

Don't use too much glue. Less is more.
 When it's the size you want, add a final drop of hot glue on the ric rac, and press it down. Make sure that you have about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) of ric rac left for tucking under the rose., Trim off any excess ric rac with a pair of fabric scissors. If you sewed down the ric rac strip earlier, make sure the stitched part facing towards the bottom. This is important. If it is on the top, you won't be able to open the rose., This is not completely necessary, but it will give your rose a nicer finish. Trace the bottom of the rose onto a scrap of matching felt. Cut the circle out, then hot glue it to the bottom of the rose.Consider gluing some silk or fabric leaves to the bottom of the flower. This will make it look even more rose like. Do this before you add the felt circle., You can leave your rose closed up, or you can gently pull the petals down. This will give it a fuller, more realistic look. Start from outside and work your way in. Consider leaving the center petals closed.