 You will need to measure half the circumference of the wearer's head, the height of the wearer's face from the nose up, and the distance between the nose and the eyes. Record the measurements to create a custom template for your mask.


Use a tape measure to measure the distance between the front of one ear to the front of the other, wrapping the tape measure around the front of the face.
Measure the distance from the bottom of the nose to the top of the forehead.
Measure the distance between the bottom of the nose and the bottom of the eyes, as well as the dimensions of the eyes themselves.;
, This can be a bit tricky, but armed with your measurements, you can create a shape custom-fit to the wearer's face.


Draw a horizontal line that matches the width of the wearer's face.
 Find the midpoint of the line and make a mark 1 inch below the line. Use a ruler to draw a line from the right-hand end of the line to this point. Draw a second line from the left-hand end of the line to this point


Draw two downward-angled lines from the edges of the original line. The lines should meet together in a slight peak about 1 inch below the center of the original line.
 The ears will curve upward from the ends of the original horizontal line.


Draw two curved vertical lines from the edge of the original line. These lines should equal the height measurement from the nose to the forehead taken earlier plus an additional 3 inches (7.6 cm).
Draw another curved line on the end of each "side" line. The lines should come inward, forming curved triangles, and the base of each triangle should be about 2 inches (5 cm) wide. These triangles form the ears of the mask.
Draw a line connecting the two top triangles across the top of the mask.
 Sketch out two almond-shape eyes holes.


The position of the bottom of the eye holes should roughly match the distance between the wearer's nose and the bottom of the wearer's eyes.
Measure from the center of the original horizontal line to the bottom edge of the inner portion of the eye.
The eye holes themselves should be about twice the sides of the wearer's eyes.
Angle the eyes slightly so the narrow part of the almond shape points inward and downward.
 Use scissors to cut around the outline of the mask and the eye outlines.
 Use pen to transfer the shape of the mask and eyes onto craft foam.


While a black Batman mask is the most traditional choice, you can use any color you want if you plan on making these masks as favors for a children's party.
 Use scissors to carefully cut out the outline of the mask and the eyes from the foam.
 Punch the holes into each side of the mask, near the edge and aligned with the center of the eye holes.


A hole punch works well for this, but you could also use the tip of your scissors.
 Tie one end of the elastic into one hole and the other end to the other hole. The elastic should be long enough to fit around the back of the wearer's head.


Double-knot the thread to hold it in place.

