 Consent under duress (emotional or physical threats or intimidation) is not consent. Consent is given willingly and freely, and isn't "giving in." Acting on pressured consent is sexual assault or rape.


Deception
Pressure or manipulation
Treats
Physical force

, Consent is a continuous process, and consenting to one thing is not consenting to another. Relationships are not ***-for-tat, and sex is not a payment for you acting nice. The following things are not automatically consent to have sex:


Inviting you into their home
Letting you pay for dinner
Wearing revealing provocative clothing (You are not a mindless animal, and you can control yourself.)
Consenting previously
Consenting to different acts (such as kissing, groping, or getting naked)

, A person under the age of consent (16 in most states) can not consent. If you are over 24, it is illegal in most states for you to have sex with someone under the age of 18. Sex with someone too young to consent is statutory rape, and can lead to a life sentence if you have previous convictions. Sex with someone under the age of 12 is sexual assault of a child, and can lead to a life sentence.


Consent laws vary in different states and countries., In some countries, it doesn't matter whether someone is drunk—one drink makes them legally unable to consent.


This isn't always practical, so if this is someone who knows you and trusts you, the two of you may decide that drinking a little and then having sex is okay. Talk about it together before you begin drinking, and make sure that they are giving active consent and aren't drunk.
If someone is too drunk to drive, then they are clearly unable to consent.
 If someone is intoxicated, they are not in a mental state to determine whether they want sex. Look for signs that someone has had too much to drink and can't consent:


Slurring words
Unable to walk straight
Passed out (Get them to a hospital IMMEDIATELY, as they could be at risk of dying.)

, Some mentally ill/disabled people cannot consent, and thus having sex with them is always rape. The lines on how severe the disability must be are uncertain, and it usually depends on the individual's education and capabilities.Can the disabled person understand the sexual nature of the act?
Does the other party understand the disabled person's disability?
Are they emotionally and intellectually capable of giving consent?

