 Before you get to work on the letter think about what you are trying to achieve by writing it. A cover letter to Human Resources will most often be attached to your resume or CV when you apply for a job. There are instances when you might be writing to a company to express your interest in working there, even if you are not applying for a specific advertised position. Make your motivations clear.If you applying for a particular position your letter will need to be tightly focussed to explain your suitability for that job.
If you are writing a more general introductory letter you will be highlighting your broader range of skills and their potential application.
In either case you should always focus on explaining what you can do for the company not what they can do for you, and you should be concise and to the point., When you are preparing your cover letter think about who exactly you are writing to. If you're applying for a position, Human Resources may be the first people to read it before it is forwarded on to the relevant manager who has a vacancy. People who work in Human Resources and Recruitment are likely to have a great deal of experience with cover letters, so it's important you make a good impression at the start.If you don't have the name of somebody in HR to address the letter to, do some research online to try and find the name of the HR manager.
Seemingly minor things like addressing the cover letter to an actual person can help create a good impression.
If you can't find a name, you could even call up the office and ask who the appropriate person to address the letter to is.
If it is unclear from the name whether the addressee is a man or a woman, use the full name when you write your letter, for example write "Dear Chris Sharpe".
Names like Dylan and Ryan can also be used for girls, so do some research on the company website to try and determine the gender and avoid potential embarrassment.
 If you are writing a cover letter for a particular position, it is very important that you closely tailor your letter to that job. Look closely at the job description and advert and draw out all key words, tasks and responsibilities. You should use the cover letter as a way to fluently explain how you meet the requirements of the job and what particular skills and experience you will bring.Take down notes on the requirements outlined in the job advert and prioritise them according to which are essential, desirable, and additional.
 Once you have identified what you need to cover in the letter make a plan for how you are going to do it. Try to draft short sections for each of the key points you want to cover. Remember that it is important to be as clear and concise as possible.Try to break your cover letter down into a series of paragraphs. You could structure the letter in the following way:


Opening: briefly explain why you are writing. For example, "I am writing in application for the position of..."
Second paragraph: explain why you are suited to job with reference to your academic and professional qualifications, and the skills listed in the job description or person specification.
Third paragraph: outline what you would bring to company and your broader career goals.
Fourth paragraph: reiterate why you want the job and summarise why you would be a good appointment. Briefly state you would like to be considered for an interview.
Sign off with your name and signature., It is important to present yourself professionally and that means using the right formatting for your letter. Your letter should include the date and a name and address for yourself and the Human Resources Department the letter is going to. Use the examples to ensure that your letter meets the required formatting standards.


Put your name and address at the top of the page, on the left side.
Leave two lines and then put the date. Spell out the month, and use numbers for the day and year.
Leave two more lines and type the name of the person in human resources the letter is addressed to. If you do not have a contact name, use a general title or department such as "Human Resources" or "Hiring Manager." Type the address under the name.
Leave two lines, and then type the salutation. For example, type "Dear Mr. Smith". Leave one line after the salutation, and then begin the body of the letter., It's important to start with a clear and precise opening sentence. You want the reader to know the purpose of the letter straight away. Reference the specific position you want to be considered for early on in the letter. You could start your letter with "I am writing to be considered for the position of Retail Assistant."


If applicable, name the person who referred you. Use a name the human resources department will recognize.
For example, say "Mary Smith in payroll suggested I apply for a clerical position with your organization.", When you come to write the body of your cover letter try to stick closely to the plan you have made and really work on explaining yourself concisely. Articulate how your skills, qualifications and experience translate directly to the role you are applying for, and be sure to flag up the key words and requirements that were included in the job advert. Try to explain your skills while providing a brief summary of your career.For example, if the job advert specifies that they are looking for someone with good communication skills you could say "I have developed excellent communication skills through my work experience as a customer service assistant", before expanding briefly with a example of a situation where you demonstrated these skills.
If you can stick to the four paragraph structure you will necessarily write a concise cover letter which the Human Resources worker will actually read all the way through., The Human Resources worker will read your letter quickly so it's important that you provide clear examples of accomplishments and achievements that are relevant for the position. These can help you stand out from the other applicants and stay in mind of the recruiter. Consider using bullet points to break up the format of the letter.


A brief list will make the letter easier to read, but if you write in precise direct prose you will demonstrating good writing and communication skills.
Start with your most impressive accomplishments to make a strong first impression.
Balance being enthusiastic, professional and confident.
 It's important to end with a positive note, by thanking the company for reading the letter or considering you for the position. For example, your last line might say "Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to hearing from you soon." State how the reader can contact you by referring to the address you included at the start of the letter or the contact details on your resume.Sign the letter with your full name. Use a closing such as "Sincerely" or "Respectfully" before you sign your name.
Make sure your full name is typed below your handwritten signature.
 Remember that this is a formal letter and that should be reflected in the formatting as well as the language you use. Stick to straightforward formatting with 1" margins, and a formal and readable font in black and white, such as Times New Roman or Arial. Ensure you print it on clean white paper that is crisp.


If you're sending it over email, maintain this formality by giving your email a clear 'subject' line and addressing the recipient as you would in a letter.
If you are sending a formal email be sure you have an appropriate email address. Send it from an account that has a simple email address with your name or initials, and definitely not something like sexxxybeast99@yahoo.com.
 It is absolutely essential that you take the time to go through and thoroughly proofread the letter before you send it off. If you send a letter with spelling and grammar mistakes, typos or other errors you will immediately give a bad impression of yourself and your professionalism. The letter is part of the application and is a demonstration of your communication skills and attention to detail.Do not rely on your electronic spell check only.
Read your cover letter out loud. Your ears may notice something your eyes missed.
Leave it for a while and then come back to it with fresh eyes.

