 When selecting a calculator for a course or exam, it's important to consider what features and functions will be needed for the task at hand. For courses, take a look at the syllabus or other instructive documentation. Special tests like the SAT may also have lists of requirements for a test, including whether the test taker is allowed to have a calculator at all.


If the syllabus does not have the required information, contact the teacher, department or test center and ask about exactly what is needed for a math class or test.;
, Some businesses require highly-specialized calculators. For instance, unlike many retails shops where a basic calculator or adding machine may provide for measuring revenues and expenses in cash flows, a lending or housing business may rely on a very different calculator with loan amortization functions.


Be knowledgeable on math needs in your industry. For mortgage calculators and other similar gear, having the right calculator for output is not going to be effective unless the user also knows how to explain amortization to the untrained customer. Build a good loan office setup with a combination of good tools and competent knowledge, and make sure that calculators have the right output function to make the underlying structure of amortized loans clear to a wide spectrum of individuals.
 For some projects that require graphing, having a visual graphing function on a calculator may be very important. For other more basic needs, no graphing is necessary. With graphing calculators, it's helpful for the graphs in the interface to be clearly labeled and scalable.
 Some calculators run off regular household batteries, where others may have lithium ion batteries or a solar power source.


Factor in output needs. Some businesses may have requirements for keeping track of calculations on paper, either for tax purposes or for other more general accounting methods. In these cases, a simple math calculator with a paper feed may be the most useful solution.

