 Most organic chemistry courses are split into two sections: lecture and lab. Lectures can be held for hundreds of students at a time, and as such attendance is rarely taken. However, don't think you can get away with only attending labs. Going to class as much as you possibly can is vital to your success.


Attend TA sessions. If you're studying at a large university, your organic chemistry class will have several teaching assistants who will hold independent study sessions. Find one scheduled at a time that works for you, and go as often as possible. Additionally, the TAs will have office hours, during which you can drop in and ask questions.;
, You'll get more out of the class if you read the chapter before attending the lecture on that chapter. Make note of any questions you have the night before. If the professor hasn't answered your reading questions by the end of the discussion, approach him or her after class for more clarification.
 If you're attending a large organic chemistry lecture, you probably won't have to hand in homework every week and will be graded solely on tests. However, doing the questions in your textbook is excellent practice, whether they're assigned or not. Try to do them as soon as possible after class, and stick to the Reading -> Lecture -> Homework model.


Take your time. Don't rush through the problems. Concentrate on each step as you go. Understand the problem and doing it correctly is better than making mistakes.
 You can buy a model kit at your university bookstore, or find a used one online. It will help you see what's happening to a molecule in three-dimensional terms, which will be useful when you're studying isomers.
 A lot of your success in organic chemistry will depend on memorizing certain reactions. Here are a few things you should know in addition to specific reactions:


Where most of the electron density is (especially double bonds)
Shapes of orbitals
Know what has high bond strain and what doesn't
Know your orbitals s, p and d. (f is useless to know at this point)
Memorize a few NMR and IR shifts and peak wavelengths. Especially hydroxyl, carbon bonds 1-3, aldehydes, and ketones.
The chair and boat isomer forms of cyclohexane
How to find the HOMO and LUMO of molecules

, Take organic chemistry tests seriously. Set aside time to study every day for at least a week before the test. Get sufficient sleep the night before, and eat a healthy breakfast.

