 If your loved one hasn’t been washing frequently enough, it’s likely they don’t feel the need to because they aren’t going out or seeing people regularly. You can give them an extra incentive to bathe by encouraging them to make plans. Go beyond simply suggesting things to do, and mark out specific plans with them on a calendar.


Outings and activities that are easy arrange include lunch with friends or family, going to the movies or a musical performance, or a trip to the park., Even if they prefer to wash themselves, it’s safest to supervise your loved one for at least the first couple of washing sessions. Stress that you only want to be there to set things up and ensure safety, with the possibility of letting them wash on their own after making sure they feel safe.


If you do help the person bathe, then try using tactful questions to help them with the bathing process. For example, you might ask things like, what kind of soap do you prefer? Do you need a washcloth? Is the water warm enough?
You can also make tactful suggestions during the bathing process, such as, “Here’s the soap for washing your body.” Or, “I’m going to hand you the shampoo next so you can wash your hair.”, Instead of asking whether or not they want to bathe, pose your questions in a way that assumes they want to. Avoid yes or no questions, such as "Do you want to bathe or not?"--in addition to coming off as testy, this omits the assumption that more bathing should be done.


For example, you can ask “When should I come back to help you with your bath?” or “What time of the day suits you best for showering?”

, Depending on your relationship with the person, they may feel awkward about your helping them with such a private routine. If the person is living with a spouse or partner, first suggest that the spouse or partner help them bathe. If the pair seem open to this, begin by discussing and establishing a routine with both of them. Mark the washing days (at least two per week) on the calendar.
 If the person can’t bathe alone and is uncomfortable with a family member helping out, hiring a caregiver for home visits is the best option. These services are widely available in most communities. Search your directory or the internet for “In-Home Health Provider” or “Home Health Care.”Schedule a bathing session for at least twice a week, marking it on a calendar that is easily visible (attached to the refrigerator, hanging on a wall in the kitchen).


The idea of an unfamiliar person helping them to wash could be worrisome. Assure them that the caregiver is a professional, and is specifically trained to help people take care of themselves.
Regardless of who helps with washing, remind the loved one that bathing can be a pleasant, refreshing experience and is important to staying healthy.
 Whether it’s you, a spouse, or a caregiver who will be helping, putting washing times on the calendar will help the loved one to improve their memory, and get a better sense of the week’s activities. When you or the caregiver arrives, it’s “bath time,” an event as expected and routine as dinnertime or bedtime., If you’re not the one helping with washing, either ask the spouse or partner whether the schedule is being followed, or call the in-home agency to make sure the treatment is running smoothly.


If the person is washing themselves, an easy way to make sure they’re using the bath regularly is to check the soap bar size and body wash / shampoo bottle levels to see whether they’ve been used.
Since you’ve already completed the difficult task of asking them about hygiene, it should be easier at this point to casually ask whether they’ve been keeping to the new bathing schedule you’d agreed on.
 It’s possible that your loved one will refuse to bathe, despite repeated attempts on your part to explain the benefits and to offer to help. In this case, consult a family doctor, and ask about medications that are designed to ease resistance to care.