 Some cats become disoriented when they escape from their territory. This may be an indoor-only cat who has gotten outside, or an outdoor cat who has escaped from their owner when not in their territory. Being out of their territory can make them scared and disoriented., Cats who get out from their home generally are very close to their territory instead of far away. They generally find somewhere to hide as soon as they exit their territory. This means they may be very close to your home, but don’t realize it because they are disoriented.Start looking for your cat by making your search radius near to your home.
 Out of their territory, cats will hide in places where predators cannot find them. The disorientation will lead your cat to find somewhere safe to hide. Start by looking for the cat under decks, porches, houses, and cars.


You also may want to look in thick wooded areas or areas with plants that will conceal the cat.
Check any hole, corner, or crevice your cat can fit. The cat probably won’t meow to protect itself, so you will have to look for them.
 A good way to help your disoriented cat return home is to recapture them with a humane trap. Humane traps are tripped when the cat enters it, and a door closes that contains the cat so you can bring it home. You can place bait in the trap to entice the cat into the trap.Wildlife cameras can be purchased online, at outdoor retailers, or some pet stores.
Humane traps can be found online, through local shelters, or at pet stores.
 Some disoriented cats may come out of hiding after a few hours, but others may stay well hidden for days. If your cat is a skittish cat, it will take them longer to come out. This means that even if you set up a humane trap or wildlife cameras, you may not get any activity for a few days., You may come across a scared, disoriented cat in your yard. If this occurs, try asking around the neighborhood about any lost cats. Most cats stay close to their home when they have become disoriented.If no one in your neighborhood or a nearby neighborhood has lost a cat, contact the local Humane Society and animal shelters. Owners with missing pets often contact shelters to see if someone has reported any found pets.
Look for missing pet signs. Many people put up signs about their missing pets. Check around your area for any fliers or posters.
Post on social media. Most towns and communities have Facebook discussion pages, so check if your area has one where you can post the information about the found cat.

