 There are tons of different softwares available to write music and beats. Before you download something, take some time to research softwares. Some things to consider is the price of the software, operating system of your computer, quality of beats you want, and ease of the software.


Ask fellow beat producers what software they prefer. You could also reach out, via email, to some of your favorite music producers. You never know until you ask.
One of the easiest softwares that has become an industry standard is Fruity Loops. The reason why several artists start with Fruity Loops is because the software is free and easy to use. It is a good idea to download something free to get a basic feeling for composing beats.
Another industry standard is Ableton Live and Reason. You can get a feeling for these softwares by downloading a free trial of the program. This way you can decide if the software is the right fit for you.;
, The best way to start with the software is to practice making drum loops. All softwares set up drum loops differently, but they usually use the same layout. Open a drum kit on the software and access the piano roll. The piano roll is where you can arrange different parts of the drum kit like bass, snare, hi hat, etc. Set the piano roll to loop so the beat repeats itself.


Play around with different parts of the drum kit until you find a beat that you like.An easy way to build a beat is by beginning with the bass drum.
 Sort through the different bass sounds on the software. Bass is integral to R&B music. The music software should have plenty of synthesizer bass sounds. Pick one out and practice playing a line over the beat. You can opt for a simple beat similar to the way Wu-Tang uses bass lines, or compose something more complex.


Once you find a fun melody, record and loop the bass line to match the drum beat.
Simple bass lines tend to be the most catchy for an R&B song.
Use the piano roll to arrange the notes of the bass line like you did for the beat.
 Once the rhythm section of the beat is in motion, it’s time to add additional melodies and chords. Find a good keyboard sound and experiment with layering chords over the rhythm. You don’t need to be an expert at piano to find some chord shapes that sounds decent over the rhythm.


Try playing a variation of a major 7th chord in the key of the bass. You can find the key easily by matching the notes of the chord with the notes from the bass' piano roll
Look through the lead synthesizers and pick out tones that matches the sound of the beat. Try improvising a solo over the looped parts.You can also experiment with supporting percussion parts such as adding a bell, hand drums, or a tambourine.
 Recording in a music software is different depending on what software you use. You should have a few variations of the same beat and bassline before recording the track. Mess around with playing one beat, pausing the beat, and then playing a new beat with a new bass line.


Some softwares live Ableton Live, have two different modes: live mode and recording mode. It is easier to build the supporting parts of the beat in the live mode. Once you have a few variations of each part, switch over to the record setting to try recording the beat.
You can’t create a good beat without trying and failing a R&B beat. Every musician creates something corny before recording something good.

