 If you tend to get the jitters right before you speak in public, take some time beforehand to calm yourself down. For some people, those nerves don't go away no matter how many times they have to speak in public. Luckily, there are some tried and true methods you can use to prepare yourself to speak clearly and calmly:


Try visualizing yourself delivering the speech without stumbling. Deliver the whole thing in your head without a hiccup. This technique can help you feel less anxious when it comes to the real thing.
Some people find it helps to laugh heartily before giving a speech. It puts you in a more relaxed mood.
If you have the opportunity to do some vigorous exercise before the event, that's another great way to release nervous energy.
 Pick two or three different people in the audience, seated in different areas, and make eye contact with them in rotation as you're talking.


Making eye contact will help you deliver the speech with more feeling. You can pretend like you're giving it to a friend, rather than a faceless crowd of people.
Rotating between more than one person is important. When you look at more than one spot in the audience, the whole group will feel more included in what you're saying.
 You might be so worried about forgetting part of your speech that you forget the reason why you're up there giving it. Think about the meaning behind your words as you say them, and deliver your speech with the true emotions you feel about the honor you're receiving. Think about the hard work you did to earn the award, and all the people who helped you along the way. If you do this, your speech will come off as sincere.


If it's possible to look at the people you're thanking as you say their names, try to do so. For example, if you're thanking a colleague who's sitting in the first row, your gratitude will be more apparent if you're able to focus on her while you're talking.
Don't be embarrassed if you tear up a little. It happens all the time during thank you speeches.
 Saying different kinds of words will matter.
 When your speech is complete, smile at the audience and leave the stage when you're supposed to. Hogging the stage for extra time is a classic move during acceptance speeches, but it tends to bore the audience and leaves less time for the next person up for an award. After your allotted time is up, graciously leave the stage and return to your seat.

