 Labels include: butch, stud, femme, stem, and so on.


Note that some lesbians might find labels offensive, arguing that someone cannot only fit into one category, but labels are an easy way to identify yourself and potentially find others like you. Remember you can label yourself whatever you like, but other's may describe you differently or, apply the same label to themselves that you use, and be nothing like you. It's all open to individual interpretation.;
, Labels are mostly divided into three main categories: feminine, androgynous, and mixed. Labels are usually defined by how a person dresses and does their hair and makeup. Some people would include makeup choices, piercings and body art as what makes up the typical characteristics of some lesbian labels.


A feminine lesbian is someone that has an appearance that a stereotypical female traditionally associates with, such as wearing: dresses, skirts, makeup, etc.
An androgynous lesbian, is what most would consider a "stereotypical  lesbian". Being someone who is androgynous, means that you wear clothes that were traditionally made for the opposite sex, labels that would fall under this category are: stud, butch, AG (aggressive), and dyke. Some believe androgyny is a term for those who appear neither feminine or masculine. You can label yourself androgynous and dress in clothes that are commonly worn by men and women, like straight jeans and tee-shirts that are suitable for men or women if you wish.
A mixed lesbian is a lesbian that doesn't identify as feminine nor androgynous, but as both. A mixed lesbian might dress feminine one day and androgynous the next day. Labels that fall under the mixed category are: futch, stem, kiki, etc.
A no label is a lesbian that doesn't define themselves with a label. No labels commonly feel as if labels are meant to have things as "black and white", therefore they choose not to be categorized.
 Before you choose your label, think of your sense of fashion. If your style is traditionally a boy's style, you're probably androgynous. Whereas if you have the fashion sense of the traditional female, you're most likely feminine. If you're feminine sometimes and androgynous the rest of the time,  you could be mixed.
 Labels aren't only for appearance, but how you view yourself as a person. Your mentality and appearance could be total opposites, such as an androgynous of someone that was feminine, a person like this would be a soft stud. There are many labels that blend appearances and mentalities, such as: soft stud snd aggressive femme. These labels mean that an androgynous could act feminine or a feminine female act masculine.
 Typically, an androgynous would take on the dominate role, while a femme would be more submissive, or a stem would be both submissive and dominate depending on their partner. Although that would only describe a stereotypical couple, there are no boundaries as to who you are, and what your relationship consist of. Understand that you may wish to change in a future relationship or your partner may change during the course of your relationship. Basing how you behave when interacting with any other human being on how you label yourself or how you believe others label you is unwise. Treat others with respect, adapt, change, compromise or move on. A label shouldn't restrict your relationships or your behaviour.
 Femmes are often told "you're too pretty to be gay," whereas studs might be told "you're a female, why are you dressing like a male," and stems could be told "you need to pick if you're going to be feminine or masculine." Society was never meant to accept anyone, which leads to the final step.
 Lastly, some might say labels are overrated, whereas some might disagree. Labels are meant to be determined by you and only you. You are your own label: androgynous, feminine, mixed, or no label, you are you. Society, nor a label can create who you are, so be yourself.

