 You're asking a guy to pose nude for you for hours at a time, so he needs to know you're legitimate. Professional artist models are used to posing nude, but most people aren't. So it is important to show prospective models a portfolio of your best pictures. Draw out what you plan to photograph. That way, there will be no surprises during the shoot. Some good model sources include:


model agencies
ads in photo magazines
college art departments;
, Remember, the focus is on the body, not the background. That said, paper or cloth backgrounds can transform an ordinary room into a photo studio.


And shooting outside gives you great natural light. A nude beach is perfect but a secluded garden or yard will do.
 Keep the room warm. Put up a storyboard of what you plan to shoot. That way, the model knows exactly where you're going. Also, provide a changing room.
 Use some strobe flash heads with either chimera soft boxes or reflecting umbrellas. You can rent these, including the stands, for under US$75.


If your camera can't fire the lights, rent an independent socket that you can attach to the camera's hot-shoe. Attach a sync cable to the flash unit, so that the strobes fire when you snap the pictures.
And use a light meter to set the exposure.
 There are many ways to light the male nude, but since the male form is all about the muscles, you want to light in a way that highlights these best. Light from angles that cause the muscles to cast shadows on each other. Go really dramatic with only using backlight or use no light on the subject at all, exposing the background and creating a silhouette.
 The male body is about power. Muscles. Make them stand out. Have your model flex or twist his shoulders off-axis from his hips. This creates a sense of movement.
 Just look at the form in front of you, as if it were an abstract sculpture or a landscape. What shapes are interesting? There's no need to show the full Monty unless it adds to your picture. Usually, showing it will distract viewers from everything else in the picture.
 Steer clear of the pornographic.

