 Open the inbox using the account that you want to create a second address for.;
, The Gear button is located in the upper-right corner of the page.
 You'll see your Yahoo Mail account, followed by any connected social network accounts.
 This will open the account settings for your Yahoo! account.
 This will open a new page, where you can setup your second address.
 You can type in the address you want, or select from the suggested account names. Yahoo Mail now allows you to add . to your account names.
 You can only change the name of your second account once every twelve months, so make sure you're satisfied with the name before proceeding.
 You'll need to complete the CAPTCHA code to tell Yahoo that you're a human making the new account. The code is not case-sensitive. If you can't read the code, you can click the "Audio code" option and then enter the numbers that the website reads out loud., When you compose a new message in Yahoo! Mail, you'll see a drop-down menu at the top of the composition window. Click the menu to select the new email address you just created.


You can change the default account for sending messages in the "Writing email" section of the Settings menu.
 Messages sent to your new email address will still appear in your primary account's inbox. this makes it easy to keep track of all of your messages in one spot/

, You can use your new account name and your old password to log into any Yahoo! sites and services, including Answers, Messenger, and Shopping.
 You can use your new email address to act as a receptacle for email responses. Setting the account as your "Reply-to address" will allow you to more easily sort your incoming messages.


Hover over the Gear button and select Settings.
Select the "Accounts" option and then click your Yahoo! account.
Select your new address from the "Reply-to address" drop-down menu.
 You can only have one additional Yahoo account at a time. If you no longer want your extra account, or want to change it to something else, you'll need to delete it first.


Hover over the Gear button and select Settings.
Select the "Accounts" option and then click your Yahoo! account.
Click the "Delete" link next to your extra email address.
Confirm that you want to delete the account.

