 If you already have a dream journal that you haven’t used recently, you can use it if there are enough pages left. You can also use any old notebook you have laying around. For some, picking out a new, fancy notebook can be exciting. A new notebook might also encourage you to actually use the notebook.If you have a notebook laying around that has been used for something else, but has lots of blank pages left, consider tearing the used pages out so you have a completely blank notebook.
It is important that your dream journal is only used for recording dreams and thoughts related to your dreams. It should not serve as a diary of to-do lists and life goals.;
, If you can’t afford a new notebook or don’t want to buy one, and you don’t have an extra one laying around, you can also use any old paper you have. If you have an old spiral notebook, a legal pad, or even just a few sheets of printer paper, these can all work.


The point is to have somewhere that you can quickly and easily record what you were dreaming about. You can staple the pages together or use a paper clip so that none of them get lost.
There are also smart phone apps that are dedicated to recording dreams that you can use.
 If you have purchased a plain notebook that you find a bit boring, or if you’re re-purposing an old notebook, you can decorate it to suit your tastes. You can use stickers, cut out pictures you like and glue them to the journal, decorate the journal using Washi tape, or even just doodle on the journal using markers. Decorate it however you like best.


If you’re happy with the appearance of your notebook, or if you simply don’t want to spend time decorating it then you don’t have to. This step is entirely optional.
 A dream journal won’t be useful if you wake up in the middle of the night and there is no pen handy. If you get up to find a pen, you may forget the dream in the few minutes it takes you to fine one. Make sure that you can easily attach a pen to the notebook. If the cover of the notebook is thin enough you can attach a pen using the clip that is on the lid of most pens.


If your dream journal has a thicker cover, you can also wrap a rubber band around the notebook to secure the pen on the edge between the front and back binding.
If your notebook comes with an elastic that keeps the notebook shut, then you can attach your pen using that. Instead of wrapping the elastic from top to bottom, stretch the elastic a bit more so that it is wrapped length-wise around the journal. You can then use the pen’s clip to secure it to the elastic. Placing the pen so it is between the front and back edges of the journal will keep it from sliding around.If you are purchasing a notebook, you can look for one that comes with a built-in elastic that is especially for a pen.
 If your pen and journal are not by the bed, the odds that you will record your dreams are small. Even if you are diligent about recording your dream later in the day, you are less likely to remember the details of the dream, if you remember it at all. Keep your journal and pen on the nightstand ready to go so that it will be the last thing you see before you fall asleep, and the first thing you see when you wake up.You could also keep a dim light on the nightstand, or get a pen with a light built-in so that you can see what you’re writing when you wake up to record a dream in the middle of the night.
 When you first wake, keep your eyes closed. Think about the last things you remember before you woke up, and try to follow what you remember backwards as far back in the dream as you can. Then, as soon as you’ve gotten as far back as you remember, open your eyes and start writing.If you do wake up in the middle of the night after a really interesting, good, or crazy dream, write it down right away. You may be certain you’ll remember it in the morning, but you’ll be sorry you didn’t if you wake up in the morning and have forgotten everything.
Your memories of your dream can fade quickly, so try not to let anything distract you. Get the main things you remember out quickly, and then try to remember more minute details.
 Writing dreams in the present tense may be helpful for remembering a few extra details that you had forgotten. If you are writing things in present tense (e.g. “I am feeling…,” “I am walking…,” “I am scared…”), you’re replaying the events of the dream in your head, kind of like a movie. You never know what new memories might pop up.If someone else in the dream is doing something, keep that in present tense as well, but stay in the first person. For example, if your significant other is in the dream, and he is running towards you, write down, “(Name of your significant other) is running towards me. He seems excited about something.”

, If you end up going back through your dreams to look for patterns, knowing exactly when you had the dream might be helpful. Years down the road, when you think back on what was going on in your life at a certain time, you may notice that your dreams coincided with how you were feeling, even if it wasn’t obvious at the time.You should also give your dream a title. The title should be a short summary of the whole dream. This will also help you find the dream later on. For example, if you had a dream about flying, and you were on a magic carpet, you could title the dream, “Flying Like Aladdin.”

, You should write down any little detail that you can think of, even if it isn’t a fully-formed thought.Writing it down might help you remember a few more details. If you consistently write it down, you might notice that this small glimpse is something you commonly see.


For example, perhaps in your dream you remember seeing a small rainbow beach ball, but cannot remember where you are, where you saw the ball, or where the ball came from. Just make a bullet point in your journal that says, “I am seeing a small rainbow beach ball.” If you want, you can make a note that you don’t remember anything more about the context of the dream. You can even just write the words “rainbow beach ball,” if you want.
 Although you may not be able to remember your dreams every single day, you should still try to be as consistent as possible. If you can’t remember anything about your dreams of the night before, then maybe just spend a few minutes writing down any thoughts and feelings that you woke up with.Being consistent will help your mind understand that this is a habit, and may make it easier to remember your dreams over time.
 Before you go to sleep, it can be helpful to write a few lines in your dream journal about what you did that day, the thoughts that are going through your mind, etc. This can help you make sense of your dreams later on. Often, if you spend time comparing your dream to what you were thinking about before bed time, you may notice that similar themes appear. For example, if you were worrying about a big exam, and then you have a dream where you show up naked for class one day then you can see that your dream might have been influenced by your exam stress.
 Think about all the activities you took part in, the people you saw, and any television shows you might have watched. Your subconscious sometimes takes things that have gone on recently, and links them to other things in your subconscious. If someone you saw recently showed up in your dreams, write down the last time you saw them. It may not be immediately helpful, but writing down this information might help you identify patterns and themes over time.
 There are lots of theories about why we dream, but scientists aren’t really sure what the purpose of dreaming is.Although many scientists say that dreaming serves no real purpose, it can still be fun and interesting to look into what your dreams are trying to tell you. Many people believe that interpreting dreams can provide a glimpse into what is going on in your unconscious mind.You can do an internet search for, “what does my dream mean?” and find lots of websites that offer free dream dictionaries. You can also look for books that offer interpretations of dreams. If you are using a website, try to compare the meanings you find among several dream dictionaries to see if they are similar.
 If, in your internet search, you find something that you think is really interesting, and that makes sense to you, write it down in your journal.


Writing everything you find interesting can be very helpful when looking for themes and patterns.
 While you can use a dream dictionary to find out what your dreams mean, it is also a good idea to spend time reflecting on what it means to you. You may associate a certain action with a traumatizing memory, or an object with a very good memory. It is important to remember that dreams are not objective.For example, think of things you saw in the dream. This could be places, objects, people, or anything that you could see in your dream. How do the things that you saw in your dream make you feel? Is there any special meaning attached to something in your dream?
For example, if, in your dream, you saw your deceased grandmother holding a necklace that was passed down to you, you can think about how you feel about this necklace. Maybe you feel sad when you see it because it makes you miss your grandmother, or maybe you feel happy when you see it because you have many good memories with her. Perhaps you are missing your grandma more than usual, and this is your brain’s way of reminding you that you have something left of her in your possession.

