 The quantum theory of matter and electromagnetic radiation was formulated in the beginning of the 19th century in response to conflicting results of experiments that were done in physics of atomic material. The theory of classical motion by Isaac Newton was the prevalent theory of classical bodies motion such as the motion of bodies under the influence of the gravitational field the earth. These laws of Newton were used to explain phenomena such as rocket propulsion and building of skyscrapers.
 These laws worked fine for systems on macroscopic scales. Certain experiments in physics that were done on the atomic scale could not be rationalized based on the laws of classical motion by Isaac Newton. An example is the explanation of the black body radiation. This is a theoretical model that is used to model and simulate the physics of remote stars such as the prediction of their temperature and their atomic content. The theoretical models of the black body radiation could not fit the experimental results appropriately using the laws of Newton., Suggestions to quantize the energy terms in these equations gave satisfactory results in accordance with the experimental values. This hypothesis of quantization of energy and other physical variables is the essence of the quantum theory of matter and radiation. This theory holds well for many problems in physics and theoretical chemistry such as the harmonic oscillator problem and the rigid body rotor. Also the application of the quantum theory to the hydrogen atom was very successful in predicting its chemical and physical properties., The main equation that is used in solving problems in quantum theory is the Schroedinger equation. This is a partial differential equation that was formulated based on the finding of wave-particle duality of matter by a French physicist who's name is Debroglie. The wave-particle duality was validated by experimental results using the photoelectric effect and Compton effect as well. The wave-particle nature of light was also confirmed by similar experiments of diffraction and interference of light. This theory has however some drawbacks and controversial concepts such as the concept of zero point energy., This concept assumes the existence of finite minimal energy of quantum systems that is not zero in its value. This fact contradicts the natural physical laws of the universe which are based on the postulate that all nonliving systems tend toward maximum thermodynamic stability and minimum states of energy content. This theory however is still credible until nowadays and it gives satisfactory theoretical predictions about physical phenomena commensurate with the experimental values., The application of this theory in other fields of physics was done for example on fields theory. The formulation quantized theories other than this theory was also successful to particle physics for example. The attempts to formulate quantum theory of gravity is still not achievable due to conflicts between the macroscopic nature of gravitational systems and the microscopic nature of quantum systems. This controversy could not be settled using our current quantum and gravitational theories based on Newton and quantum theories. The concept of dark matter is also an ambiguous and controversial concept of astrophysics. This concept is still not validated theoretically and experimentally., Also the recent discovery of the variable nature of the speed of light gives question marks about the validity of Einstein theories of relativity. Many theories in physics are based in its mathematical formulations on this theory such as the prediction of the existence of black holes. The theory of relativistic quantum theory therefore needs to be modified to account for the variable nature of the speed of light., Also relativistic quantum field theory needs to be modified to account for the same reason. In addition particle physics is dependent in its formulations on the theory of relativity such as string theory and the grand unified theory. Concepts of quantum theory therefore have to be applied to other systems very cautiously due to pitfalls that can occur with controversial concepts in theories of physics.