 If you procrastinate a lot, have a very short attention span, start small. Set a timer for 10 minutes with a 5 minute break and spend it with completely undivided attention to your work.
 If you're studying for a test and don't do as well as you hoped, don't hesitate to try studying for a different angle!


Remember to study smart (and hard, but especially smart). With so many hard classes, you have to be efficient with your time and that means making every minute as productive as possible.
Create flashcards to review on the bus, during a free period, etc. It doesn't seem like much, but reinforcing info (especially for classes that require memorizing) is important to learning so much in a quick amount of time.
 While it can work for some people, at least if they pay attention in class, it doesn't keep the information in your head. It's only temporary knowledge, and this is bad in AP classes where the information is often cumulative. If you cram for multiple AP classes, by the time AP exams come you'll be rushing to learn everything all over again because you remember nothing.


Don't pull all nighters either. If all you do is go to school and come home, then maybe you can get away with it for awhile. But if you're dedicated to other activities, especially sports and active things, you'll really drain yourself. A rare all nighter is understandable, but several times a week is inexcusable.
 The weekend is a great time to relax and actually have a social life, but you need to use this time to get some work done if you don't want to be rushing the whole week.


Allow yourself to hang out with friends every other weekend (if you have other activities during the week that take up your time).
Use the time during your extra curricular activities to be with friends, like in clubs and sports. There is a lot of socializing in these activities, even if it's not going to movies or the beach.
 If you get distracted easily, just pick one study buddy. Make sure this is someone you enjoy being with, but can also focus and get stuff done with. Also make sure that you're all around the same level so that they can teach you something and vice versa. You don't want a study group where you learn nothing.


Study groups are also helpful for reinforcing things you've already studied. For example, asking and answering questions to review for an upcoming test is more interesting than just shuffling flashcards.
 AP homework can take 2 hours to finish, and even longer if you're not focusing on it the whole time.


Vocabulary homework: It helps to use two sources; your textbook, and Quizlet. This is especially true in history classes. Try putting the definition in your own words, because the textbook definition can be long sometimes. For some words, you can put more information so that your definitions don't all look short and copied. For others, use Quizlet because the definitions are usually shorter and more to the point (but put them in your own words!).
Short answers homework: It helps if you've already read the chapter/taken notes. Go to the page(s) that are related to the question and basically jot it all down (better to type). Once you dump all the information you can reorganize the sentences and words to sound better.
Math/word problems: Try to see what formulas relate to what information the question gives you. Break the work down so that you don't make mistakes. You can't rush math as well, and doing so may lead to a lower grade and more wasted time trying to fix your mistakes. You can go over your answers that morning or before class starts if you don't have time at home.
Essays: Decide what you'll talk about in each paragraph and look in your textbook for information that relates to each. Type down all the information. You can spread this out to a chapter a day if that's more convenient. Then go back and make the sentences and words flow better, adding transitions and good vocabulary. Make it concise! Go back into your textbook and double check whether you've missed anything. Get it revised if your teacher takes rough drafts.

