 The most common object in a house is a corner (and the most common solution for an object is the same as clearing a corner). The process of traversing a corner is often referred to as slicing the pie.Start as close to the wall as possible without scraping up against the wall. Make sure that you are at least an arms length away from the corner. You don't want your firearm to stick out into the doorway.
 The further you step away from the wall, the more open space you'll sight.
 This is the start of a semi-circle you will make around the corner. Keep your elbows in and your front foot parallel to your line of sight so that neither will give you away.
 Between each step taken you should scan from the floor at the corner to the ceiling — scanning each slice in a vertical motion.


Your form will be: a firm, two-handed grip on the firearm. You will be leaning slightly toward the direction you are stepping to allow your head (and your eyes) to be the furthest object, allowing you to see your target before he sees you.
If you are proficient with both hands, use whichever hand that will keep you most concealed.
Your feet should never cross, as it is a very unstable position, and if something (or someone) were to hit you, or you are forced to shoot mid-stride, your accuracy and balance will be compromised. Instead, you want to move your lead foot (the foot in the direction which you are stepping), then follow with your trailing foot. Also, be aware of your feet; make sure you are not pointing your toes into the corner as they may precede your eyes, which means the suspect may be able to see you before you see him.
 As you are slicing the pie, check to see what you can see in the mirror. Try to adjust your form so that little more than your eye and your firearm are visible.


You can also practice with another person using flashlights. As soon as one of you sees any part of the other, shine your flashlight on them. The competitive nature of this drill will sharpen your form quickly.
 This will allow you to react more quickly than if you have your firearm at low ready. Arms extended or high-compressed ready are both good options.A high-compressed ready position is achieved by holding the firearm with both hands close to the chest and elbows slightly elevated. With high-compressed ready, make sure that your non-firing hand is behind the plane of the muzzle.

