 Decide if you are experiencing the symptoms of depression so that you can know exactly what to tell your physician. Be informed by reading up on symptoms of depression before your appointment. Doing some research will make you more familiar with the condition and make it easier for you to talk to your doctor. Symptoms of depression include:Little hope for the future
Feeling worthless or guilty
Being easily agitated
Loss of interest in normally pleasurable activities
Withdrawal from friends or loved ones
Sleep changes (e.g. sleeping too much or too little)
Appetite changes (e.g. eating more or less)
Losing or gaining weight
Using alcohol, drugs, gambling or other vices to distract or self-medicate
Experiencing physical ailments;
, It may be helpful to consider your family history when thinking about your risk for depression. In some cases, depression can be both genetic and environmental, running through multiple generations of a family.Speak to your parents or siblings to see if they have ever battled depression or know another relative who has. This information could help your doctor determine the source of your symptoms, which will help him treat you more effectively.
 Since depression forms from a combination of psychological, biological, and social factors, your illness could have manifested after a recent stressor. It may be hard to see a connection, but certain circumstances that you endure in life can contribute to depressive symptoms.Stressors or life events that may cause depression are:Trauma or abuse in early childhood
Marital or relationship discord
Financial strain
Unemployment or underemployment
Lack of social support
Loneliness
Alcohol or substance abuse
Chronic pain or medical conditions

, If you've noticed recurring periods of depression, make a list of the times you feel depressed, what emotions you feel and what's going on in your life that you think might be contributing to the problem. Having a history of your symptoms will make it easier to talk to your doctor about depression and help your physician determine the best treatment for you.


You can even download a worksheet that allows you to be aware of potential questions your doctor may ask and be prepared with your answers. You can bring this worksheet along with you to your appointment to be sure you cover all the bases. Try this worksheet or do an online search.

