 Make them catchy and intriguing so that the watchers will be convinced to view the episode. Be sure that they are relevant to the story in some way. However, avoid spending all of your time on this.


If you aren't pleased with your episode titles, come back to them after you've written out the script.;
, Be sure there is a clear beginning, middle, and end. The story's events should build up to the climax, where it all spirals down to the end. Jot down notes and thoughts, as well as dialogue between the characters if you can think of any. Arrange all your notes until you've come up with a clear story.


Making an outline of your story idea can be useful. It organizes your thoughts and the events into bullet points, and it will make more sense.
 Add the character dialogue and actions as appropriate. Type it out neatly so that you have a clear understanding of what will happen. Be sure you have a good idea of how many characters there will be.
 The two most important props are the sonic screwdriver and the TARDIS.


To get the sonic screwdriver, purchase it from Barnes and Noble or their website.
To get the TARDIS, you have to build it. Online instructions are available.
 Make sure you come up with an eye-catching outfit that is unique, fresh, and bold. A simple sweater and jeans will not appeal to viewers. In order to get attention, the Doctor's appearance will have to look new and nearly magical.


There is no specific appearance that you have to follow. Every Doctor has had their own unique look.
 Ask your family or your friends for help. Working with people you know will be inexpensive and fun at the same time. However, if you want professionals in your series, search around on the Internet and find good actors. Make sure their services will be inexpensive.
 If you have problems, find a friend or hire someone who can come up with a professional-looking costume.
 Make sure you have permission to film in that area. Be sure it has good lighting and that no distractions are around. You can't work when there is background noise and people getting in the way.
 Be patient and remember that the actors may not always get the script right the first time. You may have to play around with new ideas and change the script.
 Be sure the volume is high enough so that the character's dialogue is clear. Create an intriguing introduction, and add special effects (most are downloadable). Unfortunately, a lot of the good ones require money.
 You could also burn it on a disc and give it to your friends. Advertise your video appropriately, and let people know about it.

