 In the long-term, try to stay in touch on a regular basis. You want to be there for them in the immediate period of grief, but also as they face difficulties moving forward. Look over your schedule and try to determine a few times a week that are most convenient for you to make a quick phone call or send a fast email.It is a particularly good idea to check in with the bereaved over any holidays as these can be times of loneliness and negative feelings following a death.
Try to walk a fine line between being there for the bereaved person and pestering them. And, some people simply wish to mourn without interacting with too many other people. Try to find out about their needs rather than imposing yourself on them. At the end of one conversation, you might get an idea for their wishes by saying, “I was thinking about calling you next week to see how everything is going then, will that be okay?”

, Some people suffer from physical loneliness following the death of a loved one. They simply miss having someone else around, who they trust, in their home. If you think this might be the case, you can offer to stay a few nights over at their place, especially until the funeral arrangements are made.Make this offer more enticing by offering to do something that they enjoy, such as spending an evening knitting or watching an action movie.
 Let them know that you are comfortable discussing the life and death of the deceased person. You can start by referring to the deceased by their name and then seeing if the bereaved person will follow suit. You can also talk about certain memories that you have and see if they will join in.You might say, “Remember how Samantha loved this movie so much? I always liked watching it with her.”

, It is quite possible that they will not want to discuss the deceased person with you. Instead, they may want to talk about more trivial matters, such as what movies you’ve seen recently. If the bereaved person tries to change the direction of the conversation or simply says, “I don’t want to discuss this right now,” then follow their wishes and move on to something else or end the conversation at that point.
 You don’t have to talk to provide comfort. It may be a good idea to simply sit next to the person or offer them a hug. You could also give them tissues if they are crying. Or, if you are comfortable with this, you could hold their hand or arm. This lets them know that you are there for them without being overbearing.
 Depending on the bereaved, they may want to do something beyond the funeral to remember the deceased. As time goes on, let them know that you are there to help and will attend as well. You can also offer suggestions, such as buying a brick from the deceased’s alma mater or donating to a particular cause., If you notice that the bereaved is not coping well with their loss, then you might suggest that they attend a bereavement support group. You can find a group in your area by searching online. Funeral homes or hospitals can often suggest groups as well. Make sure to offer to attend the group with the bereaved person, or they might take offense to your suggestion.This is a very touchy subject, so it is important to proceed carefully or you could offend the bereaved person. You might say, “I’ve heard about groups in the area that meet to talk about loved ones who have passed away. I don’t know if it is your type of thing, but I would be happy to go with you, if you’d like.”

