 If you purchased goods from a merchant but want to dispute the quality of the goods or services, then you must contact the merchant first. Find the phone number or stop in to talk to a manager.


You should only contact the merchant first if you know you made the purchase. If you did not authorize the purchase, then call your bank quickly.
Find your receipt and identify how much you paid for the goods and the day you purchased them.
 You should reach out to the merchant and explain what was wrong with the goods.Ask for a full refund.


If the first person you talk to refuses to refund the purchase price, then ask to talk to a supervisor. Do not get angry or argue but remain firm.
Realize that federal law does not give you the right to a refund for non-delivered or inadequate goods or services.Accordingly, you need to work with the merchant and your bank.
 If you have failed to come to an adequate resolution with the merchant, you should contact your bank. Either call or stop in.Your bank probably has a form that you can use. Although each form will vary, you typically must provide the following information:the cardholder’s name
the card number
the cardholder’s phone number and the best time to be reached
the merchant’s name
the date you contacted the merchant
the dollar amount in dispute
the reason for the dispute (e.g., duplicate charge, returned merchandise, non-receipt of goods, or poor quality goods or services)

, You should send the form certified mail, return receipt requested. Also keep a copy of the completed form for your records.
 Your bank should contact the merchant to investigate the dispute. The precise process may vary from bank to bank.


For example, some banks might credit your account the money until the dispute is resolved. If it is not resolved in your favor, then the money will be taken back out.Other banks won’t credit any money during the investigation.
Generally, it can take 30-45 days for the bank to complete the investigation process.If you are unhappy with the result, then you can complain to the federal Consumer Finance Protection Bureau.Visit their website and fill out a complaint.

