 If your investment fees are too high and negotiation didn't work, your best bet if you want to lower your investment fees is to find a different investment service with lower fees, or flat fees.If you have close friends or family members with similar investments to yours, you might ask them which broker or advisor they use and whether they're satisfied with those investment services.
Don't choose an investment service based solely on its advertising or marketing materials. Instead, dig deeper by doing research online about the service's background and reputation, talk to past and current clients, and ultimately talk to someone who works there.
Since you're considering moving your investments to lower your investment fees, make sure you understand all fees you'll be charged up front so you can compare and contrast the impact on your portfolio over time and make the right choice.
 If you have investment accounts with one broker and decide you want to move them elsewhere to lower your investment fees, there may be some cost in doing so.For example, you may need to sell off some investments if you want to transfer those funds to a different broker. Particularly in the case of certain types of retirement accounts, you may have to pay a substantial tax penalty for doing so.
Your current broker also may charge a fee for closing out your account before a specified date, and those fees may be significant.
If transferring your account will result in tax penalties and fees, those costs may offset any savings you would gain from lowering your investment fees.
 If you're looking for a U.S. broker, you can look them up on the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) website. FINRA is a non-governmental, nonprofit organization that regulates investment and securities firms in the United States.You can access FINRA's "BrokerCheck" service at brokercheck.finra.org. The service is free of charge, and will provide you information about individual brokers as well as brokerage firms.
Through this service, you can learn more about a broker's background and employment history, licensing, and whether they've had any regulatory actions or complaints against them.
 A fee-only advisor can save you money because while they'll still charge you investment fees (and those fees may be the same or even more than what you're currently paying), you won't have to cover the advisor's commission.This will only save you money if your current broker or financial advisor is getting additional compensation or a commission for managing your investments.
Keep in mind that fee-only advisors typically have a more passive management style, even if you're not investing in index funds. If you prefer an active management style, you may not be able to get what you want from a fee-only advisor.

