 Before embarking on a quest to find your political stance, it is important to understand your system of government, on both a local and federal level. Consult books, scholarly journals, reputable web publications, or other reliable sources to reinforce your knowledge of your own political system.Take the time to learn about the different branches of government, the organization of the government as a whole, and how things function within that system., The way you were raised can affect your knowledge of, and engagement with, politics.If your family does not typically discuss political issues, stimulate the dialogue to get some insight on what their political leanings are. Make sure to convey that your interest is one of genuine curiosity by approaching the topic as neutrally as possible, and by highlighting your own quest for political direction (e.g. "I’m exploring my own political beliefs. Would you mind sharing a bit about your own political beliefs with me?"). Follow with questions like:


"How long have you supported your political party?"
"What platform(s) won you over with this party?"
"Have your political beliefs changed over time?"
"What issues matter to you the most?"

, Make a point to learn the history of major political parties to gain a better understanding of what they really stand for. For example, most major European and North American political parties emerged in the 19th century as groups of individuals organized to gain and exert political power.Over time, the platforms (or values) of each party have shifted in response to cultural and political issues of the day. Understanding how each political party in your nation originated and evolved is key to understanding whether or not you agree with their positions on important issues., The number of major political parties varies by nation, but as a general rule most parties fall somewhere between liberal and conservative ideologies. Learn what these belief structures represent to get a better sense of your own political sensibilities. Liberal parties support a belief that government should guarantee equality, provide for its citizens, and alleviate social problems.Conservative parties emphasize personal liberty, free markets, strong national defense, and limited government interference.Also referred to as "left-wing" and "right-wing," these contrasting ideologies differ greatly on many key issues. For example:


Gun control: Liberals often advocate for stricter gun control laws and believe it is the government's role to protect citizens, while Conservatives emphasize the right for citizens to bear arms and protect themselves.Same-sex marriage: Liberals support equal marriage rights for everyone regardless of sexual orientation, while Conservatives generally oppose same-sex marriage.The death penalty: Liberals typically view capital punishment as inhumane and want to abolish it, while Conservatives believe the death penalty is an important element of the justice system and a fitting punishment for murderers., If you have any questions about current government policies or procedures, address them directly to your elected officials using contact information available online.Use any such opportunity to ask questions that break through the veil of election time slogans and promises; if you notice that a particular issue seems to have been overlooked by a party or politician, tackle it head on with a question like, “I haven’t heard you comment on this particular issue so far. Will you please clarify your stance on it and plans for addressing it in the near future?”


Radio talks shows, candidate forums and debates, civic or town hall meetings, and web chats may also present opportunities to address political candidates and elected representatives directly., Staying abreast of political happenings is an excellent way to form your own opinions on the subject. Watch the news, read newspapers, and consult other non-partisan sources on a regular basis. In addition, look into one of the many apps available that can help you keep track of the ever-changing political landscape., There are quizzes available online that claim to assess the political typology of an individual based on their answers to a series of questions.Complete a few of these quizzes and compare the results to see if they are consistent. While the results of the quiz may not be infallible, the process of completing the quiz can encourage you to contemplate certain issues on a deeper level than you have in the past.
 Examine the rhetoric and platforms of political figures in the media as closely as possible.Watch televised debates and interviews, read newspaper articles, and consult reliable online sources to keep up with news on different political parties and issues.Take note of your gut reactions and what rings true to you by asking yourself:


Do you agree/disagree with this person/political party?
Do you think this politician is trustworthy?
Do the things that this person says make sense to you, or not?

, Your health is an issue of great importance, so consider your beliefs and priorities in this area when determining your political stance. As a general rule, Conservatives support private health care, distributed by the market with minimal government interference, and believe that anyone who is capable of paying for their own health care should do so.Liberals believe that healthcare is a basic right that should be distributed to all citizens by the government.Liberals generally also support the legalization of physician-assisted suicide and abortion, while Conservatives oppose both with the belief that they devalue the sanctity of human life., Education is a topic of great importance that you should think about carefully, whether you have children or simply have strong opinions about the educational system. Left-wing parties believe in the public school system, and feel that the government should direct more money towards improving these schools. Right wing parties tend to support a more privatized education system, where scholarships may be awarded to students for private or charter schools (public schools operating independently);the idea is that competition created by this scholarship or school voucher system will improve the quality of education., Left-wing and right-wing ideas about taxation and welfare are vastly different- the former supports higher taxes and a larger government to provide for the less fortunate, while the latter supports lower taxes and a small government.The left-wing also supports higher taxation of people with larger incomes. Consider your beliefs on this very divisive issue, as a citizen and taxpayer, to further evaluate your overall public stance.
 Liberal and Conservative beliefs differ greatly on environmental issues, particularly on the subject of climate change. Liberals believe that global warming is the result of excessive burning of fossil fuels and support laws to reduce carbon emissions; along the same lines, they believe that the government should subsidize programs to find alternative energy sources. Many Conservatives dismiss the notion that humans can have that effect on the climate and oppose laws to reduce emissions.Do some research to better understand the science behind these issues, which will allow you to assess your own beliefs about them. Consult sources like:


Newspaper and scholarly journal articles
Reputable websites
Documentary films on the topic

, The structure of US government is complex, so try reading up on it to gain a better understanding before choosing a political party to support. Give extra attention to the history of major political parties; the US is essentially a two party system, so getting acquainted with the background and evolution of the Republican and Democratic parties is a good idea.Keep abreast of current issues that the parties clash on (e.g. gun control, immigration laws, etc.).
 As a general rule, Republican platforms are based on Conservative beliefs, while Democratic platforms reflect Liberal ideology.Nonetheless, the best way to understand where each party falls on important issues is to research and organize information in a clear way; since Democrats and Republicans tend to fall on opposite ends of most issues, this kind of comparison works well. Try starting with a basic "for" and "against" list, with information like:


Republicans: For lower taxes, smaller government, the death penalty, free market health care; against long-term welfare, gun control, same-sex marriage
Democrats: For higher taxes, larger government, gun control, welfare (including long-term welfare); against privatized health care and education, the death penalty

, While the Democratic and Republican parties have dominated the United States political system since the mid-1800s, 52 other parties exist. While third parties are often regarded as a wasted vote, they have held their own in the US with the support of citizens who are unsatisfied with the country's two dominant parties.The most active third parties in the US are:


The Libertarian Party: the third largest political party in government; promotes reduced government involvementThe Green Party: a party focused primarily on environmental and social justice issuesThe Reform Party: a moderate, centrist, populist partyConstitution Party: a party advocating renewed allegiance to the founding documents of the United States (i.e. the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights)