 Position the foam roller in the small of your lower back to begin with. Put your legs close together, with your knees bent, and hold onto the sides of your knees with your hands. Arch your head up slightly to activate your core muscles.









Foam rollers are great back-cracking (and back-stretching) tools, but if you don't have one, you can probably improvise. Some people choose to use a PVC pipe with a yoga mat glued onto it. This is a much harder surface than a normal roam roller, which means it's less forgiving (and usually not great for beginners).
 You can roll by extending, and then bending, your legs while keeping them anchored to the ground. This creates a see-saw like effect. It allows you to glide over the foam roller with your lower back.









If you want to get a good upper back stretch, roll the foam roller from the small of your lower back to the top of your shoulder. You should hear several cracks in your upper back especially as you do this.
 You should experience several cracks if you haven't cracked your back recently. As you do your foam rolls, remember to:









Keep your core activated and upper body slightly elevated. Remember not to slouch.
Keep your feet anchored to the ground. Try not to move your feet too much as you glide over the foam roller.
Stay comfortable and relaxed. The more relaxed your muscles are, the better your chances of cracking your back.
 Get on the foam roller with your back. Bring one thigh up so that it's 90° to your torso. Your leg, however, should be parallel to your torso. Grasp the area behind the kneecap with the hand opposite it. (If you're elevating your left thigh, grasp behind the kneecap with your right hand.) Anchor your free foot and your free hand on the ground and begin rolling your lower back over the roller.









After you feel the crack in your lower back, relax and switch sides. Perform the same stretch until your lower back cracks.
 Get on the foam roller with your back. Lift your thigh and leg so that both are positioned 90° to your torso. Your thigh and leg should be extended high into the air. Anchor your free foot and your free hand on the ground and begin rolling your lower back over the roller.








