 Pimples, wrinkles, and dull or bad complexions are often associated with certain types of foods. Limiting the amount of sugar you eat is critical to improving your complexion. In addition to foods that are high in sugar, you should also try to cut out the following items:Milk- Milk, being a pasteurized product, is full of active bacteria. Even after ingestion, the bacteria slips into the blood stream and has been linked to increased oil production.
High Glycemic Index foods. Eating a lot of “refined” carbohydrates, often found in junk food and snacks like chips, candy, and greasy foods, basically quickens the aging process, leading to the appearance of wrinkles and fine lines.Margarine. Margarine is high in trans fats, which can be good for skin. However, margarine has been linked to a lack of hydration that can damage your skin and cause premature aging., Fruits and vegetables are high in antioxidants, which help combat the free radicals that damage your skin. Eat at least five portions of fruits and/or vegetables a day to maximize your skin’s healthy appearance., Vitamin E supports healthy skin growth and reproduction of skin cells by preventing “oxidative cell damage”.You can find vitamin C in foods like strawberries, kiwi fruit, oranges, broccoli, papaya or sweet potatoes, among many others.Good sources for vitamin E are sunflower oil, corn oil, hazelnuts, pine nuts, avocado and almonds., Foods that are high in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats actually improve a person’s complexion by increasing collagen production and contributing to proper hydration. Foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids are good, so eat more fish, avocado or nuts., Zinc can improve your complexion by naturally stimulating oil production in the glands, helping to repair damaged skin while also providing a barrier for your pores from dirt and bacteria. You will find zinc in lean red meats, poultry, shellfish, and whole grains., Drinking plenty of water is critical for maintaining healthy, beautiful skin. Obviously, water contributes to moisture. Having properly hydrated skin helps it stay flexible, resilient to damage, and helps maintain a healthy color.The recommended amount of water intake is anywhere from 9 and 13 glasses daily, depending on your body size and gender., Drinking too much alcohol on a consistent basis can cause damage to the blood vessels, particularly in your cheeks and nose. This will cause a permanent flushing or redness in the color of your skin. So, limit how much and how often you consume alcohol.