 Emotional distress can take many forms, and there is no one definition. However, the following can often qualify as forms of emotional distress that warrant compensation:loss of sleep
fear
anxiety
depression
fright
humiliation;
, You should read your state law to see if emotional distress claims are allowed. You can find your state law by searching the Internet for “emotional distress” and “your state.” Generally, you can bring the following claims:


Intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). You can bring a claim for IIED if someone’s extreme and outrageous conduct intentionally or recklessly causes severe emotional distress. The conduct must be beyond all bounds of decency. For example, handcuffing you at work without justification could qualify as extreme and outrageous. However, insults, rudeness, or rough language do not typically qualify.Negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED). In many states, you can sue because someone’s carelessness has caused you emotional distress. The carelessness will typically put you in fear of physical injury or have caused actual physical injury to a family member. For example, watching someone carelessly strike your child with their car could qualify. In some states, the emotional distress must have been so severe that you feel physical symptoms.Emotional distress caused by physical injury. Whenever someone injures you physically, you can also get compensation for emotional distress. For example, someone’s dog might have bitten you. In this situation, you can get compensated for physical injuries and also for the emotional distress you have experienced.
 You can begin building your emotional distress claim by getting copies of medical records.These records can help show that you have suffered physical harm. Physical harm isn’t always required, but your case would be much stronger if you can prove physical injury as well.


Contact any doctor or hospital you visited and request copies of your medical records.
Remember that doctors can also testify if you have a trial. For example, medical personnel might have seen you in a state of shock.
 You can also prove emotional distress by keeping a journal in which you discuss how you are feeling on a daily basis. Be sure to mention how the emotional distress has interfered with your life in big and small ways.As you write in your journal, it’s key not to exaggerate. For example, writing “I couldn’t sleep” is probably an exaggeration if you did get a few hours of sleep. Try to be as factual as possible.
 If you are taking medication to deal with your emotional distress, then keep a list and hold onto the bottles. They are proof that you have struggled emotionally after the incident.It can be particularly dramatic at trial to bring up a clear plastic bag with all of your empty orange prescription bottles to show to the jury.
 To win any emotional distress claim, you always need to show that the person you are suing (the “defendant”) did something that caused the distress.


In an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim, for example, you need to show that the defendant engaged in “extreme” and “outrageous” conduct. If the defendant lied and told you your child was dead, then you need evidence of their lie.
Write down your memories of the incident. Include important details such as the date, time, and location. You are the best witness since you observed whatever caused your emotional distress.
 At your trial, you can also have witnesses testify about the defendant’s actions. You should try to find the names of these people as soon as possible. Get contact information, such as personal phone numbers or email addresses, so that you can reach out to them later.


You can often find the names of witnesses in a police report.For example, if someone struck your child with a car, then you could get the names of the other people who saw the accident.
 Each emotional distress case is different. Only a qualified attorney can explain to you what evidence you will need in order to bring a successful claim. You can find a personal injury lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.Many personal injury lawyers will represent clients on “contingency.” Under this arrangement, the lawyer doesn’t get paid unless you win. He or she will take 33-40% of any amount you get under a settlement agreement or at a trial.Schedule a consultation with a personal injury lawyer and ask whether they would represent you on contingency. You typically have to pay the costs of the lawsuit out-of-pocket; however, some lawyers will advance you that money.
 You need to sue the defendant in the county where he or she lives. If you were injured in a car accident, then you could also sue in the county where the accident occurred. Nevertheless, it is probably easier to sue in the county where the defendant lives.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. This document identifies you as the “plaintiff” and explains the factual circumstances surrounding your emotional distress. In many courts, there are printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can complete.Stop into court and ask for a copy.


If there isn’t a form for you to use, then ask the clerk if there is a sample you can use as a guide.
Alternately, you can hire an attorney to draft the complaint and handle your entire lawsuit.
 Print neatly or, better yet, use a typewriter. You can download some complaint forms and type in the information. Be sure to include the following:your name and place of residence
the defendant’s name and place of residence
factual circumstances surrounding the dispute
a detailed description of your injuries
a demand for money compensation (called “damages”)

, Once you have completed your complaint, you should make several copies. Take your copies and the original to the court clerk. You probably will have to pay a filing fee. The amount will differ depending on the court.


If you can’t afford the filing fee, then ask the clerk for a fee waiver form and complete it. The form will typically ask about your income and monthly expenses., You have to give the defendant notice that you are suing them. You can provide this notice by serving a copy of your complaint and a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk.The summons provides details about when the defendant needs to respond.


You can generally have someone 18 or older make hand delivery on the defendant. This person can’t be you or anyone else who is a party to the lawsuit.
You could hire a private process server to make delivery. Look in your phone book. They typically charge $45-75 per service.In some counties, you can also have the sheriff make hand delivery for a small fee.
 The defendant has a certain amount of time to draft and file a response. Typically, the defendant will file an “answer,” in which they respond to each allegation that you made in the complaint.A defendant might raise many different defenses. For example, they might claim that they didn’t actually perform the act that injured you.
If you claim negligent infliction of emotional distress, then the defendant could claim they weren’t negligent but were instead sufficiently careful.
You will receive a copy of the response. Read it carefully.
 After the defendant responds, the lawsuit will enter a stage called “discovery.” During discovery, you can request information from the defendant. Since you probably have most of the facts already, you might not need to request much information. Nevertheless, you will have to sit for a “deposition” during discovery.


In a deposition, the defendant’s lawyer can ask you questions which you must answer under oath. Depositions are usually held in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present who takes down each question and answer.The defendant will want to question you about the extent of your emotional distress. To prepare, see Prepare for a Deposition.
 The defendant might try to prevent a trial by bringing a motion for summary judgment after the end of discovery. With this motion, the defendant will argue that there are no meaningful factual disputes and that they are entitled to win based on the law.In an intentional infliction of emotional distress case, defendants often argue that their conduct didn’t rise to the level of “extreme” and “outrageous.” This is a judgment call. However, a higher court might have ruled that calling someone “fat” doesn’t qualify as “extreme” or “outrageous.” In this situation, the defendant could claim that their conduct isn’t illegal as a matter of law.
You will have to respond to the motion for summary judgment, typically by filing your own motion. Summary judgment motions are complicated and require that you become very familiar with the law and be able to make compelling legal arguments.
Because these motions are complicated, you should probably hire a lawyer if you don’t have one. Some attorneys are willing to perform work on an “as needed” basis. This is called “unbundled legal services” or “limited scope representation.”, If you hired a lawyer, then he or she will handle everything. You basically should prepare to testify, but that is it. However, if you didn’t hire a lawyer, then you’ll need to do all of the prep work for trial, including the following:


Send subpoenas to your witnesses. A subpoena is a legal command to show up at trial at a certain date and time to testify.You should identify the witnesses you want to testify for you and then serve them with a subpoena. You can generally get blank subpoena forms from the court clerk.
Make copies of your exhibits. You will want to introduce helpful documents into evidence at trial, e.g., medical records, your journal, etc. You should make copies of these documents and affix an exhibit sticker to each. You will have to give the defendant a complete set of copies.
 At trial, the defendant might use different strategies to defend against the claim that they caused your emotional distress. You should consider each one of these strategies. For example, the defendant might claim the following:


You weren’t really suffering from emotional distress. In effect, the defendant might claim you are lying. You can counter this argument by testifying on your behalf and having a doctor or therapist testify as well.
Your emotional distress hasn’t caused physical symptoms. In some states, you can only get compensation for NIED if your emotional distress has caused serious physical symptoms like ulcers, heart palpitations, etc.You can counter this defense by introducing evidence of your physical symptoms.
If you are suing for IIED, then the defendant might argue that their conduct—though crude and offensive—is not sufficiently extreme or outrageous to warrant compensation. This is a judgment call for the jury.
If you are suing for NIED, then the defendant might claim that they were careful. For example, someone might have struck your child with their car outside your home, with you watching through the window. The defendant could argue your child caused the accident by running into the street. You can counter by pointing out that the defendant was speeding, or that they were looking at their phone as they were driving.
 You should make sure to give yourself enough time to find parking and go through security at the court house. Prepare to get to court a half hour before your trial is scheduled to begin.
 The trial gets underway with each side making an opening statement. You will go first. It is helpful to think of an opening statement as a roadmap that you will follow. You can identify the witnesses you will call and give the jury some sense of what each witness will testify about.For example, you can say, “As the evidence will show, the defendant lied and told the plaintiff that her two children were dead. You’ll hear from Rosa Martinez, who heard the defendant lie to the plaintiff. Mrs. Martinez will also testify that she took the plaintiff to the hospital because she went into shock.”

, As the person bringing the lawsuit, you get to present evidence first. You should call your witnesses. Remember that witnesses can only testify as to information that they know first-hand, so don’t ask witnesses to testify to gossip or second-hand information.Call your witnesses in an order that makes it easy for the judge or jury to follow. For example, you could call witnesses who observed the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Then you could call people who can testify to changes in your behavior.
This type of chronological sequence makes it easy for the jury to see that the defendant’s conduct caused your emotional injury.
 You will probably have to testify as well. Principally, you will testify about the extent and duration of your emotional distress. Your attorney can ask you questions. If you don’t have an attorney, then you will need to give your testimony in the form of a speech. After testifying, the defense attorney can cross-examine you. Remember the following:Speak clearly and loudly. Every juror needs to be able to hear you.
Listen closely to the question and answer only the question asked. If you can answer with a “yes” or “no,” then do so.
Avoid humor. The trial is a serious occasion. You should act appropriately.
Stay calm. The worst thing you could do is get angry at the lawyer or otherwise lose your cool.
Always use words to answer. The court reporter can’t take down gestures or sounds like “uh huh.”

, The defendant gets to present evidence second, and they will probably call witnesses to testify. You will have a chance to cross-examine each defense witness.


See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for tips on how to cross-examine witnesses.
 Your closing argument is your chance to sum up the evidence and tell the judge or jury how to interpret the evidence. You want to offer an interpretation that supports your case that the defendant caused you emotional distress., If you lose, then you should think about bringing an appeal. Appeals are heard by higher courts which review the trial transcripts. If the judge made a serious error during the trial, then the appellate court might set aside the verdict.


Appeals are very expensive, however. For this reason, you should consult with an attorney about whether an appeal is worthwhile.
Don’t delay. You have only a short amount of time to file your Notice of Appeal with the trial court. In some states, such as Missouri, you only have 10 days from the date final judgment is entered., If you win, then you still face the task of getting the defendant to pay up. The court will give you a piece of paper called a “judgment,” but you need to enforce it. Ideally, the defendant will just pay you.


However, if the defendant doesn’t pay, then you can garnish their wages or put liens on their property.See Collect a Court Ordered Judgment for more information.

