 Spread the French toast sticks onto a clean baking sheet. Let them cool down a little, then put them into a freezer and wait until they are frozen (about 1 to 2 hours). Once they are frozen, put them into a plastic, resealable bag.Write the date on the bag so you will use them before they expire. French toast sticks will last 1 to 2 months in the freezer.To reheat in the microwave: microwave on high for 1 minute. If it needs additional cooking, heat it at 15 second intervals.To reheat in the oven: Bake for 10 minutes at 350°F (177°C). Flip, then bake for another 5 minutes., Place 1 cup (100 grams) of cornflakes into a sturdy, resealable bag. Smash them into a rough crumble with a rolling pin. Pour them into a bowl, then pat the soaked bread sticks into them. Bake or fry the bread sticks as usual., After you have fried or baked the French toast sticks, cut them into cubes. Spear them onto wooden skewers, alternating with blueberries, cut bananas, and raspberries. Sprinkle with icing/confectioner's and serve with maple syrup.Another classic combination is cut bananas, sliced strawberries, and French toast cubes., In a bowl, mix together 2 tablespoons of white sugar, 1 tablespoon of brown sugar, and ½ teaspoon of cinnamon. Toss the French toast sticks in this before serving them., Spread some chocolate-hazelnut spread over the top of each bread slice. Press the slices together, like a sandwich. Cut the slices into thirds, then continue with the recipe for the baked/fried French toast bread sticks. Omit the cinnamon, however., You can give your French toast sticks a different flavor simply by using a different type of milk or spice. Here are some ideas to get your started:


Try it with almond or coconut milk.
For a festive touch, try it with eggnog instead of regular milk.Switch out the cinnamon for pumpkin pie spice or apple pie spice.
Try it with buttermilk. This goes great with pumpkin pie spice and cinnamon., Combine ¾ cup (245 grams) maple syrup and 1 tablespoon of instant coffee in a small sauce pan. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally. When the mixture comes to a gentle boil, stirring reduce the heat to low, and simmer for 5 more minutes. Take it off the heat, and let it cool before serving.