 This battle will take place inside the Dragon Roost Cavern. Beating Gohma requires you to destroy its shell first. To do so, use your grappling hook to make a chunk of rock fall directly on Gohma. Do this threes time and its shell will eventually break. After that, get near Gohma’s eye (by using your grappling hook) and attack it repeatedly with your sword. This process will defeat Gohma in no time.;
, Kalle Demos is the Forbidden Woods plant boss. The strategy to beat this boss is to make it fall when it attaches itself to the ceiling. You can do so by using your boomerang. Target its tentacles while you are running around the battle area and it should fall down sooner or later. Once it falls down, attack it with your sword, and better yet spin attacks, until it is defeated.
 You will face Gohdan in the Tower of Gods. The routine in defeating Gohdan is quite similar in how Bongo-Bongo of Ocarina of Time is defeated. Simply use your arrows to shoot its hands to trigger a stun. After stunning the boss, shoot its eyes to make its mouth open. Once its mouth is wide open – throw in a bomb inside to inflict damage. Repeat this process to beat Gohdan.
 Beating the Helmaroc King requires dodging a lot. When you face this boss in the Forsaken Fortress, initially, you just have to dodge its beak attacks until it gets its beak stuck to the ground. Now, use your skull hammer to smash its beak. Do this five times and its armor will be destroyed. When its armor is gone, it will again attack. Just the same, dodge its attacks until its beak gets stuck again to the ground. Without its armor, you can now hit the Helmaroc King with your sword until it gets defeated.
 Jalhalla is the boss of the Wind Temple. Jalhalla is an accumulation of little poes to create a big poe! In order to beat Jalhalla, you need to split it to small poes first. To do so, use your mirror shield to stun the boss with light beams. Once stunned, carry Jalhalla and throw him to the spikes in the corner. This will break Jalhalla to smaller poes. Now is your chance to destroy these little poes before they combine again. Repeat the process to eventually defeat Jalhalla.
 Another boss found in Wind Temple is Molgera. Molgera has some vicious attacks so you better keep your distance when battling with it. Your target here is its blue tongue. When it appears, quickly shoot it with your hookshot to pull Molgera towards you and attack with your sword. Eventually, it will start flying around and will dig under the sand. Still, watch out for that blue tongue and immediately us your hookshot on it. This process will beat Molgera after several repetitions.
 Ganon is a mini boss in Ganon’s Tower. Although Ganon is a mini boss, it has three forms you must defeat – the puppet, spider, and Moldorm form. Each form has its unique weaknesses but the common denominator of each battle is for you to use your light arrows to shoot the blue orb.


Puppet form: Simply use your boomerang to break the puppet’s strings that holds its tail. Now shoot the blue orb on its tail. Do this two more times and you will successfully beat the puppet form
Spider form: This form should be an easy form to beat. The spider form will go up the air and will try to smash on you landing on its back. Rotate the camera accordingly so you can spot its blue orb. Once spotted, attack it with your light arrows. Do this twice and you should beat this form.
Moldorm form: Among the three, this form seems to be the most challenging - challenging in the sense that the blue orb will not be an easy target this time. You can just land a decent shot at its blue orb when it is stunned. You can stun this form by striking its head while it slithers around the room. You can also go try shooting its blue orb without stunning but it will be very difficult. Three shots on its blue orb will beat this form.
 The final battle will be between you and Ganondorf. This battle is divided into two parts. First part is when Zelda assists you in fighting Ganondorf. She will shoot light arrows at him and it is your part to strike him with your master sword. After doing this repeatedly Ganondorf will eventually knock off Zelda. At this point, just try to avoid his attacks and parry its jump attack by pressing A. When Zelda recovers, this commences the second part of the battle. Continue fighting Ganondorf until Zelda instructs you to use your shield. Target Ganondorf with your shield while Zelda shoots it with a light arrow. Now approach Ganondorf and parry once more to finally beat the final boss!

