 There are countless custom maps available online from a huge number of Minecraft fan sites. Simply search "minecraft maps" to find more maps than you'll know what to do with. Most map listings have ratings and comments so you can browse and find the perfect map to try.


Maps are usually in ZIP or RAR format. ZIP files can be opened without any additional software, but RAR files will require a new program. You can use the free WinRAR trial (rarlab.com) in Windows, or you can use the open-source program 7-Zip (7-zip.org). Mac players can use The Unarchiver, available for free on the Mac App Store. See How to Open RAR Files for more information about opening RAR files.
Make sure to note what version of Minecraft the map is designed for. You can change your Minecraft version in the Launcher before starting the game so that you can play maps designed for older versions.;
, Right-click the downloaded map file and select "Extract file" to extract the files into a new folder. The folder will have the same name as the downloaded map file.
 Open the folder that you just created by extracting the map file. You'll usually see a _MACOSX folder and a folder with the same name as the map file. Leave this window open for now.


If you open the folder with the map's name, you should see several files and folders, including a level.dat file, a data folder, and several other files. Return to the previous folder after verifying that these files are here.
 The location varies depending on what operating system you are using:Windows - Press ⊞ Win or click the Start button to open the Start menu. Type "%appdata%" and press ↵ Enter. Open the .minecraft folder, which for most users should be at the top of the list of folders in the %appdata% folder. Open the saves folder. You will see a list of folders for all of your saved games.

Mac - Hold the ⌥ Option key and click the Go menu. Select "Library" from the Go menu. Double-click the Application Support folder and then open the Minecraft folder. Finally, open the saves folder. All of your saved worlds will be listed here in separate folders.

Linux - Open your User folder (your name) and then open .minecraft. Double-click the saves folder. You should see a lit of all of your saved worlds.
 Copy the map folder containing the level.dat file and data folder from the other window into the saves folder.
 After copying the map files, you're all set to start playing! Load up the Minecraft Launcher and start the game.


If you're trying to play a map for an older version, make sure to change your profile before starting the game. Click the "Edit Profile" button in the Launcher, and then click the "Use Version" drop-down menu to select the version of the game you want to load.
 This will display a list of your saved worlds. Your new map will be on this list. Then delete others in the saves file.
 Oftentimes, the new map will show up at the bottom of the list, but this isn't always true. Scroll through the list until you find it, and then double-click it to load it.

