 The declarations page of an insurance contract will usually come first and contains basic information regarding the insured and the policy. Some of the information it may contain includes:


The person, property, or risk insured. In life insurance policies, this will be the name of the one whose life is insured; in vehicle insurance policies it will be the year, make, model, and vehicle identification number (“VIN”) of the vehicle; and in property insurance policies, such as homeowner’s or renter’s insurance, the address where the insured property is located.
The policy period. The policy period is the period for which the person, property, or risk is insured. Vehicle insurance policy periods generally run for six months, term life insurance policy periods are usually 5, 10, 15, 20 or 30 years, and homeowner’s or renter’s insurance usually have policy periods of one year.
The coverage limits and deductible. A coverage limit is the highest dollar amount the insurer will pay for a claim made by the insured on a covered loss. A covered loss is any loss, which is covered by your insurance policy. A deductible is the amount the insurer must pay out of his or her own pocket before the insurer is responsible to pay. For example, if a vehicle insurance policy has a $500 deductible, and the policyholder files a claim for $800 for damage caused when he or she struck a retaining wall, the policyholder will have to pay for the first $500 in damage, and then the insurance company will pay the remaining $300.
The policy premium. The policy premium is the amount of each payment, and how often payment is due. For example, car insurance may be paid on a monthly or bi-yearly basis, while homeowner’s insurance is generally paid once a year.;
, Most policies have a definitions section or sub-section, which defines some of the words and/or phrases used in the policy. In order to understand the terms of your policy, it is important to review and understand these definitions.
 The insuring agreement is the main part of the contract, and describes what the insurer agrees to do, such as paying for covered losses or defending the insured in a lawsuit resulting from a covered risk. There are two types of insuring agreements:


Named perils coverage. Named perils coverage is insurance that covers losses resulting only from those events that are named in the policy. This type of policy will contain language such as, “coverage is provided for any peril named below” or “the following perils are covered”, and will list the specific perils covered, such as ‘collision’ in a vehicle insurance policy or ‘windstorm’ in a homeowner’s insurance policy.
All risk coverage. All risk, or open perils coverage, is insurance that covers all losses except those, which are specifically excluded in the policy. Life and health insurance policies are generally all risk insurance policies. An all risk coverage policy will contain language such as, “all risk of loss”, “except the following excluded perils”, or “coverage is provided for all perils not excluded”.
 Exclusions are those events, damages, or property, which the insurance policy does not cover. Both all risk and named perils policies may contain exclusions. Common exclusions include:


Flood damage. Standard homeowner’s insurance policies do not provide protection from flood damage. Flood damage protection must be purchased as a separate insurance policy.
Suicide. Most life insurance policies do not cover a loss due to suicide, and therefore will not pay out if an insured takes his or her own life.
Pre-existing conditions. Medical conditions, which a person has at the time that a health insurance policy becomes effective, are generally not covered conditions, and the insurance will not pay for expenses related to the condition.
Hospital amenities. Use of a hospital room phone or TV, extra pillows or blankets, and sometimes even aspirin or Band-Aids are commonly excluded from health insurance coverage.
Wear and tear. Damage due to normal wear and tear of a vehicle, such as balding tires or worn out brake pads, is not a covered type of loss under a standard automobile insurance policy.
Personal property. Standard homeowner’s insurance policies do not cover damage to certain personal property. For example, vehicles and pets are excluded property under basic homeowner’s policies.
 Standard insurance policies only cover the things that most people need covered. Therefore, homeowner’s insurance policies do not generally cover home business property or damage caused by hurricanes, for example, because most people do not have home businesses or live where hurricanes occur. Endorsements, otherwise known as riders, are written provisions that add to, delete, or modify the terms of a standard contract, in order to provide specific protections. Common endorsements, or riders, may include:


Hurricane coverage. Homeowner’s living in areas where hurricanes occur may wish to purchase a hurricane coverage endorsement in order to have protection from property damage or bodily injury caused by a hurricane.
Personal injury. A standard homeowner’s policy generally covers bodily injury and property damage, but not personal injury. Personal injury may include false arrest, wrongful eviction or entry, invasion of privacy, slander and defamation, or any other injury that does not affect the body. A personal injury endorsement provides protection from liability from a personal injury caused by the homeowner or a covered family member.
Home business coverage. For those operating a business from their home, the standard homeowner’s policy has a limit of $2,500 for business property and legal liability for the business is specifically excluded. A home business endorsement increases the coverage for property damage and may include coverage for accounts receivable, lost income, and extra expenses if business activity must be suspended as the result of a covered loss.
Scheduled personal property. Some items of personal property, such as furs, firearms, and jewelry, are not covered by standard homeowner’s insurance policies, and must be covered separately with a scheduled personal property endorsement.
Earthquake coverage. Standard homeowner’s insurance policies do not cover damage caused by an earthquake or landslide. An earthquake endorsement, however, covers damage caused by earthquakes, landslides, and other movements of the earth, such as volcanic eruptions.
 Conditions of insurance policies are requirements that the insured must meet in order to be paid for a claim. If a policy condition is not met, an insurer’s obligation to pay for a loss may be limited. Common conditions in a policy may include:


Protecting property after a loss. Most insurance policies require an insured to do what he or she can in order to minimize his or her losses. For example, if a tree falls into your home, destroying an outside wall, and you do not secure your home with a temporary wall or other structure, you may not be covered for damage caused by looters or a rainstorm, as a result of the missing wall.
Cooperating during the insurer’s investigation or defense of a lawsuit. Most insurance policies require that the insured cooperate with the insurer’s adjusters and other employees during any investigation of a claim or when providing the insured with a defense during a lawsuit. If the insured fails to cooperate, the insurer may be able to withhold payment on the claim, or refuse to provide a defense.
Calling the police. In the case of theft, a homeowner’s or renter’s insurance policy may require the insured to call the police and report the loss before it will pay a claim for the property.
 Your insurance agent should be happy to sit down with you and explain any provisions of your policy that you do not understand, or answer any questions you may have about your coverage. Call and make an appointment to discuss your contract.

