 Paint isn't very expensive and it makes a room look completely different. Don't just stick to plain old white, try some other colors. Pick a shade of your favorite color and use that. You could even paint the ceiling if you want to, the same color as the walls or any other interesting color. You may also consider only painting two walls or so because this allows you do use darker colours without making the room feel enclosed and keeps it light.;
, Your local paint store will have ideas on how to do neat finishes on the walls. Take a look at sponge painting, and stencils, they add interest to a room and stencils can even follow your favorite hobby. Be bold and make your room into whatever you want. Also, you can try out wall stickers or cards which are an easy way to stop plain walls looking boring.
 It just tends to collect and usually ends up on the floor because there isn't enough space in the closet for it. Shelves are the answer. You can make shelves out of just about anything, from cement bricks and boards to those plastic crates that eggs come in at the store. Ask for the crates at the store and then stack them in your room, on their sides. They come in all kinds of bright colors, but you can always spray paint them if you want.
 Make sure it matches the colours. A tropical room in red and black doesn't make as much sense as one in blue and green. Try not to use permanent decorations for themes. While horses are cool today, you may not like them when you're 17. Most of all, let your imagination go wild.
 You could just do shapes or work on a city skyline that goes right around the room. If you paint a large black rectangle it can be used as a chalk board.
 There's nothing like some soft pillows or cushions to sit on when you invite a bunch of friends over for a video night. Make sure there is enough comfortable seating for a few people. Chatting on the floor isn't comfy.
 It can be as big or as little as you want, from a ladybug in one corner to a full wall panorama.
 They come in dozens of shapes now, from peace signs and hearts, to stars and happy faces. Choose one that fits your personality.
 Arrange them in different ways. Try a checkerboard pattern or randomly tilted posters.
 Tired of your wallpaper and not allowed to change it? Try hanging a cool fabric over it. Fill it with posters, photos, cork boards, and the like.
 Borders finish off your room. You can stencil borders, add a wallpaper border, or make your own with a collection. Adding a shelf around the top of your walls will provide a place to put larger items, or you can stick up pictures or movie tickets, or ticket stubs from fairs, etc. Pick something that you like and go with it. Borders don't have to stay by the ceiling either, they can run around the room at any level you please.
 Anything that interests you and start gluing it up to the door. Layer things, overlap the pictures and stick the words on top. You can just do whatever or choose a theme like animals, fame, or something that pleases you.

