 You may spend a lot of time indoors, especially in the winter. Open a window in your home to allow fresh, oxygenated air inside. If it’s warm enough, open two windows on opposite sides of your home to increase air circulation.Try to open your windows for a few minutes 3 times a day, even in winter.If you live in a cold or polluted area and don’t want to open your windows much, then only crack them at times when you’re creating moisture.Open the window a bit while cooking dinner or taking a shower to prevent moisture build-up in the air.
If you have outdoor allergies, you can buy clean air window screens that filter out birch pollen, grass pollen, and ragweed so that you can make sure that there’s enough airflow in your home without giving yourself an allergic reaction.If you have outdoor allergies, also be sure to pay attention to pollen levels to determine when you should open the windows more frequently and when you should open them more sparingly.;
, When you open your doors or windows to let in fresh air, close the doors to your closets, pantries, and other areas that don’t lead anywhere. This helps air move throughout your house without getting trapped, bringing fresh, oxygenated air throughout your home., If you don’t have them, install an extractor fan over your stove and in your bathroom. These suck moist and bad-smelling air out of your house, helping to improve ventilation and keeping the air in your home fresh.Make sure you clean the fans every few months with warm water and a degreasing solution, especially in the kitchen. Clean them as often as suggested in the user guide that comes with your fan.
 Go to your local hardware store or shopping center, or shop online. There are numerous air filters on the market that can purify the air in your home and increase your home’s oxygen. Choose an air filter that best suits your needs by considered the following:How much money you want to spend – though it may be worth it to splurge on quality.
The MERV rating (minimum efficiency reporting value) – the higher the MERV rating, the better quality the air filter.
User reviews to get an idea of how well they work and how often they have to be replaced.

