 Circuit training is a combination of workouts designed to work every major muscle in your body. The quick switching between exercises gets your heart rate up higher than most other workout regimens, which in turn burns a lot more calories.Start a circuit training regimen to burn more calories faster and help lose weight.There are a number of good workouts you can include in a circuit session, but an example workout would look like this.Burpees, three sets of 10. Read Do a Burpee for details on this technique.
Squats, three sets of 10.
Bench press, three sets of 10.
Lunges, three sets of 10.
Perform workouts fast to get your heart rate up to its max and burn the optimal amount of calories.;
, Sprinting, unlike distance running, involves running as fast as you can for a short distance. This workout gets your heart rate up quickly and is an ideal workout to shed fat quickly. The explosive motion of sprinting will also sculpt your legs and abs, while simultaneously increasing your endurance and lung capacity.Follow these steps to perform a sprint workout.Go to a track, or measure out a straight path of 100 yards.
Warm up with either a jog or a brisk walk.

Stretch thoroughly after warming up. The explosive motion of sprinting can pull or even tear muscles if they're not properly stretched. Stretch for 10 minutes before your sprinting workout.
Start at the beginning of the 100 yard (91.4 m) path and sprint to the end. If you are a beginner, don't start out with a true spring just yet — run at about 50% of your top speed to make sure your body is ready and you don't injure yourself. Then gradually increase your speed with subsequent sprints.
Slowly walk back to the starting line. If you're still fatigued when you reach the start, rest until you feel up to sprinting again.
Perform six to 10 sprints in a session. Repeat the training two to three times a week.
Be sure to wear an athletic supporter, or at least tight-fitting underwear, while doing sprints. The quick motions can lead to a pulled groin or testicular injury without proper support., Most people think that endurance training is the only workout that will help you lose weight, but strength training is very important too. For starters, weight training boosts your metabolism, so you'll burn more calories in the hours after a strength workout. Also, muscle burns calories more efficiently than fat, so building muscle will help you burn calories even when you're resting.Read Build Muscle for workout tips that will help you pack on calorie-burning muscle.
Some good muscle-building workouts for men include dead lifts, pull ups, and squats. These exercises build major muscle groups like the back, legs, and biceps. Click here for more details on these workouts.
 You may be working out regularly but not seeing the kinds of results you'd like. In fitness, this is called a plateau. Your body has gotten used to the exercises you're doing, and they're not having a noticeable effect anymore. Draw a completely new workout schedule to revamp your fitness regimen.Try changing up the order in which you work out. For example, if you always to abs, triceps, biceps, back, and legs in that order, come up with a new order.
You could also look up other workouts that train the same muscle groups.
Perform this change up routine every few weeks to prevent a plateau.
 Though you may be eager to start shedding pounds as soon as possible, if you are obese (a BMI of 30 or higher) or have not exercised much in the past year, jumping right into an intense exercise regimen can lead to injury, which could derail your efforts to get fit. Be careful not to do too much too soon.Know your limits. Think about how long it has been since you last exercised, how much you move around on a regular basis (for instance, are you walking all day for work or do you sit at a desk?), any recent injury or illness, and your current age.