 Eczema flare-ups can be kicked off when skin comes into contact with allergens, so it is important that you know what you are allergic to and avoid products with ingredients that irritate your skin.These may include:


Soaps/bubble bath, especially ones that are artificially perfumed and scented
Perfumes
Cosmetics
Laundry detergents (adding time to your machine's rinse cycle can help with this)
Some lotions;
, Many common household items (and even foods!) contain substances that can have a drying, damaging effect on skin. Avoid contact with these sorts of products. If this is not possible, wear rubber gloves to protect your skin (especially if you have hand eczema). Some things to avoid are:Household cleaners
Finger paints
Gasoline
Turpentine
Wool
Pet fur
Juices from meats and fruits
Plants, jewelry, and even lotions can irritate sensitive skin.
 You can prevent worsening your skin's dryness by limiting your bathing activities to 10 or 15 minutes. Water exposure dries the skin. If possible, skip a shower one day per week to give your skin a break. You should also use lukewarm (not hot) water.Consider installing a water softener in your home (especially if you have hard water) to further reduce the drying effect of your showers or baths.
Pat your skin dry with a soft, clean towel after bathing. Do not rub your skin dry, as this will only cause irritation.
 Some soaps, even if they are made to be used on skin, can have a harsh, drying effect. Use soap that is specifically designed to moisturize, and use it sparingly. Avoid soaps with perfumes or artificial coloring, as these can increase the likelihood that your skin will react badly.Soaps with deodorant and/or antibacterial agents have a greater drying effect on skin, so avoid these when possible.
Only use soap on your face, underarms, genitals, hands, and feet; use only water on all other body parts.
 Synthetic fabrics (like polyester), especially those that are rough to the touch may irritate the skin and trigger eczema flare-ups. This is especially true if your clothes are tight-fitting and/or you are moving around in them a lot. You can prevent skin irritation from clothing by avoiding such wardrobe choices.Some clothing dyes might also irritate your skin. If you find that a certain shirt seems to trigger flare-ups of your eczema, stop wearing it and check the label for information about the fabric dyes used in it; add these to the list of things you should avoid.
Cut the tags off of shirts, bras, and underwear so they do not rub your skin and cause irritation.
 Dust mites are a major culprit of eczema flare-ups. In addition to keeping a clean home, you can reduce the likelihood that dust mites may cause extra skin irritation by doing the following:Remove carpets, rugs, and curtains from your home.
Use plastic mattress covers.
Clean your home thoroughly at least once per week; it is especially important to get rid of dust.
Wash all bedding at least once a week.
Allow sufficient air flow through your home by opening lots of windows, especially during cleaning (weather permitting).
 The dryness of the air in your home has a major impact on the dryness of your skin. Use a humidifier (especially if you live in a dry, cold, and/or high-elevation locale) to increase the moisture content of the air inside your home if necessary.Use a hygrometer, a device that measures humidity, to gauge whether your home's air is too dry. Alternatively, some modern humidifiers have hygrometers built into them and can be set to the proper humidity.
Your humidifier will need to be refilled periodically with water.
A sudden drop in atmospheric humidity can rapidly dry your skin, which is a recipe for a flare-up.
 Although evidence for this link is somewhat sparse, some suggest that certain foods might trigger eczema flare-ups, especially in small children (i.e., under one year of age). Mostly, trigger foods seem to be those to which children are already allergic or intolerant.Foods suspected of being common flare-up triggers include:


Dairy products
Eggs
Nuts and seeds
Soy products
Wheat/gluten
If you're not sure if you're allergic to a food, eliminate it from your diet for two weeks. After two weeks without it, reintroduce it into your diet and see if your symptoms return. If they do, you should avoid that food. If they do not reappear, then you can keep eating the food.
 Frequent moisturizing helps to lock in the skin's own natural moisture and prevents dryness and cracking. This serves the dual purpose of preventing the condition from worsening while providing relief from symptoms. There are numerous options for over-the-counter skin moisturizers, most of which can easily be found in any pharmacy or grocery store.Choose thick creams or ointment, as these work best for excessively dry skin.
For children with eczema, use products free of perfumes; petroleum jelly (such as Vaseline) is a good option for this.
Apply moisturizer at least twice a day. Excessively dry skin absorbs moisture relatively quickly, so you will need to reapply more often than a person without eczema.
If you plan to be outdoors for a long period of time, use sun block with a high SPF level (SPF 50 or higher) to prevent additional drying of the skin from sun exposure.
Stay well hydrated by drinking water.
 Hydrocortisone and other corticosteroids can reduce inflammation and some associated symptoms of an eczema flare-up.These creams are for topical application and can be found in low concentration over-the-counter in most pharmacies. For creams with more than 1% concentration, you will need a doctor's prescription.


Follow the instructions on the cream's packaging and do not exceed the recommended daily dosage.
Overuse of corticosteroids can have adverse effects. Corticosteroids are meant only for acute flares, and they should be avoided otherwise. However, if it is peak season (like a dry winter), you can blend a very low dose with moisturizer and apply it for that extended period of time.
Avoid ingestion of hydrocortisone creams; they are intended for topical application only.
 Over-the-counter antihistamines (such as Benadryl) can be found at any pharmacy and are usually taken orally. These should only be used during flare-ups and when itching is severe.Be aware of the potential side effects of antihistamines, a common one of which is drowsiness. It will be up to you to decide whether relief from itching is worth enduring the side effects of your antihistamine. Just be sure to abide by any warnings on the medication packaging.
Severe itching may not be relieved by an over-the-counter antihistamine. Talk to your doctor to discuss alternative options if this doesn't work for you.
 These are needed to clear up infections caused by bacteria getting into breaks in the skin, but can only be prescribed by a physician. See a doctor right away if you suspect you may have an infected wound.Always complete a prescribed course of antibiotics, even if your infection clears up before you have finished your prescription. Failure to do so could result in your infection returning with resistance to antibiotics. You don't want this!
Make sure your doctor explains all the side effects associated with antibiotic medications. If you are taking other medications, tell your doctor about them to avoid the possibility of experiencing complications.
 Although this might sound counter-intuitive because bleach dries the skin, bleach baths help kill off infection-causing bacteria on the skin and reduce the likelihood that you could develop an infection. Talk to your doctor before doing this, though, as your condition could be made worse in some cases.Use half a cup of bleach for a full bathtub of lukewarm water. Use less if your bathtub is not full.
Soak for about 10 minutes and then rinse off with clean water.
Repeat two to three times per week.
 If you live in a dry climate and have severe eczema, it might be worth considering a move to a more humid locale. Geographic locations with moderately high humidity will are likely to be less harsh on your skin because you won't 'dry out' as easily.Choosing to uproot yourself and your family is a serious decision and should be a last-resort option for dealing with your eczema (unless you are already considering moving for other reasons).


Extremely high humidity can sometimes be problematic for eczema sufferers, too; you are best off living in a place with moderately high humidity (such as the northern-central Midwest) rather than a place where humidity is very high most of the year (such as the deep South).
Be sure to consider seasonal variations in humidity. Some places may be humid during the summer, but quite dry during the winter; others are relatively warm and humid all year.
Speak to your physician before deciding to relocate. Some forms of eczema might not be helped much by moving to a wetter climate.

