

Just about anyone can volunteer to be a lifesaver at Sydney surf life saving clubs.
Surf clubs will be happy to chat to you and tell you what is required if you want to be a volunteer lifeguard. Many will provide all the training you'll need. Call them, check out their websites or simply head down and chat to them. Surf clubs are very social and they're always keen to meet potential new members.
If you have your heart set on being a lifesaver on Bondi Beach specifically, contact Bondi Surf Bathers' Life Saving Club.;
, It's considered to be the international standard for surf lifesavers.
Attaining your bronze medallion is a tremendous personal achievement in itself. It means you are skilled in surf awareness, survival, patrol and rescue and emergency care. It will give you valuable skills that may last you a lifetime.
Your surf club will tell you what you need to do to attain your Bronze medallion.
You can also get your Bronze Medallion through the Royal Life Saving Society of Australia and at many other swimming and aquatic centres.
Many surf clubs regularly advertise that they are taking applications for people wishing to attain their bronze medallions and conduct the training themselves.,
This may be a timed swim in a swimming pool or a measured, open-water course. Don't worry. Your surf club will give you all the information you need so that you can practice and train to pass this test., There'll be plenty of support and guidance.
At the completion of your training, you'll probably have to complete a physical fitness test. What is required may differ slightly from surf club to surf club. Bondi Surf Bathers Life Saving Club require you to complete:

"a 200 meter (656.2 ft) run – 200 meter (656.2 ft) swim – 200 meter (656.2 ft) run (run/swim/run) in under 8 minutes."
"A pool swim of 400 meters (1,312.3 ft) in under 9 minutes".
"A simulated rescue using a rescue board and tube". ,

Once you've completed all these steps above, you'll be able to assist as a volunteer lifesaver. Enjoy - and don't forget sunscreen!

