 That is, Start button > All Programs > EA Games > Need for Speed Underground 2. You can also start it by double-clicking the Need for Speed Underground 2 shortcut from the desktop


Purchasing and installing parts that improve your car’s engine power and handling capabilities will help you tackle URL races better. Better handling will ensure you don’t have to slow down too much at most corners while more engine power will allow you to gain speed faster when needed.;
, Choose “Career” on the game’s menu. Remember, the Left/Right arrow keys are for scrolling left and right, and Enter is to engage.
 This will return you to your career.
 Do this by choosing “Return to Explore Mode.” This will take you to the game world.
 This represents a Parts shop.
 To navigate, use the Up arrow key to apply gas, and the Left/Right arrow keys to steer Left or Right. When you arrive, stop (use the Down arrow key to brake) your car in the blue marker.
 Do this by pressing Enter.
 Scroll Left/Right to select the upgrade options you want. Upgrading Tires and Suspension will improve the car’s handling, while upgrading the Engine, ECU, Nitrous, Turbo, etc. will increase engine power.


Press Enter to choose an option then select one of the available packages. The higher up on the list a package is, the more it adds to your ride.
 Press Enter to purchase the upgrade of your choice. #Install the upgrade package.
 Press the “Escape” key in the Explore mode to activate the game’s pause menu.


Altering some performance-related settings of your car can make it better suited for URL races.
 Scroll right and choose “Jump to Garage”; use the Right arrow key to scroll right.
 Scroll right and choose “Performance Tuning/Dyno.” This will take you to the Performance Tuning/Dyno track. Again, use the Right arrow key to scroll right.
 Choose “Street X” from the menu that appears. This will tune up your car for URL racing.
 Tackling sharp turns is the trickiest part of URL racing but it still possible to do it smoothly.


At most of the sharper turns of URL tracks, there is a display that counts down to 1.
Accelerate (Up arrow key) towards the corner until the countdown reaches 1, and then immediately hit the brakes (Down arrow key), and turn (Left/Right arrow keys).
If executed perfectly, you will be able to negotiate the turn at a high speed.
 If for example you are taking a sharp corner to the right, use your opponent’s car to prevent yours from sliding leftwards by driving into the space between them and the right side wall.
 When you approach, say, a corner to the left, round it sharply by accelerating close to the left side wall (Up arrow key to apply gas, Left arrow keys to steer Left).


Once the front of your car is well into the corner, swing wide by slowly releasing the Left arrow key while still accelerating. This will prevent you from hitting the left side wall, and allow you to take the next corner in the same fashion.
 When opponents slow down to negotiate corners, it is your best chance of overtaking them and garnering a good lead.
 Unlike Street X races, racers are allowed to use Nitrous in URL competitions and those who can use it strategically enough have a great chance of emerging victorious.
 You have to since the tracks’ many turns make it almost impossible to attain maximum speed during a URL race,.
 Using Nitrous will help you quickly regain speed and get back into the race, but do so sparingly. Apply Nitrous to get back to at least the third gear, and then save the rest for future contingencies.
 When you’re shoved by racers’ cars and when your car slides to an angle of anywhere between 30-60 degrees, a quick burst of Nitrous (tap Left Alt key) will help you straighten it up.
 Doing so allows you to compensate for speed lost while cornering.
 Do so when the finish line is in sight. Ensure you’ve made use of all your Nitrous during the race as it is wasteful to still have some in your canister by the time you cross the finish line.