 Rudeness is an absence of respect for the other person, their feelings, their beliefs and their views. When someone is rude, they are more likely to be sarcastic, angry, abusive or bullying.


Rudeness also can include yelling, offensive language, making threats, intimidating gestures like pointing or even shoving.For example: Raj and Josh waited in line all night for concert tickets. They are excited to see the line finally moving. They have saved for weeks to afford these tickets. Suddenly a group of older guys force their way in line ahead of Raj and Josh. “Hey, we’ve been here all night. You can’t cut in front of us,” says Raj. “Look, you little freak, I’m not moving so shut it,” yells one of the bullies as he puts his face in Raj’s face and jabs his finger into Raj’s chest for emphasis as he talks.
As an illustration of rudeness, the bully is not showing respect for Raj and Josh, for their rights and their views. He is being abusive, he is yelling, using offensive language and being intimidating with his body language.
 To be assertive is to “express yourself effectively and stand up for your point of view, while also respecting the rights and beliefs of others.”Assertiveness involves all of your communication skills, meaning your words, your actions, your body language and your voice tone and facial expressions. When a person communicates assertively, all of these elements are in harmony. Simply put, assertiveness is being confident without being aggressive.
 Sometimes you'll feel angry, and sometimes your anger will be very justified. An assertive person will speak up, being respectful while speaking powerfully as needed, whereas an aggressive person will lash out (with words or actions).


Assertive people critique the thoughts/behavior, not the individual. "It was very hurtful of you to make those racial comments to Mika" is different from "You're a racist pig."

, Assertiveness is rooted in mutual respect. Without both parties respecting each other, you cannot communicate assertively. Instead, the dialogue is filled with aggression or passivity. When you have respect for the other person’s feelings, you can get what you want without stepping on others’ toes.