 In this case, unless you decide to share your journal, you’re really only communicating with yourself. Even so, journaling can help you see the progression of your emotional state over time, as well as offer you possible day-to-day connections between events and feelings.Go to your journal instead of acting out. If you feel like you want to punch a wall, write about what is making you angry. Write about why you want to punch a wall, what it would feel like, and what it would accomplish. Journaling has been shown to help people manage feelings of anxiety and depression, while also offering an opportunity to write boldly and without fear that anyone will respond negatively. Take your journal to counseling sessions. If you're using your journal regularly, it will provide you with a day-by-day account of what you're feeling and experiencing. This information could be very useful in helping you explain to your therapist exactly how and why you feel the way you do.
 Studies suggest that artistic expression is a healthy, helpful way to express your emotions. For example, arts therapy can help survivors of trauma process their feelings. These methods are powerful because they remove the need to create words, allowing you access your emotions directly.Try painting. You can free-form your painting to express whatever it is you're feeling at the moment.Try music. You may find creating a piece of music, or simply playing your favorite piece on an instrument, helps you express your emotions.
Try photography. Photography can be very helpful because it doesn't require any special skills to get started — all you need is a camera. Try taking photos that express how you feel.
Try dance. Dance connects the movement of your body to your inner emotions, allowing you to express how you feel through how you move. You can try formal dance, or just move your body in ways that express yourself.
 Narrative therapy views pain and trauma as a way of telling yourself stories about things that have happened in your life. In order to help you process your pain, it encourages you to explore the stories you are telling and think about them from different angles.Writing a story, poem, or other creative piece to express your feelings may help you express your pain in a different way and bring you to a new understanding of it.


Use self-compassion when you write about your pain. Studies suggest that merely writing about your pain might make you feel worse, unless you approach it from a place of self-compassion.Don't beat yourself up over your emotions or judge yourself harshly.

