 One way to decorate with air plants, is to mount them on your wall. Air plants do not grow roots, and as a result they can be attached to a variety of different objects and mounted on your wall as a form of wall art. Decorating with air plants using wall mounts is an excellent idea if you do not have a lot of space in your home or office. You can attach air plants to a panel of boards, a piece of driftwood, a seashell, a wreath, a wall sconce, a frame, or any object you desire.Once you have selected a suitable object, for example, driftwood, attach the air plant to that object. This can be done using glue, wire, twist ties, fishing line, nails or staples.
In this case you may want to glue the air plant onto the driftwood along with some other decorations.
If you are using wire, make sure that there is no copper in the wire because this can kill the plant.If you are using staples or nails, make sure that you attach the plant at the root. Nailing or stapling through the green base of the plant can kill it.;
, After you have attached the air plant to a desired object you can then hang the object on the wall. Choose a location that has good airflow and sunlight. Air plants do not require much water, but they do need minimal sunlight. When mounting an air plant display on your wall consider the following tips:Determine the surface material of the wall. Most houses will have drywall, but some older homes have plaster walls. Plaster is much thicker and may require a different type of nail. For instance, a push pin will not be sufficient for mounting on drywall.
Find a stud. When you are mounting something on a wall, you should always try and find a stud. This is especially important if you are hanging something heavy. In order to find a stud, you can use a stud finder, or you can simply knock on the drywall. Once you find a stud the knocking noise will change from hollow to solid. Studs help to anchor the mount to the wall.
Make sure there are no pipes or wires behind the mount. This can be done by using a stud finder. If you find there are a lot of wires in the area, then you should cut off the power to that area of the house while you are drilling.
Drill a hole and then fasten and anchor the mount to the wall.
 When you are decorating with air plants be creative. There are a variety of different ways that you can mount air plants onto your wall. For example, you could purchase or find a nice piece of driftwood. Fasten multiple different air plants onto the wood and also add some seashells and moss for added decoration. Here are some other creative ideas for air plant wall mounts:Fasten a number of air plants directly to the wall using nails or staples. You can arrange them in a cluster or space them evenly apart. Then choose a frame and hang the frame around the plants. This will give the look of a living picture.Purchase a wreath made of twigs and fasten a number of air plants to the wreath to give it some colour and life. You can hang the wreath on the wall or door.
Purchase a variety of seashell and fasten a magnet to the back of the shell. Place a single air plant into the shell’s opening and then mount it on your fridge. These make stylish fridge magnets.

