 It is best if the pony has regular hair, as this is the easiest to work with. If it has tinsel hair, be aware it will be harder to style because the tinsel irritates the hair and messes it up. The instructions, if followed carefully, should still help to make it look as neat as it was before you took it out of the box.;
, Fill it up with water. For conditioning, add some shampoo and soap to the water, or maybe conditioner, if you'd like to go that far.
 Get a brush, pony-sized, and some rubber bands. You will need these to do a good job of styling.


The brush is for brushing the hair afterwards, to remove tangles and straighten it out.
The rubber bands are for styling: when you brush their hair, and it is still quite wet, maybe you could put the hair in a style and fasten it in place with the rubber bands. The hair will dry that way and virtually stay that way, or if you try a ponytail, bun or braid, you will need the rubber bands to fasten them.
 Rub the shampoo into the pony's hair for a while, until it seems softer and more conditioned. Leave the pony to float for a while, roughly 15 to 30 minutes. If the hair still seems bad after that, leave it there for another 15 to 30 minutes.
 Some of the tinsel may be floating around, if you're styling a tinsel mane. That's okay! The less tinsel there is, the less ratty the pony's hair will be in future.
 Brush the mane hair until it's at a desirable straightness. Grab the rubber bands.


Some tinsel may rip out of the pony's head. Don't panic! A little less tinsel won't hurt.
 Maybe you'll chose a sophisticated bun style. Or maybe a braid. Or perhaps a ponytail? Or maybe you want to do something extra special. Whatever it may be, fasten the hair in place with the rubber bands.
 The wet hair will dry in the place of the hairstyle, and when you remove the rubber bands, it may stay that way. Unless it's a bun, ponytail or braid that you want to remain in place, remove the rubber bands from the pony.
 You've just styled your pony's hair.

