 Heel taps are a good exercise to do following the heels-to-heaven exercise. This move not only works your lower abs, but also improves hip stability and flexibility.Lying flat on your back, bend your knees and lift your legs at a right angle. Keeping your feet flexed, lower one foot until the heel just barely taps the ground, then raise it back up. Repeat for an interval of 30 seconds to a minute.
You can alternate legs or do first one leg and then the other. You also can do both legs at the same time.
 Mountain climbers are a standard lower abdominal exercise that you'll find in many basic core workout routines. This exercise adds dynamic movement to a basic plank position to crunch your core.Get into a high plank position with your wrists directly under your shoulders. Make sure your body is straight and level and your shoulders aren't crunched.
Engage your core and lift your right foot, drawing your right knee between your hands to your chest. Return it immediately to plank position, then repeat the motion with your left knee.
Do as many of these as possible with good form for 30 or 60 seconds, alternating legs.
 To do bear crawls, you may need a little more floor space than you do for more stationary exercises. If your space is limited, you also can move forward and backward rather than only forward.Start this exercise on all fours, lifting your knees off the ground slightly. Step forward with your right hand and left foot, then with your left hand and right foot.
Draw your navel in towards your spine and keep your back neutral, shoulders back as you do this exercise.
 You probably are familiar with scissor or flutter kicks if you've done much swimming. However, you don't need a pool to do this exercise and give your lower abdominals a good workout.Lie on your back and lift your head and shoulders off the floor slightly. You can place your hands behind your head if you need to support your neck, but take care not to push your head forward or crunch your neck.
Extend both of your legs out straight and point your toes. Lift your right leg off the floor until it is perpendicular with the floor and your legs are at a right angle from your hips. Immediately lower it and repeat the motion with your left leg.
If necessary, modify the flutter kick to meet your ability by raising both legs slightly off the floor and alternating short, quick leg lifts. You can also lie on your front and lift your legs behind you.
Do as many of these kicks as you can with good form in a 30- or 60-second interval, trying not to pause at all between kicks.

