 Before you put the rat into the cage, make sure to have all the supplies you plan to put into it. That way your pet rat will not be disturbed from its cage. Consider including the following supplies:


Dry bedding
Hammocks
Small water bottle
Food bowl
Toys;
, Rats can generally handle cold temperatures well, but it’s important to give them good bedding. Use materials such as paper or cloth for the best bedding, but make sure to avoid aromatic cedar or pine, since it can be dangerous to your pet rat.Shredded paper is a good bedding material for your rat, though it will need to be changed often. You can also use cloth bedding, such as old clothes, as long as the material does not unravel easily.
Stay away from aromatic cedar or pine. This bedding can damage your rat’s liver and respiratory system.
 You can either purchase or make a rat hammock. Pet rats love cuddling in these hammocks, which can also keep them warm during the colder months.If you want to make a rat hammock, you can use fleece or t-shirt fabric cut into squares or rectangles. Hang the hammock with safety pins, so the hammock is secured.
You can also buy rat hammocks at many pet stores. Rats will occasionally chew in their hammocks, so it’s important to have the hammocks be made of materials that cannot be easily chewed through. Otherwise, it’s possible your rat could fall from the hammock onto the floor of the cage.
 Rats will knock over any water bowls, so it’s important to attach a bottle to the side of the cage. Your water bottle should be changed on a regular basis, since rats need plenty of water.Secure your water bottle to the side of the cage so it won’t fall. Rats will chew on the water feeder, so place a protective covering such as a can or small plastic bowl on top of the bottle if the rats can get to the bottle.
It may even be useful to have multiple water bottles, especially if you may not be around your rat on a consistent basis. This way they will always have plenty of water.
 Rats will knock over any light food bowls, so make sure the food bowl is heavy and low to avoid spillage. You can also consider a mounted food bowl.


Food bowls can be easily spilled, so make sure it is secured in the cage. You can use a food hopper that dispenses food if spillage is a problem for your pet rat.
Have separate bowls for wet and dry food for your rat. Additionally, remove any perishable food so it does not begin to go bad while in the cage.
 Supply your pet rat with a variety of toys, including toys that hang off the top of the cage, toys on the floor, and mental stimulation toys. Rats need something to do while in the cage, so mental stimulation toys are the most important.


Put in a wheel runner for your pet rat. Female rats tend to run more than male rats, but both gender should use it.
Give plenty of climbing toys. Rats love to climb, so make sure they are able to climb up ropes and ladders while in their cage.
Rats need plenty of mental stimulation, so toys like mazes, toilet rolls, and paper balls can be great for them. They like solving puzzles, so any toys that make them do that can be beneficial for your pet rat., Let them roam around and get used to things. Don't hold them for their first 2-3 days while they are getting used to their cage and surroundings.


It takes rats awhile to get comfortable. However, they should settle into their new rat cage pretty quickly.
Your rat may need additional supplies once they get in the cage. Observe your rat to see if you need anything else.

