 The spider concept map is organized with a main topic in the center, sub-topics branching from the main topic, and supporting details branching off the sub-topics. This format will actually make the map resemble a spider. This type of map is also ideal for writing an essay, because it can help you generate supporting evidence and understand the primary and secondary details of the subject.The spider concept map is also very useful for helping you see which topics are richer than others, because you'll see that you can "branch off" more concepts from larger topics.
Let's say the main topic is "Health." Write this topic in the center of a piece of paper and circle it. This circle should be larger and more prominent than the others to emphasize that this is the most important topic.
 Now that you've written your main topic, you can write down the subtopics around it. You can write them in smaller circles and connect the circles to the main topic, "Health." You can first brainstorm a list of subtopics before you choose a few of them -- let's say three. These subtopics should be large enough for you to write at least three supporting details about each of them.


Let's say you've brainstormed the following concepts related to health: lifestyle, relaxation, no stress, sleep, healthy relationships, happiness, diet, fruits and vegetables, exercise, avocado, massage, walking, running, stretching, bike riding, three balanced meals, and proteins.
Pick the three most important subtopics, which can encompass many of these terms and are broad enough to incorporate a number of concepts. From this list, the most productive terms are: exercise, lifestyle, and diet. Write these terms in circles around the main topic and connect them with lines. They should be somewhat evenly spaced around the central topic, "Health."

, Now that you've chosen three supporting topics, you can write the supporting topics around them. Just do the same thing you did in the last step: brainstorm a list of supporting topics around the subtopics. Once you've chosen your supporting topics, you can just connect them with the subtopics with a line or even draw a circle around them to connect them. They should appear smaller than the subtopics.


Around the subtopic "exercise," you can write the following terms: walking, yoga, variety, how often, how much, and biking instead of driving.
Around the subtopic "lifestyle," you can write the following terms: sleep, healthy relationships, relaxation, massage, routine, variety, and love.
Around the subtopic "diet," you can write the following terms: fruits, vegetables, proteins, balance, carbs, and hydration.
 If you'd like to make your spider concept map really specific, then you could even take it a step further and write some supporting topics around the supporting topics. This can be useful if you're dissecting a particularly difficult topic that has many layers. It also depends on how long your paper, assignment, or project should be -- if it requires more words or time, then you can expand your concept map a bit.


Around the supporting topic "sleep," you can write, "8 hours a night," "don't drink caffeine before bed," and "the same amount every night"
Around the supporting topic "yoga," you can write "yoga for meditation," "power yoga," or "vinyasa yoga".
Around the supporting topic "balance," you can write "three meals a day," "protein with every meal" and "healthy snacks."

