 Wet hair and hot appliances don't mix; this should be common knowledge, but many people try straightening damp hair - which is just as dangerous. Want to boil your hair? No, didn't think so.






;
, Serums are usually best as they get right into your hair, though if you know of a quality spray you can try that. Make sure it's a good quality protector. Rub it all over your hair and give your hair time to absorb it, making sure it's applied evenly.
 Only choose a heat you absolutely need. For people with straight or loosely wavy hair, you do not really need to heat your straightener up to 200 degrees - 180, 150, around that area should do the job. Only people with very frizzy, thick curly hair should go right up to 200 degrees.
 The slower you go the faster it will get straightened, meaning you don't have to go over it endless times and break the hair shaft. Try not to go over each section of hair more than 5 times. If you want to do it the most effectively, don't just smooth the straightener over the chunk of hair-clamp it onto the top portion of that chunk/strand, count slowly to ten or fifteen seconds, then move it down until you get to the ends. It takes longer but is way more effective especially if your straightener is small or old.
 A straightening serum/spray will do the trick too, as will non frizz products. The more you work to keeping your hair straight longer, the less times you have to straighten and damage it.
 As an apology for drying it out, make sure your hair gets a regular dosage of the moisture it craves. You don't have to buy expensive products. Olive oil can be heated up and massaged into the hair easily, and is renowned for its ability to strengthen the shine and moisture of hair. There are also tons of home made remedies available on the net.
 This will prevent split ends - a common issue when straightening - from getting any worse. It also gets rid of damaged ends, the part which gets dried out the most.
 This allows the product to seep into your hair and really give it the treatment and moisture it craves from straightening damage.








