 Commercially available eye wash solutions are useful for dislodging something from your eye. Eye wash solutions differ in their application process. Some use indirect application by filling a small eye cup with solution, then covering your eye with the eye cup and tilting your head back. Other solutions use a direct method, in which you will tilt your head back, then drip or squirt solution directly from the bottle into your eye., If you have an eye cup (used for rinsing eyes), use that to wash out your eyes with cool, clean water. Otherwise, use a small bowl or cup full of water and splash the water into your open eye. You can also place your open eye under a gently-pouring faucet or shower to rinse it out., Gently pinch your upper eyelid and lift it up slightly from the eye. Slip the cotton swab or corner of a clean cloth gently behind the eyelid and slowly roll your eye toward the back of your head. Remove the swab or cloth and check to see if you still feel something in your eye. If you’re unsure, you could also check the surface of the cotton swab or cloth for something., If, after rinsing your eye with solution and/or water, you can still feel something in your eye, use a cotton swab or clean cloth to get it out. Always wipe in a gentle up or down motion, and never swipe across the eye.To protect your cornea, look in the direction opposite the place where something is lodged in your eye. For instance, if something is in the right side of your eye, look toward the left.
Check the cotton swab or cloth after each attempt at removal. If your cotton swab or cloth was white, you should be able to see it on the cotton swab or cloth after it’s been removed.
 If you’re having difficulty getting the particle out of your eye and can’t see it in a mirror, you should turn to a friend for help. Hold your eyelids open and allow your friend to check for the presence of something. Move your eye around so your friend can see its entire surface.If you are comfortable with it, you may want to have them use a cotton swab to dab the offending object out of your eye. Alternately, you might invite them to administer eye drops or a cup of water to flush the eye.

