 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has the Star Wars logo on it with some cards in the background. Tap on it.;
, The easiest way to find a trading partner is to look at the current fan feeds. These are the posts made by the players or traders, and they get updated in real-time. This means you can find an active trader by reading the posts here.


Tap on the Stormtroopers icon on the bottom menu bar to access the fan feed. Scroll through the feeds and find a trading partner. You can read through the posts to see if the cards you’re looking for are being offered or traded, but this is optional.
 All the fan feeds are headlined by the trader’s codename. The trader’s ratings are indicated right below it. You can use this as a gauge to check if the trader is reliable or not. Tap the trader’s codename to begin trading with him.
 A menu will appear. Tap “Offer Trade” from here, and the trading screen will appear., On the trading screen, your partner’s cards will be displayed first. Swipe up and down on them to see his cards.
 Most often than not, you will be searching for cards you need or don’t have yet. This can be done easily by filtering the cards. There’s a toolbar right below the topmost panel where the cards being trade go. On the rightmost part of that toolbar is a button with reversing arrows. Tap on it, and a menu will appear. This is what you use to sort and filter the cards. You can sort the by Faction, Parallel, or Duplicates, and you can filter them to show only the cards you need.



Sorting: Tap the appropriate option to sort the cards. “Faction” will sort the cards by groups in the Star Wars universe, “Parallel” will sort the cards by their colors or rarity within the game, and “Duplicates” will sort the cards with the most number at the top.

Filtering: Tap the “Cards I Need” to only show the cards you don’t have. Leave this empty if you want to see all your partner’s cards.
 The topmost panel is where you put the cards you want to get. Swipe up and down on your partner’s filtered cards to view them, until you find the cards you want to get. Put the cards you’re getting at the topmost panel by double-tapping on them, or by tapping and holding them one by one and dragging them there. Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen to proceed.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 The next trading screen will appear, with your cards now displayed. Swipe up and down on your cards to view all of them, until you find the cards you want to give. Put the cards you want to give at the topmost panel by double-tapping or by tap-hold-dragging them there. Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen to continue.


You can also filter or sort the cards so you can easily locate the ones you want to give.
You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 A summary screen of your trade will be displayed for your review. The partner’s codename is on the top left corner, the cards you’re getting are on the left box, and the cards you’re giving are on the right box. Double-check and make sure the correct cards are being traded.


Once you’ve sent the trade offer, your partner will see it and act on it right away. You will not be able to recover your cards once your trade is accepted.
 Tap the “Send” button at the bottom to proceed with the trade. The trade will be sent to your partner. It’s now up to him to decide if he likes your offer. If he accepts, the cards you’re getting will be added to your card decks and the cards you’ve offered will be moved to his.