 A great way to see the things you need to complete is by making lists of your chores and homework. Do this when you wake up on a daily basis so you have a good understanding of the best way to manage your time that day.


As you complete each task, cross it off on the list so that you remember that you don’t have to do it anymore.
Create your list on a piece of paper or your cellphone. Storing lists mentally leaves room for you to forget what you need to do.
During the day you may get additional chores or homework assignments. When you do, make sure to add them to your list.;
, Having a schedule of your day will allow you to manage time efficiently. If you find yourself running over schedule on a certain task, you know you’ll have to make that up somewhere else in your day.


Your schedule doesn’t need to be as specific as an hour-by-hour schedule, but the more specific you are the better. A day-to-day schedule will allow you to plot out important chores per day so that by the end of the week you’ll have completed all of them.
A good list will have each chore listed with how long it will take. A good schedule would have this information:

4:00 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. - Homework
5:45 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. - Vacuum Dining Room
6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. - Clean Room
7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. - Socialize!



, Having a cluttered workspace or room interferes with your brain’s ability to process information.This means that a cluttered room can prolong the amount of time it takes you from doing your homework. By keeping up with the cleanliness of your room, you are eliminating a chore on your list.


Throw things away like empty bottles of water or loose pieces of paper as soon as you don’t need them anymore. .
The more you stay on top of your clutter, the less work you have to do all at once.
 When you spend your time looking for things that could be easily available, you are wasting valuable time that could be spent having fun. Organizing your materials per subject will help you locate any homework or study guides that you need.


Keeping a binder or trapper keeper with separate compartments can help you keep any important homework.
Make sure to keep things you don’t need anymore in a separate place. You don’t want your folders to become cluttered and unorganized.
Be careful when you throw away things you get in class. You may need it for a quiz or test in the future.
 Make sure that you are utilizing all the time you have in order to finish your homework. Times like study hall, waiting for a class to start, or riding home on the bus are all times you can start a portion of your homework. The more you do during these times, the less you have to do when you get home from school.


Reading assignments can take a long time if you wait to read the material. By using your free time to read, you can start working on the essay portion of the assignment quickly.

