 Though it is not widely accepted in mainstream medicine, fibromyalgia is considered to have inflammatory or chemical-sensitive components. Because of this, following an anti-inflammatory diet can be beneficial. The anti-inflammatory diet emphasizes whole foods, preferably organic foods if possible. It also avoids all preservative and additives.


On this diet, avoid all processed and prepared foods.;
, You should increase the number of fruits and vegetables you eat every day. Fruits should constitute about half of your food intake per day. Include a variety of fruits, especially berries such as blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, gooseberries, and blackberries. They have antioxidants and other components that have anti-inflammatory properties.Make sure to also include a variety of vegetables. Dark leafy greens, such as Swiss chard, spinach, mustard greens, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and field greens, have tons of vitamin E, which help reduce inflammatory molecules in your body., There are certain kinds of meats that can help you decrease inflammation related to fibromyalgia. Increase fatty fish, which contain omega-3 fatty acids. These are natural anti-inflammatory substances. This includes salmon, tuna, cod, and other fresh fishes.Avoid red meat unless it is grass-fed and organic.
 Foods high in fiber have been shown to help reduce inflammation markers in the blood. Eat more foods with whole grains, such as wheat bread, whole wheat pasta, long grain brown rice, and other healthy grains.Nuts, rich in fiber as well as antioxidants and other inflammation fighting vitamins and minerals, can help repair damage caused by inflammation., There are certain foods and condiments that you should avoid. This includes sugar and sugar substitutes that are not naturally derived, such as Splenda or Equal. Also avoid hot beverages, alcohol, coffee, and hot spicy foods. These can open up the blood vessels and cause flushing, which leads to inflammation.


You can, however, add in spices such as ginger, turmeric, and garlic, which have anti-inflammatory properties. You can also use naturally derived sweeteners, such as honey, agave nectar, Stevia, or Monk Fruit., There are some supplements that you can take along with the anti-inflammatory diet that can help you treat fibromyalgia or treat the symptoms of the disease. Before you take any of these, ask your doctor. When taking them, always follow manufacturer’s instructions. You can take B-complex vitamins, vitamin C, vitamin D, magnesium, zinc, and selenium. You can also take fatty acids, such as omega-3 fatty acids found if fish oil and other supplements.


You can also take 5-HTP, which is a precursor for serotonin, one of the neurotransmitters that helps people sleep.
Look into nervine herbs. There are a number of safe and effective herbs that can help get you some restful sleep. Consult a qualified health professional and ask them about using valerian, chamomile, or passionflower to help you get better sleep.
Try out probiotics, which can help support your immune system.