


Moriarty has exquisite taste. Her clothes are good quality, expensive and most likely designer.
Since you're looking up how to be like Jamie Moriarty we are going to assume you aren’t a billionaire...yet. So consider saving to buy some staple clothing pieces.
 One doesn’t look like Jamie Moriarty without quite a few hours in the gym, and her occupation requires a certain level of fitness. As such she would need a nice set of workout clothing,


Jamie isn’t exactly the modest type so your outfit should be revealing yet tasteful. A tank top or sports bra with some long yoga pants would work.
As for price range, workout clothes ruin quickly, so there's no sense spending too much on them. Consider Lulu Lemon or some other vaguely expensive brand.
 A nice suit is an essential staple of any businesswomen's wardrobe, especially a woman like Jamie Moriarty. Expensive restaurants won’t even let you in without a nice suit and no associate would take a business partner seriously if they wore jeans.


You can’t avoid spending on this one. All the other outfits on this list you can substitute with cheaper brands as long as you get the style right. However, a cheap suit costs around $200/£160.
For this step, where you are in your life matters. If you are still in high school or a first-year college student perhaps skip the suit until you're ready to enter the business world where you will need a suit.
Consider buying a suit worth around $1000/£660. Jamie probably spends more on hers, but a $1000/£660 suit that is well tailored gets the point across that you have money and you mean business.
Of course, just because a suit is worth $1000/£660 doesn’t mean you have to spend $1000/£660. If you're tight on cash there are plenty of ways to use that Moriarty charm to get a deal. Don’t mention you're tight on cash, mention you need the suit for a first-time business venture. (For example, a Law student going for an interview at their first firm.) Then once you find a suit you love, play coy and suggest the salesperson could knock a few hundred off. Salespeople in high-end stores make their living on commission.
As for the style of the suit, go for nice yet subdued colors: a black top paired with a deep blue or purple suit, the kind of deep colors found a Samy Charnine or a Van Gogh. Add a harsh geometric cut for the full effect.
Pair this exquisite suit with a long thin stiletto in a matching color.
 Casual Moriarty daywear is pretty simple but contains multiple pieces.


Everyday outfits consist of loose blouses in deep blues or purples. The occasional pastel or perhaps a red works well too. Pair these with black slacks and a low heel. Never wear sweatpants. You never know when someone might come knocking on your door so you must look good.
In the colder months you’ll need a nice trench coat. Find something in a warm practical fabric which is a dark color like a black or dark gray and calf length.
You may also need an outfit for more strenuous activities like hiking or investigating a murder. For this find a nice leather jacket pair with a black singlet and black pants. Leather is good for protecting yourself from falls or even knives. For shoes pick something dark with thin yet sturdy sole.



Moriarty's hair is easy. For business go for an elaborate updo. For a personal call, wear your hair down in neat curls. For something physical put your hair in a sleek ponytail.
As for makeup Jamie knows how to keep her look natural while emphasizing her features. Makeup is like painting so naturally she’s brilliant at it.

