 It will be helpful to write these times down on a piece of paper or in a notebook so that you can find patterns.


Are you uncomfortable when it is just the two of you?
Are you uncomfortable when the two of you are with other people? If so, what other people? Friends? Parents? Siblings?
Are you uncomfortable when you hang out or have a date at home?
Are you uncomfortable when physical contact occurs?
Are you uncomfortable when talking about controversial topics, like politics?;
, Once you have determined a pattern of times when you have felt uncomfortable around your boyfriend, try to pinpoint exactly what about those situations caused you discomfort.


Was it that the two of you were alone with no distractions when conversation ran out?
Was it that you were worried about what might happen when the two of you were alone?
Are you concerned that your parents, siblings, or friends do not like your boyfriend?
Does it bother you the way your boyfriend behaves when other people are around? For example, does he show off or brag on those occasions?
Do you not yet feel comfortable with any kind of physical intimacy, including holding hands, hugging, or kissing?
Does it bother you when your boyfriend talks about things like religion or politics? If so, why does it bother you? Do you have different views from him? Are you not confrontational? Do you want to avoid an argument?
Does your boyfriend make you feel unsafe?

, Once you have determined why you feel uncomfortable around your boyfriend, you need to do something about it. Come up with a plan to address the issue.


Express to him that you feel nervous and a little uncomfortable. Chances are, he feels the same way, and discussing it will help both of you feel more comfortable.Spend more time getting to know him.
Carefully talk to him about how he acts when other people are around the two of you. Let him know that you like him for who he is and that you want him to be himself, because others will like him, too.
Let him know that you do not like talking about certain topics and explain why.Suggest more dates out in public rather than at home.
Explain to your boyfriend that you want to take the relationship slowly and are not yet ready for a lot of physical intimacy.
Consider whether you need to end the relationship, in the event that your boyfriend makes you feel unsafe in some way.

