 Check local schools, colleges or universities. Many academic institutions already have programs in place that match mentors to students looking for writing tutors. If you qualify, these programs may even offer monetary compensation. If not, you can volunteer.Ask school officials, “Could you use a mentor for any writer's programs, workshops, or other creative writing outlets?”
Look at schools’ websites. Search each website for keywords such as “writing tutor,” “mentor,” and “fellowship” to locate their application process.
 Authors and writers often put a section on their website indicating that they accept applications for one-on-one mentoring. Include as many details in your offer as possible. You may also want to indicate that you are open to participating in already-established mentorship exchange programs, in case a recruiter for such a program comes upon your site.


Specify the types of writers you are looking for. Does it matter where they are in their career path, and if they’ve ever written before? What language should they be fluent in? What expectations do you have for them?
Outline what you will offer. Will you coach them by phone, email, in person, or another way? List the cost if you plan on charging mentees.
 There are many mentor/mentee coordinators online who serve as go-betweens to match up mentors with mentees. Search online for mentorship exchange programs. When you find a mentor coordinator or program, review their qualification process carefully before applying to make sure you are a match for what they’re offering., If you already know or meet young people in the same field as you, approach them and offer them guidance. Joining a book club or volunteering at a library are good ways to meet young aspiring writers.If your book club has an aspiring writers in it, let them know you would be willing to help guide them along their writing career paths.
Writers are avid readers. The odds are very high that you will meet aspiring authors just by working at the library. Engage them in conversation and discuss writing.
 Mentorships don’t have to be live in person. You can develop a mentor/mentee relationship over email or by meeting someone through an online writing forum. If possible, put in your online profile that you are available as a mentor. Look for existing threads where young writers are seeking a mentor, or create a new thread and summarize the type of experience you have.Look for a mentee that shares your views. For example, if you write science fiction for young adults, try to find a mentee who is interested in pursuing the same field. Screen potential mentees and find someone who can benefit from your particular skill set., Look within and outside of your community for non-profit organizations, companies and associations that have mentoring programs. Trade programs that help people communicate or develop skills are a good place to look.Contact the human resource department. Try saying, “I am interested in mentoring young aspiring writers. Do you have any system in place for setting up mentorships?”

, Attend conferences and meetings where there will be young people starting out in their education or career. Talk with people and make yourself available to answer questions. Hand out your business card or exchange social media contact information.Follow up and show an interest in what your contacts are working on. Give compliments and support on their work.
Look for talent and ability. When you come across young writers who are starting out and recognize that they have talent and enthusiasm, convey to them that your door is always open for advice., Get to know the person a bit. Are their goals, communication style and overall temperament compatible with your ability and coaching style? Do you have knowledge about their current path?Review at least one piece of their work and provide feedback. Then have a discussion together about it. Are they active listeners who are receptive to your suggestions and encouragement? Do they seem to digest and appreciate your advice in a beneficial way?
Does your potential mentee have professional goals that are related to the history of your career?
If your potential mentee is outside of your geographic location, will a phone, email or online mentorship work for both of you? Exchange details on the availability and preferred communication style of each of you.

