 Walking around your neighborhood costs nothing and is a great way to start moving. This can help you to burn more energy than you take in. You can also try other low-impact exercises like swimming, riding a bike or slow running. If you have a dog, volunteer to be the one to walk her; walking a dog is a great way to ensure regular exercise.


Buy a pedometer. Attach the pedometer to your belt and try to reach specific goals you set for yourself.
Take the scenic route. Go a little bit out of your way as often as you can, and this can add up to a lot of extra walking. If you normally take a left on one street, go right instead, in order to walk a couple extra blocks.
Try not to drive when you can.
 D.D.R. (Dance Dance Revolution), WiiFit, and some new virtual reality games can get you moving around quite a lot. If you're looking for a fun way to get some exercise, think about getting an action-oriented video game. They can make you forget that you're exercising.
 You can use a treadmill, an elliptical trainer, a stationary bike, a rowing machine or a stair climber. Start with short sessions and gradually add minutes as you get more fit. Also, use the settings on the machines to increase the intensity as you lose weight.


Use a variety of different machines until you find something you like.
Consult a personal trainer, or one of your instructors to make sure you're using proper form. Improper form can result in injury.
 You can take a traditional aerobics class or try any number of movement-based exercise routines. These are great ways of keeping yourself motivated in a group, having fun moving around, and losing weight.Try any of the following:


Kickboxing
Ballet
Cross-country
Yoga
Martial arts
Cross-fit
Zumba

, Exercising large muscle groups burns more calories, increases your metabolism, and can help you to lose weight, especially body fat. As your body increases its muscle mass, it requires more energy to keep those bigger muscles going. This minor but constant increase in energy output can lead to weight-loss over time.


Make sure you build up to higher weights, and work with a coach, trainer or physical therapist to get started safely.
Do squats with a dumbbell press, to work your lower body and upper body at the same time.
Perform resistance exercises while sitting or reclining on an exercise ball. You'll strengthen your core while simultaneously working on other areas.
Rest at least one full day between strength training workouts so that your body can repair, and you do not over-train or injure yourself. Serious injuries resulting from exercise can remain with you for life.
 If you're not into the idea of exercise for the sake of exercise, try finding a fun activity that you enjoy, which has the added benefit of getting you moving. Find an intramural league in your town, or just get together with some friends to play a pick-up game every now and then.


If you don't like competitive sports, try doing something that you can do by yourself. Swim, or play golf, or go hiking instead of playing a game with a ball and a net.
Get a bicycle if you want to find a great way to get around and exercise at the same time. Don't spend all that time sitting down in your car when you could be burning calories.

