 Since there is no governmental regulations regarding the aromatherapy profession, you can find a large number of schools that will teach you how to be an aromatherapist. Many of these programs will offer you a certification. This certification has no legal basis, but it does show that you have completed coursework related to aromatherapy.Try to look for a school that is accredited by The National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy (NAHA). If the school is accredited by this body, it means that it has met the minimum requirements regarding the educational and ethical standards of the NAHA. You can see a list of schools in the US (and a few other countries) here.
Some schools may offer online, evening, or weekend courses to help make it more convenient and accessible to those who must work while also attending school.;
, Online courses might be more suitable for people who have very busy lives and might not be able to attend an in-person course or for people who simply want to learn about aromatherapy, but aren’t interested in practicing aromatherapy as a profession.If you are interested in practicing aromatherapy, you can still do an online course and learn everything you need to know. However, with an in-person class, you may have more opportunities to ask questions and receive direct feedback about how to mix oils and use them properly.
A combination course might allow you to do most of your learning online, but will also offer an opportunity to practice what you have learned in-person with an instructor. In this case, you can also ask them to answer any questions that may have arisen during your online learning.
 If you complete a program that is accredited by the NAHA and you aim for the professional aromatherapy certification (level 2), you will be required to complete at least 200 hours of training. At present, this is the highest level of certification offered, though the NAHA is working on a level 3, clinical aromatherapy certification.Some programs offer courses that are as short as a few hours. If you don’t care much about receiving any kind of certification, and simply want to learn a thing or two about aromatherapy, or if you aren’t sure if you’re interested in aromatherapy, a course such as this might be a good place to start., Some programs will not require you to take an examination, but if you are attending an NAHA accredited school and working towards your level 2 professional aromatherapy certification, you will be required to take and pass an exam.If you are working on a level 1 certification (foundations of aromatherapy) at an NAHA accredited school, you will not need to pass an exam.
For a level 2 certification, you will also be required to successfully complete a research paper, complete several case studies, and you must complete oil profiles on at least 25 essential oils.
 The cost of an aromatherapy program can vary considerably, but usually costs around $500.If you need help covering the costs of the course, there are different options you can look into for getting financial aid.


For example, The Department of Education offers subsidized loans that are regulated by the government.
 Once you have chosen a program that is suitable to your needs, contact the school to find out how you can get started. Make sure that you carefully read through all of the information that the school provides you, and take note of whether you must purchase equipment such as books and oils yourself, or whether this will all be provided for you.


If something is not clear to you, be sure to approach a representative of the school and chat with them before handing over any money. You want to make sure you find a place where you will feel respected and comfortable learning.
Be aware that courses can vary tremendously. Some courses may be more traditional in that you will sit through lectures given by experienced aromatherapists. You may also have seminars with teachers and other students where you will get a chance to work with different oils. In online courses, you will likely have lectures as well, but it will be more difficult (and maybe even impossible) to interact with the course instructor and other students. You may also have to work with the oils unsupervised.
 Although what you learn will vary based on the course you choose, if you are attending an NAHA accredited school, you will probably be taught about how high quality essential oils are produced, basic physiology, how certain aromas interact with emotional states, ethical and safety issues, as well as how to use oils safely on the skin.This is only a basic list of what you can expect to learn.
Don’t be afraid to take the initiative to learn more than what is being taught in your program. If you are curious about something, ask your teacher. If you want to know something and the teach doesn’t know, try searching the internet for information about the topic.
 Joining the NAHA is not mandatory, but if you completed a program that was accredited by the NAHA you will be eligible to become a professional member. Doing so offers several benefits, such as access to the latest research in the area of aromatherapy, the right to use the NAHA logo when advertising your services, as well as the opportunity to advertise your services on their website.The cost of a professional membership is $125 for people living in the United States. For international members, the cost is $155.
 There are many different places that an aromatherapist can be employed. For example, spas, fitness centers, hospice centers, hospitals, and yoga studios may all want to hire an aromatherapist to help their customers benefit from aromatherapy.


Search your local newspaper as well as the internet for jobs. If you are willing to relocate for work, you may have many interesting opportunities available to you.
 If you don’t want to work for someone, you could open a shop where you offer aromatherapy consultations to those interested in using at as a means of holistic health care. You could also sell essential oils, and offer workshops where people can learn how to use aromatherapy in their daily lives.


Remember that opening you own business can be very rewarding, but it can also be very challenging. It can also be a risk because no matter how well you run your business, your business may not flourish.
 If you are already a massage therapist, or are also working toward obtaining a license in massage therapy, you can incorporate these professions into one. You can use your knowledge of aromatherapy to help meet the needs of your clients.For example, if you have a client who is extremely tense and stressed, you can incorporate specific oils into their massage that will help them to relax through a combination of scent and massage.
 Although an aromatherapist cannot diagnose diseases, aromatherapists can act as consultants on the benefits of aromatherapy for a healthy lifestyle. This means that if someone comes to an aromatherapist with a problem, the aromatherapist can take their knowledge and make recommendations about how to take steps to improve the problem. An aromatherapist should think of themselves as educators, not healthcare providers.For example, this recommendation might include certain oils and combinations of oils that can be used to treat pain without the use of traditional medication, and in addition to other lifestyle improvements (e.g. eating healthy, drinking enough water, getting exercise).
Be aware that aromatherapists are not able to prescribe medications or perform invasive procedures. If you decide to become an aromatherapist and wish to provide consultations with people, it is probably a good idea to make sure the person understands that you are not a doctor and are not making diagnoses.
 Research has demonstrated that aromatherapy can positively impact the well-being of patients under hospice care.Additionally, aromatherapy is becoming very popular within the nursing field.In these instances, if you are a nurse or a hospice worker, you can incorporate aromatherapy into your work to help patients with pain and/or well-being while they are under your care.
If you are not a nurse or hospice worker, you may be able to be hired on in some clinics as an aromatherapist, where you will help deal with the specific needs of various patients.
 Yoga is believed to have many physical and emotional benefits for those who practice regularly.Using aromatherapy in conjunction with a yoga practice can enhance those benefits even more.If you are a yoga instructor, want to become an instructor you can incorporate your knowledge of aromatherapy into your practice to make yourself stand out and to enhance the experience of your clients.


In some bigger yoga studios, you may also be able to be hired on as an aromatherapist without being a yoga instructor.
 If you don’t necessarily want/need to work, you can also practice what you have learned by helping family and friends and by using your knowledge to help yourself. If you have a family member who is suffering with a health condition, and you think that aromatherapy could help them, consider offering your knowledge to help them.


Remember that not everyone believes in the power of aromatherapy, if you offer to help someone but they say they aren’t interested, then be respectful of their wishes.
 This means that, in the United States, the government does not regulate the aromatherapist profession. Furthermore, there is no official accreditation or certification program.This doesn’t mean that aromatherapy is a scam or something that cannot provide valuable benefits to people. As a trained aromatherapist, you will be able to help people understand the value of the field.
 At the moment, there are four associations that attempt to ensure that, in order to become an aromatherapist, there are standardized educational and examination procedures, that aromatherapists are behaving ethically, and standards for certification.These governing bodies include:


The Educational Standards in Aromatherapy Association.
Natural Oils Research Association (NORA).
The American Alliance of Aromatherapy.
The National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy (NAHA).
 As with many professions, aromatherapy has a large and rich community of practitioners, researchers, and followers. Getting involved with the aromatherapy can help you learn more about the history of aromatherapy, can help you stay up-to-date with new findings, and may lead to personal opportunities as well as job opportunities.You can look for local networking opportunities on the internet, but you can also travel to attend aromatherapy conferences where you will meet lots of interesting people.

