 The Crumplebottom household is a good place to start because Agnes Crumplebottom lives in a house with a ghost called Erik Darling and she also has a plentiful amount of cooking skill already, which you need to bring a ghost back to life. If you're really serious about doing this, then use the 'testingcheatsenabled true' cheat to add angler and natural cook to your sim's traits to make it easier to find ingredients that you need to resurrect a ghost.
 This can take a while, but if your sim has enough happiness points you can purchase a 'fast learner' reward that makes increasing the skills easier., After you have reached the appropriate skill levels, you are ready to begin the actual hunting for ingredients. Make sure you have enough money for the recipe book; if not, use the 'motherlode' cheat. You will need:

An Ambrosia recipe book (requires 12,000 simoleons and level 10 cooking skill)
1 death fish (requires level 10 fishing skill and death fish fishing book)
1 life fruit (requires level 7 gardening and collection helper reward (optional))

, Keep the book safe after you have read it as it cost you a hefty 12,000 simoleons., The fish are most likely to be caught in the graveyard pond between midnight and 5AM. Angler sims do not need bait to catch the deathfish, and they can fish at any time of day in the graveyard pond. Make your sim reaches level 7 of the fishing skill and read the book that reveals the bait for deathfish. You will actually have to catch the rare angelfish to use as bait to catch the deathfish so read the angelfish fishing book and use an alley catfish bait to catch the angelfish to catch the deathfish. Phew!, The life fruit is a glowing pear that can restore one day of the Sim's life if eaten. Unfortunately, they are as uncommon as the deathfish. If you reach level 7 of the gardening skill and find a seed around town, especially around the graveyard (Life fruit seeds are labelled 'Uncommon Special Seeds') then you should be able to grow the plant. You also get the life fruit as a reward for reaching level 7 of the Science career or as a reward from an opportunity at the EverFresh Delights supermarket. This is possibly the hardest ingredient to find because you just have to chance upon the seed, but if you get enough happiness points and purchase the 'collection helper' reward it should help you find it., Store the completed ambrosia in the fridge as leftovers and wait until nightfall.

Make sure none of your sims eat the ambrosia and use it up. Imagine having to find the ingredients all over again!

, If you can move his/her gravestone indoors, do it. You don't want the ghost wandering about outside and wasting time. Click 'call to meal' on the ambrosia, but make sure none of your sims eat some before the ghost gets some first. That way, no one will get in the way of the ghost on the way to the plate.

If you wish, you can let some of your sims eat the ambrosia. When eaten, the ambrosia will restore the sims age to the start of that life stage (eg. If a sim is an elder close to the end of his/her life stage it will be as if he/she had just turned into an elder) adds 75 mood to the sim for a week and restores hunger to full.
Remember, ghosts go back to their graves at 4AM if they are not distracted and are forced to go back to their graves when sunlight comes (5-6am).
 It should be restored to the age that they were when they died.

If you want, use the 'testingcheatsenabled true' cheat, hold shift, click on the newly resurrected ghost and click 'add to active household' to move the resurrected ghost in.

