 To ensure a long life for your Tempur Pedic mattress, you should use a mattress pad or mattress cover. A mattress cover or pad will help protect your mattress from spills and stains. Before cleaning the mattress, completely remove the mattress cover or mattress pad., After you remove the mattress cover from your bed, carefully read the instructions on the tag. Most mattress covers are easily cleaned in the washing machine. If your mattress cover can be cleaned in a washing machine, use cold water and the delicate cycle unless the tag instructs you to do otherwise.Avoid using harsh stain removers or products containing chlorine, such as bleach.
 Look at the instructions on your mattress cover’s tag. Some covers will permit machine drying on a low setting. Many will recommend air drying because it is gentler on the mattress cover. For best results, you should air dry your mattress cover., Baking soda absorbs odors and any residual moisture that might be hiding out in your Tempur Pedic mattress. Take your hands and sprinkle baking soda over the entire surface of your mattress. Make sure it is entirely covered with a thin layer of baking soda.You can also sprinkle the mattress with cornstarch instead of baking soda.
A 50-50 mixture of cornstarch and baking soda will also work to clean your mattress.
 Once you have covered the surface of your mattress with baking soda, you will need to allow it to sit for at least sixty minutes. This will let the baking soda absorb odors and moisture., After you allow the baking soda to sit on the Tempur Pedic mattress for one hour, take a handheld vacuum and vacuum the entire surface of the mattress. If you do not have a handheld vacuum, use the upholstery attachment on your upright vacuum.Go over the entire surface of the mattress two to three times.
Make sure you vacuum all of the baking soda from the mattress.
 If you spill something on your Tempur Pedic mattress, you will need to soak up the liquid immediately. Take a paper towel and press it firmly over the stain or wet spot. Continue with fresh paper towels until no liquid is absorbed by the towels.For larger spills, you may want to use a normal fabric towel to absorb the moisture.
 After you have removed the excess moisture from your mattress, you will need to let the spot dry completely. Do not put the mattress cover or other bedding on the mattress until the spot has dried. You should also avoid sleeping on a mattress with wet spots.You can speed up the drying process by placing a fan near the wet spot.
 Tempur Pedic mattresses are extremely sensitive to high temperatures. Attempting to dry the mattress with heat may damage the Tempur material. To avoid damaging your mattress, you should not apply heat to it for any reason., Tempur Pedic mattresses are made with a special material that should never get wet. You should never intentionally wet or wash any spots on your Tempur Pedic mattress. Doing so can compromise the mattress material.