 Think about your typical week, and see if there are places you drive to frequently that you could reach without using your car. Make a list of the places that are within 5 miles (8.0 km) of your home and decide what other modes of transportation you could utilize to reach those spots.;
, More and more companies are hiring workers who complete their assignments from home. While this won’t be an option for every job or every day, discuss the possibility of limiting your travel to the office with your boss. This conversation could cut down on your commuting.Prepare a proposal for your boss that lists benefits of your remote work to your company. For example, you could mention that you’ll be able to start work earlier in the day, since you won’t need to commute. You could also say that you’ll be able to increase your productivity, since you’ll be happier and less worried about your environmental impact.
 If you start the week without an idea of what you’re having for dinner each night, you may end up at the grocery store four or five times per week. To avoid this back-and-forth, make a list of your weekly grocery needs and plan your meals ahead of time. Not only will this simplify your life during the week, but it’ll also reduce your driving time!, Every time you drive to and from your house, you’re adding driving time. Try to plan out your daily and weekly schedule so that you’re aggregating your driving needs into as few trips as possible.For example, combine grocery shopping with picking your daughter up from ballet class at night. Or, make grocery shopping a family activity that follows your Sunday-morning pancake outing.
 This may not be an option for all families. Think about each family member’s daily and weekly needs, and consider whether one car could cover the trips. Try dropping each other off at various destinations and taking turns using alternative modes of transportation.
 There are many cities and towns that have great options for public transportation, as well as town centers with shopping and activities that can be easily reached on foot or by bike. See if you and your family can make a move to one of these areas.It’ll be easier to abandon your car in a city than a town. In the United States, New York City, Boston, and San Francisco, for example, all have excellent public transit systems. They also have relatively high costs of living, so you’ll have to weigh the pros and cons of moving to these places.

