 This is usually the single best resource for finding information about the company. Scroll through the entire website. Note specific details that you can use to develop insightful response questions to ask in your interview. This will also help you prepare relevant answers to interview questions.Take care to notice the company’s mission statement, any information about upcoming projects, and the sense of community portrayed by the company website.
If the company does not have its own website, go to other Internet sites that provide extensive information about companies and industries. Simply type in the company name in an online search engine to find any sites that refer to the company.;
, You can also go to competitors’ websites to get information on developments in the company's industry or sector. This will help you learn more about the business market of the job you are applying for.Look for things like revenue numbers and employee statistics that you can compare to the numbers for the company you’re interviewing with.
You can also try browsing databases like Hoover’s Online, ReferenceUSA, or the Better Business Bureau.
 Corporate message boards give the opinions of current and former employees and give a different perspective on the company, although it is wise to check a number of postings rather than taking just one posting as valid information.You should be able to find these kinds of message boards by searching for the company name in an online search engine.
You can also try browsing around websites like Glassdoor, which give a first-hand account about company policies and practices.
 Look up the company in the business periodical index to find articles in business publications and industry trade magazines. You can get access to a lot of information in this manner – like the company’s revenue numbers, information about the size and scope of the company, as well as other pertinent information.Many of these records are not digitized, so you may need to do some old-fashioned in-person research at the public library.
For younger companies, you may only be able to find information in the most recent publications. So be sure to limit your research to the newest data.
 Ask around to see if people you already know have had any experience with the company you’re interviewing for, or if they can provide you with any information to help you prepare for the interview. News travels fast in the corporate world, so it’s likely that someone you know is already familiar with this company.


Make sure that you don’t spread the word that you’re looking for a new job if your current boss isn’t aware of this development.
 Find out all the information you can on the products and services offered by the company. Research how these products impact the industry and consider how your past work experience could relate to the services this company currently provides.Answer typical interview questions such as "Why should we employ you?" intelligently and thoroughly by emphasizing why the company's products and services interest you, and how you can add value to them.
A good example answer would be something like this: “Your company provides many products and services that I have experience working with in a variety of capacities. I believe that my background and expertise will make me an asset and allow me to contribute effectively to the success of your company.”

, This tells you about the company culture as well as what qualities and ideologies the company values. This is important information for you to know because the interviewer will want to make sure that you embody these same values.Use this information to highlight why you are a good fit in your job interview.
 Looking forward in a company’s trajectory path is just as important as researching its history when you are preparing for a job interview. Find out what projects are planned for the future so you can see what direction the company is headed in. This will help you sound well-informed at your job interview.You can use this information to prepare insightful questions about the direction of the company to ask in your interview.
 The interviewer will want to make sure that any newly hired employee will work well with the existing staff. Research the number of employees, the kinds of employees, and a little bit about the actual people who work there.


For example, if there are a large number of people who work in the office you’ll be working in, you might want to emphasize that you are good at working as part of a team and give examples to support that.
For a smaller office setting, you might want to highlight your skills as a motivated self-starter.
 Let the interviewer see that you have taken the time and trouble to find out about the company beforehand. This will show that you are committed and hardworking.


Even if you don’t bring printouts about the company, you should try to bring some notes so that you look prepared – like you have done your research.
 Let the interviewer see that you have done some background research by insightfully inserting information into your responses. If you show that you are already knowledgeable about many company practices and policies, it will make the interviewer feel like you will be a good fit for the company.Try saying something like, “In the future, I plan on pursing my MBA. I appreciate that this company values higher education and encourages its employees to pursue graduate degrees by reimbursing tuition.”
Try not to go too overboard with citing company info, as it may come off as a little desperate.
 Let the interviewer know that you are serious about the job by showing that you have researched every facet. You want to show that you know who you are speaking to, as this will give a good impression to the interviewer.Make a comment about a particular career achievement of the interviewer, or the length of time they have been employed by the company.

