 In general, flats look best with the form-fitting style of skinny jeans and are typically favored over heels.Flats and skinny jeans are both very versatile items, so putting them together can result in a lot of different outfit combinations. For example, you could wear dark wash skinny jeans with ballet flats, a camel sweater and fur-trimmed cardigan for a casual but upscale look.Wear vintage-inspired light wash skinny jeans with black loafers for a trendy yet casual vibe. Complete the look with a vintage-inspired blouse and a knee-length pea coat.
Pair black skinny jeans with sleek black brogues. Add a casual sweater and sharp blazer to complete the outfit., A pair of brightly colored flats can brighten up a neutral-colored outfit with a pop of unexpected color. For example, add some pizzazz to your classic white button-up shirt and distressed cropped jeans with a pair of bright red mules.Liven up a black skirt and black blouse with a pair of vibrant yellow pointed-toe flats.


When choosing a contrasting-colored shoe, opt for colors that have the same amount of saturation as the colors in your outfit., Offset a girly above-the-knee skirt with a pair of flat military boots for a trendy look. Create a boho vibe by pairing shorts and a loose, semi-tucked shirt with a pair of chunky, flat ankle boots. Putting together knee-high flat boots and a casual dress can also look great, just make sure the boots fit to your legs closely.Studded ankle booties with a biker vibe are very popular right now. Wear them with a skirt to give your look an edge.
 A very fashionable combination right now is pairing flats with minimal, menswear-inspired clothing. Try wearing a pair of pointed-toe flats with a slim-cut suit to create a streamlined, well-tailored look. You could also roll the sleeves of the suit jacket up to the elbows and wear a pair of strappy ballet flats with cropped trousers.If you can't find cropped trousers, roll the cuffs of a regular pair up to approximately mid-shin.
Wear a fitted t-shirt or tank top underneath the blazer for a trendy look. Be sure to leave the blazer unbuttoned.

