 If you plan on using almond meal consistently in your kitchen, it is a good idea to learn about the health benefits and nutritional significance of almond meal. Many people jump on the bandwagon of a fad diet without thoroughly understanding the purpose of a particular diet or a particular food product. Individuals who do this may be missing out on the basic elements of a specific diet and may end up doing nothing positive for their overall health.


Almonds are considered to be a super food, and they have incredible health properties such as a high vitamin content, high protein levels and high antioxidant levels.
Almond meal is a great substitute for wheat flour because it doesn't have as many carbohydrates and it doesn't contain any gluten.;
, If you want to cook with almond meal you will need to find recipes that use almond meal effectively.


Many gluten free cookbooks or raw food diet cookbooks feature almond meal predominantly because it does not contain gluten and is made entirely out of whole almonds, an approved food on the raw food diet.
Recipe books can provide you with amazing suggestions for making the most out of your almond meal, and you will find that almond meal is an incredibly versatile food product.
 Individuals who want to ensure that theirs is extraordinarily fresh and wholesome can use a mill or a food processor to make their own almond meal. Because almond meal is simply made of almonds that are ground into a fine powder, anyone can create his or her own almond meal.


Simply fill a food processor or flour mill with whole, unsalted almonds. Pulverize the almonds until they have been reduced to a superfine powder.
If you have issues with the pulverized almonds clumping into a buttery consistency, try adding ½ cup of sugar for every 2 cups of almonds. The added sugar will absorb some of the moisture.
Grinding your almonds in a coffee grinder will also result in a powdery consistency rather than an oily, buttery consistency.
 If you don't want to take the time to create your own almond meal, you can find fresh and wholesome almond meal at your local health food store.


Because almond meal is made from whole almonds, it has a relatively short shelf life when not kept in the refrigerator. It is important to carefully evaluate the date on which the almond meal was made to ensure that you are buying the freshest product.
Almond meal purchased from a store can be kept in a refrigerator for several weeks.
 One of the easiest ways to use almond meal is as a thickening agent in soups and stews.


Instead of adding flour or cornstarch to a soup or stew to thicken it up and make it heartier, several spoonfuls of almond meal can have the same effect without any of the adverse health effects.
Almonds have a very subtle flavor, so the almond meal won't negatively affect the flavor of the dish you are preparing.
 Some individuals have found success using almond meal as a flour substitute. However, almond meal does not have the same chemical properties as wheat flour.


In order to get the same results when cooking with almond meal, the meal generally must be combined with other flour substitutes in a mixture. Common substitutes include potato flour and rice flour with the addition of xanthan gum. Xanthan gum is a sticky substance that replaces the gluten found in wheat flours.
Keeping almond meal on hand will ensure that you are prepared to make a gluten-free baked item at a moment's notice.
 One of the best ways to use almond meal is as an additive in desserts and smoothies. Because almonds are nutty and slightly sweet, they make a perfect addition to an already sweet menu item.


You can add a half a cup of almond meal to a smoothie to give it a rich, nutty flavor.
Almond meal can also be sprinkled on cookies or incorporated into ice cream for a deliciously original spin on a variety of classic desserts.
 Almond meal is very popular as a food item in the raw food diet. This diet strives to eliminate processed foods in favor of whole, raw foods like fresh fruits and vegetables.

