 This will take about a week. You can find your basal metabolic rate online ( http://www.bmi-calculator.net/bmr-calculator/ ). Take 15-20% off that number and eat that number of calories instead.;
, Dieting has a tendency to cause you to lose as much muscle as fat. Consuming more protein and dieting at a steady speed (as shown in step 2) will minimize this. A woman might not care much about muscle tissue, but losing it will mean that you have to reach a lower body fat percentage to appear just as skinny as someone who kept their muscle. It also sabotages your diet because it makes your metabolism fall off. Consume 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. This is higher than the recommended daily value, but it is far from dangerous. It will help you hang onto your muscle.
 The rest of your diet should be evenly balanced between fat and carbohydrates. Fat is not the enemy, and neither are carbohydrates. Avoid trans fats and saturated fats. Avoid refined and glycemic index carbohydrates. In general, avoid processed foods altogether. Don't eat fast food or food from restaurants. Don't eat anything with high fructose corn syrup or bleached wheat flour in it. Avoid "fake" sugars as well. Some claim they might affect insulin levels or affect the body in other ways.
 Take a multivitamin and get lots of water. You need healthy fats. There are certain essential fatty acids that your body cannot produce; they must be consumed. The best sources of these are salmon, walnuts, flax seeds (oil or ground, as whole won't digest),avocados and fish oil caplets. Oils go rancid quickly, so be sure to refrigerate the oil and freeze any flax seeds. The best low-fat protein sources are skim milk, egg whites, and poultry. Some cuts of red meat are also very low in fat and high in protein. However, they are typically more expensive than their white counterparts. Tuna is also very good. As for carbohydrates, you can consume any low glycemic index carbohydrates you want (and some moderately high ones, too).
 Eating small meals gives your body time to digest and burn up your food or "fuel" at a steady rate.
 Get at least 30 minutes of exercise a day. The type of exercise you need will vary, depending on your body weight and physical health and well-being. Regardless, you should be doing a mix of both aerobic (fat-burning) exercises like jogging or interval training, and anaerobic(muscle-building) exercises like resistance or weight training. Anaerobic ensures your metabolism doesn't drop due to dieting while aerobic is best for targeting fat calories.

