 This form (JDF 432) is available for download here. This form contains important information with which you should familiarize yourself before beginning to fill out the appropriate petition forms. In particular, you should note that:


You must be 18 years of age or older to be eligible to file a petition.You must not have been convicted of a felony under the law of Colorado, the law of any other U.S. state, or U.S. federal law.You must be resident in the county in which you are filing your petition.Your petition will only be considered by the Court if a fingerprint-based criminal background check has been conducted within the 90 days before the filing of your petition., You are required to submit a criminal background check from the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The background check must be dated within 90 days of the day your petition is filed.If you do not have such a background check on file, you must first complete these steps before filing your name change petition:


Call your local law enforcement office to be fingerprinted.
You will be given two fingerprint cards (one for the FBI and the other for the CBI) that contain a box labeled “Reason Fingerprinted” in the upper left hand corner. In that box, write “§13-15-101 Legal Name Change” because it is important that the CBI and FBI know that the requested background check is for a legal name change.Write your name, address, and date of birth on the fingerprint card unless the agency in question uses an electronic system. If the agency uses an electronic print system, leave the information blank, as the agency will input the information for you.Fill in the required application information form to be submitted along with the aforementioned fingerprint cards. This form can be downloaded here.
Mail one fingerprint card and applicant information form to the FBI at this address: Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division, Attn: SCU, Mod. D-2, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, WV 26306. Be sure to provide a certified check or money order for the amount specified on the forms and be sure not to fold your fingerprint card. If you require assistance, contact customer service at (304) 625-5590.It is recommended that you wait 7-9 weeks after mailing your fingerprint card to the FBI to hand-deliver or mail the other fingerprint card to the CBI.After waiting 7-9 weeks, mail or hand-deliver your fingerprint card to the CBI at the following address: 690 Kipling, Denver, Colorado 80215. Be sure to include a money order if you are mailing your card. If hand-delivering, you may also pay by cash. For information on fees and other information from the CBI about background checks, visit the following website or call customer service at (303) 239-4208.If there has been a felony conviction recorded against your current name in Colorado or any other state and you believe that the conviction is inaccurate but is reflected in the FBI or CBI reports, you will need to arrange for certified copies of any dispositions (note: a disposition is a final determination by a court of a criminal charge) to be presented to the court when filing your name change petition. Contact the agency where such disposition(s) occurred to arrange for certified copies., This form (JDF 433) is available for download here. The forms are available in PDF and Word formats and may be completed online or printed first and completed in black ink.Complete all sections of the form except for the signature line for now.
Identify as ‘Exhibit A’ the FBI and CBI conducted criminal background checks and attach them to the petition. If you have any criminal disposition documentation, identify these as ‘Exhibit B’ and attach them to the petition.Sign the petition in the presence of a notary public or court clerk., Fill out a form entitled Order for Publication for Change of Name (JDF 426). This form may be downloaded here. You can complete the form online (in PDF or Word formats) or print out and fill in black ink. Complete all sections of this form. If your petition is approved by the Court, the Judge or Magistrate will sign this order for publication., You must also complete a form entitled Public Notice of Petition for Change of Name (JDF 427). This form may be downloaded here. You can complete the form online (in PDF or Word formats) or print out and fill in black ink. You will submit this form to the local newspaper to publish notice of your name change if and when your petition is approved by the Court.
 This form (JDF 448) may be downloaded here. Fill in the caption only. If your petition is successful, the Judge or Magistrate will sign this decree. You will receive this form upon proof that you have published your name according to the publication requirements., Visit the Court in the county in which you are resident in Colorado in order to file your petition and take the original forms with you. Present the forms and pay the required filing fee. If you have not signed your petition in the presence of a notary public, you will do so at this time in the presence of a court clerk. You may be required to present a self-addressed stamped envelope to the Court., There may be a hearing required of you. If so, you will be asked questions about your requested name change by the Court., After your Order for Publication is entered, you must publish your proposed name at least 3 times within 21 days from the date the order is published in a newspaper by using the form JDF 427 discussed above. You will be excused from this publication requirement if you have been the victim of domestic violence, domestic abuse, or other violent crime, as provided by the relevant statutes.


The relevant statutes that cover those situations in which a party is excused from the publication requirement are §18-6-800.3(1) (available here), §18-6-401, C.R.S. (available here), and §13-14-101(2), C.R.S. (available here).
Read these statutes carefully if you believe you are covered by any of these exemptions.
Seek help from a qualified attorney if necessary.
 Once you submit proof of publication to the court, you can obtain a signed copy of the Decree for Name Change from the Court. Proof of publication may include copies of the newspaper in which you published your notice of name change. If you are exempt from publication, you will receive your final decree once ordered by the Court. Certified copies of the decree are available for a fee., Your Decree for Name Change serves as evidence of your legal name change. Visit the local offices of government agencies (e.g. the SSA) and private institutions (e.g. banks) to change your name in their records.


Begin by changing your name with the Social Security Administration (SSA) by visiting your nearest SSA Office and present your Decree for Name Change as evidence that you have legally changed your name. You are required to change your name with the SSA before visiting the Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV).Your decree may also be presented as evidence of your name change to the Colorado Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) in order to obtain a new license or ID card that reflects your new name. Note that the Colorado DMV requires that all name changes are on file with the SSA before visiting the DMV office, and that it may take at least 24 business hours for your name change to reflect in the SSA records.