 Raise the oven rack to the top position. If your oven does not have a “broil” option, just preheat it to a high temperature such as 400 or 450 °F (204 or 232 °C).;
, The quality and type of bread you use will determine the quality of your toast. Better bread leads to better toast.


Use a fruit-based bread like cinnamon raisin bread for a sweeter toast.
Use a marble rye for more visually pleasing, patterned toasts.
Some cooks suggest using day-old or slightly stale bread for this process.
A denser bread is preferable over very spongy bread.
 Toast the bread lightly on both sides, using a toaster, a toaster oven, or a baking sheet on the top rack of a full-sized oven.


If you are using your oven, be sure to flip the bread so that it toasts evenly on both sides.
Do not over-toast the bread at this point. It will go back into the oven, so it will become browner., Put your toast on a cutting board as soon as it comes out of the toaster or oven. Be careful handling the hot toast; you may want to use gloves or oven mitts to handle the hot toast.
 Using a sharp knife, cut the crusts off of all four sides of the toast and discard. Some recipes suggest doing this step before toasting the bread, but it will be easier to cut through the bread if you remove the crust after toasting.
 Using a very sharp serrated knife, cut the width of the toast in half through the untoasted center of the bread, leaving you with two very skinny slices of full-sized toast.Be sure you are cutting through the soft center of the bread, not changing the dimensions of the bread itself.
Place your hand on top of the toast as it is laying flat on the cutting board and cut in towards the center.
Rotate the toast while you cut until you have two pieces of toast.
Be sure to do this step while the bread is still warm.
 Using your knife, cut the toasts into the size and shape you would like them to be for serving.Store-bought melba comes in squares or rectangles, but many people prefer the look of triangular toasts.
Determine the size you want based on the purpose for the toast. Small hors d’oeuvres may call for smaller toasts than toasts accompanying soup.
 Continue to toast and cut the bread until you have enough pieces for your event or the number of people you wish to serve.
 The toasts should be placed on the sheet toasted side down, with the soft untoasted side up. Leave a little space between each piece of toast so that you can get to each one with a spatula if necessary., Lightly brush the untoasted side of each piece of toast with melted butter or olive oil. For sweet toast, you may also want to consider using coconut oil for a sweeter flavor.
 Place the toasts in the oven or toaster oven on broil. Be sure to watch the toasts carefully, as they will brown quickly.If you have cut your toast into triangles, the corners may curl up. This is normal, but be sure to remove the toast before the corners burn.
You may need to rotate your baking sheet so that the toasts heat evenly.
 When the tops of the toast are golden brown and the corners have started to crisp, remove the toasts from the heat. Allow them to cool.


You may want to remove them from the cookie sheet with a spatula and let them cool on a plate or on cooling racks.
Use caution when handling hot toasts and the baking sheet. Use an oven mitt or gloves.
 You may wish to pre-top the toasts prior to an event.


Be sure not to overload each toast with too much topping. It is best to have a good bread to topping ratio.
One to three items in a stack make a nice presentation. Try combining harder items with sticky items to keep the stack together without the use of a toothpick. For example, try a soft cheese or a hummus dip topped with an olive or tomato.
 You may also want to serve the toasts with a flavorful dip.


Display the crackers nicely around the dip bowl or stack on a plate next to an individual portion of a dip.
Pair a sweet melba toast with a sweet dip or with a neutral flavor such as brie cheese.
Pair a savory melba toast with a savory dip, pate, or hummus.
 Larger pieces of melba toast make a perfect garnish for a serving of soup or salad in lieu of croutons.
 Though they are best when fresh, you can put your unused melba toasts in an airtight container and store for 3-4 days.