


Some programs control Internet surfing. They block certain websites, restricting access for 1 or more users. In some cases, you can type in messages that will pop up when an off-limits site is accessed.
Software programs go a step further. They usually have the ability to set up timers and other usage limits that include file sharing and use of certain programs.;
, Some programs are easy to set up, while others use Linux and can be customized with programming knowledge.
 This popular tech site posts reviews of popular free downloads. If you choose 1 of the options, you can download it directly off the site.


Go to download.cnet.com/windows/parental-control. You may want to read reviews on top choices, like Spyrix Free Keylogger, JuniorWatch or K9 Web Protection.
Use the filter at the top of the list to adjust which programs you want to look through, such as those with the most downloads, the best user reviews or editor's rating.
 The programs, like FamilyShield, provided by OpenDNS, are some of the most popular Internet filters on the Internet.


OpenDNS works by replacing the Domain Name Server from your Internet Service Provider and replacing it with their own. Your account controls the sites that OpenDNS blocks as you are accessing the Internet.
OpenDNS may be easily subverted by employees or children with computer proficiency. They may be able to find the router and enter the DNS to get around it.
 This is what many schools use, and you can download it for free from www1.k9webprotection.com or download.cnet.com. It is an Internet filter only, and it will not control usage time or programs.



You will need to use a proxy server in order to use these 2 programs. You can use the proxy server Squid for either program.
 You can use your current Norton account to sign up for their free filtering program.


Reports suggest that this is a very user friendly program. You can also arrange to receive alerts when websites are blocked and reports about overall usage.
 Download.cnet.com is also a reputable source.
, In most cases, you will need to have a password that your children cannot use. You may need to return to this site after set up to start setting up filters, if your program is not software-based.
 For programs like OpenDNS, devices that you filter must all use the same router.


Type in the DNS number when prompted.
,