 The aluminum foil from your kitchen is fine to use. Cover the decal, and hold it with tape or your hand. The foil reflects thermal energy back into the object it is covering, so the foil will help the decal warm up more than if you leave it exposed, once you take a hairdryer to it. You can use take a hairdryer to the decal without foil, though it may not heat up as well.
 Any type of hair dryer will work. Plug in the hairdryer to the nearest socket. Make sure that the bathtub or surrounding area is dry before turning on the hairdryer. Heat it on a hot, high setting until the sticker has softened. This will probably take a couple of minutes.Slowly go over every part of the sticker with the dryer. Keep the hair dryer at least six inches away from the sticker while you dry.
 The sticker should be soft by the time you finish drying. Pull it up and peel it back slowly starting at one end of the sticker. The sticker may not peel off easily and begin to tear. If this happens, take your fingers and lift up the decal around the edges, slowly working towards the center. Do this until the sticker comes completely comes off.Try to keep the toy and clear adhesive film layer together as you pull the decal off.
 If the decal is stubborn and won’t come off, you will need to scrape it off. Take a plastic ice scraper and work around the edges, or the parts of the sticker that has not come off. Continue to scrape until there are no remnants of the decal left.You can also use a box cutter or razor if a plastic ice scraper is not available. Metal can leave marks, so be careful to not to cut into the bathtub.
 A sticky residue may still be leftover after removing the sticker. Spray WD-40 onto the sticky surface, and wipe it off with a rag or paper towel. Scrub the bathtub surface until there is no adhesive residue left.You can use water and white vinegar to remove sticky residue if WD-40 is not available.
 WD-40 will leave a greasy residue, so you will need to wash the surface where the decal was to remove it. You should wash the surface even if you chose to use vinegar to remove the stickiness. Take soap and warm water and wash the surface with a rag. Allow it to dry.