 If you cannot remove the pillow insert, make sure that the cover is washable. If it is not washable, you will need to spot clean the cover instead. Click here to learn how to clean a non-removable pillow cover., The last thing you'd want is to put a damaged pillow into a washer, and open the door at the end of the cycle to find a pile of feathers. Before you stick your pillow into the washer, examine it carefully. Focus on the body of the pillow as well as the seams. If you see any rips or tears, stitch them up using a needle and thread., Placing the pillows vertically will ensure that they won't wrap around the agitator while they are spinning and get tangled.Washing two pillows at once will help balance out the drum inside the washing machine.
Washing the pillows separate from the rest of your laundry will ensure that there is enough water to rinse the soap out properly.
If the pillow is not washable, toss it into dryer with a few tennis balls or dryer balls. The head will kill any odor-causing bacteria., When choosing soap, make sure that it is liquid and low sudsing; powdered detergent will be too difficult to wash out.

If the care label on your pillow has different requirements for water temperature, detergent, and cycle setting, follow what the label says instead., Because pillows are so bulky, a single rinse cycle may not be enough. Many people find that they have to do an additional rinse cycle or two in order to get all of the suds out., The longer they sit, the more likely they will end up smelling musty., Do not twist or wring the pillow. Instead, place it at the end of a large, clean towel. Place another towel right on top, so that the pillow is sandwiched in between. Start rolling the pillow along with the two towels, from one end to the other. Press down on the roll, then unravel it.

Repeat this step for any other pillows you have just washed

, If the pillows are filled with feathers, use the no-heat setting. If the pillows are filled with a synthetic material, such as fiberfill, use a low-heat setting.Consider adding a few dryer balls or tennis balls into the dryer along with the pillows. This will help them dry faster as well as fluff them up.You can also lay pillows flat to dry. They will dry the fastest if they are laid out in the sun.
If the care label on your pillow has different drying instructions, follow what the label says instead., Do not cover wet pillows, or they will start to get moldy and smell musty.