 Training a dog not to bark early on is much easier than breaking the habit once your dog has developed it. One of the keys to this is to avoid ever reinforcing or rewarding barking in the first place. If your dog barks and you shout for quiet, you are rewarding the barking with attention in your dog’s mind.Your dog may even interpret the shouting as your version of barking in response. By mistaking this for approval, your dog is more likely to repeat the behavior.;
, Instead of shouting at your new dog for quiet, try first ignoring the barking. If the dog never starts associating barking with attention and responses from you, then the dog is less likely to use the behavior., If ignoring the barking doesn’t stop the behavior after several minutes, then try to distract your dog from the behavior. Continue ignoring the barking, but then drop something on the floor, open the pantry, or something else that usually gets your dog’s attention and causes the dog to investigate.
 Once you have distracted your dog from the barking and the dog has approached you to investigate, then use a familiar command to the dog, such as “sit.” Reward the positive behavior immediately, which will reinforce the commanded behavior instead of any barking.This highlights the need for basic training with your dog as well. Distracting your dog with other basic commands that the dog understands is a great way to avoid reinforcing barking by accident.To learn more about teaching your dog commands, check out How to Teach Your Dog Basic Commands.

Clicker training your dog is another great way to help positively reinforce desired behaviors.
 If your new dog’s barking takes place in your yard at passersby, then bring the dog inside in a way that ignores the barking. wait until the dog stops barking at a passer and put his or her leash on. Next time the dog starts barking at another passer, immediately lead the dog inside by the leash. By doing it mid-bark, you teach the dog that barking means the end of having fun out in the yard., Barking is a manner of expression for your dog, and the dog may bark in response to emotional states, especially boredom. Providing plenty of exercise and attention to your dog will help stop the dog from developing a habit to bark in response to boredom.Spend at least two fifteen-minute training sessions with your dog each day, and take your dog out for exercise twice a day to play fetch and run—up to an hour a day for large, energetic breeds.If your dog still seems to bark due to boredom despite being out twice a day to expel some energy, try ramping up the amount of time you spend out for each exercise session.

