 Although constipation and nausea tend to be the two greatest concerns, other side effects to be aware of include:


Drowsiness and reduced focus and mental alertness
Respiratory depression (a decreased drive to breathe due to the effect that opioids can have on the brain; this can be lead to death if the patient overdoses on his opioid medication)
Itchiness
Decreased libido and difficulty with orgasm
The possibility of becoming addicted to the medication

, Trying an antihistamine medication such as Benadryl can help to alleviate the itch, but it can have a sedating effect. You may also want to try cetirizine, which is usually used in for chronic itchiness and has less sedating effects. Speak to your doctor about this if itchiness is a problem for you.
 Doctors tend not to use stimulant medications to combat opioid-induced drowsiness, except in palliative (end of life) situations. The general approach is to see if the drowsiness subsides as your body gets used to the opioid medication and, if not, to reduce the dose.


Note that this is another reason that your doctor will start you on a low dose of opioid medication, and gradually increase the dose as needed. This gives your body time to slowly adapt to the medication, as many of the opioid side effects decrease with time as your body gets used to it.
Doctors also start with a low dose of opioid in order to prevent respiratory depression. They will monitor you at a low dose and ensure that your breathing is not negatively affected before increasing the dose, in order to ensure that you are not at risk of respiratory complications.
 There are many different opioid medications available, so switching to another one (and rotating which one you take) can help to decrease the side effects you are suffering from. Your doctor can also vary the route of administration of the medication, such as switching it from an oral pill to a transdermal skin patch; varying the route of administration can also help to diminish side effects.
 Dose reduction or switching opioids may be enough to reduce the problem; if not, your doctor or a sex therapist may be able to help you in other ways to reclaim your sex life.
 The greatest risk factors for developing a dependency on opioid drugs is having a personal history of addiction or a family history of addictive behaviors.


Speak to your doctor about the possibility of addiction or drug dependency if this is a concern for you.
Know that everyone develops "tolerance" to opioid medications, meaning that the effectiveness of the drug gradually reduces with time as your body gets used to it.
However, developing tolerance with time is not the same as developing an addiction.
Addiction is when your ability to regulate your own behavior with regards to obtaining higher doses of the drug gets out of control.
Do not use opioids chronically. Use pain pills only for short periods to control pain or relieve discomfort and use them as directed by your doctor.
If you do become addicted to opioid pills, reach out to a loved one, friend, or doctor. This intervention may get you the help that you need to recover from using these powerful drugs.

