 Because of the Affordable Care Act, many more insurance programs, including those provided by Medicaid, are required to provide at least partial coverage for substance abuse;however, the amount of coverage will vary from provider to provider, and from state to state, because of state regulations. , You can check your provider’s website if you have a personal login for them (plans differ from person to person, and from group to group, so it’s important that you see you individualized plan information). Otherwise you can call your insurance provider to find out your deductible and copays.Some companies, such as Blue Cross Blue Shield, may require that you go through pre-certification before you can go through in-patient rehab.Others such as Health Partners requires a medical recommendation for in-patient rehab, a diagnosis based on the DSM-5 (you can can visit a psychologist or psychiatrist to obtain a diagnosis), and as well as a number of other requirements. Check with your insurance provider for more information., If you are struggling with addiction and a mental health issue, you may be able to get coverage for both, which would save you money. This varies by plan and insurance provider. You may have some guidance from the rehab center if you wish to attend a dual-diagnosis rehab center.If you’re unsure if you have a dual diagnosis, visit a psychologist or psychiatrist, who can give you an official diagnosis once she conducts a clinical interview.
 Just as with doctors and clinics, not all rehab facilities accept all types of insurance. There are some that won’t accept Medicaid, and some that only accept one or two types of private insurance, but they might offer payment plans in addition to or in lieu of accepting insurance. You may be able to pay as you go. Ask the rehab facility if this is a possibility for outpatient rehab.You can call them and ask, "What insurance do you accept?", "Do you accept Medicaid?" and "Do you offer any payment plans or pay-as-you-go options?" These questions should help you figure out how affordable a rehab facility is.