 The type of curls you want will determine the curling tongs you use. For loose waves you will want to buy tongs one or two inches in diameter; for tight ringlets you will want one .75 to one inch wide.Because 1-inch tongs can be used to make either waves or ringlets, this might be a good size to use if you want more flexibility.;
, There are a few different materials from which the barrels of curling tons can be made.



Ceramic and tourmaline tongs are used by many professional stylists. The ceramic distributes heat evenly, and the tourmaline emits negative ions that help minimize frizz and damage to your hair.

Gold and titanium coated tongs are good conductors of heat, but do not help minimize frizz. Though the gold and titanium coating helps keep them from damaging hair as easily as chrome tongs do, it tends to wear of with time. Chrome tongs are the most widely available, and lowest quality curling tongs on the market. They tend to distribute heat unevenly, making it easy to accidentally burn or damage your hair, and they do not protect from frizz.
 There are a number of different variations on the curling tong.The most important factors in making this decision are your level of experience, and the amount of control you want.



Spring Curling Tongs are a good option if you are new to using curling tongs. They have a spring-action clip that holds your hair in place, making them very easy to use, and are available in a wide range of sizes.

Clipless Curling Tongs present more of a challenge, but give you more flexibility as far as the style of curls you can create. They do not create the crease that can sometimes result from using spring curling tongs, and allow you to get closer to the roots of your hair. They also reduce the danger of creating split ends.

Marcel Curling Tongs were designed for professionals, and will be very difficult for the novice to master. They have an extra handle that allows the user to exercise a greater level of control. You should not attempt to use these unless you feel very comfortable with both spring curling and clipless tongs.

Double and Triple Barrel Curling Tongs are excellent for creating waves, but are less flexible than other designs as far as the kinds of effects they can create.

Spiral or Ribbon Curling Tongs create spiraling ringlets, as their name suggests. Like double and triple barrel tongs, they work very well for creating a specific effect, but are not particularly adaptable to different styles.
 If you are feeling overwhelmed by the amount of information, consult the internet. There are many helpful guides that give detailed reviews of different tongs.