 Once you land on the island, go left until you reach the carrot farm. Jump up the house and enter through the chimney. You'll see a white bowl on the ground to the right. Pick it up, then exit the house using the fireplace.;
, Talk to the worker, and she'll fill your bowl with milk. Then go back into the house and set the bowl down. Jump up to the bathroom on the second floor and click on one of the faucets in the bathtub. The cat will jump out and go to the milk bowl. Chase it down, then slowly guide it back to the store called Charlie's Carrot Surplus Co. The owner will give you a Crowbar.
 Climb onto the roof and grab the Vent Blueprints sticking out of the window. Jump down to the skull-marked cans and use the crowbar on the brown vent next to them. Enter the factory.
 Jump onto the ledge above you, then onto the platform to the right. Go across the red trapdoors until you get to the end of the pipe, then go up. Now you're in the Master Engine room.
 Then climb up to the boxes by jumping on the barrels and wait for the claw to come. When it does, jump on top of it. Ride the claw all the way to the platform at the far right, then enter the open vent at the end. Now you're in the vent room.
 On the way, you'll find some Wire Cutters. Pick them up. When you get to the processing room, jump down, and the security system will automatically transport you to the Freezer.
 Then go back into the vents, and go to the Printer Room. Here, distract the mind-controlled bunny drone by asking what's behind her, then press the button on the rabbit ear hat. She'll give you a printout with the System Password on it, "fuzzybunny". Then go back into the vents and into the Processing Room.
 You'll fall into a trap and into the Smelting Room. When there, jump down onto a conveyor belt. Go to the far right of the conveyor belt and jump on the pipe. Then jump on the machine and grab the Drone Ears. Put them on, then go back into the pipe and exit into the Processing Room.
 You will go into the Rabbot Room. Talk to Dr. Hare, then climb up the giant rabbot and on the platform to the right. Disable the drone there, then click on the computer and enter the password, then enter the command, Launch Rabbot.
 Steer it into four meteors. After it crashes into the fourth meteor, the Rabbot will crash with Dr. Hare in it. Then use the Carrot Transporter to go back to main street. Talk to the mayor, the one with the top hat, and he will give you the Island Medallion. Congratulations, you've completed 24 Carrot Island!

