 It is important to ensure that you understand what the speaker is trying to express. One way to ensure that you are on the same page as someone else is to ask questions. This may help you to avoid conflicts due to misunderstandings.


You can use questions to help you understand something that a coworker has just said to you. For example, if your coworker has just explained a task to you, then you could say, "So, I think you're saying _____. Is that right?" If you are not on the same page, then your coworker can clarify his or her meaning for you.
You can also practice empathetic listening to maintain good work relationships with your coworkers, such as by echoing what the speaker says.For example, if a coworker says, "I'm having a terrible day," then you might say, "You're having a terrible day? What's going on?" By asking a question, you are demonstrating to the speaker that you have heard him or her and that you would like to know more.
 Good communication is essential to working well in a team environment. You need to be able to talk about what you need from your coworkers, as well as discuss the progress of community projects regularly to figure out what you've accomplished already and what you still need to accomplish.You can't be passive-aggressive when working with others in a team environment. Passive-aggressiveness just leads to people being upset. Confront problems head-on as they arise in a professional manner.
For example, if you don't like the way something was done, the passive-aggressive response would be to make a slightly condescending comment or to go back and do it the way you wanted it in the first place. The professional approach would be to discuss why you think another way is better, and then defer to your peers if your idea is rejected., Reliability is one of the main components of being a good team member. If you don't follow through with your work, you're dragging the rest of the team down. Plus, you're team members won't trust you with any work in the future, and your performance could get back to your boss.
 Everyone has something to contribute to a team. You know what you're good at, and you can use that to make the team better. For instance, if you are good at organizing, offer to help oversee the paperwork for the project to help keep it on the right track., While you should play to your strengths, you're not always going to be given the prize jobs in group work. No matter what task you're working on together, everyone is going to need to do some of the grunt work. Be willing to dig in and do what needs to be done to finish the project., That is, if someone does something a way you wouldn't do it, analyze the situation before you jump in to "fix" it. You may realize that the method they are using is just as effective, even if it's not what you would do in the same situation.