 Something that isn't your finest china and is easy to clean later will be best. A large, plastic, not-so-fancy bowl will do well.


If you want to color your sand, consider stirring in a few drops of liquid food coloring or liquid water color.
To make glow-in-the-dark moon sand, consider stirring in a few drops of glow-in-the-dark paint into the water.
To give your moon sand a scent, consider adding in a few drops of baking extract, such as lemon or vanilla. You can also add spices to your sand later on instead.;
, Stir thoroughly to remove any lumps that are tempted to form. Corn starch has a tendency to clump.
 You can buy colored sand, or plain sand. Colored sand will be more expensive, but plain sand will give you a clean slate to work with. If you hand plain sand and want a range of colors, you'll need to separate out the sand evenly into smaller containers and then add the different colors separately. Here are a few ways you can spruce up plain sand:Mix in a few teaspoons of glitter to the sand make it sparkly.
Mix in a few tablespoons of powdered tempera paint, powdered watercolor, or powdered chalk to the sand to give it color. If you already colored the water, you don't need to do this. Keep in mind that powdered tempera paint will give you a brighter color.
To give your moon sand a nice scent and color, consider adding in a few teaspoons of powdered drink mix, such as Kool-Aid).
To give your moon sand a nice scent, consider adding in a sprinkle of baking spices, such as: apple pie, pumpkin pie, cinnamon, cocoa, or vanilla sugar.
 At this stage, it is vital to mix the concoction well to ensure that all the ingredients are combining completely. Keep stirring!


Try to get clean sand from your local home improvement store or arts and crafts store. Sand from the beach or playground isn't always very clean.
If you have not already colored your sand, consider using pre-colored sand instead. You can find it in the children's crafts section or the floral section of an arts and crafts store.
 Although making this is a lot of fun, do remember to leave time at the end for your child to enjoy it, too! And when you go to play with it later, you can revive the stuff with 2-3 tablespoons of water.And when you're done, package it all up in a resealable, air-tight container. Store it in a cool, dry place to maximize its longevity. It should keep and be usable for 2-3 months.