 In order to be bubbly, you need to feel good about yourself. Take some time each day to look your best: groom yourself, wear clothes that make you feel good, and spend a little time on your hair, make-up, or other beauty rituals. When you take a little time to look your best, you will feel better and attract more positive attention from others.
 Write down a list of things that you like about yourself. This can be anything from your eyes, to the way that you are kind to everyone you meet. Aim to include at least ten attributes on your list. Read this list over daily. It is certain to make you feel good about yourself.Once you have identified some of your best qualities, aim to let these qualities shine.
For example, if you have beautiful eyes, wear eye makeup that accentuated this.
If you are smart and well-versed in philosophy, practice ways to lead with this in conversation.
 Make sure that when you walk, you hold your back straight and pull your shoulders back, maintaining good posture. When you talk to people, look them in the eye and smile when appropriate. These are all good ways to improve your self-confidence and give off a bubbly attitude.


The shape you make with your body also affects your hormonal response.
Simply standing up straight can make you (on a hormonal level) more confident and better at dealing with stress.
 You can use daily affirmations to and cultivate a bubbly personality. Affirmations are short, positive statements about yourself. You can post these any place that you’ll see each day. You will want to state these affirmations out loud.Examples include: I am beautiful, I am worthy, I am confident, or I deserve to be happy.
Consider placing these near your bathroom mirror, above your kitchen sink, or any place you will look at them often.
 Taking good care of yourself includes eating well, drinking water, staying active, and getting enough rest. Taking good care of yourself works to boost your self-esteem (and make you more bubbly) in two ways: first, when you feel cared for, you are more likely to cultivate self-love, and second, when you are in good health, your emotions are more stable.Focus on eating vegetables, fruit, lean meats, and whole grains.
Avoid sugar, alcohol, and fast food.
Try to sleep 8 hours per night.
Drink at least 8 glasses of water per day.
Aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity each day, such as kayaking, walking around the block, playing tennis, or dancing to music.

