 You will not see yourself represented well - unless enough people support, influence and help the right people into positions like city council, commissioners, district courts, legislators, elected judges -not just the executives (the mayor, county manager, district attorney or county judge's office, governor or even president)!

, What changes will happen as a result of the reforms you vote for? Will these changes be for the better? Will there be some pain in the short run? Consider all of these carefully.
 Sometime well before elections, contact the party or candidate that you support and volunteer to be a poll-watcher, if this is legal in your local election process.


You would receive instructions about the duties such as watching out for wrong deeds like electioneering (standing between incoming voters and the polling booths with propaganda of any kind). You would not interfere but only observe and report to designated authorities.
You should receive some identification for that candidate or party and the information about who you would call or contact, if you believe there are irregularities or lawbreaking in the polling place.;
, These meetings take place for the purpose of deciding what will be on the agenda in the coming year, etc. They are often set up to be held at the end of the party primary-day so be at the polling place just before the poll closes to be admitted at each community voting place. (Some states use "town hall or caucus"--small convention style meetings--instead of individually balloting, so find out what time to be there to participate.)


At the primary precinct meeting your polling place officers are elected, as well as delegates to the county meeting (at the county meeting they elect county party officials and also state convention delegates, etc.) and your issues (initiatives) are sent to the next level to be agreed upon or dropped.
 In many locales, the voters can wait or come back on the actual election day to the polling place just before the poll closes on that election evening and go to the meeting to watch the vote count, talk, and learn about the procedures and opportunities to get involved now or for next time.
,,, Plan for using a website; perhaps your county or state political party has a website on which you can get a webpage for your use.
, With individual work and effort, you reflect your values in local politics.
 There will be another election soon, and you can try again.
 Following a person is not going to change the core of your existence, but if you begin to suspect this is happening with someone you supported, admit you backed the wrong horse and withdraw your support immediately. The wrong person in an elected position can do great harm.
 Then when elected don't just say: "Oh it is worse than I knew, and we can not do those things right away. We'll do what we can."

, Setting the example you hope will become the ideal is all you can really do. Don't engage in behaviors that, if discovered, will undermine all the work you (and others committed to the same cause) have done.
 That will never come from bad politicians; rather, it will come from you and the your ideals. When you're talking about your views and it has engaged another person, then that individual will change the area around him or her. This can change the moral and social climate of any locale.
 You will need twenty valid signatures, so get forty to be on the safe side. All your signers must be registered to vote in your assembly district. If you are lucky, seven or less candidates are running and you are elected. If eight or more candidates filed a petition, then your name will appear on the ballot and voters will vote for you in the primary. Once you are elected, then that gives you an opportunity to be a delegate to the annual state convention. You will also have an opportunity to run for the executive board of the county party. You will become well known by the activists and they are the ones you need to launch a political career.