 Whether you can borrow the funds in your retirement account depends on the bank or investment company that administers the account and the type of account it is. In some situations, how old your account is and how much money you have in the account may also be a factor.A majority of investment companies that administer 401(k) plans offer access to loans from those plans. However, the fees and terms differ substantially among companies.
Review the terms for your retirement account's bank or investment company, and compare that to the costs of a traditional loan to see whether this is truly a good option for you.
 Generally, you won't be able to borrow more than 50 percent of the total funds in any single retirement account, and you may not be able to borrow from more than one account at the same time.If your vested balance is less than $100,000, you typically cannot borrow more than 50 percent of the total vested balance of the account. However, even if you have more than $100,000, most banks and investment companies set the maximum amount of a loan at $50,000.
There may be an option on the loan application to simply request a loan for the maximum amount available. Keep in mind that if you calculate the maximum incorrectly and request a loan greater than the maximum available as a result, this may result in delays or denial of your application.
 Although most investment companies typically don't run a credit check, expect to fill out a paper application detailing the amount of money you want to borrow and the term of the loan.Some investment companies make loan request forms available for download from their websites.
Keep in mind that you are responsible for determining how much you can pay back realistically and setting the term of your loan accordingly. This requires careful budgeting to make sure you'll be able to make your payments according to the schedule you create.
Terms often are limited to a maximum number of months or years. For example, Fidelity's loan application limits loans to 60-month terms unless you're withdrawing money to purchase your primary residence.
 The investment company will process your application, and send you a check if your application is approved using the method you indicated on your application.Typically the default method of payment is to receive a check in the mail to the mailing address on file for your account. Expedited options may be available for an additional fee.
You can expect to receive your check within seven business days from the date your application is approved.
 You will have to pay the money you've borrowed back with interest at regular intervals, typically quarterly or as directed by your plan. Your payments will be credited back into your retirement account.One of the benefits of borrowing from your retirement account rather than taking out a traditional bank loan is that you're essentially paying interest to yourself, rather than to a bank.
However, it's important to make sure you can afford the payments before you take out the loan, or you may be subject to substantial fees and penalties. The amount you borrowed plus any accrued interest will be taxed as ordinary income, and may also be subject to the additional 10 percent tax on early withdrawals.
You also should keep in mind that if you lose your job or are laid off, many plans require you to pay back the entirety of the loan within 60 days or the money must be taxed as a distribution and may be subject to the additional early-withdrawal tax.

