


Termidor must not be allowed to enter drains, waterways, streams or rivers because it is highly toxic to humans, fish and aquatic organisms.;
,


Do not use Termidor if rain is expected to occur within 48 hours of application because it may wash away.



Residents and their pets must not return to their home for between 3 and 4 hours after the treatment to allow the building to ventilate.
,,


You may need to make holes or separate the soil to gain a depth between 1.96 and 3.14 inches (50 and 80 millimeters) so the Termidor can penetrate the wood or foundation.
You can also reduce the amount of water you use without reducing the volume of Termidor to minimize the amount of water that runs off the soil.



You may need to spray water on these types of soils to guarantee an even distribution of Termidor when you spray it around the house.



This will allow you to apply Termidor in places beneath the foundation using rodding equipment, which is special equipment used to inject chemicals into deep soil or similar places that you cannot reach with a spray tank.



Wear chemical-resistant clothing that covers your neck and wrists.
Wear a washable hat, a half-facepiece respirator with a combined dust and gas cartridge, and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or nitrile gloves that completely cover your arms.



All soil should be at least 3.14 inches (80 millimeters) thick before you apply Termidor to allow for sufficient treatment.



Fill the spray tank with half the amount of water you need for the area you plan to treat.
Use 2.5 cups (600 milliliters) of Termidor in every 26.4 gallons (100 liters) of water.
Stir the mixture and add the rest of the required water amount to the tank.



Spray 1.32 gallons (5 liters) of the prepared Termidor mixture on every 10.86 square foot (1 square meter) area of soil or flooring.



Use 2.64 gallons (10 liters) of the Termidor mixture on every 10.86 square foot (1 square meter) area when injecting it into a hole.
Release Termidor mixture as you insert and withdraw the rodding equipment from the hole.
Rotate the rodding equipment completely during the injection process to distribute it evenly.
Plug or seal the hole when you are finished injecting the Termidor.

