 Cover a baking sheet with parchment paper.
 Pour the creamer into a bowl or cup. Add the apple cider vinegar, and give it a stir with a whisk. Set the solution aside so that it can curdle. This will be your vegan buttermilk.Can't find any soy creamer? Try cashew or almond instead.Don't have any vinegar? Use 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of lemon juice instead., Melt the dairy-free butter in a small skillet. Let it get hot, then add the sage and garlic. Sauté them for 1 to 2 minutes, or until the garlic turn golden brown and fragrant., Use a spatula to scrape the sage and garlic onto a paper towel. Leave them there to cool off before continuing., Pour the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the sugar, baking powder, and salt. Once the garlic and sage have cooled off, add them into the mixing bowl as well. Stir everything together with a whisk until they evenly combined., Make a small well in the middle of your flour mixture. Slowly pour in the vegan buttermilk, ¼ cup (60 milliliters) at a time. Stir the mixture together as you pour with a wooden spoon. Be careful not to over-mix it, however., If you need to, sprinkle it with some flour, then lightly knead it 5 to 6 times. Once again, be careful not to over-knead the dough. If you do, it will become too warm and not rise properly.
 Don't worry about it being perfect. You want to handle the dough as little as possible., Push the cutter straight into the dough, give it a slight twist, then pull it out.When you run out of space, smooth the scraps together, flatten the dough into another disk, and cut out more biscuits. You should be able to make 12 biscuits altogether.


You can also use a round glass instead, as long as it has thin edges.
 Make sure that they are slightly touching. Once you have them arranged, lightly press the top of each one with your thumb to create a shallow indent. Both of these tricks will help the biscuits rise evenly while baking and prevent them from forming a domed top.


If you want to, you can brush the tops of the biscuits with extra soy creamer. This will give them a nice shine on top., They are ready when they turn fluffy and golden brown., Gently pull them apart and serve them in a basket. If you have any left over, let them cool completely, then store them in a zippered bag or airtight container.

