 Any size will do, but you likely won't need more than a 1500x1500 pixel area to work with. Gradient controls are represented by an icon shaped like a box with color fading from black to white. Click this and apply a gradient of your choosing.;
, Resolution is a matter of preference, but a closer view will allow for greater precision. To change your color mode to RGB, click on "Image" from your menu bar, and "Modes" from the submenu. Here you should be able to choose your desired color mode., Apply a gradient to your new layer by using your gradient tool again. This time, use the gradient editor and select two variations of blue such as midnight blue and royal blue or dark blue and sky blue to be applied to your new layer.


New layers can be created or adjusted through the Layers Panel, accessible from the submenu under the "Windows" heading on your main menu bar, or through the hotkeys Ctrl+⇧ Shift+N.Take care to keep the topmost part of your layer the part with the darker blue.
 Now that you've got your colors and layers ready, you can have Photoshop render clouds. From the main menu bar, click through: Filter → Render → Clouds. This will create your clouds.
 Type in the shortcut Ctrl+L to make the Levels dialog box to appear. Here you should change the levels of the clouds by adjusting each of the three of the arrows evenly through the middle of the distribution.
 This will be the landing zone for the component parts of your cloud layer. Once you have your blank layer taken care of, return to your cloud layer.
 Click on the thumbnail of your cloud layer to select all its parts, or you can use the shortcut Ctrl+A. Then right click and select "copy" to add it to your clipboard, or use the shortcut Ctrl+C.


Mac users can select all by pressing ⌘ Cmd+A and can quickly copy by pressing ⌘ Cmd+C., This mode is best suited for quick editing, and is used to add or subtract from your image to make a "mask," like a digital stencil. Click on the new layer and then type Q on your keyboard to open Quick Mask Mode., Speed this process by pressing Ctrl+V to paste in Windows or ⌘ Cmd+V to paste on Mac. After you have added the components of your cloud layer, you can turn off Quick Mask Mode by clicking the layer thumbnail and again pressing Q.
 Quick Mask Mode acts similarly to a stencil, allowing you to add or subtract to unprotected areas of your image. Now that you've closed Quick Mask Mode, running lines will appear (sometimes referred to as marching ants). Fill these areas with white, or you can use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+← Backspace to automatically fill the selected areas.
 This can be applied as a filter to the layer by going to your blending options. On the main menu bar, select the "Filter" option, under which you should find "Emboss." Alter settings with regard to the accompanied illustration for the emboss effect, or you can play with the settings until you find an effect you like.
 One you might want to consider is called "Difference Clouds," which can add a more realistic touch to your clouds. Copy the cloud layer by clicking or pressing Ctrl+J. Apply the Difference Clouds Filter moving through the "Filter" heading on the main menu bar, to "Render", where you should find "Difference Clouds." Apply the Filter twice using these commands, or simply press Ctrl+F to apply your most recently used filter again.