 After switching on your PS4, you’ll be prompted to press the PS button at the center of your controller. Doing so will enable your wireless PS4 controller and load the login screen on your television.;
, You need to log into your PS4 account in order to use the console. Using the arrow keys on your controller, select your account and press the X button on your controller to log in.


If you don’t have a PSN account, you can create one by selecting the “New User” icon from the login screen. This will take you to the account sign-up screen. Provide basic information about yourself, such as your language, date of birth, sign-in ID, password you’d like to use for your account, and a security question and answer just in case you forget your password. Once you’re done, press the X button once more to confirm creating your account.
If you don’t want to log in or sign up for a PSN account, you can simply select “Play as a Guest” and you’ll be taken straight to the main menu.
 PlayStation 4’s interactive home screen is called the Dynamic Menu. You can navigate around the Dynamic Menu using the arrow keys on your controller. Press the right arrow key, and move all the way to the end of the menu icons where you’ll find the “Library.”

, Press the X button on your controller to enter the Library. The Library contains all the various media saved on your PlayStation 4, such as add-on purchases you’ve downloaded for different games, the Internet browser, music files, and many more.
 Scroll down the Library menu using the up and down arrow keys, and eventually you’ll find the Capture Gallery. Press the X button on your PS4 controller to open it. The Capture Gallery is where you can locate saved videos and screenshots on your PlayStation 4.
 All the gameplay screenshots and videos you’ve taken or recorded from different games will be listed inside the Capture Gallery. Scroll down the list and press the X button to open a screenshot or play a video.
 Once you’re done, press the O button on your controller to go back the Library menu. Press the O button once more, and you’ll be taken back to the Dynamic Menu.

