 There are a variety of turmeric mask recipes that can be used on your face. These combine turmeric with ingredients that will both help your skin and help the turmeric stick to your skin. Common ingredients for a turmeric face mask include: honey, yogurt, milk, avocado, oat or chickpea flour, and lemon.


One recipe you can use is to combine two tablespoons of chickpea flour, a quarter teaspoon of turmeric powder, two teaspoons of honey, and enough yogurt, milk, or water to make the mixture into a paste.For a really simple mask, simply combine a quarter teaspoon turmeric with two tablespoons of honey. This mixture is easily applied to the face due to the stickiness of the honey.
Make your own special combination if you like! If you have any of the ingredients normally used in face masks on hand, simply combine what you have and use it.;
, You can find dried turmeric in most natural food stores in the dietary supplement section. You can also easily find it and buy it online. If you are interested in using fresh turmeric, look at your local natural food store.


Fresh turmeric is usually stored near fresh ginger in your store's produce section. It is not always available, so if you can't find it be sure to ask the produce worker at your store if it is available., Combine the ingredients of your mask in a bowl, being sure to mix ingredients completely. Whatever recipe you chose, make sure that the resulting mixture is liquid enough to apply to the face but not so runny that it will run off your face. This means that it should be the consistency of a thick mud.
 Apply the turmeric mask so it comes in direct contact with your acne. Use your fingers, or a spoon or small spatula, to smooth the mixture all over your face. Like with all beauty masks, be sure to avoid getting it in your eyes, nose, or mouth, as this would be uncomfortable.


Put a thin layer of the mask on your face. Some people worry that the turmeric will stain their face yellow. While there is little chance of this, you can remove any residual yellowness by lightly scrubbing the skin with a paste made of chickpea flour., Leave your turmeric mask on for at least ten minutes. You can leave it on for longer but most masks should be washed off after they have dried on your face completely, which usually takes about 20 to 30 minutes.This will allow the turmeric to come into contact with your acne. If you like, you can keep it one until it dries, which could be a long time depending on the ingredients of your specific mask.Wash off the mask with clean, warm water. This will make sure that all ingredients are removed and that they don't clog your pores, which would add to your acne problems instead of helping them.