 The first step to treating a stubbed toe is to see how bad the damage is. Carefully and gently remove the shoe and sock on the injured foot. Examine the injured toe, taking care not to injure it further by handling it roughly (a friend can help here). Look for the following signs:


A "bent" or "misaligned" appearance
Bleeding
A broken or misplaced nail
Heavy swelling and/or discoloration
Depending on which (if any) of the above signs you see, the treatment for your toe can differ. See below for specific suggestions.
If it is too painful to remove your shoe and sock, you probably have a fracture or sprain in your toe and/or foot. This is not a dangerous condition, but you should still see a doctor to receive treatment.;
, If you notice any spots on the toe where the skin has been broken, you will want to clean them promptly to avoid infection. This includes cuts, scrapes, abrasions, and breaks in the nail. Carefully wash the toe with soap and warm water. Dry the toe gently with a clean cloth or paper towel, then rub a little anti-bacterial cream onto any breaks in the skin. Protect the toe with a clean bandage.


Replace the bandage every day as the toe heals.See How to Clean a Wound for step-by-step information.
 Most stubbed toes will be followed by at least a little painful swelling. This can make the toe awkward, unwieldy, and even more vulnerable to pain. Luckily, it's easy to reduce the swelling with a cold compress. There are many ways to do this — for instance, you can use a gel ice pack, a bag of ice or even an unopened bag of frozen vegetables.


Whatever you use for your cold compress, wrap it in a towel or rag before pressing it into the skin. Apply the ice pack for 15 to 20 minutes at a time, waiting about 10 to 15 minutes before applying it again. Direct, prolonged ice-on-skin contact can further damage the skin, making your injury worse.See our article on cold compresses for more detailed information.
 Even mundane, day-to-day activities can be painful when you're walking on a stubbed toe. To reduce further pain and swelling, try to shift some of your weight to your heel as you walk and stand. This can be a difficult balance to strike, as putting all of your weight on your heel can make walking awkward and cause soreness over time. Try to take just enough pressure off of your toe to avoid pain when walking.


Once the swelling has subsided in your injured toe, light cushioning (for instance, a gel insole) can help minimize pain from walking.
If the pain in your toe doesn't subside after an hour or two, you may want to take a break from physical activities like sports, etc. for a few days until you no longer feel pain.
 Tight shoes can make a painful, swollen toe even more irritated. If you can, wear a loose, comfortable pair of shoes after your injury to protect the toe from more pressure. If you don't have a replacement pair of shoes available, you can try loosening the laces.


Open-toed shoes like sandals and flip-flops can be the best choices of all — not only do they put no pressure on the top and sides of the toe, but they also allow easy access for cold compresses, bandage changes, and so on.
 If the pain from the stubbed toe doesn't subside on its own, over-the-counter (OTC) painkillers can be a good temporary solution. Here, you have many choices. Acetaminophen (paracetamol) and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like ibuprofen are both available in many varieties from nearly any grocery store or pharmacy.Be sure to follow any and all dosage instructions on the medicine's packaging. Even (OTC) medicines can have dangerous side effects when taken in large doses.
 Another great way to reduce swelling is to elevate the injured toe above the body when you are sitting or resting. For instance, you might try propping it up on a stack of pillows when you lay down. Putting a swollen injury above the rest of your body makes it more difficult for the heart to pump blood to it. This causes blood to gradually flow out of the swollen area, reducing swelling. While it's basically impossible to do this while standing and walking, it's smart to take the time to elevate your injured toe whenever you plan on sitting or laying down for a long time.

