 Rent a truck?I know there are articles out there on the nightmares of renting a truck, but personal experience allows me to assure you that this can be a very easy way to go.


There are trucks, trailers, cargo vans and pickups to choose from. It is more cost effective to rent one truck that will hold all of your belongings. What ever company you choose to rent from will suggest a truck size depending on the square footage of your home and how many bedrooms your current home has.
You can call a company the morning of the move to determine availability.   Call as many as necessary until you find an available truck. If a truck is not available, ask the person if they know who has an available truck.
Make sure your car insurance and driver's license are up to date.   Many companies will offer insurance for that day. The cost will be around twenty dollars making it well worth the purchase.



If you do not have time or money to wrap fragile items, consider transporting what you can in your own personal car or in the front seat of the truck.
Call your local grocery store or department store very early in the morning for boxes.
Ask friends and family for boxes and old newspapers.
Label everything. A permanent marker and masking tape will work for this task.



When loading a dresser, remove all drawers(with clothes in them) load the dresser onto the truck, and then return the drawers to the dresser.
Use laundry baskets to moving things from the kitchen.
Use towels to wrap the fragile items.
Try to use boxes that are the same size. This makes stacking them in the truck much easier.
Use what ever you can find that is useful.  A pillowcase may hold toothbrushes, toothpaste, deodorant and other personal items.  A sleeping bag could hold bedding.
When all else fails, use a garbage bag and label it.
 You have your truck and your boxes(and/or home items used creatively).  Now it is time to pack for the move!


In order to prevent feeling overwhelmed, pack one room at a time.
Pick out big items from the room and immediately load them on the truck.  Appliances and furniture should go on first to allow for space.
After you pick, pack and load the big items from a room, pack the fragile items. Ensure they are wrapped well. Set them in a car in the passenger seat, or put them aside to be loaded last.
Now pack all the other items in the room that are not fragile. Set the packages in your garage or another staging location.  These items will be loaded after the furniture and appliances.
Make sure to label everything.  (Example: master bathroom, hygiene products)
After you clear all items from a room, clean it. Shut all windows, turn off the lights. If it is a room with appliance, make sure they are taken care of appropriately (unplugged, water removed from lines, etc.).
Shut the door to indicate to all family members that the room is completely packed and cleaned.
Move to the next room and do the same process.



Load all of the big items first.
Load labeled boxes.
Load fragile items in a safe place.
Leave the toilet paper and the light bulbs for the next occupants.



Unload fragile items and set them aside.
Unload boxes and put them in the garage or set them aside.
Unload large items and place them in the house where they belong.
Move labeled boxes to the appropriate rooms.
Move fragile items to the appropriate rooms.
