 One way to boost your self-esteem is to use a journal to express your feelings, encourage yourself, and keep track of successes and challenges with your ADHD. You can also use journaling as a quiet activity to help calm yourself in the evenings or to organize your day in the mornings.

When you find negative self-thoughts creeping into your mind, write about it in your journal. Write about what happened, how you feel about it, and how you feel about yourself.
Also, brainstorm ways you can feel better about yourself and write those ideas in your journal as well.
Use your journal as a place to keep your list of reasons to believe in yourself or your tally of successes.;
, When you have adult ADHD, you may find that you have many interests. Taking the time to explore those interests can help boost your self-esteem.You will have the opportunity to learn new skills and talents or improve skills you already have which can boost your confidence. It will also give you the chance to set goals for something and achieve them – which will help you feel better about yourself.

Make a list of your interests. For example, you could list comic books, interior decorating, playing the guitar, app development, and gardening.
Pick an activity that you want to focus on or try. Picking only one can help you stay focused on that activity and enjoy it without feeling overwhelmed by everything you are doing.
 Some adults with ADHD have had experiences that may have left them feeling incompetent, frustrated, or like a failure.These feelings lower your self-esteem and you don’t have to give into them. Reminding yourself that are competent and that you can succeed is one way that you can boost your self-esteem. Figure out what your strengths are and use them.

Make a list of all of the things that you are a good at or are learning to do. For example, you might list, typing, singing, listening, public speaking, judo, and gaming.
Review your list on a regular basis. At least once a week look at your list or read it out loud to remind yourself that you have a number of reasons to believe in yourself.
Start keeping track of how many times you do something right. It doesn’t matter if it’s something big, like acing a test, or something small, like paying attention for 15 minutes during your meeting.
 When you have ADHD you may find that you say things to yourself like “I’m so stupid,” “How could I be so forgetful,” or “I never do anything right.” You’ve probably heard enough critical comments like this from others in your life already and negative self-talk like this lowers your self-esteem.Start using positive self-talk with yourself to balance the negative and boost your self-esteem.

Look in the mirror each day and give yourself a compliment. For example, you might say to yourself, “I’m a great person whether I have ADHD or not.”
Replace negative thoughts. For instance, if you’re thinking, “I can’t remember anything! I’m such a failure,” stop yourself. Try thinking, “I made a mistake, but I’m human. I did the right thing by admitting it. That makes me proud of myself.”
Make sure that you surround yourself with positive people as well. Being around critical people will only bring you down.

