 You might be stopped at a DUI checkpoint, which the police set up at various points to screen drivers coming through. However, if you are driving and suddenly see lights in your rearview mirror, you should pull over to the side of the road at the first opportunity.After pulling over, turn off the car. Don’t get out. Instead, stay in the car and roll down the window.You can turn your inside light on (if stopped at night) and sit with your hands on the steering wheel as the officer approaches.;
, As the officer approaches your car, he or she doesn’t know what to expect. Accordingly, the officer might be anxious. It is in your best interest to always remain calm throughout the encounter.








If you feel anxious, take a deep breath and hold it for two seconds. Then slowly release.
If you have passengers in the car, tell them to remain calm as well.
 The officer wants to see your license and registration, so have those handy.If you store them in the glove compartment box, then ask the officer if you can get them.









Don’t make a sudden movement or start reaching for something without getting the officer’s permission. The officer might think you are trying to hide something and might decide to search your car for that reason.
 You also need to avoid verbal aggression. Even if you think the officer has stopped you unfairly, you should always be polite.Call the officer “Sir,” “Ma’am,” or “Officer.”


Also remember to speak in short sentences, so that you don’t slur your speech.Slurred speech is a sign of drunkenness.
 The officer might tell you to get out of the vehicle. You should comply.There is no reason getting angry or asking the officer “What for?” These actions only increase the tension.









Get out of the car slowly. Remember to avoid sudden movements.
You should also avoid leaning on the car. This might make you look drunk. Instead, get out and stand comfortably with your hands visible.
 The officer might ask you to do certain things, like stand on one foot or walk in a straight line. These are part of a field sobriety test. In many states, they are voluntary. You should ask the officer if it is voluntary and refuse to take the test if it is.









You should also refuse any eye test the officer might want to give you. Drivers are rarely helped by these tests., The officer will probably ask you to take a breathalyzer test. This test measures the blood alcohol concentration (BAC). Each state has set a minimum BAC which qualifies as being legally intoxicated. You should consider whether you want to take the test.The officer can’t force you to take the test. However, every state has “implied consent” laws. This means that you consent to take the test as a condition for getting a license.
If you refuse, then the state can punish you. For example, it might suspend your license or send you to jail.You might also be prosecuted for a misdemeanor for refusing to take the test.
Also, refusing to take the test doesn’t mean you won’t get arrested. In some states, the officer can arrest you simply for refusing to take the test.Nevertheless, refusing to take the test might be in your best interest in limited situations. For example, if you already have a DUI on your record, then getting a second could cause you to lose your license. In this situation, you might want to refuse to take the breathalyzer if you know you have been drinking.
 Many police cars are equipped with video cameras. Nevertheless, many officers don’t turn them on during a stop. You should ask the officer if the camera is on.You can politely ask the officer to turn on the camera if you think it would help your case. For example, you may be sober and want the camera to record your movements. You could then introduce the video later at a trial.
 You shouldn’t leave without the officer’s permission. If you took a breathalyzer and had a reading below the minimum, then the officer should let you go.Even if you refuse a breathalyzer, the officer can’t keep you indefinitely.


Ask the officer if you can leave: “Can I go now?”
If the officer doesn’t let you leave, continue to ask: “May I leave now?”

, You generally have to identify your name and address, although your license should contain that information. You have no legal obligation to answer the officer’s questions. Although you might feel talkative because you are anxious, you should resist the urge to talk.Any statement you make can be used against you later.


The officer might ask where you are going. If you are going home, then you can say so.
If the officer asks how much you have had drinking, you should either say, “I don’t remember the exact number” or say, “I don’t want to answer that.”Never guess how many beers you’ve had.
Some people feel awkward saying flat-out “I don’t want to answer that.” In that situation, you can respond to a question by asking a question of your own. For example, you could respond to a question about how much you were drinking by asking, “Do you want to see my insurance card?”, The officer might want to search your possessions or your car. Under the law, the officer generally must have probable cause that you committed a crime in order to search your car. Because the officer might not have probable cause, they often ask for your consent instead. You should not consent.


If you consent, it doesn’t matter if there wasn’t probable cause to search your vehicle, and you won’t be able to exclude any evidence found inside.
The officer might begin poking a flashlight in your face or in your car. Some of these flashlights have alcohol sensors, and the officer is trying to pick up whether there is alcohol on your breath or in your car. You can politely ask the officer to stop poking with the flashlight., Once arrested, you should continue to remain silent. If the officers start asking you questions, state that you want to speak to a lawyer and then remain silent.


You may be released from police custody after posting “bail.” Bail is a set amount of money which secures your release. You pay the money into the court and agree to attend all court hearings. If you fulfill your obligations, then the money is refunded to you at the end of your case.
Many states have specific, fixed bail amounts for a DUI. However, if your state doesn’t, then you may be held in custody until you appear before a judge for an arraignment. In this situation, you can call a friend or family member to get a lawyer for you.
You may also ask the judge for a lawyer when you appear before the court for your arraignment or initial appearance.
 You shouldn’t hire the first DUI attorney who you see advertising on television. Instead, you should gather a list of referrals. You can find referrals from a variety of sources:


Another lawyer. You might have used a lawyer when buying a house or writing a will. Ask him or her to recommend a DUI lawyer.
Friends or family. If you know people who have been arrested for DUI, then you can ask them if they would recommend their lawyer.
The phone book. Lawyers still advertise in the Yellow Pages. Look for someone who advertises that they practice DUI law as a specialty.Your local or state bar association. Bar associations are organizations of attorneys. They often provide referrals or can tell you how to get one.
 You might have several referrals. In this situation, you should do some basic research to narrow down your list. You should look for the following information:Disciplinary history. Each state has a board that reviews ethics complaints. At the board’s website, you can typically search the lawyer’s name and check to see if he or she has been disciplined.
Online reviews. A general Internet search should uncover any online reviews. Take them with a grain of salt, but look for complaints that crop up in multiple reviews.
The lawyer’s website. Check to see that the lawyer specializes in (or has extensive experience with) DUI cases. Also judge how professional the website appears.
 You should rank the lawyers from top to bottom, based on their experience and any reviews. Start at the top of the list and call up the lawyer. Ask to schedule a consultation. After meeting with the first lawyer on your list, schedule a consultation with the next.


Many DUI lawyers offer free consultations.At a consultation, you can discuss your case and ask the lawyer questions. It is a good way to feel out whether you are comfortable with the lawyer and whether they know their stuff.
You should avoid a consultation only over the phone. Instead, try to meet in person.
 You can prepare for your consultation by gathering relevant documents and writing down helpful information. The lawyer can then review this information at the consultation. For example, pull together the following:


Your traffic ticket or citation.
Your memories. Write down what you remember about the encounter and arrest.Information on prior DUIs or other criminal convictions. Your strategy will depend on whether this is your first DUI or a second.
 You should let the lawyer take the lead during the consultation. He or she knows what information is most important. However, there should be time at the end for questions. You should think about asking the following:How many DUI trials have they done recently?
What were the results of the DUI trials?
How likely is a plea deal? If this is your first offense, then there might not be much wriggle room for a plea.
Will only the lawyer work on your case or will other lawyers in the firm help?

, Costs are a big concern. You shouldn’t immediately hire the cheapest attorney. However, you should certainly comparison shop. Ask the lawyer the following questions about fees:


How much is the hourly fee?
Does the lawyer offer a fixed-fee arrangement? In this situation, the lawyer charges a set amount, regardless of how much work they do.
What is the billing rate for others in the firm? Do you get billed for work done by clerks and paralegals?

, You should pick a lawyer you feel comfortable with. Choose one who you could understand and who was focused on understanding you.When you settle on someone, call them up and say you want to hire them.


The lawyer should have you sign a “fee agreement” or “engagement letter.” Read it carefully to confirm you agree with its contents.
If you have a question, call up the lawyer and discuss it. You shouldn’t sign the letter until you agree with everything in it.

