;
, For ease of cooking, you may simply want to buy a fresh brisket.
 Slice off large chunks of fat on the surface of the meat. Unless you are making pastrami with part of it, this will just turn to gelatin after cooking for several hours.
 Some chefs brine for 48 hours and others do it for 7 to 10 days before.


If you are cooking corned beef for the first time, you may want to start brining for less time and increase in the future.
 Add the following:


2 qts. (1.9l) of water, 1 cup of kosher salt and 4 tbsp. (20g) of pink curing salt #1. This is what gives corned beef its pink color. Using other salt will leave the flesh gray.
Pour in 1/2 cup (94.5g) of brown sugar, 2 bay leaves and 2 crushed cloves of garlic.
Mix in your pickling spices. You can use the recipe of your choice, but a good mix is 1 tbsp. (6.9g) of whole peppercorns, 1.5 inches of cinnamon sticks, 1 tbsp. (6.3g) of dill seeds, 1/2 tbsp. (2.7g) of hot red pepper flakes, 1/2 tbsp. (3g) of mustard seeds, 1/2 tbsp. (2.7g) of coriander seeds, 1/2 tbsp. (3g) of celery seeds, 1/2 tbsp. (2.7g) of ground ginger and 1/1 tbsp. (2.1g) of dried thyme leaves, 1 tbsp. (5g) of whole allspice berries and 1/2 tsp. (3g) of whole cloves.
, Fill it with ice to cool it before brining the meat.
, Try to remove excess air. Seal it well.
, Allow it to come to room temperature.
, Put the brined beef inside.
,, Pour the salty water out. Repeat the process of placing the beef inside the stock pot and covering it with water.


This step is only necessary when you have brined the beef for a very long time. It reduces the saltiness of the corned beef, making it more palatable.
, Cover the pot with a lid.



If a lot of steam is escaping, you may need to add warm water during the cooking process. The brisket should remain submerged the entire time.
 Chop a head of cabbage coarsely. Slice 2 onions.
, Simmer for 30 minutes.
 Each should be fork tender when they are ready to serve.
 Remove the brisket and slice it against the grain. Serve your corned beef and cabbage immediately.
