 Using your favorite mix of herbs and spices, create a "rub" to spread over the uncooked tenderloin. The flavors will form a crust when the tenderloin is cooked.


You'll need about 1/2 cup (48 g) of dry rub for every pound of pork tenderloin.
Simply spoon the rub over the tenderloin and use your hands to spread it so it covers the entire cut of meat.
Consider making a spicy chili rub with chili powder, garlic powder, cumin and pepper. Or do an Italian herb rub with dried oregano, parsley, thyme and coriander. Just make sure the spices add up to 1/2 cup (48 g), and top it off with a few pinches of salt.;
, Brining meat tenderizes it and distributes flavors through to the middle. Make a brine using 1 quart (.9 liters) of water and 1/4 salt as the base.


Put the brine in a pot, add the tenderloin, place in the fridge, covered, overnight.
When you're ready to cook the tenderloin, remove it from the brine and pat it dry.
Flavor the brine with additional spices like cumin, red pepper flakes, or even maple syrup. Add as much or as little of each flavor as you like.
 A marinade is similar to a brine, but instead of water you soak the pork in a mixture of vinegar, oil and spices. Make a marinade with 1/2 cup olive oil (118 ml) and 1/2 cup (118 ml) vinegar. Mix in a teaspoon of each of your favorite spices.


Place the pork loin in a sealable food storage bag. Pour in the marinade. Seal the bag and allow it to sit in the refrigerator overnight.
When you're ready to cook the tenderloin, remove it from the food storage bag and pat it dry.



Butterfly the tenderloin by cutting it in half lengthwise, stopping about an inch from the edge. Lay it open so you have one long pieces of tenderloin.
Cover with a piece of plastic wrap and use a meat mallet to pound it flat.
Spread on your favorite rub, seasoning, or a stuffing made from a few cups of cheese and breadcrumbs.
Starting from one end, roll the tenderloin into a log. Hold the rolled tenderloin together using toothpicks.
Cook the tenderloin using one of the following methods.

