 To look feminine to be feminine, body hair must be obsolete, shave or wax (preferable wax) body hair off completely. Legs, arms, back, neck, nose and ear, and genital hair including between the crack of your bum this is called a Brazilian or Hollywood wax where you will be waxed on the shaft and base of your penis, scrotum and anus. You can seek a professional to do such waxing for you. The feel and sensation of soft smooth skin next to silk or satin is amazing if this step is achieved to be feminine.;
, Attire is very important to achieve a feminine look. Colours such as pink, lilac, and yellow are feminine colours and look great as underwear. For underwear avoid skimpy looking underwear such as g-strings and thongs, but adopt a more conservative image such as full brief, cheeky or bikini style. Don't forget to also have on your panties lots of feminine lace and dainty bows to complete the look. With underwear ALWAYS, AND I MEAN ALWAYS hand wash your bras and panties then hang them outside to dry.


For night wear, a pair of pretty panties and a lacy nightdress or baby doll will look so feminine yet so dainty, ensure that the panties and nightdress match and have lots of lace and bows to achieve your feminine appearance.
 A bra can be an option if you feel comfortable, ensure that the bra is well supportive otherwise it will hurt you. Make certain that your bra and panties are a match. Loose fitting clothes such as skirts and dresses are great to feel feminine as the feel of a skirt blowing around between your legs is incredible. For tops avoid loose fitting items as they will decrease your bust and curvaceous shape.
 For bathers, avoid skimpy two piece bikini costumes as they are too small in size to support a male (bikini's are not cut or designed to fit a male figure) A one piece will look feminine as a bikini would on a female.
 But I emphasize that you don't overdo it. Apply minimal foundation and blush to your cheeks to obtain a radiant appearance. Eye shadow and liner is also a sweet look if not over the top. A sweet feminine cologne is also a terrific method to look and feel feminine plus smelling sweet as sugar.
 High heels also come in handy to achieve height if you are small in height, however don't overdo the size of the heel. If you are uncomfortable in heels nice feminine flats are just as great.
 Personality and behaviour must be perfected to achieve a feminine persona. Avoid crude remarks and attitude, and always use please, thank you and excuse me when speaking. When walking stand straight, shoulders back and head up, avoid slouching as this is perceived as a masculine trait.
 When seated I emphasize this DO CROSS YOUR LEGS AT ALL TIMES, otherwise all will have an opportunity to look down under at your pretty panties, that is NOT a feminine thing to do, showing off your panties. When wanting to get up uncross your legs, then with your legs together, then sit up (this technique will avoid any panty action a passing by person will see)

