 To make a generous amount of juice, you’ll need to gather about two pounds of strawberries. Wash and cut the stems off of fresh strawberries, or thaw frozen strawberries.;
, There’s more than one type of kitchen gadget you can use to extract juice from strawberries. You can use a juicer, a blender, or a centrifuge, a rare kitchen gadget commonly used in labs, which uses rotational forces to separate high and low density particles.Not all juicers are made the same, but a typical assembly involves attaching a blade, filter, chute, and juice and pulp containers to a juicer base. Connect the juicer to an electrical outlet and make sure it’s set to “on.”
A typical blender assembly involves inserting a blade inside of a container and connecting the container to a base, which plugs into an electrical outlet.
A kitchen centrifuge is a small rectangular machine that spins several bottles on a rotor at a high speed to apply gravitational force. It may already come assembled. If not, assembly usually requires you to lift the top and secure the rotor on the base. The rotor should have a number of holes which hold bottles. You’ll fill those bottles with contents, and then place them in the holes of the rotor.
 You’ll likely have to use a pusher to push the fruit into the blades. While holding the pusher in one hand, use the other to fill the chute with strawberries. Use the pusher to press the strawberries into the blades. The juicer will shoot the juice into one container, and the pulp into another. Continue pushing the strawberries through the juicer until they’re all juiced. You should have a generous amount of juice to drink.
 Fill the blender with your strawberries, cover with a top, and blend until smooth. Pour the mixture through a sieve or strainer to separate the juice from the pulp. Alternately, you could use a centrifuge to separate the juice from the pulp.
 Take strawberry puree that’s just been blended and pour equal amounts into the bottles. Weigh the bottles to ensure they’re equal. Place the filled bottles into the rotor, close the centrifuge, and set it to maximum speed for about ten minutes. The force of the machine will draw heavier particles, like the pulp and seeds, to the bottom; while the lighter weighing juice will float to the top.
 Once you’ve used your designated kitchen gadget to release the juices from the strawberries, you can now pour the juice through a sieve or strainer to make sure all of the pulp is separated from the juice.


If you’ve used a juicer, you won’t need to do this because the machine has already done it for you.
If you’ve used a blender, wait for the contents in the container to settle, about 10 minutes. The juice at the bottom should look a lot darker than the juice at the top. Pour the mixture slowly through a sieve. Press the pulp with a spatula or the back of a large spoon to squeeze out as much juice as possible.
If you’ve used a centrifuge, pour the mixture slowly through the sieve to keep from disturbing the heavier contents at the bottom.
 You can allow your fresh strawberry juice, to cool in the refrigerator before serving, or add ice to serve immediately.

