 Interacting with children from a wide range of age groups will give you increased versatility when volunteering. Skills managing and helping younger children don't always translate to teens. Young children have more energy and are more inquisitive than teens or pre-teens tend to be.Your goal as a volunteer is to get your kids involved and participating as a group.
 Becoming a better parent volunteer involves becoming more connected with your child's school and what they are doing. If teachers or staff have an open-door policy, make sure to utilize it.Communicate with teachers and determine places that they may need help. You may hear of opportunities to volunteer first, and you can also make your own recommendations on how to improve your child's education.


Talk to staff at events and see what they need help with the most.
You can say something like "Hey, what do you need help with the most right now? I'm trying to be as helpful as possible, just let me know where to go and what to do."

, Timeliness and reliability are important factors in being a good volunteer. Pledging your time and effort and then pulling out at the last second could leave a trip with not enough parent chaperones or create a problem for an event. Don't underestimate your other responsibilities in your life. Make an accurate estimate of the time that you can invest before offering your help., Often volunteer opportunities will mean working on a team comprised of other parent volunteers. To better meet the goals of your volunteer time, make sure to talk to and work with the other volunteers in the group. Working on a cohesive team will make doing things easier and faster. Make sure to designate required roles with other volunteers and to fulfill your own responsibilities.
 Speak with other parents outside of school events and encourage them to help at the school. Talk to them about the need for help for certain organizations or classes, and explain the difficulties the students have due to a lack of volunteers. Try to convince other parents on the positive benefit that volunteering has on their children's education.


You can say something like, "I volunteered at the middle school and it was a great time. They really need help over there, and I saw that it actually made an impact on my son's education."

, Your attitude should always be good to both the students that you're helping as well as the staff and teachers that are instructing them. Keeping an upbeat and positive attitude will contribute to maintaining positive morale for the kids and will make events and education more fun. If you like working with kids, show it, and allow your enthusiasm to shine through.