 Some rail companies offer travel discounts for certain passengers. Children under the age of seven or eight, for instance, often ride free. Students, military personnel, and seniors might qualify for discounts of varying percentages. Ask the rail company you’re booking with if any such discounts exist, and claim discounts that apply to you., Strangely, first-class tickets are often cheaper than economy or standard fare tickets. This tends to be the case on trains where all the standard class fares have been sold. And if you get a first-class ticket on the cheap, you’re in double luck – you’ve saved money and you get all the amenities of first-class fare., There are lots of routes with more than one rail company operating on them. Look at all the companies operating in your area and choose the one that best matches your budget and schedule.Use a metasearch engine like Trainline, TrainGenius, or Trainbuster to find all the possible routes and lines heading to your destination.
 If you’re traveling to a destination and back again, and if you know exactly when you want to return, you might be tempted to book a round-trip fare. However, round-trip tickets can be more expensive than two one-way tickets bought at different times.Waiting to buy your return trip ticked is a gamble. You might end up paying more for the second ticket than for the first. You might also not be able to get a return fare if you wait too long to obtain it.
 When booking online or over the phone, you’ll have to pay an additional fee – the booking fee – to reserve your ticket. These fees range from modest to exorbitant, depending on which rail company you’re dealing with. If you don’t see the booking fees automatically represented when you’re going to check out, contact the rail line directly to find out what the full cost of the tickets you want will be., If you travel often by rail, you might qualify for the train equivalent of the “frequent flyer” card. Many rail companies offer discounted fare for repeat customers who have a frequent passenger card. Contact your rail company of choice to see if any such offer is available.