 This is the objective of most agencies as it contains the fire immediately, preventing spreading and future damage.


Sometimes the easiest and fastest way to fight a fire is to do a controlled burn around the perimeter of a forest fire. A controlled burn will allow you to cut off the fuel source of the larger fire by already burning off the dry plants, thus stopping the spread of the fire.

Take note: embers fly. Even if you do have a fireline constructed, the wind may carry smoldering embers that can move the fire and exacerbate the problem.


In this situation, you are removing the fuel component of the fire, and this method is considered an indirect attack on the fire.
 Nature's way is still the best way and it probably always will be. It removes the fuel source by making it too moist and can suppress oxygen to the flames.


When fire crews arrive at a forest fire, they set up power pumps at the closest water source that they can find and then they run their hoses to the fire. Or it may be brought in via tanker or helibucket.
If you are by yourself or with your family and not with a professional fire fighting team, make every effort to control a fire with water available so as not to spread the flames and create a larger fire. However, if if the fire grows even the slightest bit, call the fire department and evacuate immediately.
A fireline can also be created with water, soaking up the perimeter of the fire, preventing future spreading.
 if you are part of a fire management agency in your area or can get a hold of one, consider this alternative to water, which may be in short supply.


Whether you use an aerial or a ground application, suppressant foam can help you extinguish your fires faster by acting as an insulated barrier to keep unburned fuels from being ignited.
The bubble structure of the foam also gives you a slower, more controlled water drainage, which helps you penetrate better and longer into the fuel sources.
 Areas like rivers, lakes, roads, swamps and rocky areas can be a natural ending spot for a fire so that you can concentrate on tackling other sides.


All fire suppression activities are based from an anchor point, often one of these spots. The likelihood of the fire reaching this area is less than average, providing a place firefighters can stay for an extended period of time.

