 Before you do any kind of cleaning, you’ll have to make sure that the product you use is safe for the shoe’s material. Leather, suede, canvas or synthetic fabrics will all require different treatment, especially when you’re using harsher cleaners. You’ll be able to tell easily between soft suede, leather and canvas, but if you’re not sure, look at the shoe box, search online for similar shoes or ask an attendant at a shoe store what the shoe is made of., To clean scuffs off of leather, patent leather, synthetic leather or rubber shoes, use toothpaste. Using a toothbrush and a dab of toothpaste, scrub the scuff marks. Apply a little water to help the toothpaste foam up, then continue scrubbing off the scuffs with circular movements. Rinse or wipe the toothpaste off, then dry the shoe., For real/synthetic/patent leather or rubber shoes, use a cotton ball and nail-polish remover. Make sure the nail-polish remover is non-acetone, as varieties with acetone can damage your shoes. Pour the polish remover into a small cup, then dip a cotton ball into it. Once the cotton ball is a bit damp, begin rubbing the remover over the scuff marks, rubbing until they’re gone. , For canvas or other fabric shoes, use baking soda. Grab a toothbrush and two bowls. Pour a little baking soda into one bowl and some water into the other. Dip the toothbrush into the water and then into the baking soda, then scrub the scuffs. If it doesn’t lather enough, re-wet the brush and pour some baking soda directly onto the scuff, then scrub. Rinse or wipe away the baking soda when you’re finished., For canvas or other fabric shoes, use a bit of dish detergent. Using a wet toothbrush or rag, scrub a pea-sized drop of dish detergent across the scuffs. Keep scrubbing until you remove the scuffs, then rinse and wipe away any excess suds., This method can work for any shoe, but can be especially handy for suede. Suede shoes can be very difficult to clean, but a pencil eraser will help get rid of dry scuffs. Gently rub a pencil eraser over the scuff, making sure not to damage the fabric. Keep rubbing gently until the dirt or scuff is lifted, then brush away any rubber waste.