 When you're riding in a taxi, the further away from you your belongings are, the more likely they are to get lost or stolen. If you have a large suitcase it might not be possible to keep it with you, but try to place it somewhere in the cab where you can keep an eye on it.If the cab has a trunk that locks, ask to put your suitcase there. Watch the cab driver place your suitcase in the trunk and make sure he closes the trunk door completely before you get in the car.
Don't part with smaller bags, backpacks, or purses – especially if they have your wallet or cash inside them. The best place for these items is on the floor between your feet. For additional security, you can loop the strap around your leg.
Don't allow your belongings to be stowed on the exterior of the cab, such as on an overhead rack, as they can easily be stolen.
 If you are carrying items such as your mobile phone, a tablet, or a laptop computer, make sure they are well hidden before you get into the cab, and keep them out of sight the entire trip.You may not think of these things as all that valuable or expensive, especially if they are commonplace in your home country, but they make you a target for thieves.
If at all possible, transfer such items to a bag you will keep with you, if you are carrying them in a larger suitcase that must be stored in the trunk.
 In the middle of the backseat you are less vulnerable to passers-by who might mug or assault you. This also keeps your belongings, which you have on the floor between your feet, out of arm's reach.No matter how tempting it might be, keep your windows rolled up at all times. This may mean the cab becomes stuffy or overheated, but with the windows down someone can easily reach in and assault or rob you.
These precautions are particularly important if you are a woman who is traveling alone. Almost anywhere in the world, a woman traveling alone is vulnerable to opportunistic criminals.
 When you get out of the cab, you don't want to be fumbling for your keys or anything else you might need at your destination. Having everything ready to go makes you less vulnerable to street crime.Being organized and ready also shows that you are confident and in control. This makes you less likely to be targeted for an attack.
Keys threaded between your fingers also can be used for self-defense in the event you are assaulted or approached in a way that makes you uncomfortable.

