 Gather all of your old friends in one place for a party. You can throw it at your old home, or you can go out to a restaurant or park. Use this party to say goodbye to your friends. At this time, you can give them all your new mailing address or let them know the next time you will be in town.Set a date a week or two before you move. You don’t want it too close to your move because you will be busy packing, but too far in advance will not give you closure.;
, While you may have mixed emotions about your move, there are undoubtedly some good things that will result from it. Try to remember the positive aspects of your move. Get excited for the new opportunities, experiences, and friends you will have. If it helps, you can write a list of ten things you are looking forward to in your new home.If you’re in high school, think about the opportunities at your new school. Research what clubs and organizations you want to join. Maybe you will have a better bedroom in your new home or a yard.
If you’re going away to college or university, consider the new freedom that you will have. Look forward to sports games, dances, and decorating your dorm.
If you are an adult moving to a new city, remind yourself of why you are moving there. Will you have a better job or cost living in the city? Does the city have a better night life? Are there more public venues there like museums and parks?

, Let your old friends know that you are anxious about leaving. You can tell them that you will miss them or that you are worried about making new friends. By being honest with your friends, they will know to call you and check up on you during the moving process.If you are a student, you can also talk to your parents or a school guidance counselor. Be honest about your feelings. Tell them, “I understand this move is good for us, but I can’t help but sad about leaving my friends. I’m worried I won’t have friends in our new home.”, A good way to get excited about your new town is to start looking up things that you can do there.You will feel less anxious about meeting people or socializing if you have an idea what will be available to you in the future. It will also help you feel like you are in control of your move.Some things to research:


Where do you live? Where it is in relation to your school, work, movie theaters, or shopping centers?
Where are good places to hang out?
What activities are there? Are there museums, amusement parks, shopping centers, or outdoor activities?
What clubs and organizations can I join there?
Where are the good restaurants?

, Putting up some pictures, band posters, trinkets, and other things that make you happy may help to ease your transition. After you move, do what you can to beautify your new room and make it homey.


Try creating a space for pictures and other reminders of your old friends, such as a special shelf on the wall or on your dresser.
Make sure to leave some space for new pictures and other trinkets that you will collect while living in your new home.
 Moving to a new place can be a stressful experience. However, learning how to soothe yourself when you are feeling sad or anxious may help to make the transition easier.


Try listening to your favorite playlist, engaging in a favorite hobby, or writing in a journal to deal with feelings of sadness.
Try learning a few relaxation techniques to deal with anxiety, such as meditation, progressive muscle relaxation, or deep breathing.

