 You don’t need to argue for your point of view all the time. You might be tired, or feel like the discussion with this person never gets anywhere, so you can decide to change the subject and not engage the contentious topic.For example, your conservative uncle wants to pick apart your liberal beliefs for the umpteenth time, and it is never an enjoyable discussion. You could say, “You know what, Uncle Bill? Let’s talk about something other than politics today. I heard you’re remodeling your kitchen. How’s that going?” Most of the time, people get the hint that you don’t want to talk about it.
 You don’t always need to jump into every argument. If you are at a family dinner and someone states an opinion you disagree with, for example, you don’t need to engage it. Just let their opinion lie there and move on.Pay attention to your surroundings and environment. Notice if you are engaging in a heated argument at an inappropriate time (like in front of children at a family dinner) or in someone else’s space, or are there bystanders who may be being forced to bear witness to the argument and may be uncomfortable.
If you are talking to someone one-on-one and they bring up a contentious issue, you can just let them talk about it without arguing back. Listen politely and nod. If they ask you what you think, and you don’t wish to engage, you could just shrug and say, “Oh, I don’t know.”, If the person is berating you or making offensive statements, end the conversation immediately. Do not let it escalate into a fight.


If you are uncomfortable with the language the other person is using (for example, using too much profanity, or using racist/bigoted language), you could say, “Look, I’m happy to debate this topic with you, but you need to stop with the swearing.”
If the argument escalates to a place that is too uncomfortable for you, you could put your hand up and say, “Okay, I think we need to end this conversation. I’m going to walk away now before things get worse,” and get some space between you and the other person.

