 Since the idea of a troubled kid can have many different faces, you will have to understand the nature of this condition. Here are examples, but remember, the troubled aspect of a child can be almost any behavioral or emotional condition.


Depression. This is a serious emotional or mental health condition that can cause disturbing behavior in a child and make communication difficult.
Anger or jealousy. Although these are not the same, they both are negative and potentially destructive emotional behaviors, and can make the act of telling the child you love him (or her) very difficult to do.
Sadness/hurt. Sadness can cause serious emotional reaction in young children as they have not developed the tools to deal with it. Causes can be loss of something very valuable to them, family break-ups, lack of or loss of friends or pets, among other things.
Various other things can cause a child to be troubled, including guilt, school problems, mental problems, social situations, drugs, and even in some conditions, environmental conditions.;
, This may require imagination, determination, and careful consideration so that the technique you choose to use will not cause him to withdraw further or resent your efforts.
 Make sure you are able to commit to taking time before you communicate your intentions to the kid. Try to incorporate activities you both can enjoy so these times together are mutually rewarding.
 In a non-verbal way, being listened to is one of the best ways to show a kid you sincerely care about him. Look for clues that will help you deepen your relationship with him/her, and for ways to help him/her as you go along.
 A small child finds it difficult to relate to a person much larger than he is, so if there is a large difference in size between you, you may find it necessary to get on your knees to look him in the eye.
 You can build trust this way, and as time goes on, it will be easier for both of you to share your feelings with each other.
 When you feel like a level of trust and mutual understanding have been reached, tell the troubled kid you love him.

