 An important transition into adulthood relates to being able to analytically think through dilemmas to derive solutions. An emotionally immature person might easily become frustrated or even give up when they face problems. You will constantly encounter challenges in life, and an essential skill is figuring out how to effectively move through them. Follow these tips to enhance your problem-solving ability for greater emotional maturity.


Be open-minded. Don’t cut yourself off from possible solutions simply because the route is foreign or seems out-of-the-box.
Focus on the end goal. Rather than dwelling on the issue, think in terms of what actions can help you reach a workable solution.Change your language. Instead of using the word “problem,” try “challenge.” It doesn’t seem so difficult when you use this word.
 An emotionally mature adult is able to go through hardships and glean a lesson from them. Even mature adults make mistakes, but the difference is being able to learn from them through behavioral growth.


Recognize when you have messed up. Then, look at the variables and consider what you could have done differently and what you gained from having gone through the ordeal.For example, if you are fired from a job because you are consistently late, you can learn from this experience. At your next job, being on time should be a top priority. In addition, you may want to show more accountability by calling ahead when you just can’t help being late.
 Whether you are in late adolescence or early adulthood, you will find that a hallmark of becoming emotionally mature is autonomous decision-making. Emotionally immature adolescents and adults may put off decisions because they fear making a choice or simply follow the paths of those around them.


Meanwhile an emotionally mature adult is able to weigh the pros and cons of a situation, take time to ponder their options (i.e. don’t make rash decisions, but also don’t delay making a choice either), and move forward with confidence once the choice has been made.Emotionally mature adults may seek the advice of those around them, but they do not allow others to cloud their own judgment. In the end, they will make a decision alone based on careful consideration.
 Being emotionally mature entails making solo decisions, solving problems, and learning from your mistakes. However, an emotionally mature adult also uses their judgment to recognize when they require assistance. Of course, it’s important to take responsibility for your own life. But, you will undoubtedly encounter problems that cannot be overcome alone. In these times, you must have the courage to ask for help.


Scientists recommend practicing asking for help by requesting the assistance of others in small ways on a regular basis. Ask a friend to babysit for you, “Would you mind watching the baby this weekend?” Ask your college professor for a copy of the lecture, “Dr. Jordan, I didn’t quite understand today’s lecture. Do you have a copy of the slides so I can review them?”
The more you ask for help in small ways, you will find it becomes easier. You will also notice that most people are happy to oblige your requests.