 This is paper which will compost, recycle, or decompose in a landfill. In general, this paper will not have a shiny coating and no other materials such as plastic in it. Ideally, such papers are labelled.;
, The typical brown paper grocery bag is the time-tested biodegradable book cover.
Wrapping paper: Re-use the wrapping from presents. Most people like to use wrapping paper that is not obviously holiday or birthday related. But you can often use the non-printed side of the wrapping paper for covering the book, and decorate as you prefer.
Old calendars often feature beautiful artwork.
Menus. How cute would it be to have a Chinese take-out menu as your book-cover?
Magazines. Be a little careful in your use, as you do not want your math teacher to think you are reading a fashion magazine in class!
Ask local stores or workplaces for unwanted paper.Very often, there are office supplies gathering dust on shelves or in cabinets that they would be pleased to give away.
 (The instructions will work with other materials besides paper bags.)


Old manila folders make excellent book covers and are often plentiful in office settings.
 If you can get hold of rice paper, it is strong, biodegradable, and even edible!

, Be sure to label your school books prominently on the front and the spine.—When you're racing to class it should be clear which book to grab.
 Write your name, school name, and school address somewhere on the book cover. (Do not put personal information like phone number, e-mail address, or home address.) If you lose your book, this will provide a chance for a helpful person to get the book back to you.
 Here is a great time to show a bit of personality. Some art ideas include:


Using decoupage
Making a collage
Leaf art

Making a paper mosaic. But be careful of non-biodegradable embellishments like stickers. Some earth-friendly ideas:
Your own drawing and artwork.
A watercolor wash. (Done, of course, before you put the cover on the book!)
Collages made of magazine cut-outs.

