 In a small bowl, combine two cups (480 ml) of cool water with one tablespoon (14.79 ml) of dishwashing liquid. Stir to integrate the dishwashing liquid with the water., Wet a clean white cloth with the dishwashing liquid solution, then dab at the stain with the cloth. You should notice that the stain starts to lift from the upholstery., Once the stain is completely wetted by the solution and you aren’t lifting any more stain from the fabric, let the solution soak into the stain for about 30 minutes.Check from time to time to make sure that the solution hasn’t dried out. If it is getting dry, dab on a little more dishwashing solution.
 If the stain has not been completely removed, repeat steps 2 and 3, blotting the stain with solution, then letting it set for a half hour.


After a couple repetitions, the stain should be gone. If it has been removed, wet a clean cloth with water, then blot at the place where the stain was to remove the soap solution.
If the stain is still present, you will need to try a more potent cleaning solution.
 For particularly stubborn stains, blotting with dishwashing solution may not be enough. Create a more powerful cleaning solution by combining one cup (240 ml) of cool water with a tablespoon (14.79 ml) of sodium thiosulfate., Because sodium thiosulfate solution is very powerful, you need to apply it sparingly and only on the stained portion of the upholstery. Use an eyedropper to drop several drops of the solution onto the stain., After you apply the drops of sodium thiosulfate solution, use the eyedropper to apply a couple drops of ammonia onto the stain as well.Ammonia is another powerful cleaning ingredients that will help separate the stain from the fabric.
 Use a dry cloth to blot at the area of the stain. The cloth will absorb the liquid and lift the stain that the ammonia and sodium thiosulfate help to dislodge from the fabric., Blotting with the dry cloth should have worked to completely remove the stain. After you lift the stain, wet a clean cloth with cool water, then dab at the area of upholstery you were working on. This will remove any traces of cleaning solution. Then use another clean cloth to blot the area dry.