 In order to securely strap your motorcycle in place on a trailer or in the bed of a pickup truck, you will need three ratchet straps with at least one “soft loop” or heavy duty loop for your straps that is designed to prevent damage from rubbing on painted components of your motorcycle. You may also choose to utilize a motorcycle wheel chock, but in many applications it is not required.Make sure you have ratchet straps or tie downs to properly secure the motorcycle. Bungee chords will not suffice.
Soft loops and ratchet straps can be purchased at many large retail stores, auto parts stores or motorcycle specialty stores.
 If you opt to use wheel chocks, you should place one in front of and behind the rear wheel. As the motorcycle is transported, it may rock forward and backward, and the chocks will help prevent too much pressure from being placed on the ratchet straps.Wheel chocks are recommended for heavier motorcycles such as cruisers and grand touring bikes.
Some motorcycle wheel chocks are shaped like a “U” and are designed to hold the entire front or rear tire.
 With the bike in position on the trailer or in the truck, hang two ratchet straps from the handle bars (one on each side). Secure the opposite end of each strap to a loop or hook on the trailer or truck that is further back than the handlebars so the straps hang at an angle from the front of the bike to the back of the truck or trailer. Tighten the straps enough until they are taut, but you will need to tighten them further once the back of the bike is strapped down as well.The ratchet straps should be secured on either side of the truck or trailer to hooks that are further back than the handle bars.
Optimally, the straps should be a forty-five degree angle from the motorcycle if viewed from above.
 Take the soft loop strap and connect it to a ratchet strap by placing the strap’s hook through the loop. Run the loop through or around a portion of the rear of the motorcycle such as around the swing arm or even through the empty space of the wheel. Secure the other end of the strap to a hook or loop at the front of the truck bed or trailer.If your wheels have spokes, it is not recommended that you run the soft loop through them, as the tension may damage the spokes.
Even with the soft loop, you may want to place a rag between the loop and any painted surfaces on the motorcycle to prevent scratches or scrapes in the paint during transit.
 With all of the straps in place, ask your friend to press down firmly on the handlebars with all of their weight as you use the ratchet to tighten the straps. Your front suspension should be compressed (lowering the height of the motorcycle) while it is being transported. Tighten the rear strap once the front two are all the way tightened. The three straps should now prevent the motorcycle from moving forward, backward or left to right.The motorcycle should be standing without the kickstand when the straps are tight enough.
Do not strap the motorcycle down with the kickstand down, as it may damage the trailer or the bed of the truck and will force the motorcycle to sit at an angle.

