 You can find these from a chocolate making product supplier, kitchenware stores, or online., Don't confuse with baker's chocolate, which is unsweetened. Do not use chocolate chips, baking chocolate or store bought chocolate bars because they are the wrong thickness/fluidity (technical word is "viscosity") for molding., This step is extremely important to yield a visually appealing final product with the proper texture and mouth feel. Melt the chocolate over a double boiler or in a bowl sitting over a pan of bubbling water. To temper chocolate:

For dark chocolate, heat the chocolate to 113ºF and cool to 88ºF.
For milk and white, heat to 113ºF and cool to 82ºF.
 Brush an even coating on all sides of the mold; take care to get into in all the nooks and crannies the mold might have., Leave for five to seven minutes, to allow the chocolate leaves to set properly., Place the mold back in the freezer., Depending on the size of the mold, you will probably need about seven layers to complete the leaves., Turn the mold gently over a counter or cutting board. The chocolates should come out without too much trouble. However, if you find them getting stuck, tap the mold firmly against the counter or flex the mold a little, and that should free them., Scoff them down!, Make sufficient room in your freezer to put the sheet and a blown-up balloon into it., Tie it off.

Do not wash the balloon. Use a new, clean one.
 Use dark, milk or white chocolate, as long as it is good for melting., Be sure to join it up to create a clear leaf shape. Do not fill it in just yet. Let the outline set., Either use the same chocolate or a contrasting chocolate for an interesting appearance., Place in the freezer to set properly. This will take about half an hour., Undo the balloon knot and slowly deflate the balloon to release the chocolate leaf. Pull the balloon off the chocolate backing., Use a toothpick or fork tines to scratch little lines and a middle vein., The large leaf is now ready to serve as a dessert centerpiece. Or, use it as a chocolate centerpiece and arrange other chocolates around the large chocolate leaf.