 Enter the Xbox store from your Xbox 360/One console by selecting the “Store” option on your console home screen.


You can also access the Xbox storethrough a PC browser, but it is best to access it from your console so it is easier to download the game to your console.;
, If you can’t find GTA 5 among the list of available games in the store home screen, type-in “Grand Theft Auto V” in the search box.
 Once all the results for your search have loaded, select either “Grand Theft Auto V for Xbox 360” or “Grand Theft Auto V for Xbox One” among the list of games available.
 As GTA V is game definitely not suitable for minors, you will be prompted to input your birth date before you may proceed with the download, so enter the details of your birth date from the pull-down menu options on the screen.
 Once you have confirmed your age eligibility, you will be asked the type of download: Disc or Download. Since you just want to download the game to your console, select “Download.”

, After reviewing all the other details of the game (price, quantity, etc.), proceed to purchase by pressing “Buy and Get Code,” and a new page will load.
 At this point, you will be given a chance to review your selected purchase/s in your cart. Once that everything is set, click on “Checkout.”

, After checking out, you may be asked to log into your Microsoft or Xbox account before proceeding if you are not yet logged in. If you are already in the system, a page will load allowing you to review your purchase once again and select your payment method (whatever credit card you linked to your Xbox account). If you don’t have a payment method set, you will be asked to do so before you can proceed to download.


After selecting your payment method, just click “Confirm” to download the game.
 As soon as your payment has been confirmed, simply wait for your download to finish before enjoying the game. The game is 49GB large, and the speed of the download depends on the speed of your Internet connection.

