 Winter clothes should be about more than just keeping your child warm and dry. The outfit also has to fit your child well enough that your active toddler can run around unhindered. In particular, try to pick out winter clothes that are easy to put on and take off, especially if your little one has a tendency to need to go “potty” right after you have put his winter clothes on.


Steer clear of heavy and bulky winter clothes because these winter garments can make it very difficult for toddlers to move around.;
, As mentioned above, bulky clothes can hinder movement. Instead, try layering several warm but thin pieces of clothing on top of each other so that your child can move around easily.


Consider putting a lightweight, waterproof jacket over a fleece, on top of a long-sleeved t-shirt. These layers will be warm enough to keep your toddler comfortable, and light enough that he will be able to join a snowball fight without worrying about not being able to run away from his ‘enemies’.
You could also invest in a few pairs of long thermal underwear which your child can wear under his clothes to stay warm.
 Toddlers have a limited awareness of fabrics. They know that whether a fabric is hot or cold to the touch, smooth or rough, or itchy instead of soft. Because of this, it is important that they like the feel of their winter clothes, or else they will be much less likely to get into them.


Materials that are generally ‘toddler approved’ (meaning they’re comfortable) are made from cotton, wool, faux fur, down, or nylon. Keep these materials in mind when shopping for your child’s winter clothing.
Soft fleece is another great option, as it is extremely warm and comfortable. However, fleece is not waterproof, so your child will probably need to wear another layer on top.
Also try to avoid clothing with itchy tags or labels sewn into them, as this could irritate your child's skin during playtime.
 Take your child to go shopping with you when you buy his winter clothes. If he picks them out himself, he will be much more inclined to wear them in the future. You may consider letting him pick out clothes with his favorite characters on them as an added incentive.


Before going shopping, tell him the plan so that he does not get out of hand when trying to pick out clothes. Before leaving the house, tell him what you are going to buy, and how many of each thing he will be allowed to pick out (for instance, maybe he will be allowed to pick out two pairs of mittens).
 Mittens are much easier to put on a squirming toddler rather than gloves that require you to get each finger into the right compartment. In addition to this, mittens will keep your toddler’s hands warmer because all of the fingers are kept together, which helps to evenly distribute body heat. Remember to buy mittens that have a warm inner layer and a waterproof outer layer.


Fleece-lined mittens work well if your child plays in the snow a lot, as this material dries very quickly.
Select mittens with velcro, rather than strings, as these strings have a tendency to come undone more easily that Velcroed mittens.
Put your child’s mittens on before you put on his snow jacket. Doing this will help to keep snow out of your toddler’s mittens.
If you don't have mittens readily at hand, you could improvise by using a pair of long woolen socks to keep your child's hands warm.
 Make sure your toddler’s socks are not too thick, or else they could your child’s winter boots too tight. This, in turn, can pinch your child’s toes, making your child more inclined to put up a fight when putting his winter boots on.
 Each toddler has his own needs and personality. If your child loves playing in the snow, a one-piece snowsuit is a good option, because it creates less opportunities for snow to get under your child’s garments. Choose a snowsuit with an outer layer made of nylon so that it’s water and ice resistant, but with a soft down or fleece inner lining to help keep the warmth inside. Other things to keep in mind include:


Get a snowsuit with a zipper so that you can unzip your child’s suit without having to take the whole thing off when he has to go potty.
Make sure the cuffs of the suit fit snugly on your toddler’s wrists and ankles to prevent snow from getting into the snowsuit.
 A large percentage of body heat is released through the head so it is imperative that your toddler dons a winter hat. Look for a hat that has ear flaps so your child’s ears will be kept warm.


You should also look for a winter hat that fastens under your child’s chin so that there is less chance of the hat falling off while your child plays in the snow.
In very cold areas, you could consider buying a balaclava for your child, which covers most of his face and neck and just has holes for the eyes and mouth. You can make these more child-friendly by customizing them. For example, you could turn a white balaclava into an Olaf (the snowman from Disney's Frozen) costume by adding a carrot nose and some spiky hair.

