 Timeliness is key, so you should rinse the affected area with copious amounts of water within an hour or two - the sooner, the better. If you know you have contacted poison ivy, head for a stream or lake for some water. Rinse the area that came in contact with the poison ivy with cold water, being careful to avoid touching the area unnecessarily. Use the coldest water you are able to find as it will help close the pores in your skin, allowing the oils to be washed away rather than into your system. Do not use hot water at this point because doing so opens your pores, allowing more of the irritating (urushiol) oil to enter your body and setting the stage for a more severe allergic reaction.


If you encounter poison ivy near the beach, use some wet sand to scrub the area, then soak the area in seawater.Avoid showering your whole body to rinse the rash, as doing so may worse exposure by spreading the rash to other parts of your body.;
, Rinsing with cool water should be your first action when you think (or know) that you have contacted poison ivy. After you have rinsed, or if clear water is unavailable, bit of rubbing alcohol onto a cotton pad and pat it over the affected area. Drowning out the skin with the rubbing alcohol may stop the spread of the poison, and prevent the rash from becoming even worse in the future. Do this as soon as you are able in order to prevent the rash from growing.
 The toxins from the poison ivy plant are an oil, and therefore won’t be able to be removed completely with just water. Use a dish soap that advertises breaking up oil to wash the affected area. The dish soap should help to minimize the spread of the poison and limit the rash.
 Closing off your pores will keep your skin from absorbing the toxic oils. Hold a cold compress or an ice pack to the rash to constrict the pores. Doing this will also feel soothing on the blistered skin.
 If your clothes are covered in the oil from the plant, touching them later could spread the rash to other parts of your body. Remove any clothes near the area and wash them immediately, separate from any other laundry.
 If you are outdoors, look for jewelweed - a plant that often grows near poison ivy and is a natural cure for the toxins. It can be recognized as a low growing leafy bush with yellow and orange bell shaped flowers. Crush up some of the weeds to form a paste, and then smear them across the rash. Leave the paste for as long as you can, replacing with a paste of fresh jewelweed when it becomes dried out.