 The cup will be used to represent the water tank of a tower. We do not want the water tank to be more than 2 inches, so you should mark the distance from the base to 2 inches away from the base.
 Extend the mark so that a black line surrounds the cup at the 2 inch point. Try to your best to keep the line as even as possible.
 Using the scissors, cut into the plastic cup from its open end. Keeping cutting upwards into the cup until you get to the black line. In fact, cut very slightly above the line. Be careful with the scissors, as its sharp edge can cut skin. Also, cup may be difficult to cut. Take your time, and don't be afraid to use a lot of force with your cutting motion if needed.
 You want to separate the base of the cup, which will be the water tank, from the rest of the cup. Cutting the cup into two pieces as described will achieve this. Throw away all but the base of the cup. Cut in as straight a line as humanely possible. If needed, cut off any rough edges with the scissors.
 The toothpaste caps will act as the feet of the water tower. Any toothpaste residue will make our construction of the water tower harder. Rinse the caps with water, and use 1 Q-tip to remove any residue that was not washed off. Use the same Q tip for all 4 caps. Wash the Q-tip in-between caps if need be. Throw away the Q-tip once this step is done.
 The Q-tips, pencils, and caps will combine to form the legs and support of the water tower. You want the legs of the tower to be the same color as the water tank. Using the colored marker, color every part of the Q-tips, color only the wooden part of the pencils, and color the outer-edge of the caps. For the toothpaste caps, run the tip of the marker through the crevices to achieve maximum color. Wash hand with soap and water and dry with the paper towel once done to remove marker residue from them.
 The pencil will act as the legs of the water tower. Taping the pencil inside of the water tower will allow this to occur. Push the eraser to a top edge of the interior of the water tank, and tape the pencil to ensure stability.
, Again, do this the same way that you did in step 6.
  Let both ends of the Q-tip be 4 inches from the wooden tip of the pencil it is glued to. The Q tip represents a cable that supports the water tower. Make sure to let the glue dry.
 This will result in all four legs being equally supported by the cables.
 Fill about a fifth of the big hole of the cap with superglue, and stick it to the unsharpened end of the pencil. Make sure to let the glue dry.
, Most water towers are named after the city that they are located in. For example, you can name yours after your first name. Write the name of your water tower on the water tank with the black marker.
 Be proud of your work. Put it in a spot where everyone can see it.

