 Life jackets with sturdy top handles make it much easier to pick your dog up out of the water if they should need an extra hand.For the same reason, it’s also useful if the jacket has a leash attachment, so that you can pull or guide your dog out of the water.
 Life jackets come in many styles, but it’s important to prioritize functionality over looks. When it comes to the color or pattern, make sure that your dog’s life jacket is bright, neon, and/or has reflective tape so that they’re always visible in the water.This is essential not only so that you can keep track of your pet but also so that nearby boaters, swimmers, or surfers can avoid them.
 This buoyant pad will keep your dog’s head afloat in case of emergency. Be sure that your canine life jacket has a front flotation device across the chest that’s located immediately under your dog’s chin., Dogs come in a huge variety of shapes and sizes, and each brand of life jacket will have a different type of sizing system. Be sure that you know the associated weights and measurements for each size when selecting a life jacket.
 All canine life jackets are adjustable, but that doesn’t mean that they all fit well. The fit is the most important criteria for keeping your dog happy and safe. You want a jacket that is snug and secure on your dog’s body while still allowing them to move freely.Test your dog’s mobility by having them walk, sit, lie down, and run in the jacket.
You want the vest to be snug but not so tight that it’s uncomfortable. When you have the jacket strapped on, be sure that you can fit two fingers between the vest and your dog’s body at the neck opening.
Be sure that none of the fittings or attachments (like buckles and straps) rub against your dog uncomfortably since that can lead to chafing.
Most pet stores that carry life jackets will do fittings for you. If you find that your dog’s life jacket does not fit them well, return it, and try another brand or size.
 You don’t want a jacket that has so many adjustable attachments that it’s difficult to get on and off of your dog. Make sure that you can easily put the jacket on your dog and remove it before purchasing it.Many jackets come with handy quick-release buckles, so that they’re simple to slip on and off.
For convenience’s sake, you should also make sure that the jacket’s material is durable, like sturdy nylon and neoprene, and easy to clean.
 Even though you can see in advance if a canine life jacket fits your dog, it’s still difficult to tell if it will actually function well when you hit the lake. Search online for reviews of products that have actually tested them with real dogs in real water.Be sure that the reviewers do not have a commercial affiliation with any brand.

