 That's it. You only get those two choices.
 Just list their bad points in as clever and witty a way as possible and make it clear you are rejecting them as a potential lover because you can do better. You can make it hurt more by suggesting they were really close to being good enough and that they should keep trying and not lose hope. You can specify one of their friends as an example of someone more attractive. Next, you should go on a Buddhist retreat and ask yourself exactly what the meaning of your life is and why you want to be evil.
 Save your letter for 24 hours and re-read several times before sending. Keeping looking for hidden criticisms and condemnations. Remember, the person reading it will likely be thinking, "What did I do wrong?" or "What is wrong with me?"

, Leave no doubt.
, E-mail is probably the best way.
 For example, "I am not over X." or "I am not seeking a relationship" or "I prefer to casually date many people for the time being." or "I have personal issues that make any relationship impossible." If you cannot bring yourself to say any of these things, then say "I do not feel love in my heart. I don't understand why, but I can say it is not about you."

,, If you can't think of anything, be sure to mention a few good times you spend with them which will provide cherished memories.
, And certainly, do not brag. If you are sweet and nice to people beneath you, people will generally like you. If you treat people beneath you as if they have no feelings, the quality people will avoid you.
 This can range from a pathetic plea for mercy; to a nasty, mean, angry letter; to a truly hurtful action; to flowers and a renewed attempt to seduce you; to a hand-held grenade launched in your direction; to some subterfuge and game playing. In the case of potential violence, alert others. Otherwise, ignore everything. If it persists for long, then ask the person polite to stop it.
 If you have never received a Dear-John letter, it is not because you don't have faults. It is probably because your loved ones accepted them as a part of you and realized that the good in you outweighed the bad. If you can't see your own faults, then you could be a narcissist or just don't want to acknowledge the possibility. Either you will get a Dear-Jane letter one day or you are so insecure you are choosing people you are sure will never dump you. Be sure to factor in the feelings you would feel the moment you realized you had gotten a Dear-Jane letter.

