


Linux keyboard shortcuts are the same using a Mac or PC keyboard.;
, This will contact the official repository to download the GNOME Tweak Tool package. When prompted, enter your account (current) password and the download and installation will proceed.


The "sudo" command grants security privileges of the super user. The apt-get command handles the Advanced Packing Tool (APT) to install the package.
Installing packages requires an active network connection. Do not disconnect from the network until installation is complete.
 This will give you access to the PPA (Personal Package Archive) to access GNOME Shell Extensions and its themes since they cannot be downloaded through the official repository., This will make sure the PPA content is up-to-date.
 This will install the GNOME Shell Extensions with user theme support enabling you to download and install custom themes to use with the Tweak Tool.
 The GNOME Tweak Tool requires a restart for extensions installed to the tool.
,, Sites like GNOME-Look will host user-created themes that can be used with the Tweak Tool.


Make sure the theme is compatible with the version of GNOME installed on your computer. Theme creators will post compatibility information along with the theme details.
 Note, not all theme downloads will be a zip file. Installation processes for themes will vary depending on how they are built. Theme download pages will list specific instructions on how to install the theme.


Some themes will have dependencies that must be installed to use the theme properly. A dependency is a script or piece of software utilized by the theme, but not included in its own installation.
 This directory is located in “home > > .themes”, where is the name of the account you are logged into.


If this folder does not appear, create it by right-clicking and selecting New Folder. The ‘.themes’ name is important as that is where the Tweak Tool will search for available themes.
, This button is on the left side of the window and will open a list of options for the GNOME Shell Extension.
 This will enable the GNOME Shell Extension to use custom themes., This button is below the Shell Extensions button and displays a list of Theme option.
 The menu will display the themes you have installed to your “.themes” folder. The theme will change with your selection.

