 Normally, dewberries begin to ripen about 6 weeks after the last freezing temperatures in an area, and continue to bear several weeks, unless drought or extreme heat causes them to become dormant.;
, Make sure you are on public property, or have permission to enter private property to forage for your berries. Highway and railroad rights-of-way, forestry fire lanes, and country roads are good places to look. Be aware that some highway departments spray herbicides on the right-of-way, so you may have to do a little research to make sure the berries you find are safe to eat.
 You will notice dark green clumps of bushy vines with reddish purple stems in open areas with full sun and good drainage. Soon after the last frost, these clumps will be covered with bright white, five-petaled blooms, and soon after, the berries will appear. Watch as they progress from green, to red, then deep purple or glossy black, at which point they are ready to pick.
 The dewberry vines are covered with sharp stickers, so long pants and sturdy boots are recommended. Long sleeves are a very good idea. Dab on some mosquito repellent if you are sensitive to insect bites, and apply some sunscreen or wear a wide brimmed hat to protect your skin.
 Plastic grocery bags, small pails like one gallon ice cream buckets, or plastic mixing bowls will work for this step. Handles will make carrying these containers easier if they have them. A one or two quart bucket with a handle fastened onto your belt will free both hands for picking, or a hand for picking and one to hold your stick.
, Ideally, you will pick in a place where there is minimal dust from traffic or other sources, since the berry's tiny lobes make cleaning dust from them difficult.
 Look for traffic dangers also, if you are picking along a roadway.
 Look for bug sting marks where stinkbugs or other pests have already dined on your fruit. The ideal berries will be glossy black, with a firm feel, and little red appearing on any of the lobes.
 Dewberry vines have tiny, razor-sharp thorns that can easily prick an unsuspecting picker painfully.
 Pull the berry at an angle from the stem, breaking it away rather than tugging it. This will leave the bud on the vine stems, rather than the berry, saving time later when you are cleaning them.
, These berries have very tender skins, and abusing them will make it impossible to clean them thoroughly for eating later.
 Stir them gently with your hand to dislodge any dirt or debris that was collected with them.
