 Gossiping is inappropriate (and often unsubstantiated) talk about others’ personal affairs. It’s the opposite of minding your own business. If you know people are gossiping or prone to gossip, the easiest solution is to keep your distance.If you find yourself involved in a conversation that involves gossip, you can powerfully communicate your objection by simply walking away. Give yourself an out, such as, “Sorry to interrupt; I’ve got work to do,” and excuse yourself from the situation.
 If a conversation veers towards gossip, steer it in a different direction. This will demonstrate that you’re not willing to participate in gossip without having to admonish the guilty parties.The best way to do this is to refocus the conversation on a big-picture issue rather than on a private one. For instance, if you’re at work, switch to discussing the business rather than a fellow employee’s personal business.
 Don’t let yourself be drawn in by gossip or reciprocate by adding new fodder to the conversation. It’s better to stay silent. If you do find yourself in a gossipy conversation, don’t repeat its contents elsewhere. Make sure the buck stops with you., If you find yourself making or about to make a gossipy remark, gently stop yourself. If you slip up in a conversation, acknowledge that your remarks were inappropriate, and change the subject.Doing so will enhance your awareness of how you participate in gossip, and make it easier to avoid in the future. It also gives you a chance to set an example by taking responsibility for perpetuating rumors and negative behaviors.
 Gossip is a negative form of speculation about others. Counter it by focusing your conversations on the good things you know about a person.For instance, if someone is spreading rumors about the sex life of your co-worker Anthony, refocus the conversation on his recent standout report or volunteer work at the local food bank.
 You want to show that you won’t participate in damaging gossip, but you also don’t want to seem self-righteous about it (which is a form of interfering in itself). The solutions is to be a leader through your actions and behavior, not through lecturing or being dogmatic.If you’re having trouble staying away from gossip, start small. Challenge yourself to not participate for a full day. If you succeed, extend the length of your next challenge until it becomes a habit rather than a challenge.

