 There are many websites that will allow you to create fundraising campaigns for a variety of causes. Crowdrise and GoFundMe are two of the most well-known sites of this nature. Post your information and requests on these sites and then ask that any funds raised be sent directly to an anxiety charity, such as the ADAA.As a general rule, the more detailed your request, the more funds you will raise. Try to explain your motivation for spreading the word about SAD via fundraising. For example, you might write, “I have a close friend who has SAD and I would like to see more research being done.”
Make this competitive by asking your friends to create sites as well. Track who raises the most amount of money in certain time frames. Award the winner a printed certificate or some other cheap but meaningful prize.
 Look for online marketplaces and stores that will donate a portion of your purchase back to a mental health or SAD-associated charity. Many grocery stores, for example, will allow you to link your rewards card to a variety of organizations. Amazon Smile will send .5% of certain purchase prices back to a charity as well.Some companies even offer branded merchandise that spread the word about a particular cause. You can purchase a bracelet from Bravelets, for example, that says, “Be brave.” They will send some of the profits along to anxiety charities. If someone asks about your bracelet, you will also be able to tell them about the cause., It is often more fun to raise money with other people. Approach your co-workers about sponsoring a charity drive for Social Anxiety Disorder. You can send everyone envelopes for cash donations or you could organize an activity such as a car wash to raise funds.If you want to make this competitive and you have a good number of co-workers, you can divide everyone up into teams and see who raises the most money in a set amount of time. Have a party at the end of the campaign to celebrate your contributions.
 Gather up some of the items that you are willing to part with for a SAD charity. Ask your friends, family, and co-workers for donation items as well. List all of these items online via an auction site, such as eBay Giving Works.Make sure that you keep careful track of any items that are donated. You may want to log everything in and out using a journal.

