 Moving to Norway and working there is relatively straightforward for citizens of EU/EEA countries. You will not need to apply for a visa and will benefit from the free movement of labour across these European countries. Although you will not have to worry about meeting immigration requirements, you may still find it tricky to find a job straight away. This could be because of a language barrier, or a mismatch between your qualifications and those recognised in Norway.It’s a good idea to look for work before you make the move. If you have a job lined up it will make everything easier.
Search online for jobs in Norway, and search for jobs that you can do in English rather than Norwegian if you don’t speak the local language.If you work for an international company that does business in Norway, or has a branch there, think about the possibilities of transferring.;
, Given the difficulties of organising a place to live when you are not able to travel to visit houses or apartments, you will most likely find yourself renting somewhere short-term while you settle in. If you are staying in a holiday rental in the city you want to stay in, you will be able to look through local newspapers and visit local real estate agents.


In some instances the local authority may provide you with assistance, but social housing is generally reserved for those who are unable to get housing on their own.If you have a job lined up you should talk to your future employer and ask them to help you get set-up when you arrive.
 EU/EEA citizens are entitled to live, work, and study in Norway. If you intend to stay for more than three months, however, you will need to register with the local police service. If you are working in Norway, you will also need to obtain a tax card, which will provide you with a personal identification number and enable your taxes to be deducted from your earnings.


You can begin the registration process online. Visit the website of the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (NDI): http://www.udi.no/en/want-to-apply/

Your identification number is an essential requirement of living and working in Norway, which will enable you to open a Norwegian bank account.