 You don’t need to wear very much makeup. Keep your makeup simple and light so you don’t overwhelm your face. Makeup is a fun way to enhance your features, but it is not meant to change your appearance. Only wear a little bit of makeup and keep the colors you wear to school natural., Choose a loose powder color that matches your skin tone. Use a large brush or a puff that comes with the powder. Put powder onto the brush or puff and apply it to your face. Start by putting the powder on your nose and cheeks then work your way out., You can use a clear mascara or black or brown mascara. Remove the wand from the bottle and scrape off excess makeup onto the side. Sweep the mascara onto your eyelashes from the root of the lashes to the ends. You can do one or two coats of mascara on your top lashes. Only use a little bit of mascara on your bottom lashes., You can start by applying a clear lip gloss or you can apply a colored lip gloss. Stick to simple colors like shades of pink. Apply the lip gloss on your lips to make them appear shinier and brighter.
 Wearing makeup can impress your date, but don’t change who you are. If you are going on a date, wear as much makeup that you feel is true to yourself. If you never wear makeup and feel uncomfortable in it, then don’t show up to the date with a ton of makeup on. If you will feel more confident with a little bit of makeup on, then wear makeup for your date.
 You will want your skin to glow on your date. You can apply a tinted moisturizer like a BB cream for your date or you can apply a powder. Use a large brush or a puff to apply powder to your face. Remember to use face makeup that matches your skin tone and to wash it off at night.
 If you want a little extra makeup, apply a natural colored eyeshadow. Use a color such as a beige or brown to enhance your eyes. You can use just one color or you can use a couple of shades of the same color. Apply the eyeshadow to your eyelids with an eyeshadow brush.
 Use a natural colored mascara such as black or dark brown and apply it to your eyelashes. Do two or three coats of mascara to really make your eyes pop for the date.


Consider getting a waterproof mascara if the date is outside and you are going to be sweating.
 You can put a small amount of blush on your cheeks with a blush brush. Look in the mirror and smile. Apply blush only to the “apples” of your cheeks. These are the areas of your cheeks that pop out when you smile. Apply a small amount of blush in a circular motion., Use a lip tint or stain for your date in a bright or neutral color. Lip tint won’t come off when you eat so you won’t have any embarrassing lip stick marks on your face part way through the date.
 There are many types of foundation. You can just apply a powder foundation or you can apply something with more coverage such as a liquid foundation or a moisturizing BB cream. Make sure your foundation matches your skin tone and that you wash it off at the end of the night. Sleeping in foundation can give you acne., You can use natural eyeshadow colors such as beiges and browns or colorful eyeshadow. Less is more when it comes to eyeshadow so be careful not to put on too much. You can use just one color or mix two or three shades of a color. Use a makeup brush to apply eyeshadow, not your finger.


If you use a color, consider trying it with a natural shade. Put a beige on your entire eyelid then only put the colored eyeshadow on your eye line only.
Try glitter eyeshadow for something extra fun.
 If you want, you can try to apply eyeliner. Eyeliner can be difficult to apply, but it can be fun to wear for a party. You can purchase traditional black eyeliner or colored eyeliner. Liquid eyeliner and gel eyeliner are the boldest types, but they are the most difficult to apply. Use a pencil eyeliner if you are just starting out using eyeliner.Apply eyeliner where your eyelashes meet your eyelids. Be very careful and try to make the eyeliner smooth and consistent across your eye line.
 When you are finished applying any eyeshadow and eyeliner you want to use, apply mascara. Sweep the mascara on your eyelashes from the roots to the ends. You can use black or brown mascara or you can mix it up for the special occasion and use a colored mascara.
 Apply a colored lip gloss or lip stick to your lips that offsets your eye makeup. If you used really colorful eye makeup, wear lip gloss that is a light color that matches your lips. If you used natural colored eye makeup, you can wear a lip color that is a bright color like bright pink or red.

