 Find a room in your home or wherever you plan to learn and practice your hip hop moves that will give you plenty of space to move around. Set up a laptop, computer, or internet-enabled TV where you can easily see the screen to follow along with videos.


Be prepared to move backwards, forwards, and side to side in your space, as well as be able to spin and have your arms outstretched without bumping into anything. Clear small furniture or other items that could get knocked, broken, or trip you.
If possible, use a remote to pause, play, and rewind your online tutorials. This will make it easier to learn at your own pace without returning to your device every time you need to control the playback. Try using a cell phone app that can function like a remote., Ask friends or family to join you so you can learn hip hop together. This can help you stay committed to practicing, or simply have more fun with it!


Try scheduling the same time each week for your hip hop practice. You could rotate among friends’ houses each week, or come up with a common meeting spot that’s big enough for the group to dance in.
Make learning a team effort by having each person come up with a new video to learn from each week, or a new style to try.
 Make sure you are wearing clothing and shoes that are comfortable and easy to move in before you begin hip hop dancing. Opt for loose, casual clothing and sneakers with good arch support for your feet.Keep in mind that hip hop dancing is a physical workout, and you will likely be hot and sweating by the time you’re done practicing moves. Wear cooling clothes, have a fan on nearby, and keep a towel on hand to wipe away sweat.
If you have long hair, consider pulling it back or up so it’s out of your face while you’re moving and watching videos, which will also help keep you cooler. Hip hop doesn’t require a certain hairstyle, like a dance style like ballet might, so it’s up to you to choose what will be most comfortable for you.
 Remember that hip hop dancing is a strenuous activity, and you need to take care of your body as you would with any other dance or workout session. Take frequent breaks to rest and drink water while you practice.


Keep a water bottle with water or an electrolyte sports drink nearby so you have it available whenever you need a break. Try to take a break every half hour or hour, or more frequently if you need to.
At the end of a practice session, you should take care of the muscles you worked by stretching as well as drinking water. A good dance tutorial should include warm up and cool down stretches, but if not, try searching for a video that leads you through some simple stretches for dancers.