 In order to care for a cat properly, you need to provide it with food, socialization, health care, and affection. If you have so many cats that you are not able to provide all of these things for all of your cats, then you have too many cats.It may be that you simply don't have the time to give all of your cats the love and affection that they deserve. If this is the case, then you probably have too many cats.
One limitation to caring for your cats properly is your financial situation. If you can't afford enough cat food or veterinary care for all of your cats, then you have too many cats. If you can't pay for your own needs and your cat's needs, then you have too many cats.
 It is important for your and your cats' health that you keep your house clean. This can become difficult when you have too many cats. If you find that your home is not as clean as you wish it was, then you may have too many cats.

Many people who have too many cats find it hard, or impossible, to clean their cat's litter boxes often enough. This can lead cats to go to the bathroom elsewhere, leading to an even bigger cleanliness problem in the home.
If you are unable to keep the smell of the cats at bay, even with regular cleaning, then you have too many cats in your home., Determining whether you have too many cats depends on how big your home is and whether there is space for all people and pets in that home. If you are tripping over cats constantly and there is no room for the cats to get away from each other, then your home is overcrowded and you may have too many cats.On the other hand, if your cats have space away from each other and you are not constantly on top of each other, then you may have enough space for your number of cats.
One clear sign that you own too many cats is if you don't know the exact number of cats in your home., Having too many cats can be overwhelming and it can make you feel isolated and alone. If you are happy and healthy and you have multiple cats that you care for well, then you probably don't have too many cats. However, if you have multiple cats and you are stressed out and overwhelmed by their care, then you probably have too many.

For example, if you are neglecting your social life or your health because of your cats, then you may have too many cats.

