 Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter and 1 ¼ cups (250 g) of sugar to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric mixer to cream the two together on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can use a stand mixer to mix the cookie dough if you prefer.
You can also mix the cookie dough by hand, though it will take longer.;
, When the butter and sugar mixture is completely blended, mix 3 eggs into the bowl, but add them one at a time. Beat each egg in on medium until it is completely blended before adding the next.If you prefer, you can use egg substitute in place of the eggs.
 Once the eggs are combined with the butter and sugar mixture, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of almond extract to the bowl. Mix them in on low until they are fully incorporated.If you aren’t a fan of almond flavoring, you can substitute another ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract or ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of lemon extract.
 Add 3 ½ cups (438 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (4 g) of baking powder, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt to a separate bowl. Whisk them together until they are completely blended., Once all of the dry ingredients are fully mixed, gradually add them to the butter mixture. Mix the dry ingredients in on medium until they are fully incorporated and a soft dough forms.It’s best to add a small amount of the dry ingredients and mix after each addition before adding more.
 When the dough has formed, cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator and chill it for an hour or until it is easier to handle.If you prefer, you can prepare the dough the day before and chill it overnight. However, let it sit out for 15 to 20 minutes to soften it slightly so it’s easier to roll out.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, set the temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, grease a large cookie sheet with nonstick cooking spray so the cookies won’t stick.If you prefer, you can line the cookie sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat instead of greasing it.
 When the dough is firm, turn it out on a lightly floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll it out to ¼-inch thickness (6-mm) and use Easter-themed cookie cutters to cut out the cookies.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, thermos, or heavy jar to roll out the dough.
Some Easter-themed cookie cutters that you may want to use include egg, bunny, chick, and flower styles.
 After you’ve cut out the cookies, transfer them to the greased cookie sheet. Bake the cookies in the preheated oven for 8 to 10 minutes or until they are a light golden brown., While the cookies are baking, mix 2 cups (250 g) of confectioners’ sugar, 1 tablespoon (10 g) of meringue powder, ¼ cup (59 ml) of warm water, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of almond extract in a medium bowl. Beat the ingredients together on low for 5 minutes, or until a smooth icing forms.You can substitute vanilla extract for the almond extract if you prefer.
 If you’d like to color the icing, divide it between small bowls based on how many different colors you’d like. Add several drops of liquid food coloring in your chosen color to each bowl and stir until the icing is tinted.Pastel colors, such a light pink, blue, yellow, green, and purple, work best for Easter cookies.
Start with just a drop or two of the food coloring and only add more if you want the color to be darker.
 When the cookies are finished baking, cool them for 15 to 20 minutes on a wire rack. Once they are cool, use a piping bag or small offset spatula to decorate the cookies with the frosting. Allow the cookies to dry for at least 1 to 2 hours before serving.When the icing is still wet, you can also add sprinkles, colored sugar, and other cookie decorations to the cookies.
Store any leftover cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for up to a week.

