 Rather than thinking of the 20% as exclusively “savings” it may be helpful to think of it as your “financial priorities” fund.One of the most important ways to reach financial stability, is to reduce (and eventually eradicate) any debt that you may have. Use this 20% that you set aside to pay down credit card, student loan, or other types of debt.Although mortgage payments and car payments are both technically “debt,” housing and transportation are considered essential needs, so these should be paid from the other 80% of your income.
 An IRA is an “individual retirement account,” meaning that it is set up by you (the individual) and not by your employer. In order to set up an IRA, you can contact any brokerage service (such as Vanguard, Schwab, T. Rowe Price to apply, or Fidelity) and fill out an online application.Your brokerage company can discuss the details about various IRAs.
If you can tell them how much money you can put away each month, how many years you have until you'd like to retire, and your ultimate savings goal, your brokerage company can help you determine the best IRA for you.
One popular option is the Roth IRA. Whereas most IRAs postpone the taxes you pay on the money in your retirement account, the money in Roth IRAs are taxed right away.The Roth IRA is a good idea because in the future you may be in a higher tax bracket. Additionally, there is no way to predict the tax rates of the future.
 Of course not all your 20% needs to go toward debt or an IRA. It is perfectly acceptable (even responsible) to leave some money in the bank. Although you want to avoid spending this money, it is good to have some money on hand in case of an unexpected emergency. This money can prevent you from going into debt, should something unforeseeable (such as injury, illness, or property damage) occur., Finally, it is important to understand that 20% is just a minimum guideline. If you have the means to exceed this 20% minimum (even if it is only occasionally) you absolutely should. Putting money away for the future, investing toward your retirement, and paying down your debt are crucial to the longevity of your financial health.