 Great observational skills are critical to being a competent detective. Pay attention to the details most people miss, such as small objects and slight variations in someone's story. To improve your talents, practice memory games that force you to remember and catalog details. Make a habit of observing your surroundings, even when there is nothing in particular to observe. You never know what you might spot, and you'll be honing your detective skills.


If you want to, get yourself a kit containing observational tools. It should include a magnifying glass, binoculars, fingerprint dusting powder, etc. If you can't buy a kit, try to find somewhere that will tell you how to make a detective kit with items around the house or are easily obtainable.
 Being able to think through a problem without making illogical leaps will help you resolve cases and make more educated guesses. Try practicing cryptograms, nano grams, and Sudoku puzzles.
 Learn how to pick potentially interesting events out of a crowd by noticing subtle cues, such as slightly raised voices or agitated hand gestures. As you pay more attention to human behavior, you'll be better able to pick out odd and inconsistent acts. Look closely at people's facial expressions and the behaviors to which they are connected.
 Learn what is a matter of public record, and how to obtain it. Several government-related documents can be requested under the Freedom of Information Act. Being tech-savvy and knowing how to find information via the internet can be one of your most valuable skills.
 You should be able to get to the heart of a matter without putting somebody on their guard or making them uncomfortable. Avoid yes-no questions and focus on questions that require real answers - for example, ask "Where were you around 4 p.m.?" instead of "Were you at home around 4 p.m.?"

, Write down your observations in as much detail as you can. Reading over your notes later might spark your memory and help you recall something you thought you'd forgotten.
 If you're doing detective work, don't broadcast it to everyone - detectives are supposed to fly under the radar. If you're tracking someone or gathering clues, try to look as normal as possible and blend in with the crowd. If your target sees you, always have something that will make you look less suspicious like a book or MP3 player.
 Never compromise your safety in the name of solving a case. Avoid putting yourself in dangerous situations or tracking suspicious people to secluded locations - they might be luring you into a trap.
 By and large, people looking for a vocation as a detective need to begin off as cops. This implies, selecting in a police foundation is imperative. Police foundations could be found in all states, offering preparing projects offering for people. The principle point of such projects is to outfit people with the fundamental ability and experience. From overseeing lower arms to self-protection methods, preparing spreads numerous diverse territories. Each one state has its own particular investigator necessities for law requirement executors. To turn into a detective, you have to first figure out what confirmation necessities exist in your state. You may need to finish a specific number of analyst preparing hours to qualify.