 A clingy cat doesn’t necessarily need long stretches of attention from its owner. A few minutes of attention may be just enough.When your cat is being clingy, consider playing a brief interactive game with your cat, such as flashing a laser light on the floor for your cat to chase.


If your cat has trouble moving around, consider petting for it a few minutes.
If your cat is persistently clingy, it may not be practical to give frequent bursts of attention.;
, Your cat may try to get your attention in different ways, such as scratching the sofa, meowing persistently, or just rubbing up against your leg. How you react will either encourage or discourage the clinginess. For example, if you reward your cat with positive attention after it scratches the sofa, you will encourage that behavior.If your cat is doing something undesirable to get your attention, simply ignore it.Ignoring the bad clingy behavior will discourage your cat from repeating it.
It may be hard to decide whether to ignore the behavior or give your cat a short burst of attention. If the behavior is destructive or highly annoying to you, do not give your cat those few minutes of attention.
 Clinginess in cats is a sign of separation anxiety. If your cat meows loudly when you leave and nearly leaps on you when you walk in the door, try making your departures and arrivals low key.If you don't make a big deal of leaving or arriving, your cat may not feel the need to become anxious and clingy. Below are some ways to keep things low key:Leave your home quietly. When you get back home, wait for a few minutes before giving your cat attention.
Desensitize your cat to your departure. For example, pick up your keys and place them back down without leaving. Also, open and close the door without leaving. Eventually, your cat will see these as normal actions that aren’t worth getting worked up about.
 During the day, cats can become bored when their owners aren’t home. When the owners do get back home, the cats can become very clingy. If you notice your cat is more clingy when you come home, consider hiring a pet sitter who can play and interact with your cat during the day.Ask your vet or other pet owners for recommendations on pet sitters in your area.
 Clinginess in cats can be a big nuisance. Even if you are annoyed and frustrated with your cat’s clinginess, do not punish it by yelling at it or locking it away from you or your family. Harsh punishment will worsen the clinginess. Instead, be patient and gentle with your cat.