 Navigate to the homepage of your Facebook App.


Note: While you can zoom and reposition your picture on the Facebook app, it will make these changes to your profile picture as a whole. There isn’t currently a way to only edit the thumbnail on the Facebook app.
If you are on a page where you don’t have the “News Feed”, “Requests”, “Messenger”, “Notifications”, and “More” options, for example, if you’re looking at someone’s photos, click the “X” in the upper left hand corner.
 On the bottom right of your screen you will see an icon with three lines stacked vertically above the option for “More”.


Tapping this button will bring you to a page that lists your profile and name, any pages you manage, and other options like friends, events, and groups.
If you’re using an Android phone, you may not have the “More” option, instead you will tap on your phone’s menu button., At the top of the “More” page is your name and a thumbnail of your profile picture. Tapping on that will bring you to your profile page.


Once on your profile page, you should now see your cover photo, name, profile picture thumbnail, and options below.
You will also see two slightly transparent camera icons. One on the bottom right of your cover photo, and one on the bottom right of your profile thumbnail. You want to make sure you tap your profile thumbnail and not your cover photo., You will see a pop up with three options: “Upload From Camera Roll”, “Choose Tagged Photo”, “View Profile Picture”. You want to click the “Choose Tagged Photo” option.


Clicking the “View Profile Picture” option will bring to your current profile picture, but you cannot edit the thumbnail from here.
 Once you tap the “Choose From Tagged Photos” options, you will be brought to a screen with all the photos of you. Navigate to the picture you are using, and tap it.
 You can now pinch and zoom your Facebook profile picture and move it around to your liking.


Once you have your photo the way you want it, tap “Done” in the upper right hand corner of the screen.

