 Most companies require that project managers hold at least a bachelor's degree in a related field. Degrees can be flexible, pertaining to the industry instead of the position; however, business administration, manufacturing, construction, computer science and information technology are popular.;
, Once you begin training, you should begin looking for project management experience. Websites like glassdoor.com, internmatch.com and college.monster.com, as well as large job search websites, post new internships daily.


Any internship that is posted on these websites is likely to be competitive. You can improve your chances of applying quickly by creating a daily search with terms like "project management intern" or "management intern." You may also choose to create a Google Alert for those terms on a site like Craigslist.
 Some of these programs will allow you to focus on project management in your industry. If you are switching careers, this is a good way to supplement an unrelated bachelor's degree or experience.


Look for a business administration program that has high placement in internships and jobs. You can request this information from the department before you apply.
 A project management trainee program or internal management program will introduce you to project management in a similar way as an internship. Many of these are full-time positions, so you may be required to complete school before applying.
 Working for at least a few years as a supervisor will place you in a good position to start project management. You will develop public speaking, disciplinary and inter-personal skills that are essential for the job.


Also, look for experience in planning and managing a budget. Related jobs that require these skills will help you train for a career in project management. This may include office management, bookkeeping or a planning assistant.
 Most project management internships will be at larger companies. If you are looking for an IT project management internship, you may want to relocate to San Jose, San Francisco, Austin, New York or Seattle to find a better opportunity.
 You will gain access to the PM Network, which can connect you to professionals and possible positions.


Contact other professionals in the PMI Network. You can also attend conferences and meetings to meet project managers.
Consider applying for certification from the PMI. This association offers 7 types of certifications. They may enhance your resume in a competitive job market.
 Suggest a free or low-paid internship for a small business for a few months. You will need to cast a wide net, but some businesses may be willing to trade training for hard work.
 Join a professional community or volunteer organization. Discuss your experience and the type of internship you are seeking.

