 The easiest way to create a base for the wishing well is to use an existing, wooden container. A barrel or wooden planter roughly 2–4 feet (0.6 – 1.2 meters) tall will make a small garden ornament, while larger containers can be used to make something closer in size to an actual well. If you do decide to use one of these options, skip ahead to the next section, on attaching a roof.


If you'd like to make your own circular well base, use the instructions below. If you prefer a square container, build a planter box, then skip ahead to attaching the roof.;
, If you have access to a table saw, you can make your own wooden ring out of lumber. Here are some guidelines for the raw materials:


Sixteen pieces of 1 x 4 (19 x 89 millimeter) lumber will make a wishing well that looks quite circular, and measures about 2 feet (0.6 meters) across.Use eight pieces of 2 x 4 instead to save time and money, making an octagonal well.
Cut all pieces to the same length, which will be the height of your wishing well. If you want the well to be portable, or usable by children, choose a height of 4 ft (1.2 m) or less.
If you plan to build a roof, cut two of the pieces at least 2.5 ft (0.75 m) longer than the others to serve as roof supports. Cut one end of these pieces to a fencepost-like point, using 45º angles.
 Bevel each long edge of each piece of lumber, to ensure that they fit together tightly when arranged in a circle. For a sixteen-sided barrel, cut each edge to an 11.25º angle. For an eight-sided barrel, use a 22.5º angle instead. Use a protractor, rafter square, or angle gauge to set the angle of your saw.


For a barrel with n sides, use an angle equal to 360 ÷ (n x 2).
See the tips section for an alternate method of finishing you barrel, that does not require beveling.
 Lay out the lumber flat on the ground, touching each other along the long edges. Push them against a straight edge to make sure the bases line up. If you are using extra-long roof supports, place exactly half of the short pieces in between them, to make sure the roof supports end up opposite each other.


For example, if you are using sixteen pieces, lay out a long roof support, seven short pieces, then a long roof support, then the other seven short pieces.
If you are using eight pieces, lay out a long roof support, three short pieces, a long roof support, then the other three short pieces.
 Once you have beveled the lumber and laid it out, rotate one slat of lumber onto the next, so the angled edges fit perfectly. Repeat until the barrel shape is formed, with the help of an assistant if possible. If you cannot roll the barrel together, use wood glue to fasten each slat to the next in turn.
 If you would like the barrel to have a bottom, trace out the dimensions of the bottom piece while the barrel is rolled together. Cut out the bottom from a single piece of lumber and wedge it into the barrel, then continue on to the next step.


If you leave your wishing well without a base, you can use it as a decoration around existing features, such as fountain pipes or flower planters.
Clamp the barrel together. Whether or not you used glue, clamp the final barrel shape together by tightening two hose clamps around it, one near each end.Use a third clamp near the middle if the barrel seems loose.
 If you made your own barrel as described above, there should already be two longer slats that can be used as roof supports. If you are using an existing barrel, select two long 2 x 4s (38 x 89 mm), and cut one end to a fencepost-like point, using 45º angles. The lumber should extend at least 2ft (0.6 m) above the lip of the well base, and may be significantly taller if you are using a heavy or tall barrel. Nail these roof supports at the base of the barrel and again near the lip, with the two supports at exactly opposite sides of the barrel.
 To make a small, peaked roof for your wishing well, begin by cutting four pieces of lumber to serve as the frame for the roof, using the same size lumber as formed the roof support. Cut one end of each piece to form a 45º slant, so two pieces can fit over each peaked roof support and slope downward. Drill holes and attach wood screws down through the frame and onto the support, from above.The length of the roof frame is up to you. Typically, a small roof is used, that does not extend past the edge of the well.
 Lay out 1 x 2 (19 x 38 mm) lumber rafters from one side of the frame to the other, using wood screws to attach them on each side. Choose between two styles of roof:Flat roof: Work from the top downward. Place each rafter flush with the one above it.
Overlapping roof: Work from the bottom upward, overlapping each rafter over the one beneath it. Plan the rafter placement in advance so the uppermost rafter meets the peak of the roof without having to be cut.
 Strengthen the roof and make it more attractive by adding a trim. Start by attaching a 1 x 4 (19 x 89 mm) across the open, triangular frame, at its lowest point. Use finishing nails and wood glue to make a strong bond, both to the roof support and to each end of the frame. Repeat on the opposite end, then connect them with another 1 x 4 (19 x 89 mm) just beneath the lowest rafter.
 If you are keeping your wishing well outdoors, giving it a coat of paint will protect the wood from the weather. Use a clear finish instead if you'd prefer to keep the natural wood color.


If you plan to use the wishing well for water, use a wood stain that protects the base from water damage.If you are painting the well in your garden, keep in mind that the products you use may harm nearby plants if they reach the soil.
 The spindle will run over the mouth of the well, and can support a small bucket to make your wishing well look more like a real one. You may use a strong, 1" (25 mm) thick dowel, but since these are difficult to find, consider using a length of 1 x 1 (19 x 19 mm) lumber instead.Cut this to a length that can extend across the full outer diameter of the well, plus at least an additional 6 inches (15 cm).


The spindle will need to fit through holes in the roof supports. If you are building an extra-small wishing well, you may need to use a smaller spindle.
You'll need a similar piece about 6 inches (15 cm) long for the handle, so save the scraps from cutting.
 Drill holes large enough to fit the spindle. Choose a location high up on the roof support, but below the roof, and measure from the well edge to make sure the two holes are at the same height. Push the spindle through the holes.
 Using the scraps of lumber from this project, cut out two washers a bit larger than the spindle. For most wells, square or round washers 1.5" (38 mm) across (and any thickness) will work. Drill a hole 1" (25 mm) in diameter through each washer. Push a washer onto each end of the spindle, until it is flat against the frame. Use wood glue to attach the washers and frame.
 Cut a rectangle of lumber about 2" x 3" (5 x 7.5 cm), and drill two 1" (25 mm) holes into it.Place one hole onto the spindle and attach it using wood glue. Cut a piece of dowel or lumber about 6 inches (15 cm) long, using the same size of lumber you used for the spindle. Stick this handle through the remaining hole on the rectangle, and attach with wood glue. You can now turn the spindle by rotating this handle.
 Select a mug, cup, or small bucket that you don't mind exposing to an outdoor environment. Tie a short length of rope onto the handle, and tie the other end onto the spindle. Use a strong glue to fasten the rope permanently to the spindle, allowing you to raise or lower the bucket.
 A tightly made barrel wit a bottom can hold water, but keep in mind that standing water can become a breeding ground for mosquito larvae. Place a small, dark-colored trash can or bucket at the base of the well instead so you can easily lift it out and empty it. Better yet, place an open-bottomed well over a small fountain pipe attached to your irrigation system for a burbling well.


Alternatively, fill the well with soil instead, and plant flowers.

