 Understanding exactly what's in your meal can help you determine which options have more or less simple sugars.


Key foods to look out for include: items made with sweet and sour sauce, BBQ sauce, ketchup or salad dressings, baked beans, sweet potato fries, marinara sauce, salsa, and other condiments/spreads. Don't forget about more obvious sources of simple sugars as well. Items like desserts, pancakes/waffles, muffins, white bread with jelly and granola typically have a significant amount of added sugars included in the cooking or preparation process.
Don't hesitate to ask the waiter or chef for more specific information regarding meals or ingredients.
 These items may have a significant amount of simple sugars and can be avoided or limited when you serve them yourself.


Ask for items like dressings, sauces, ketchup, syrups or spreads to be served on the side.
Ask for plain olive oil and vinegar for salad dressings instead of creamy-based or vinaigrette style dressings.
Jams and jellies, whipped cream and coffee flavorings, and spreads like apple butter can be high in simple sugars.
 Regular sodas can have over 39 g of sugar - and that's for a small!Stick to water and other sugar free beverages.


If you decide to have a soft drink, opt for diet or refuse any offered refills.
After the first drink, switch to water, unsweetened tea, or plain unsweetened coffee.
 Beware of certain alcoholic drinks including mixed drinks, wine and beer. Even though they do not taste sweet, they still contain a significant amount of simple sugars.Specialty cocktails and mixed drinks can sabotage any attempt to control simple sugar intake, as they often require simple syrup (sugar water), flavored syrups, soft drinks or juice mixers, and even sugared rims.
To minimize sugar opt for an alcoholic drink mixed with water or unflavored seltzer instead or go for a low-carb/low-calorie beer.
 Ordering the occasional dessert or sweet indulgence is perfectly OK. However, sharing a dessert with others can help reduce your intake of simple sugars.

If no one is willing to split a dessert with you, ask for half of it to be boxed ahead of time.
Order a child's or "petite" dessert if available. This smaller portion will help limit the amount of simple sugars you consume.
Try ordering fruit instead. Although it still contains some simple sugars, you'll be getting the benefit of fiber, vitamins and minerals.

