 An abusive relationship describes a relationship where one person consistently and constantly uses tactics to psychologically, physically, financially, emotionally, and sexually control and have power over another person. A relationship that is considered to have domestic violence is a relationship where there is an imbalance of power. , Everyone is different, but physically abusive partners tend to have certain characteristics that contribute to the cycle of violence and control. An abuser might have the following characteristics:Emotionally intense and codependent.
Could be charming, popular, and talented.
Fluctuates between emotional extremes.
Might be a former victim of abuse.
May suffer from alcoholism or drug addiction.
Controlling.
Bottles emotions up.
Inflexible and judgmental.
Might have a history of abuse and violence in childhood.
 Domestic violence and abuse is more common than people generally expect. This has significant short- and long-term health implications for the victims. Here are some statistics about abuse in the United States:25-30% of women experience domestic violence.
Domestic violence situations cause disability and deteriorate your health, similar to “the effects of living in a war zone.”
A little over 10% of men were victimized by their partners.
1,200 women die each year from domestic violence.
Two million women sustain injuries every year from domestic violence.
Domestic violence occurs across all socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds. Domestic violence is most prevalent in the poorest of neighborhoods and people who went to college but did not finish school.
Victims of domestic violence are more at risk for alcoholism.
The risk of disability (emotional, mental and physical) for victims of domestic violence is doubled. The victim’s likelihood that they cannot walk without using a device for assistance (like a cane or walker), or need a wheelchair raises by 50%.
The risk of stroke for victims raises by 80%, as well as the risk of heart ailments and arthritic joints by 70%, and asthma by 60%.

