 Many classic texts were written with a vocabulary or historical context that may be lost on contemporary readers. Reading an annotated version, which includes supplemental information and explanations, is an easy way to engage with an otherwise complicated text.


In addition to reading an annotated text, try keeping a dictionary or reader's guide on hand when you read. These supplemental materials can help you work through difficult terms and confusing chapters.
 Even if you struggle with the text, it is important to stick with it if you want to understand it. After sticking with it for a while, the language, setting, and characters may start to become more familiar to you.If you encounter a difficult passage that you do not understand, mark the page and skip it for now. You can always come back to it after you have a basic understanding of the text.
Skip footnotes on your first read because these may slow you down.
Keep in mind that with difficult texts, it is often necessary to read through them more than once. After you have read through a piece of classic literature once, your second read through should be much easier and concepts that were confusing to you should make more sense.
 If you're trying to gain a better understanding of a difficult text, underlining passages may not be enough. Instead, try making comments in the margins to fully engage with the text.Your comments/notes can do any of the following to help you gain a better understanding of the material:


summarize the attached passages
make notes on passages that relate to other passages from earlier/later in the text
write (and answer) questions on anything you didn't understand
agree or disagree with what a passage is saying

, Some readers learn better while working within a group setting. Joining a book club or enrolling in a literature class at your local community college can give you the opportunity to discuss a novel with other readers and gain valuable insight from an instructor.


You can find book clubs in your area by searching online.
If you're not able to enroll in a class at your local college, you may want to consider taking a massive open online course (MOOC). These courses are often free or very affordable and are frequently offered through prestigious educational institutions.

