 Play at different speeds: slow, medium and fast. Use a metronome and practice scales with different beat durations or tempos. Instead of playing through the beat continuously, try a stop-and-go method.For instance, play three notes, pause, play three more notes, pause again, and continue this variation.
 Instead of just playing the same piece repeatedly in the same way, try new ways of playing it.Change octaves. Practice with your eyes closed sometimes. Alternate playing softly and loudly. Try practicing while you bounce, dance, wiggle your head, or beatbox.Explore other practice methods, such as chaining. With chaining, you play small units at tempo and slowly build longer chains of units. Start with a small passage and add a measure each time you master a small unit., Play a piece completely through the first time and mark down the places where you ran into difficulty. Take those portions out and practice them separately. Isolating and repeating difficult music passages can help you to master a piece of music.


Instead of getting discouraged when you reach parts that cause you stumble, you extract them and give them hyper-focus until you can play them as well as the rest of the piece., Each day of practicing should at least include a block of playing scales as well as a block of time focused on building technical skills.Repeat one activity (or "block") acceptably before moving on to the next. This encourages comfort with the activity and prompts muscle memory to kick in.For example, spend the first block of time warming up, the second block on a difficult piece of music, the third on proper finger placement, and the fourth on some smaller pieces you have already practiced before.Another approach is to time each block. For example, spend 10 minutes on scales. Even if you don’t get it perfect by the end of that time, move on to the next block. Otherwise, getting stuck can be frustrating.
 A good way to do this is to place three objects, such as coins or beads, in front of you (on your music stand, if possible). When you play a challenging measure correctly, move one object to the right. If you play the measure through successfully again, move another object to the right. If you stumble with the notes or rhythm, return all of the objects to the left. You have to play the measure through without errors three times in a row in order to move all of the objects to the right-hand side.Once all of your coins or beads are to the right, you can connect the difficult measure to the measures surrounding it, and then to the rest of the music.
 Make flashcards with musical tasks in four groups: warmups, technical methods, difficult or long songs, and easy or short songs. You can list specific songs, scales or chords on the flashcards, or write in general terms such as genres or octaves. Alternate your practice session with “surprise” flash card days. Choose one flashcard at random from each group to determine which musical pieces you will practice that day.


Roll dice: whatever number you get is how many times you will play a measure or a song.Try incorporating your practice into a board game. Keep a board game designated for instrument practice in your music area. Each time you master a piece of music or a technique, move up a space on the game board and write down what you achieved.

