 Before you begin the process of changing your name, you must fill out the name change petition. It can be found on the Michigan government website. It will ask for the following information:


Your current name and proposed changed name
Whether this name change is for a married person, a divorced person, an adult, or a minor
Your reasons for seeking a name change
Whether you have a criminal record
A signature and date, Once you have completed the petition, and printed the correct number of copies, you must file the petition to a circuit court in your county. A list of circuit courts can be found on the Michigan government website. Certain conditions apply when filing the petition.


You must be a resident of the county for at least a year.
Your petition must explain the reasons for your request.
You must not be seeking a name change for fraudulent reasons. If you have a criminal background, you will be presumed to be seeking a name change with fraudulent intent and the change will not be ordered unless you prove otherwise.
 If you are over 22, fingerprinting is required for a name change to be accepted. A complete set of fingerprints can be taken at a local police agency.


Bring a copy of your name change petition to the police station. This, alongside your set of fingerprints, will be forwarded to the Michigan Department of State Police.
The department will compare your fingerprints against its own records and will forward them to the FBI for further examination.
If there are no pending or current charges against you, your fingerprints will be destroyed.
 Once your petition is filed, the court will set a time and place for your hearing. A notice of the hearing must be published. This is to smooth the transition for you and to give anyone with a similar name or the same name a chance to object.


You can publish the notice through a local newspaper. The notice must contain the proposed name and the time, date, and place of the hearing.
If there is good reason, such as concerns for your personal safety, the court may order that no publication of the hearing take place.
 When the date comes, you must attend your hearing in person and speak before a judge.


The judge will ask why you want to change your name, and you will have to provide the reasons.
You will be asked to raise your hand and swear you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
This will take roughly 30 seconds. As long as your name change is approved, the judge will stamp a seal on his court order declaring your name legally changed., After the name change is accepted by a court, you will need a variety of updated documents.


A new birth certificate can be obtained at the Office of Vital Records.
A new social security card can be picked up at the Social Security Office.
The Secretary of State's Office should provide you with a new driver's license.
Fees may apply, depending on the office's location. Call and ask ahead of time so you know what payment methods are accepted.