 For this type of mobile, you will hang multiple shapes in a single straight line. You may use any combination of shapes you prefer, but make sure each shape is roughly symmetrical vertically. The right and left side of each shape don't have to be exactly the same, but if they are too different your mobile may hang lopsided. You may also choose to make two or more similar mobiles to hang near each other.


If you have trouble coming up with something from scratch, search online for printable templates.;
, You will need scissors, thread or fishing line, glue or scotch tape, a penny for each mobile, and sheets of cardstock in as many colors as you want. If you plan on printing out your designs, you will also need a printer. If you will be drawing them by hand, you will need a pen or pencil, a ruler, and a compass or protractor.
 There are multiple ways of doing this, and you may choose to use more than one in constructing your mobile.


Download a template or design your own shapes using an image editing program. If your printer can print on cardstock, print the shapes directly onto your cardstock. If your printer can't print on cardstock, or you would like to incorporate a detailed color image into your mobile, print the shapes onto normal printer paper instead. Glue or tape the printed image to a piece of cardstock.
Draw out your shapes onto the cardstock. Use a ruler and other drawing tools to make sure the shapes are vertically symmetrical. Draw out only one of each shape.
Glue or tape other paper products to the cardstock. You may also choose to incorporate existing pictures, stationary, or newspaper clippings into your mobile. To do so, glue or tape the image onto cardstock. Then draw out your shape as described previously.
 Take the cardstock with the shapes either drawn or printed onto it. Place it over a second sheet of cardstock that you would like to be each shape's opposite side. Cut both sheets at once using the lines as a guide.


If you are unable to do both sides simultaneously, cut out one and use it to trace the shape onto the other sheet.
 Lay one side of the mobile on a flat surface in the order that you choose to put them in. The side of the shape you want to be seen should be facing down. Make sure that you can picture a perfectly straight line going down the middle of all your shapes., Use your layout to determine how much string you will need. Use either a tape measure or the string itself. You will need a string long enough to start at the bottom shape and reach a few feet past the top. The amount of extra string you will need at the top will depend on how low you want your mobile to hang. Keep in mind it's always easier to correct a too-long string than a too-short one.
 Use tape or glue to secure the string to each shape, making sure to keep it centered on each. Start with the bottom section and work your way up. Try to make your adhesive as flat as possible.
 The penny will act as a small weight to keep your mobile hanging straight and balanced. Tape or glue the penny towards the bottom edge of the last shape over top of the string. Make sure to leave a small perimeter at the shape's edge so you can seal it properly later on., Glue or tape each of the remaining shapes to its match. Place these shapes face up over top of the string. Focus your adhesive on the edges to properly seal each side together. Once you've finished this step, your mobile will be ready to hang.If you use glue, wait for it to dry before hanging your mobile.

