 Secured loans are type of loan that uses a high-value piece of property (most commonly a house, but sometimes a car or another valuable piece of property) as collateral. In other words, if the loan can't be repaid, the lender is allowed to sell your property to raise money to repay the loan. Because the loan is attached to the value of the property, secured loans are a "safer bet" for the lender, which means they typically have relatively low interest rates compared to other types of loans. To see if you qualify for a secured loan, contact local lending institutions and the credit holders who hold the loans on your house, car, etc.


Don't overlook credit unions, as these can sometimes offer better rates than banks and other lending institutions., Equity is the difference between the market value of a piece of property and the cost of all outstanding balances associated with the property. In a secured loan, the lender uses the equity of your property to insure the loan. Thus, to get a secured loan, your property must have a sufficient level of equity. The equity of your home, car, etc. increases as you make payments against the outstanding balance of the property or as the property appreciates. The greater your equity, the larger your secured loan can be and the more debt you can consolidate.


Determining any value that your home has gained through appreciation may require the services of a certified appraiser.
 Though there are usually certain approval requirements for secured loans, these can be easier to meet than the requirements for other types of loans because your property serves as insurance for the loan. Don't let these low entry requirements entice you into a secured loan you can't reasonably expect to pay off, as the consequences for failing to pay back a secured loan can be dire - you may be left without a home or car. Be sure to make all payments on a secured loan on-time to avoid the loss of important or cherished property.


Many secured loans have a fixed period - for instance, ten years - for repayment of the loan. Some loans may offer extensions, while others may not.

