 Shin splints are not considered a serious type of injury, although they can generate lots of pain and hinder the ability to run, or even walk. The main cause is too much strain on the leg muscles below the knee, particularly the tibialis anterior, which is responsible for lifting your foot while walking and running. Sometimes shin splints also involve inflammation of the tibial periosteum, the thin sheath of tissue that wraps around the tibia or shin bone.In rare cases, shin splints may also involve stress (hairline) fractures of the tibia or blood circulation problems in the lower leg.


Risk factors for shin splints include intensive running and hiking (especially on hills), inadequate footwear, flat feet, and poor biomechanics or technique.
Military recruits, professional dancers and athletes such as soccer and basketball players have higher incidence of shin splints.
 The most common symptoms of shin splints include: tenderness, soreness or pain along the inner part of your lower leg, mild inflammation in the same area, and difficulty lifting your toes off the ground (known as dorsiflexion).Pain is often noted during the initial part of a workout or activity, then lessens once the muscles are warmed up, then often reappears near the end of the session after the inflammation accumulates.The pain is often described as dull and annoying initially, but with continuing trauma it can become excruciating for some.


Shin splints often feel worse in the morning because the soft tissues (muscles and tendons) tighten overnight.Shin splints also flare-up when you forcibly try to lift your foot up (dorsiflex) against resistance.
The location and type of the pain is often enough for a correct diagnosis of shin splints, so x-rays, an MRI or diagnostic ultrasound are rarely needed for confirmation.
 Allowing shin splints to develop and then become chronic not only creates pain and disability in your lower legs that's difficult to heal and get rid of, but other joints "higher up the chain" get negatively affected.Not being able to lift your foot properly with walking, running or jumping causes other areas above (such as your knee, hip and low back) to overcompensate, which increases the risk of strain or sprain injuries in those locations. As such, preventing shin splints from getting bad with common sense, home remedies, and professional guidance is a smart strategy.


It's important to differentiate (by a qualified doctor, ideally) between other lower leg issues that have overlapping symptoms with shin splints, such as bone fractures, muscle compartment syndrome, popliteal artery entrapment, venous insufficiency and nerve entrapment.
Because females have a higher incidence of diminished bone density and osteoporosis, they are more likely to develop severe shin splints and stress fractures of the tibia.