 Moist air will loosen mucus and help you breathe better by easing the symptoms caused by congestion. Buy a good humidifier that will keep your house between thirty and fifty percent humid.Maintain your humidifier regularly or it could become a health hazard. Monitor and clean your humidifier so that it does not become a haven for mold and the humidity level does not go too high or low. In both cases, you will cause more problems than you solve.
In addition, consider getting a hot bath, inhaling steam, or putting a hot cup of water under your nose to help loosen mucus.
 At night, place a nasal adhesive strip on your nose to help you breathe better. These little strips are specially engineered to help manage nighttime congestion for a better night’s rest.A spring-like band that is flexible, nasal strips are made to fit right above the flare of your nostrils and stay there because of the adhesive.
Nasal adhesive strips are designed to help open inflamed sinus passages. They are effective against colds, allergies, and congestion.
 Acupressure is a type of self-massage that stimulates the muscles to relax. Done daily, acupressure can show improvement along with minimizing a recurrence of allergy and sinusitis symptoms.Specifically, apply deep firm pressure to self-massage the point between your thumb and index finger. This will relieve stress on your large intestine.
For the gallbladder, massage the back of your head at the cross between where the ear bone and neck meet.
These two points have been identified as places that can be stimulated to help open up your sinuses and reduce your symptoms.
 Engaging in activities to reduce your stress will help with the management of your allergies and sinusitis, which cause congestion. Stress negatively impacts your immune system, compromising your ability to deal with conditions that cause congestion..High levels of stress cause the quality and quantity of sleep to decrease resulting in dysregulation that intensifies the symptoms associated with allergies and sinusitis.
Try socializing with family, friends, and colleagues, listening to peaceful music, or finding some alone or quiet time to rest your mind and body.

