 Wash your face using warm water and your favorite face wash. Rinse the soap off and pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel.;
, Because this face wash contains honey, it can get sticky—especially if you are going to leave it on your face for a while. You can protect your hair by pulling it back and away from your face and securing it with a headband, hair clip, or hair tie. You can protect your clothes by draping a towel over the front of your chest and shoulders.
 You will be mixing only a small amount of milk and honey, so the bowl or cup does not have to be big. A small dessert bowl would be ideal.
 You will need 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of raw honey and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of milk. Not only is honey a great moisturizer, but it is also antibacterial, which makes it great for fighting off acne.Milk also makes a great moisturizer. It also helps tone and exfoliate the skin.


If you have very sensitive skin, consider using 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of oat flour, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of milk, and 2 teaspoons of honey. The oat flour will help ease skin issues, such as acne and eczema., Keep doing this until the honey has dissolved in the milk completely. You want to end up with something a cream-like consistency.
 You can do this by dipping a cotton round into the milk-and-honey mixture, or you can simply use your fingers. Gently work the face wash into your skin, using circular motions. Avoid the sensitive areas around your nose, mouth, and eyes.
 You can rinse the mixture off immediately, or you can let it sit on your face for 5 to 10 minutes. This will allow the mixture to seep into your pores and clean them out more effectively.
 Gently massage your skin with your fingers until you have gotten all of the mixture out. You may use some face wash if necessary.
 Use a soft towel, and do not rub your face.
 Once you have your face clean, you can wipe your face with a cotton ball soaked in toner. This will help tighten your pores and balance the pH of your skin. You may also apply some moisturizer after the toner.

