 If your dog’s paw pad has been punctured by a foreign object, like a piece of glass, rock, or thorn, remove the object before treating the wound. To remove the object, grasp it firmly with your fingers or a pair of tweezers, and pull it out quickly. Try to pull the object straight out to avoid causing any more damage to the pad.Foxtail punctures are a particularly common injury in hunting dogs. Foxtails are arrow-shaped, pointed weeds that grow outdoors. These can become lodged in between your dog’s toes or in the pad of its foot and cause great discomfort or an abscess. Do your best to avoid walking your dog through foxtails while you are hunting., Once the foreign object has been removed, wash your dog’s paw with an antibacterial soap, paying special attention to the affected area. Be sure you wash the affected area thoroughly, even if it seems like it is making your dog uncomfortable.Nolvasan or Betadine are two good antibacterial soaps you can use on your dog., Once you have washed the foot well, apply an antibiotic cream to the cut or abrasion. Rub the cream into the area well so that your dog cannot lick it off.If your dog is licking incessantly at the cream, despite rubbing it in, it might help to get a cone to put around your dog’s head. This will prevent it from being able to lick its feet.
 It is also a good idea to wrap your dog’s paw after you apply the antibiotic cream. This will help prevent your dog from licking the antibiotic cream off and further irritating the injury. To wrap your dog’s foot, wrap clean gauze from the joint around your dog’s ankle down around the pad of its foot, and then back up the leg. You can apply white tape wrap over the bandage to help ensure it stays in place.


Be careful not to wrap the bandage too tight. If you do, your dog’s leg will swell. If you notice swelling, unwrap the bandage and rewrap it so it is not as tight on your dog’s leg., You should take your dog to the vet for any puncture wound, as these can cause damage underneath the pad as well. In addition, if you have treated your dog’s cut or abrasion as recommended, but it does not improve within a few days or your dog is still limping or favoring one leg, take your dog to the vet to ensure there is not a bigger problem.