 Talk to Kapp'n, the turtle in the boat at the dock on the beach. Once you talk to him, he will ask you if you want to go to the Island for 1,000 Bells.

You have to unlock the island, which happens when you meet Tortimer, the old mayor. He will appear after you expand your home at least once.
Note that you can't bring items to the Island. You will have to borrow them. However, you can "sneak" your diving suit there by wearing it to the Island, then taking it off when you arrive.;
, Fish in the sea surrounding the Island, and go diving. You can rent items from Lloid, the gyroid, who is located outside the Island hut. Keep in mind of the fish that are worth more bells in the following:

Hammerhead Shark (8,000 bells)
Blue Marlin (10,000 bells)
Napoleonfish (10,000 bells)
Saw Shark (12,000 bells)
Whale Shark (13,000 bells)
Shark (15,000 bells)

, Deposit Box is in the Island Hut. Next to the counter, there will be a box. This is the Deposit Box. You use it to store all of the items you wish to take back to town with you.

Note that if you try to leave the Island with items in your inventory, you will be warned that the items will be exchanged for Bells and put in your ABD account.
Filter out the fish. If your Deposit Box can't take any more items, sell the fish that are sold at a low price to Leila. Even though Leila doesn't offer the full price as you would sell at the stores in town, you're better off making less than not earning any from releasing the fish.
Another option is to fill half of the Deposit Box with fish, because you will be catching valuable bugs later.
 Cut down all the trees, dig up the bushes, and remove the flowers from every part of the island. This insures that any non-beetles do not make up the majority of the island. After that, plant as many coconuts as possible. Wait 3 days. If you are in a hurry, save and quit the game. When you start up again, skip three days ahead. Your coconut trees will be ready for use. Now that it's mentioned, come back in the evening to start collecting your loot., To insure you make more money in a shorter amount of time, be careful not to scare the beetles! A good rule of thumb is to catch the beetles while outside the tree's shadows and sneaking simultaneously. To sneak, equip your net and press and hold the A button.

There is a special, very rare bug called the Golden Stag. This bug is worth 10,000 Bells at Re-Tail. If you happen to see this bug, be very careful!

, Go inside the Island Hut. Next to the counter there will be a box. This is the Deposit Box. You use it to store all of the items you wish to take back to town with you., Re-Tail is located at the recycling symbol on your map screen when you are in your town. Depending on what you choose to focus on, you may be able to make even more than 100,000 bells in one run.

Don't sell the items to Timmy and Tommy. Your items will sell for more at Re-Tail.
 Inside will be an ATM-like machine. This is the ABD, the Automatic Bell Deposit. You can use the ABD to deposit/withdraw your bells and pay off your debts to Tom Nook., When you continue on your profile for New Leaf, there is always a money rock and an ore rock.

Hit all of the rocks in town with your shovel or axe. Try to memorize where each rock is, so you can easily find the fake ore rock. One of the existing rocks in town will be the money rock. You will know you have hit the money rock if the rock moves when you hit it and Bells (or ore) come out.
If you happen to be lucky, the money rock will give you ore instead of Bells.
 Sell the fruit to Reese.

You can carry more fruit by planting an orchard. Find a big space and plant as many fruit trees as possible. When you harvest, drag the same types of fruit into one space in your inventory. The fruit will stack up. The stack will hold up to nine fruits.
 Chances are that you might shake a tree and have some Bells fall out! However, You can also shake out a beehive. To avoid being stung, run into the nearest building. When you come out retrieve the beehive and sell it to Re-Tail.