 Think of the basic categories when you are first starting out with recycling, such as "Paper", "Plastic", and "Cardboard". Don't make the list of what each bin should contain for little kids complicated, or else they will become confused. If it looks like the item, that should be enough for now.


If you're making these for preschoolers and kindergarteners, you can make your own or print out images that represent the categories you want so that they can identify and match with the object they are disposing. For older kids and teens, have them decorate the bins.;
, Instead of tossing out a cereal box, ask them how it feels like (as they can enhance their sense of touch), for example, "Is this paper or does it feel like cardboard?" Allow them to drop it into the correct recycling bin.
 Excessive marker usage may result in "bleeding" on the other side and very typical with a kid. Have them use crayons and then turn the paper around for another new and "clean" sheet instead of them reaching for a separate one. Try purchasing paper specialty made for water-coloring, as the paints and water won't damage the other side. Art based stores and supermarkets that have a "school supply" aisle may have books with "special pages" meant for that purpose.



Have a family mouse? Place a toilet paper or cut a paper towel cardboard roll in their cage.
Cut off the sides of a cardboard box and reuse it as a portable drawer.
Save egg cartons for craft ideas, such as animal painting creations or as extra pockets to hold stuff in (for example, paper clips).
Thoroughly rinsed milk jugs and cartons can easily be converted into birdseed feeders for the spring.
Thoroughly rinsed meat Styrofoam trays are excellent items to hold paint in. You can also make a small concoction mixture with equal amounts of water and cornstarch for kids to play with.
 When they are finished with a banana or orange, have them place the peels in a tub outside to use as future compost in soil.
 Be prepared to answer the "Why?" question, but try to put your answer in simple terms. Always properly dispose items on your own with gloves and handle them with care, depending on the object.
 Many places give you cash back on cans and other recycling items. Allow them to keep the money for their effort on recycling, as this will create a positive reaction and motivation for them to continue recycling instead of throwing things away in the trash.

