 Clear any unnecessary items from the table so that you have plenty of space for your glass.
 Handle the glass carefully so that you do not accidentally drop or break it.
 Use a marker to draw where you intend to cut the glass.
 Lubricating the cutter will prevent the blade from dulling and make scoring the glass easier. Be sure to dip the cutter in oil before each cut. You can use any oil that you are comfortable with using!

, Use the cutter to cut the glass by holding it perpendicular to the glass and slicing it firmly.


For curvy lines, you can score the glass by pulling the cutter toward you or pushing it away from you as you make the cut. It is recommended that you push it away from you so that you can see the line you are cutting at all times. Do what is most comfortable to you.
Be sure to cut from one edge to the other. It is not possible to break the glass cleanly and evenly if the cut is not from edge to edge.
 Now that you have made the cut, hold the glass up and use the steel ball on the non-cutting end of your glass cutter to tap firmly along the length of the score.


The score should be facing you for this step.
If the score line becomes brighter, it is due to the internal cracking of the glass and means that you are successful.
The glass may spontaneously separate after one or two taps. Be prepared for this by holding the glass with your free hand on either side of the score., Hold the glass with each hand on either side of the score line. The side of the glass that is opposite your hands should rest on the table.


For small pieces of glass, use pliers to separate the pieces.
If you are using your hands, place your thumbs parallel to the score line and curl your fingers under your thumbs, beneath the glass.
Fold along the score line but do not yet break it. Do this along the length of the score line. This will loosen up the score line even more.
Turn the sheet 180 degrees and repeat the folding motion until you feel the pieces loosening.
Separate the pieces with a downward motion.
Curved lines can be more difficult to break than straight lines. If it doesn’t break as you are tapping, it may take some extra effort to separate the pieces.

