 Make sure you have a stable Wi-Fi connection. If it is secured, you need to either know or find out the password before continuing.;
, If you have an iTunes or an Apple account, make sure you know your username and password, and have it handy.


If you do not have an Apple ID yet, you will have an opportunity to set this up later in the process.
 Take your iPad from its box then turn the device on by pressing the top right-hand button on the device.


This button will also be the same button to shut off your iPad’s screen; if held down for an extended period, it will shut off your device.
 Once the iPad has turned on, you will need to swipe (drag your finger) across the screen from left to right.


This is the same motion you will use to wake your iPad up out of Sleep mode.
Once turned on for the first time, you will be greeted by the Setup Assistant.
 The default language is English, but if this is not the language you want, select from the options which language you want to use.


You can always change languages later on after you start using your iPad; you can also add languages to your keyboard later, once you’ve set up.
 From the list of countries and regions, tap which is your country and region. This will allow Apple to know what applications you are able to purchase and download.
 At this point, you’ll be asked to select a wireless network and then input a password if it is a secured network.
 This function allows your iPad to know where you are located. Just tap on the option you want.


If you are not using an iPad connected to a 4G network, then this function uses the location of your wireless router.
This feature is used by various applications to provide location-specific content, map features, and other location-related services.
You can turn this off for specific applications later using your settings.
 You will be given options to “Set up as a new iPad” or to Restore your iPad from backup.


If you are using a new iPad but have previously owned one, you can restore your previous iPad on the new device using the iCloud. Just select “Restore from backup.”
If you have a new device and would like to set up your iPad from the beginning, select “Set up as new iPad.”

, You will be asked to log in using your Apple ID. If you have other Apple devices or have used iTunes for downloading, you most certainly already have an Apple ID. Use this to log in by entering the information on the fields provided.


Logging in using your Apple ID allows you to use iCloud for syncing your device with other Apple products and to back up your iPad to your iCloud. It also allows you to purchase apps from the Apple Store.
If you don’t have an Apple ID yet, you have the opportunity to create one by tapping the “Create a Free Apple ID” button. You will then be asked to enter your birthday, first and last names, current email address, and password for your new Apple ID. You also need to provide an answer to a security question as well as an alternate email address to be used as “rescue mail.”

,


If you want, you can have a copy of the “Terms and Conditions” emailed to you by clicking the option at the top of the box.
 Setting up your iCloud is not completely necessary at this point. However, it is something that you probably will want to do eventually. Using iCloud allows you to back up your iPad’s data to the Internet and sync your device with other Apple products that you may own. As such, it is an incredibly useful and important tool.


Check out this article for more information.
 You have the option of setting up the iPad’s feature that allows you to find your iPad if it has been lost or stolen.


This only works if the device is connected to a 3G or 4G network or if it is logged into a wireless network. It is, however, a very useful and important feature of the iPad.
 You can now set a password for when you open your iPad. This isn’t necessary but is helpful in preventing snooping friends and thieves from accessing your iPad and its content.
 All new iOS devices are equipped with Siri, and at this point, you have a choice to set up Siri.


Siri is Apple’s voice-recognition system that preforms a multitude of tasks and can function as a digital personal assistant.
 This final step allows you to decide whether you want to send a daily diagnostic report to Apple, which is used to improve customer satisfaction and device performance. Just select the option you want to use: “Automatically send” or “Don’t send.”


If you choose not to send these daily reports, it will have no effect on your use of your iPad. This is purely a personal choice.
 On the “Welcome to iPad” page, you should click “Get Started” in order to finalize your set up.
 To install apps on your iPad, see this article.
 To customize your personal settings, check out this article.
 Learn more on how to watch movies on your here.