 Getting on the scale might have been an exciting part of your weight loss. While it may not be as exciting, weighing yourself weekly or even daily is extremely important for weight maintenance.

People who successfully keep weight off after dieting weigh themselves frequently.If you rarely check-in with your weight you won't notice little fluctuations. More consistent weighing will allow you to catch a small unwanted weight gain or loss and allow you to make the appropriate changes quickly.
If your target weight is 150 pounds, you'll need to give yourself a weight range. Every time you step on the scale it won't be exactly 150 pounds. It might fluctuate between 148 – 153 pounds, which is appropriate. Give yourself an appropriate weight range with strict limits. If your upper limit is 153 pounds, if you weigh that amount, you'll need to review food journals, exercise journals and behaviors so that you can get your weight down into a safer part of your range.
Since your weight fluctuates throughout the day, weighing yourself at the same time every day, wearing the same clothes (or no clothes, if possible) will help you get the most accurate weight.
 Keeping a journal is great for weight loss. It's equally good for long-term weight maintenance and accountability.Food journals help keep you honest and mindful of the choices you're making. Even if you're not as accurate as you once were, the habit of regular journaling can help keep you on track.
Food journals are also a great thing to have on hand if you notice your weight changing. You can return to your journal and review your most recent food choices. You might notice you're snacking more or going out to eat more and can change these behaviors.
You can also track your exercise in your journal. Seeing these trends may also be helpful long-term.
 One method for checking up on yourself is to keep track of body measurements. These measurements give you a different perspective on your size and weight.


You may have tracked these prior to your weight loss and know how different they've become. Many times even slight weight gain will be noticed if you're continually measuring yourself.
Measure your bust and hips (for women only), abdomen, thighs and upper arms. These are the most typical places to measure and where you'll see results if you've lost or gained weight.

