 It’s normal for an abused child to suddenly act differently. Children who are normally active and outgoing may become withdrawn. Normally gentle children may become aggressive. Any affected child may suddenly seem anxious.For example, you might notice that your neighbor's child used to be outgoing and full of life, but now seems scared to go outside or play.
Even infants and toddlers can show changes in behavior. For example, they may become overly fussy without any obviously explainable cause.;
, Abuse can make children feel insecure, and to begin acting like they are younger than their age. For example, a potty trained child may begin to wet the bed again, or a toddler who no longer sucks their thumb may begin to again., Normally, infants and toddlers are both interested in pleasing adults and testing boundaries. Children who have been abused, however, may go to one extreme or another. They may only want to do what an adult says, or they may be consistently defiant or demanding.For example, if you are watching a child at daycare and they throw a tantrum at every activity or every time an adult asks them to do something, this can be a reason to worry.
 It’s natural for infants and toddlers to sometimes be picky eaters. However, if a child seems to have significantly changed how they eat without a clear cause (like experiencing a growth spurt, or being sick), this can be a reason to worry about the child. They may also gain or lose lots of weight in a relatively short time.If you are babysitting a child who has been abused, for example, you may notice that they have grown very thin and shows no interest in eating.
 Infants who normally sleep well may begin to wake throughout the night. Toddlers may talk about having nightmares. If you haven’t observed the child’s sleep, you might also see other signs. For instance, they may seem unusually tired or weak because they are not sleeping well., Infants and toddlers suffering abuse may have poor attendance at daycare or preschool, when there is no clear cause (like illness or a vacation). They may also begin to behave differently at daycare or school.When a child returns to daycare or preschool after a long absence, ask the parent or caregiver why the child was out. Take not if they seem reluctant to talk about it, or to lie about it, like "We went to visit the grandparents on the other side of the country" when you know the grandparents actually live in the same city.
It can be really scary to confront the parent or caregiver, but you should at least ask about the absence for the child's sake.

