 This seems obvious, but you have to be together to keep your love alive. Find things that you enjoy doing together and commit to them, from cooking dinner to going on Sunday hikes. A relationship requires work to stay healthy, so don’t neglect your partner and expect to stay in love.


If you cannot be together, write each other letters or schedule times to talk on the phone or online.
 Honest communication steers off problems before they become giant issues. When something bothers you, bring it up instead of bottling it inside. Letting anger fester or grow only makes it harder to curb later on in the relationship.


Jealousy, misunderstandings and ego can lead to many failed romances, so be upfront about your worries instead of hiding them.
 Your partner is you other half, and you need to remember this when things get tough. One of the best parts about being in love is knowing that you don’t have to go through things alone – you have a partner and friend to help you get through stressful situations and feelings.


Work on projects together.
Discuss problems at work or home together and brainstorm solutions.
Call your partner when you need someone to talk to. They should always be willing to listen when you need them.
 Get up early and eat healthy, exercise, and take care of yourself. Not only does this make you happier, but it makes it easier to then focus on loving your partner. You need to be in the right physical and mental space to love your partner, and that means loving yourself.
 No one is perfect, and we often judge our lovers more harshly than anyone else. Your partner is going to make a mistake or hurt your feelings, and it may be difficult to forgive them immediately. However, the only way to stay in love is to know and accept that your partner is not perfect, and forgive them when they are wrong. Accept and appreciate their quirks instead of trying to change them.


You must be willing to give forgiveness in order to receive it. Don’t forget that you aren’t perfect either.
 Escape from the stress of everyday life for a week or a weekend and Try to reconnect. A change of setting is a great way to change your frame of mind. Once you’ve left behind bills, work, and daily routines you can focus on what matters most: each other.


If you cannot get away for vacation, find a way to have a vacation from home. Go out to dinner and a movie, rent a hotel room in town, or spend a rainy Sunday together in your pajamas.

