 Do some research on productivity levels and online browsing––the best way to convince your boss that online freedom for all is a good thing is to provide him or her with cold hard facts! You'll need tangible reasons and facts as to how unrestrained browsing will benefit employee productivity and corporate growth:


Use reputable studies, such as The National University of Singapore study, Impact of Cyberloafing on Psychological Engagement, by Don J.Q. Chen and Vivien K.G Lim. Print out the The Wall Street Journal article that discusses the results of this study:

"The researchers found that the Web-surfers were significantly more productive and effective at the tasks than those in the other two groups and reported lower levels of mental exhaustion, boredom and higher levels of engagement."
"Because Web-surfing can aid productivity, the researchers caution employers against over-restricting workers' Web access. They recommend that managers allow time for limited personal Web browsing 'since it has a salubrious impact on employees' productivity,' while limiting access to personal emails."


Search for studies that pertain to your specific industry. For more credibility, search for studies that address your particular situation. For example, if you work in a bank, identify studies that have demonstrated increased marketability or employee productivity amongst banks when employees have been allowed to surf the net during their break or in order to research the competition. An easy way to dig up this kind of info is to go to http://scholar.google.com and search for "internet surfing employees bank" (replacing "bank" with your industry).;
,


What area of your job (and other positions at the company) could be enhanced by more online freedom? No doubt areas such as research, sales and marketing, clarification of legal and financial issues, etc., could be enhanced by unrestrained online browsing but so too can simply knowing what's happening out there with competitors and customers. Go through each department and determine if online browsing would be beneficial company-wide or in certain departments. Also, take into consideration any repercussions if the company were to allow online browsing for some departments and not others.
Look at social media as a way of keeping up. Social media has fast grown as a source of immediate information that can provide feedback on the type of work your company is doing, what competitors are up to, and perhaps even things being said about your company itself. Having a finger on the pulse of what is happening in social media circles can be beneficial for some workplaces.
Use a combination of common sense and studies when trying to convince your boss of the benefit of allowing free time to surf online at work. Some of the benefits will be relevant only to your workplace, while others will be broader for most people in office situations. Some reasons might include:

Employees will feel a greater sense of freedom and work and will therefore not get resentful about only using the internet for work reasons.
Employees will have a "mental break" and return to working refreshed and more lively.
Employees won't feel the need to sneak online to check their auction bids or to check the shopping specials. Openness is a good thing in the workplace and has a spill-on effect.
Zoning out can restore intense concentration, which is better than forcing employees to work on relentlessly on the same items.
 Identify which kind of online browsing is acceptable based on your research. For example, perhaps browsing news websites may be acceptable and helpful, whereas allowing employees to play popular social media online games may be detrimental. Maybe doing crosswords is okay, while multi-player shootouts is not.
 Every story has its flip-side and you need to know what the boss might be thinking in response to your feel-good proposal. Honestly consider any negatives that could crop up as a result of having unbridled online surfing such as becoming addicted to online gaming, neglecting work or possibly viewing inappropriate sites. Another concern of many employers is leaving negative messages online in company time, or spats starting up online between employees or competitors. Make a list and compare and contrast positives and negatives. At the end of this list, add solutions that you think will work to help deal with the negatives.
 Has a policy been established? Is it actually banned? It's important to know what you're up against before launching your persuasive techniques on the boss. If Internet use is banned, try to find out how long ago that rule was made, who made it, and why.

