 If you do not have a serious issue that led to your nose bleed, you can perform some first aid at home during a nose bleed to help stop it. To begin, sit down, since it is more comfortable than standing. Tilt head forward so that the blood drains through the nostrils.


A towel can be held under your nose to collect the blood.
Do not lie down as this can cause blood to pass down the throat.;
, With a finger and thumb, pinch the lower fleshy end of the nose, completely blocking the nostrils. Pinching at this point directly applies pressure at the region where the blood vessels are damaged. This makes the move more effective since it will help stop the flow of blood. Keep pinching the nose for 10 minutes, then release.


If bleeding continues, reapply pressure for another 10 minutes.
While you do this, breathe through the mouth.
 Lowering your body temperature can help reduce the blood flow to your nose. To do this, place ice cubes in your mouth. This helps achieve a lower temperature sooner than cooling the external part of the nose. It also will help you retain the lower temperature for longer.


This is more effective than placing a cold compress over the nose. Cold compresses placed over the nose are not very effective according to a recent clinical study.
You can also suck on a popsicle to achieve the same result., While you have a nose bleed but not on a regular basis, you can try a medicated nose spray if you do not have high blood pressure issues. This medication causes constriction of the blood vessels in your nose. To use, take a small clean cotton ball or gauze piece, add 1-2 drops of the spray to it, insert them into the nostrils, continue pinching the nostrils, and check for bleeding after 10 minutes.If bleeding has stopped, do not remove the cotton or gauze for about an hour, because bleeding can reoccur.
Frequent use of this drug, which is more than 3-4 days at a time, can cause addiction and nasal congestion.These sprays are used only if bleeding does not stop on pinching the nose after the first 10 minutes.
 After bleeding has stopped, you can clean the area around your nose with warm water. After you have cleaned your face, you should rest for a while. This is to help to prevent further bleeding.


You can lie down while resting.

