 This detox is used to cleanse the liver and colon, clearing out toxic waste in order to eliminate bloating, increase energy levels and aid weight loss efforts.


To perform this cleanse, you will need unsweetened cranberry juice, cinnamon, ground ginger, nutmeg, 2-3 oranges, 2-3 lemons and several packets of stevia (a natural sweetener).
 Before you perform this cleanse, it's essential that you prepare your liver by following a healthy diet in the 7 days running up to the cleanse. This will help you to avoid feeling tired and sluggish on the day of the cleanse.


Eat lots of green leafy vegetables (lettuce, cabbage, kale), cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts), citrus fruits, sulfur-rich foods (eggs, garlic and onions) and liver-healing foods (asparagus, beets, celery).
Also make sure to drink plenty of water (72 fluid oz per day) and avoid any high fat or processed foods, refined carbohydrates or gluten products. You should also cut out alcohol, caffeinated beverage and any non-necessary medications.
 On the morning of the cleanse, prepare the cranberry drink. First, dilute the unsweetened cranberry juice to a quarter of its original strength with filtered water, to make 72 fluid oz of liquid. Add this cranberry water to a saucepan and bring to a low boil over a medium heat.


Add a teaspoon each of ground cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg to a tea ball and place in the boiling cranberry water. For a stronger infusion, place the spices directly into the liquid. Allow the cranberry water to simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, then take off the heat and allow to cool.
Once cooled, squeeze the oranges and lemons and add the juice to the cranberry water. Taste the liquid and add a couple of packets of stevia for sweetness, if desired.
 On the day of your cleanse, drink the cranberry water one 8oz glass at a time.


Alternate between drinking the cranberry water and drinking regular, filtered water throughout the day, until you have consumed at least 72 fluid oz of each. Be forewarned — you will need to pee a lot!
You should also take a colon-caring supplement (such as 2 teaspoons of powdered psyllium husks or 2 tablespoons of ground flaxseed) twice throughout the day — once in the morning and once in the evening.
 For the three days following the cleanse, you should follow the same dietary guidelines as required for the week before the cleanse, otherwise the results won't be as good.


You should also try to incorporate some healthy bacteria into your diet, from organic, raw sauerkraut or plain yogurt containing live, active cultures.