 Check your tongue and inner cheeks for further injury that may require a doctor. If your teeth are loose or damaged, seek emergency dental care right away.;
, Before you begin the treatment, make sure the affected area and your hands are clean. This is especially important if the skin is broken and there is a wound.


Use soap and warm water. Pat try the fat lip and avoid rubbing to reduce pain and further damage.
 As soon as you begin to feel the swelling, apply a cold compress over the lip. Swelling results from a buildup of fluid. You can reduce this by applying a cold compress; this slows down circulation, which in turn reduces swelling, inflammation and pain.Wrap ice cubes in a washcloth or paper towel. You can also use a bag of frozen peas or a cold spoon.
Press the cold compress gently over the swollen area for about 10 minutes.
Take a break for another 10 minutes, and repeat until the swelling goes down or until you no longer feel pain or discomfort
Caution: Do not apply ice directly to the lip. This can result in soreness or mild frostbite. Make sure the ice or icepack is wrapped in a cloth or paper towel.
 If the injury damaged your skin and caused a wound, you may want to use antimicrobial cream to reduce the chance of infection before applying a bandage.The cold compress should have stopped the bleeding, but if the wound continues to bleed apply pressure with a towel for 10 minutes.
You can treat minor, superficial bleeding at home, but seek medical attention if you have deep cuts, severe bleeding, and/or bleeding that does not stop after 10 minutes
After the bleeding has stopped, apply antimicrobial ointment lightly to the affected area.
Caution: If itching or a skin rash develops, stop using the ointment.
Cover the wound with a bandage.
 Keeping your head raised above the heart allows the fluid to drain from the facial tissues. Sit in a comfortable chair with your head resting to the back of the chair.If you prefer to lie down, elevate your head “above the heart” with additional pillows.
 To help reduce the pain, inflammation and swelling associated with a fat lip, take ibuprofen or naproxen sodium (or acetaminophen for just the pain).


Take the medication according to the label and never exceed the recommended dosage.
If the pain continues, contact your doctor.
 If you have tried all the steps above but continue to experience severe swelling, pain and/or bleeding, seek medical attention.Do not try to treat a fat lip at home and contact your doctor immediately if you experience:


Sudden, painful, or serve facial swelling.
Difficulty breathing.
Fever, tenderness, or redness, which suggests an infection.

