 Your altar can be any raised flat surface wide enough to place your Book of Shadows and your chosen ritual items. This can be a coffee table, nightstand, a shelf, or a large storage chest. Some practitioners prefer to use a round altar, as it is easier to move around when inside a ritual circle. Others prefer square or rectangular altars for practical reasons, such as ease of storage.


For white magic especially, you may want to choose an altar made of wood to be more in tune with nature.You may even choose to use a particular type of wood associated with particular types of spells.;
, Make sure you pick a spot that is a generally quiet place where you can best concentrate. Some traditions hold that the altar must be placed either towards the North or East, depending on the school of thought.For white magic, you may choose to place your altar in a spot with a lot of natural light. You could also put it in a symbolically positive spot associated with creation, such as in your kitchen.
 These symbols should be placed side-by-side and central on your altar. Your symbolic items can represent either the Horned God and the Mother Goddess or a personal choice of deities pulled from a particular pantheon. Some choose different colored candles to represent their deities. Others purchase statues in their deities' likeness. Still, others pick certain items meaningful to their deities, usually derived from myths and traditions., Many traditions include symbols of the four elements arranged around the altar corresponding to the four cardinal directions. For performing white magic, use white or light-colored versions of these items (i.e.,. white wine instead of red) if you choose.


Earth to the North: Represented by a pentacle, stones, salt, food, and/or plants. A yellow or green candle is placed on the periphery.
Fire to the South: Represented by oil, ritual knives, and/or a candle snuffer. Place a red candle at the periphery.
Air to the East: Represented by incense, feathers, a bell, and/or your wand. Place a yellow or blue candle at the periphery.
Water to the West: Represented by a bowl of water, seashells, a chalice or glass of wine, and/or a cauldron. A blue or green candle is placed at the periphery.