 The old proverb, "Out of sight, out of mind," is true. When you surround yourself with different people and things, this person will become an object of the past.


If you share the same friends and cannot avoid your crush, hang out in large groups. Cut down on the one-on-one time and stay nearer to other guy/girl friends.
If you share the same extra-curricular activities, don't drop out -- that just avoids the problem. Keep yourself with friends -- or use this as a reason to make new ones!
Don't go where they go! If you know parts of their schedule and where they'll be, busy yourself somewhere else. You don't want to be running into them -- accidentally or on purpose.;
, Emotions don't go away overnight. Slowly but surely, though, they'll fade.



Keep a journal. Getting your feelings out will help with closure. Bottling anything up is not healthy and leads to frustration and stress.
When you start thinking of them, stop. You have the power to do this. Divert your thoughts to anything else -- what was that funny thing Allie said today? Who's that cute new student in third period? Will global warming be the death of humankind? Often, there are much bigger issues at hand.
 Being consistently reminded of them will only make things harder.



Unsuscribe to them on Facebook. This will still list you as a friend, but remove their stories from your news feed. Doing so avoids the classic and awkward, "Hey, why did you delete me?" conversation.
Unfollow them on Twitter. If they ask, there are loads of excuses you can make: "I'm wasting too much time on the Internet," or, "I did? Weird -- my friend said the same thing."
If you aren't good friends, delete his or her phone number. This removes any temptation to call or text.
 It's harder to forget someone if you're surrounded by items that spark unwelcome thoughts.


Did you write their name on a notebook? Do you have an old note from them? Did you use to drink Orange Crush together? Get rid of things that make you think of them. Put yourself in positions where fantasizing about them is avoidable.
Or, if you can't permanently get rid of something (like a piece of furniture or a school textbook), try to find ways to keep it out of your sight as much as possible. Wrap a book in a new cover, or toss a throw over the couch you used to sit on together.
 Everybody has them. Odds are, you've been unable to see them because you've been idolizing that person.


Why do you want to stop liking them?
Why do others not like him or her?
What don't you have in common (that you do have in common with someone else)?

