 You will not be able to send more than $1,000 in a single domestic money order. If you need to send more than $3,000 worth of money orders in a single day, you will have to fill out an extra form and bring a photo ID that includes your home address and full name. If your purchase will exceed $3,000, remember to bring personal identification with you to the post office.
 There are pro's and cons to sending money orders through the post office. Benefits to using money orders include extra security, not requiring a bank account, and being able to pay upfront. Potential downsides to sending a money order include extra fees, filling out extra paperwork, needing to visit your local post office in person instead of dealing online, having caps on the amount of money you can send, and potential delays in sending and receiving money. Consider your options carefully before choosing to send a money order.


If speed is an issue, consider wiring the money instead of sending a money order. Western Union transfers can be done almost instantly, whereas a money order will have to travel physically to its destination. , Wait in line to visit with a clerk. If you do not know where your nearest post office is, use a post office locator feature online such as this one: https://tools.usps.com/go/POLocatorAction!input.action. online. Most official post offices will be able to issue a money order directly to you.If you are in a remote location, you may be able to receive a money order form from your rural carrier. This might be more convenient than traveling to a post office. Discuss this option with your postal carrier in advance so that they can provide you with the proper forms.
Other places to purchase money orders include credit unions, banks, military facilities, and certain large stores. , Individual money orders are available for values up to $1,000. You cannot exceed $3,000 of money-order purchases in a single day unless you fill out extra forms and show a photo ID. Your postal clerk will be able to provide you with the proper paperwork.
 There will be a small fee for domestic money orders — usually between $1.00 and $2.00. Pay the fee, plus the amount of the money order. You may pay with a debit card, cash, or traveler's check.


Note that traveler's checks can be used only if the purchase amount is more than half of the traveler's check amount. For example, if you have a traveler's check for $500, you can use it to purchase money orders that are $250 or more. Members of the military who purchase military money orders have a slightly lower fee of 40 cents per money order. , There are a number of lines to fill out on the form, and it is essential that you do so correctly. Be sure you use blue or black ink and that you print everything correctly and legibly. Most money-order forms will ask you to enter:


Today's date
Your full name
Your full address
The recipient's name
The recipient's full address
The amount of money you are sending
A memo explaining the purpose of the money

, Complete all address information and affix the appropriate postage. The postage depends on the weight of your letter. If the envelope weighs no more than an ounce, it will require a single first-class stamp. , When you send money orders, you can choose to increase the amount of security and insurance on your package. Indemnity coverage is provided free of charge, which means that you can request that a lost or stolen money order be replaced for a nominal fee. If you'd like your money order to have more security, insurance is available, as well as other features like registered mail or restricted delivery. You can ask your postal clerk about the costs and benefits of these extra services. , Make sure that the clerk provides you with a receipt for your money order. Put the receipt in a safe place you'll remember. A wallet, filing cabinet, or desk drawer might be good places to store the receipt.


If your money order is lost or stolen, your receipt will help you get a refund more quickly. There is, however, a fee of $6.10 for a money order replacement. , Use the Postal Service's tracking feature to predict when the money order will arrive at its destination. This feature will allow you to monitor where your money order is at all times and when it's expected to arrive. This will help you ensure that the money has gone to the right place and person. ]


If your package goes astray, contact your post office immediately. They will be able to give you the forms to begin the money-order replacement process.

