 At the end of the day, a love box needs to carry an individual character, indicative of you, your boyfriend, and the weird, wonderful connection you share together. Think of things that mean a lot to the both of you. How did you meet? If there's a certain big interest you share, like music, that might be a good place to start when it comes to designing your love box.


If you met him at a sporting event, for example, you might decorate the box with footballs and references to whatever game you met at.
For another example: If you met him through your mutual appreciation of classic progressive rock, you might adorn your box with references to Genesis and Van der Graaf Generator. This example may be transposed to fit any genre.;
, Ideally, it should be small enough to feel intimate, but just big enough to fit the things you want inside of it. Especially if you're looking to decorate the exterior a lot, you're going to want one that's plain. Otherwise, you can always dress the outside with glued construction paper, and work from there.


If you're really the arts and crafts type, you can even try your hand at creating your own box from scratch. Wood and cardboard are recommended sources to work with.
Plastic tupperware actually works quite well for a box, though it's recommended you tape black construction paper around it to make the inside contents a surprise.
 The sort of materials you'll need to make your love box will depend entirely on what you want to do with it. Here are a few things that you'll probably need regardless:


A pair of scissors.
Some construction paper.
Pens and/or pencils.
Tape and/or glue.
 Decorating the exterior is a lot more enjoyable if you have a clear idea where you want to go with it. Do the basics first; cover the box with construction paper, and move towards accessorizing once you've got the basics down pat. Don't be afraid to get creative! The exterior will be your boyfriend's first impression with the love box, so you should make sure it makes a strong impact on him before he even peruses its contents.


Don't go overboard with flair; going the extra mile with accessories may seem like a good way to show your boyfriend how much you love him, but it might make the box look like a crowded mess!

, When your boyfriend finally opens up the love box, the first thing he's going to see is whatever's on the inside of the lid. Some people might not even consider the potential of having something on the inside lid, but your love box should take advantage of that potential. There are many things you could tape or glue on the inside lid. Make sure it's something that feels especially meaningful to the two of you. Here are a few examples that might fit:


A picture of the two of you.
A love letter, explaining the purpose of the box and how much they mean to you.
A list of things you love about them.
An abstract doodle intended to convey your timeless passion.
 How long have you two been together? How old are you? Where, when and how did you meet? There can be no step-by-step process for defining what makes your connection unique; take some time to figure out what you love most about your boyfriend, and find an artistic way of expressing that.


Put your talents to best use. If you're a great writer, writing a poem or a fictionalized interpretation of how you met might be a great way to decorate the inside lid. If you're a great artist, a small painting might do just the trick.
 If you don't think your homemade items are enough, it might be extra sweet to go out and buy a gift. Keep it small but meaningful. Boyfriends are sometimes difficult to buy worthwhile presents for, but offering a gift in a new love box will make it feel that much more special.


For instance, if your boyfriend's really excited for a show, pick up a pair of concert tickets and hide them at the bottom of the box.
 Paint a picture. Write a cute letter by hand. Draw a portrait of him. The possibilities are endless. Strut your stuff, show off your creative talents. Whatever you're best at, you should capitalize on when filling up your love box. Your boyfriend is sure to be impressed!

, One of the best way to do this is to enclose things that will spark memories. If you have any photos you took together early on in the relationship, add them into the box. If you have any souvenirs (like concert tickets) of things you've seen together, put those in too.


A great love box isn't a one-off deal; you'll be able to add more things to it over time as you experience more things together.
 Make sure you have somewhere quiet and intimate you can present the gift to him. Depending on the amount of content you've packed into making it, it could take a while to digest it all, and you don't want any interruptions putting a damper on the experience. Sit next to him, and watch as he looks at the gift. Chances are he'll love it.


If you want to go the extra mile, you can gift wrap the love box.

