 The less time you give dirt, grime, etc. to set in, the easier it will be to wipe away. If you place a high value on keeping your basketball shoes looking like new, clean them after every wear.The only exception is if your shoes have an absorbent material like canvas, mesh, or suede. In this case, let caked on mud dry so that you can brush the dirt off with a stiff brush, then start cleaning. Otherwise, you’ll just smear the mud further.;
, If you’re dealing with dried on dirt or mud, use a stiff-bristled brush (like a toothbrush or shoe brush). If the mud or other gunk is still moist, use a soft, slightly dampened cloth., Fill a bowl or small bucket with warm water. Add a few drops of a mild detergent (dish soap works well) and swish it around so that the solution is just a bit bubbly.Avoid harsh detergents or chemicals, bleaches, or abrasive cleaners.
Remove the shoelaces before you get down to cleaning the shoes. You can clean them separately with the same solution.
 Moisten — don’t soak — your cloth or brush. Wipe the shoe thoroughly, cleaning off and re-wetting the cloth or brush as needed. Use your fingertip under the cloth — or a toothbrush — to get into seams and creases.Scrub a bit more aggressively in a circular motion on stubborn stains. If desired, add a tiny dab of plain white toothpaste to your dampened cloth or toothbrush., Lightly dampen the cloth with plain water. Don’t dunk the shoes in water or run them under a faucet., If there is surface moisture on the shoes, you can gently wipe them with a clean cloth first. Then just leave them in an airy, warm spot.Do not use a clothes dryer, hair dryer, radiator, or other artificial heat source. This could cause shrinking or cracking.The insides of the shoes should still be dry; but if they are a bit damp, stuff some newspaper inside while they dry., Once they’re dry, you can pitch your run-of-the-mill basketball shoes in your gym bag or by the front door. If you’ve got high-end or especially meaningful shoes, however, special storage techniques are advisable.Make sure the shoes are completely dry. Remove any crumpled newspaper from inside and check.
Place the shoes into individual, large zip-close bags. If you have access to desiccant packets (like those silica gel packs that probably came in the original shoe box), place one in each bag before sealing them.

