 Picking a fragrance or perfume can be overwhelming, but it is an effective way to enhance how you smell. Here are a few tips that experts recommend when selecting a perfume:If you know there’s a certain perfume you like or a certain scent, ask a sales associate for assistance finding a similar fragrance. They should be able to help you narrow down the list and identify the notes in the fragrance that you are attracted to.
It’s important to test the product on your skin because your unique skin pH affects the fragrance. Experts recommend wearing it for at least 20 minutes to get the full impact.
Test out perfumes and fragrances in small batches so you don’t overwhelm yourself with too many scents at once. This might involve multiple trips, but it will help ensure you pick a product that smells gorgeous.
Bring samples of the perfumes you like home so that you can test it in your own environment and when there is less pressure to purchase something.
 Perfume can quickly dissipate, so try these tricks to increase the longevity of the products you apply:


Apply perfume right after you shower, when your skin is moisturized and it easily absorbs the fragrance.One of the best places to apply perfume is the hair because it holds the perfume well and will leave a gorgeous-smelling scent in your wake. Instead of spraying your hair directly with perfume, which can dry it out, apply it to your hairbrush prior to brushing.Avoid rubbing the fragrance once it’s on your skin because this makes the top note of your perfume fade, minimizing the full effect.Use a dab of vaseline or petroleum jelly on an area of your skin before applying perfume or fragrance to make the scent longer-lasting. Moisturizing your skin with unscented lotion before applying perfume also helps preserve the scent longer.Fragrance oils are longer-lasting formulas, so choose these when you need to smell gorgeous for a longer period., Applying too much perfume can make you smell overwhelming rather than gorgeous, so keep these tips in mind to make sure you apply it properly:Body splash, eau de cologne, and eau de toilette, have lower concentrations of fragrance oils and are usually more subtle, so if you tend to over-apply products, these might be a better choice.If you are worried you put on too much perfume or body spray, use a makeup wipe on the area and start fresh.You can also sprinkle a little baby powder on the affected area, which should absorb the fragrance., Many people store their perfumes and fragrances in the bathroom, but the increased humidity, heat, and light in these locations can actually decrease the potency of these products. To keep your products smelling gorgeous, store them in dry and cool locations., Scented lotions can often be more fragrant, cheaper, and longer-lasting than perfumes.


If you’re someone who worries about where to apply the perfume or how much to apply, using a lotion may require less guesswork. Just smooth an even layer of the lotion over areas you would like to moisturize.
You can add a few drops of your favorite perfume or body spray to unscented lotion for a gorgeous smelling version of your perfume that is usually more affordable., Scented bath products are also an easy and inexpensive way to smell gorgeous because they are often more affordable than perfumes.


If you are going to use a strong-smelling perfume or lotion, a lighter smelling body wash or shower gel might be a better choice so these scents are not competing., When you use multiple scented products, it’s important to consider how the scents will mix. Here are a few tips for choosing products that go together and compliment each other so you don’t choose a combination that leaves you smelling less than gorgeous:


Many companies release lotions, perfumes, and body sprays in the same line that are intended to work together. These are known as ancillary products, and if you are worried about how best to combine different products, these are often a safe bet.Choose products in the same scent family so they go better together. For example, if you use a floral-based perfume, choose a floral-based shower gel or lotion.Products with vanilla, amber, and coconut layer well together and often pair with a wider range of products and scents.