 Let your family, friends, or religious community support you as you take steps to reduce or quit drinking. They can celebrate your successes, help you on hard days, and do things with you where alcohol will not be present.


Be honest about what you are facing. If you have decided to stay sober, make sure you let your friends and family know. Try saying, “You may know that I am trying to stop drinking. So next week can we go to the movies instead of out to lunch? If we go to out to eat, I’m going to be tempted to get a beer.”

, Fill your time with other activities that do not involve drinking. Consider exercise, learning a new skill, or playing a new game.Try to get other friends and family involved in new activities to help hold you accountable to them. You could say, “Hey, remember how you mentioned you wanted to train for a 5K last year? Do you want to do that with me? It would be great for me to get in shape, and it would help me keep my mind off drinking.”

, Practice saying no to alcohol until you feel comfortable doing so. People, especially friends with whom you’ve shared many drinks in the past, may not understand your change of heart.


Just say no. “No thanks, I’ll stick with coffee.”
Change the subject. For example, “No, I’m good. So, where did you say your sister was going to school next year?”
Make a joke. Try saying, “I’ve got to lose this beer gut! I’ll pass.”

, Until you know you can resist the lure of a drink, it might be best to stay away from places you know alcohol will be served.If you have a group of friends that likes to spend long hours at the bar, you might want to look for another group of people to spend time with, at least until your drinking is under control.
If many of your hobbies go hand-in-hand with drinking (getting a beer after a softball game, bowling, book clubs), it may be wise to avoid these activities or find new ones until you are better used to saying no to alcohol.
Once you feel confident you can say no to a drink, it is okay to slowly re-enter these environments. Make sure others around you are aware of your resolve so that they can help you avoid the temptation.

