 Using the construction paper, colored pencils and one popsicle stick, make a drawing of the Star of David. Start by drawing an inverted triangle with the tip of the triangle pointing to the bottom of the construction paper. Use the popsicle stick to measure the length of each of the sides of the triangle. Next, draw a normal or upside right triangle. The upside right triangle should be drawn inside the upside down triangle, with its’ peak pointing straight up to the top of the construction paper. You should have a star with six points.If you are teaching your children how to make a Star of David, you can draw the inverted triangle and then ask them to copy you on their own sheets of construction paper.
If you want to make the exercise more educative, you could also tell the kids about the Star of David. The Star of David is a significant symbol in Jewish culture and can be seen on the flag of the State of Israel.;
, Using your sketch of the Star of David as a guide, lay the popsicle sticks on top of the inverted triangle on the construction paper. Next, glue the ends of the popsicle sticks together to make the first triangle. Start with one corner of the triangle and work your way around until all three corners are glued together:, Put a dab of glue on the end of the popsicle stick that forms the right side of the triangle, which is the end pointing to the top of the paper. Then, place the popsicle stick that runs parallel to the top of your paper on top. Hold the sticks together firmly for a couple seconds to let partially dry.
 Put a dab of glue on the end of the far left end of the popsicle stick that forms the base of your triangle, which runs parallel to the top of your paper. Then, place a dab of glue on the end of the popsicle stick pointing towards the bottom of your page.


Place the third popsicle stick on top so that it connects with the glue you have placed on the other two popsicle sticks.
 Using your sketch of the Star of David as a guide, lay the popsicle sticks on top of the upwards facing triangle on the construction paper. Glue the ends of the popsicle sticks together to shape your second triangle. Work your away around the triangle until all three points or vertices are glued together:Using two popsicle sticks, glue the base of your triangle to the right side of your triangle. Put a dab of glue on the bottom right corner of the popsicle stick that will be the right side of your triangle. Then, put the other popsicle stick on top so that the ends attach to make a point.
Put a dab of blue at the end of each of the two popsicle sticks that are not attached to anything.
Connect the third popsicle stick to the open ends of the other two sticks.
 If you are using a glue gun, this should only take a minute or two. If you are using white craft glue, it takes an hour to completely set. However, you should be fine to continue after waiting twenty minutes. You might want to take it off the construction paper while it is setting, so that it doesn’t get stuck to the paper., Using your sketch of the Star of David as a guide, attach the two triangles together. Place the upside right triangle on top of the upside down triangle. The tips of the triangles should be pointing in opposite directions. Use your colored pencil to make a mark on the bottom popsicle sticks to indicate where the two triangles meet. Using these pencil marks as a guide, put a dab of glue on the bottom triangle. Then, place the top, upward facing triangle on top. Press the two triangles together firmly.
 Leave the Star of David for a period (e.g., 1 hour) to let the glue set prior to painting and decorating. You might want to take it off the construction paper to make sure it isn’t stuck to the paper. You will have a sturdy Star of David to decorate with your guests or children.


If you are showing your children how to make the Star of David, you could get them doing another activity for an hour while you wait.
If you are preparing the Star of David for your children to decorate, you can have them start decorating one hour after making the Star of David.
 Using a paintbrush and your paint, paint the Star of David. Brush the paint on one popsicle stick at a time and work your way around the triangle until all three popsicles sticks are entirely blue. Blue is a traditional color to paint the Star of David.If you are painting with children, you should use child-grade paint.If you will not be decorating the Star of David, you may want to apply two coats of blue paint.
If you wrapped your popsicle sticks in yarn, you should avoid applying paint to them. Instead, use glue and glitter.
 Another traditional combination for the Star of David is blue and white. Try painting one triangle in blue and the other triangle in white. Start with the white triangle for the upside down triangle and then paint the upside right triangle in blue.


If you prefer, you could also paint the tips of the Star of David in white and the rest of it in blue.
Blue and white are the colors of the flag of Israel., You may find this is the best option if you are working with children. They will be able to choose their own colors schemes.


You can find sets of child-grade paint.
 If you prefer a softer feel for your Star of David, you may want to wrap the popsicle sticks in white knitting yarn. To wrap the popsicle sticks in yarn, start by applying a thin coat of white glue to one of the popsicle sticks. Then, wrap the popsicle stick in a single layer of white yarn. Beginning at one end, wind the yarn around the popsicle stick in a single layer and work your way to the opposite end of the stick. The glue will hold the yarn to the stick., In a small plastic container, mix half part water with half part white glue. If you are just making one Star of David, you should only need a teaspoon of glue and a teaspoon of water. Using your finger or a stick, mix the glue into the water., Use a paintbrush to apply a small amount of the glue and water mixture to the surface of the Star of David. Paint all sides of the triangle., Using your favorite colors, sprinkle a small amount of glitter on the Star of David. You may decide to just use blue or you may decide to use a combination of colors.If you wrapped your Star of David in white yarn, you could try sprinkling blue glitter overtop so that it doesn’t cover the whole star. It will end up being blue and white with a soft feel.
You could try covering it with gold glitter., If you would like to hang the Star of David on a wall or elsewhere, you could attach a ribbon. Cut a short, three to six inch piece of ribbon. Start by gluing the two ends of the ribbon together to form a circle. Then, on the top point of the Star of David, put a dab of glue. Attach the ribbon to the Star of David.
 You can now enjoy your Star of David.

