 Studies have shown that the consumption of spearmint tea can decrease the levels of androgens, the male testosterone that is one of the major causes of excessive hair growth, in a woman's blood stream. Buy spearmint tea or fresh spearmint leaves. Drink the tea twice a day for a few weeks to help decrease hair growth. , Soy products increase the the levels of estrogen in your body, which can help balance out the androgens, the male hormones, in your body. Since androgens encourage body hair growth, reducing or balancing them will make your hair grow less. Try to incorporate soy products such as edamame, soy milk, or soy burgers in your diet each day. Over time, it may help reduce your body hair growth., To reduce the appearance of body hair, try applying a mask of gram flour, also known as besan, and curd. Measure 1 tablespoon and a pinch of turmeric. Add 1 tablespoon of curd and mix well. Add enough water to make it a thick paste. Massage it into your skin. Leave it on until it dries. Then, rub it gently off your face. Doing it once a day may reduce the amount and appearance of body hair.You can also replace the water with yogurt or heavy cream. The mixture will be thicker, but apply it in the same way. The dairy ingredients have nutrients that may help reduce hair growth even more., While in the shower or bath, take a wet pumice stone and gently rub it in a circular motion along the area with the body hair. The friction should help loosen the hair at its follicles and make the hair come out. All the hair may not come out the first time, but some will. Plus, the overall amount of hair that grows may reduce over time.


Moisturize the area well after you shower to reduce any irritation or discomfort.Make sure you do this gently. Rubbing too hard with the stone can cause irritation and abrasions.
 Mix 2 tablespoons of sugar and 2 teaspoons of lemon juice with 1/2 a cup of water. Apply it on your skin and the hair in the same direction the hair is growing. Leave it on for 15 minutes, then wash it off. Try this a few times a week and it can help discourage hair growth.


Lemon has natural bleaching characteristics, so it can also help lighten the hair and brighten your skin as well.
If the sugar is too harsh for you, try substituting it for honey instead. With this method, eliminate the water and apply the honey and lemon juice mixture to your face with a q-tip or cotton ball., Mix 1 tablespoon of honey with 1 teaspoon each of sugar and lemon juice. Heat the mixture in a microwave for about three minutes, or until it makes a thick waxy substance. Let it cool until it is cool enough to not burn your skin. Dust the area of your skin with cornstarch or flour to help the mixture adhere to the hair. Then, apply it to the area of body hair with a waxing spatula or butter knife in the direction your hair grows. Lay a piece of fabric over the mixture, pressing it down. Then, pull the fabric in the direction opposite to the way the hair grows. Repeat over the entire area of hair. Over time, less hair may grow in this area and it can be less dark and coarse.


Do this whenever the hair is long enough to adhere to the wax, usually every 30 days or so.Make sure you don't burn yourself with this mixture. It will be hot at first, so wait until it has adequately cooled before you apply.

