 Cats can be easy or difficult to train. Dogs are more eager to please their owners, which makes them generally easier to train than cats. However, cats can be trained as long as you understand how cats think and interact with their humans. Training a cat takes a lot of patience, especially since it is so hard to motivate him., Every cat has something that will make him learn to listen to you. This key to training is called your cat’s motivator. This generally means the tastiest treat that he absolutely loves and goes crazy over. For some cats, this can be flakes of tuna while for others, a tiny taste of cooked chicken will do the trick.


Whichever treat you use, have it on hand and ready to reward the moment your cat obeys your command.
Never strike a cat if he doesn’t do what you want him to do. He will end up resenting you for it and refuse to listen to you. , The first step to disciplining your cat is first to make him listen to you. This won’t happen unless you develop a warm, loving relationship with your cat. This cannot be stressed enough. It's important to set up a good rapport with your cat from the beginning of your relationship. This will ensure that he respects you, will want to please you, and will listen to your commands.


If you are just acquiring a cat, give him lots of attention. Spend time cuddling with him if he responds to that. If not, try to talk to him and pet him as much as you can, and give him treats once in a while. This may take a few days to a few weeks, depending on how long he takes to warm up to you and his new environment.
 Although it's important to discipline your cat as soon as any bad behavior starts, take the time to consider who you're dealing with. There are some cat specific factors that may affect how your pet reacts to your attempts at discipline. If you have a kitten, you should expect him to be very rambunctious, curious, and inexperienced. It may take longer for a kitten to learn right and wrong, so be patient as he figures it out.


On the other hand, having a kitten can be a benefit. If you're the only owner the kitty has ever had, then you can exert more influence over his actions., If you are just getting a new cat who is older, if you adopt an older cat, or if the cat you have had for a while and need to discipline is older, remember that an older cat may be set in his ways. He may be used to a certain form of discipline and you'll have to work harder to show the cat what is wrong and right.


However, older cats can be more mellow, understanding, and may not be as eager to misbehave., Before you discipline your cat, think about what kind of life your cat had before you got him. If your cat or kitten is coming from a breeder and is used to good treatment, being groomed, and being well-fed, then your cat should not act out from past trauma. If the cat was taken out of an abusive home or spent a long time in the pound, you may have to work a bit harder with your cat.


Remember that adopted or abused cats may be scared and suspicious of new environments and you, depending on his past experiences with other owners., The personalities of cats can be just as diverse and complicated as the personalities of their owners. Ask your self a few questions to understand your cat's personality. What kind of a cat do you have? Would you describe him as squirrelly, eager-to-please, lazy, or loving? Your cat's unique personality can help you decide how to react in certain circumstances.


Easily scared or frightened cats will take a more delicate touch when disciplining. You will need to first work on gaining his trust before attempting discipline.
An aggressive cat will need to be evaluated by an animal behaviorist so you don’t get hurt when attempting to discipline the cat.