 You’ll need to first cut out three strands of wire. One needs to be long, about 18 inches while the other two should be 12 inches. Using your wire cutters, strip about an inch of insulation from each end of the strips of wire.


Clamp the wire cutters like you would use scissors. Press down and move the wire so that the wire stripper takes off the tip part of the wire's casing.
If you're using scissors, cut down just enough to penetrate the wire's casing. Then move the wire while keeping pressure on the scissors. It might take you a few times until you create a clean strip.
 Take the large wire (18 inches) and begin wrapping it around the battery. Begin wrapping two inches from the end of the battery. Be careful with each wrap keep the strands close to each other. When most of the wire is wrapped around the battery, carefully slide it from the battery.


Wrap the longer strand across the coil and secure it around wrapped wire. Wrap the remaining wire around the opposite side’s wire. The result should be two “arms” of stripped wire protruding from opposite sides.
The coil should be about the size of a quarter.
 Unfold the paper clip so that the smaller bend acts as the base. Create a loop out of the larger bend. This will act as a holder for the coils created earlier. Do this for both of the paper clips.
 Once the paper clips are prepared, attach the smaller wire around the base of the paper clip. Do this by wrapping the exposed wire around the paper clip. Do this for both paper clips and be sure to use the different wires for each.


Use a piece of tape to secure both the wire and the paper clip bases to a surface.
 Position the two paper clip bases so that they are close to each other with about three inches in between them. Stack the magnets in between the two paper clip bases. Make sure the loops made from the paper clips are facing each other.
 Place the exposed “arms” of the coil created earlier through the loops of the paper clips. Having the bases taped to a surface will help secure the coil. The coil should now be directly above the magnets.
 Finish up your motor by attaching the exposed wires of the paper clip base to the battery. Position one end of the wire to the positive side of the battery and tape it. Then attach the other wire to the negative side of the battery and tape it.


Batteries can get hot when wires are attached to them.
Give the coil a gentle spin and observe the motor you constructed.

