 Combine equal parts cold milk, water, and ice in a bowl. Soak a clean cloth in the mixture, then apply to affected area for five minutes. Repeat the application three times.The inflammation of your skin after waxing is similar to a sunburn, and a cool compress will ease constrict the blood vessels and reduce swelling to lessen the appearance of redness.
The protein in the milk will aid in healing and will also protect your skin.;
, Pour approximately three tablespoons of witch hazel into a small bowl and soak either a clean cloth or cotton balls in it. Apply lightly to the area of redness as needed. The tannins and oils in witch hazel lessen inflammation and, therefore, reduce redness and discomfort., Cucumber has long been noted for its analgesic, or pain relief, properties, as well as antioxidant qualities, which encourage healing of red and inflamed skin. Slice a chilled cucumber and apply the slices to the red areas of your skin. Turn the slices over as they warm to your skin, in order to keep the cool side next to your skin.To make a cucumber mask for lasting effect, use a food processor or grater to create a paste and apply to the affected area.For a thicker paste, add cornstarch or aloe vera gel., Colloidal oatmeal, made from finely ground oatmeal, soothes inflammation and moisturizes skin. Mix a few teaspoons of 100% pure colloidal oatmeal with just enough water to create a paste. Apply to the redness and allow to dry for 10 minutes before rinsing off.Use this treatment up to four times per week.Make a bath using colloidal oatmeal if your redness is your body rather than on your face. You can purchase bath packets containing 100% colloidal oatmeal in your local pharmacy.
Make your own colloidal oatmeal by grinding stone ground or rolled, but not instant, oats in a food mill or food processor.
 Vinegar has some healing properties for mild burns, which the redness might indicate. Add one cup pure unfiltered apple cider vinegar to a spray bottle and apply to red areas after a lukewarm shower. Let the vinegar dry on your skin.You can also soak cotton balls in apple cider vinegar and pat gently onto the affected areas.
 Mint is a natural cooling agent, and green tea contains tannic acid and theobromine which help relieve pain and heal damaged skin. Pour 1 US-quart (950 ml) of boiling water over a pot containing 5 green tea bags and 3 cups of fresh mint leaves. Cover and let the mixture steep and cool for at least one hour. Soak a cotton ball in the liquid and apply to the areas of redness.Black tea also contains tannins for healing, so you can substitute it for the green tea if necessary.
You can also pour the cooled liquid directly over the burn if you wish.
 This honey from New Zealand comes from bees that feed on the manuka tree, and has been shown to have significant anti-inflammatory properties. Apply a small amount to the affected area, let it rest for a few minutes, then rinse off with warm water.Be sure to purchase manuka that has a UMF/OMA rating of 15 or above. Scientists in New Zealand developed this system to rate the antibacterial activity level of the honey.The antibacterial properties of this honey make it useful as a daily cleanser, too., Hydrocortisone can be used without a prescription for the temporary relief of minor skin irritations. An anti-inflammatory agent, hydrocortisone also constricts blood vessels, thus reducing redness. Wash the affected area, then gently rub in a thin film on the affected areas, up to four times a day.Try applying a moisturizer with ceramides or the antioxidants feverfew or licorice extract before the hydrocortisone, in order to protect and soothe your skin.To apply hydrocortisone in spray form, shake well and hold the container 3–6 inches (7.6–15 cm) away from your skin to apply. Don’t inhale the vapors, and cover your eyes if you’re spraying near your face.