 Spirit Day is the day to go all out, decked out in your school colors. Put together outfits in your head that exemplify those colors, by making everything you wear fall inline with the colors, from your regular clothes down to your socks and shoes.If you want to show intense school spirit, treat your selections like a diehard sports fan would at a football game. Paint your face or your hair. Don't just match your main clothes to the proper colors; wear socks and shoes that match your school colors, too.
If you want to go for a more minimal approach, consider just adding touches of your school colors to your outfit, like a t-shirt or a pair of pants that match your school's colors.;
, Your hair is a great place to show off your school spirit, as it really takes your outfit over the top. For instance, if your school allows it, wear a hat that matches your school colors to show off your spirit.


Another option is to add temporary hair dye. You can put in a streak for each of your school's colors. Make sure you school allows you to dye your hair in non-natural colors first. You can buy spray-in hair dye at your local drug store.
A cheap alternative method to temporary spray dyes is using Kool-Aid to color your hair, using a packet that matches one of your school colors. Make sure you use unsweetened powders to avoid sticky hair. Mix it into a paste, and apply it to a section of your hair. Wait for a 5 to 10 minutes, then wash out the Kool-Aid.You can also add colorful ribbons to your hair. Wear your hair down. Tie the ribbon onto a bobby pin, and place the bobby pin in your hair. You can also use ribbons to tie pigtails in your hair. Another option is to buy barrettes or headbands in your school's colors., Use face paint to paint your face into halves with your school colors. You can also just add a line or two of face paint in your school's colors or paint hearts. Place temporary tattoo stickers or faux eye black (reflective paint) underneath your eyes to give a nod to football players.You may also want to use face paint to paint sayings like, "Go (team name)!" or “Go, Fight, Win!"
If paint is too messy, consider using markers designed to be used on skin. Use the markers to draw designs on your arms and legs. Test them on an inconspicuous part of your face first, such as under your chin, to make sure they don't irritate your skin.
 Get a plain shirt from a craft store, and customize it with your school's colors. You can either start with a shirt in one of your school's colors and add details or start with a plain, white shirt and dye it to match your school's colors.Most craft stores sell tie-dye kits, which you can use to dye your shirt. Kits include things like dye, dye bottles, rubber bands, and gloves.
To tie-dye, wash your shirt first, but don't dry it. You want it to be damp. Twist your shirt up however you want it, such as wrapping it in a circle from the center until you get it in a tight bundle. Next, you hold it together with rubber bands, which will also leave white spaces between colors. If you've made a disc from your shirt, consider putting the rubber bands across the disc, like you're making pie slices. Make sure you protect the surface you're working on with plastic.
Now, add the powdered dyes to the bottles with water. Once you've shaken them up, squirt the dyes on the shirt, alternating your school colors on different sections.
Once you're happy with the results, wrap the shirt up in plastic and let it sit for about 8 hours. When the time is up, rinse it out in the sink until the water runs clear. Wash the shirt in the laundry by itself, and you're done.
You can now add lettering with fabric paint if you want. You can also just add lettering to a solid color shirt. You can either create free hand letters with fabric paint bottles or use sponge letters to add things like "Go team!" or "Let's go panthers!"

, For your bottom half, you can wear jeans, a jean skirt, jean shorts, or soccer shorts that are the school colors. However, if you have nothing in the school colors, regular blue jeans will do just fine.


If you want to add more spirit to your bottom half and you don't mind ruining your jeans, you can draw designs on them in school colors.
You can also have people sign your jeans.
 If you have a pair of sneakers in your school colors, wear them. You can wear soccer socks in school colors or you can find brightly colored patterned socks at department stores.


You could also change out your laces for ones in your team's colors, or you could have your shoes be one of your school's colors and the shoelaces be the other.
Some people will also use paint markers or permanent markers to dress up a plain pair of shoes. However, you don't want to do that on shoes that are very expensive.
For example, you could get a cheap pair of canvas shoes, and then use painter's tape to outline places you want to paint a different color. That way, you can color in just what you want with paint. Make sure to use a durable fabric paint, though you can even use nail polish. Also, for more durability, consider spraying it with a clear shoe protector after you let the paint dry.