 Look at your artwork, knicknacks, book collection, and other decorations in the room you're trying to brighten up. Is anything adding to the feeling that the space is overly dim? It might be time to switch out that old black-and-white print for something more lively and bright. If you have stacks of books, a collection of old dolls or a wall of deep green plants, it might be time for those to go, too. If you're committed to brightening up your space, you might have to make some tough decisions about what to keep.


Choose your top 10 or so favorite books and display them artfully, rather than having your entire collection take up a wall in the dark room. The space that was previously covered with books can now be brightened up with something more cheerful.
If you're a plant lover, think about getting rid of big, dark plants and replacing them with plants that are lighter in color. Displaying a few succulents or ferns is an attractive touch, but having racks of plants can make a room feel darker.
 Now that you've cleared away some space, try adding a few mirrors to the room. They'll reflect what light does leak into the room and make it seem at least a little brighter. Choose mirrors with light-colored frames that add to the room's airy feel.Hanging mirrors in a room has the added benefit of making it feel larger.
 Do you have floor-to-ceiling wooden bookshelves that add to your room's dark feel? How about a a dark cherry TV cabinet, or a big wooden bed with rich, dark posts? Heavy furniture can make even the brightest room look a little dreary. If you want to brighten things up, choose furniture with lighter wood.


You can also paint or refinish your existing furniture to give it a room-brightening makeover.
Buy brightly-colored slipcovers for your sofa and chairs.
 If you're like most people, you've got tangles of wires and cables snaking across your floor. Black wires can contribute to a room feeling dark and cluttered. Try keeping them neatly wound and secured with a piece of velcro. You can also tape the wires against the baseboard using light-colored electrical tape to keep them out of the way. You'll find that this seemingly trivial change makes a big difference.
 Another trick for making a room appear brighter is to eliminate the need for a lot of furniture. Instead of having a bunch of bookshelves and tables, try installing wall-mounted shelves that are composed of light-colored wood or painted white. Use them to store your books and a few decorations. Now you've eliminated the shadows cast by extra tables and other furniture.

