 You will be baking your tender lemon poppy seed cake in a standard oven. Before you make the cake, turn the oven on. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius.
 You will be baking your cake in a 9 inch (22.9 cm) round cake pan. Lightly grease the pan with butter. Then sprinkle the breadcrumbs on the pan. Tap off any excess breadcrumbs from the pan., Place each of these ingredients in a medium sized bowl. Use a whisk to gently mix together the ingredients. Stop whisking when the ingredients are completely combined., Add the granulated sugar and butter to a large mixing bowl separate from the bowl of dry ingredients. Use a hand mixer to combine the butter and sugar. Mix at medium-high speed until the butter and sugar have formed a pale, fluffy mixture. This process should take about 2 minutes., Add the eggs, one at a time, and beat them into the butter and sugar on medium-high speed. You should make sure you thoroughly beat the mixture in the time between adding the first and second eggs. This process should take about 2 minutes., Turn your hand mixer to low speed. Add half of the dry ingredients and beat for 1 minute. Add the second half of the dry and the milk. Beat on low speed for 1 minute. If the ingredients do not appear to be completely combined, beat on low speed for an additional minute., Use a rubber spatula to gently fold the lemon extract, poppy seeds, and lemon zest into the cake mixture. Take the spatula and run it around the sides of the bowl, then along the base of the bowl. Then fold the cake mixture over on to itself. Repeat this series of motions until the ingredients are just combined., Use the rubber spatula to gently spoon the cake mixture into the cake pan. Be sure to scrape the batter from the sides of the bowl. Use the spatula to smooth the surface of the batter once it is in the pan., Place the cake pan in the oven that has been preheated to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius. Bake the cake at this temperature for 30 minutes, or until you can insert a toothpick in the middle of the cake and it comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven., Carefully place the cake on a wire rack to cool by gently inverting the pan. The cake should gently slide out when you turn the cake pan upside down. Allow the cake to cool at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before transferring it to a serving plate., In a medium sized bowl, combine the lemon juice and confectioners’ sugar. Stir with a spoon until the mixture turns into a runny glaze. This process should take about 2 minutes., Once the cake has cooled, but is still slightly warm to the touch, spread the glaze over the top of the cake with a rubber spatula. Allow the glaze to run over the sides of the cake. Be careful not to use too much force or you can damage the cake. Cut the cake into wedges and serve to grateful guests or family members.