 To avoid overwhelming your bladder, you should try to control how often you drink fluids throughout the day. Aim for reducing your fluid intake by 25 percent so your bladder is not too full. Your doctor may also suggest a specific fluid reduction for you based on your condition.For example, you may try to drink a certain amount of water every hour or every other hour so you spread out your fluid intake. Your doctor may recommend creating a fluid intake schedule so you can control the amount of fluids you drink on a daily basis.
Keep track of how much you drink during the day by charting your fluid intake in a journal. You could also note down how often you drink fluids on your phone to make sure you are not drinking too much on a daily basis.;
, Caffeinated beverages, such as coffee or black tea, can put more stress on your bladder and make your bladder symptoms worse. Alcohol can also cause you to have to go to the bathroom more often.Switch out coffee and alcohol for herbal tea or water. Bring a water bottle with you so you can have water on hand. Brew pots of herbal tea and sip it throughout the day so you stay hydrated but do not overwhelm your bladder.
You should also avoid using tobacco products and avoid consuming artificial sweeteners, as these can make your bladder issue worse., Being overweight can cause your bladder to become overactive or to become worse. You should try to maintain a weight that is healthy based on your age and height as well as your medical history. You may speak to your doctor about your ideal weight and discuss ways you can reduce your weight if you are overweight so your bladder issues are less severe.You may try adjusting your diet so it is more healthy and balanced to lose weight. Or you may take up healthy habits like exercise to reduce your weight.
 You can address your overactive bladder by doing timed voiding, where you extend the time between trips to the bathroom to urinate. You may also get into the habit of going to the bathroom at regular timed intervals to get your bladder used to a certain pattern. For example, you may urinate every two hours. Or you may try to leave one hour between bathroom trips throughout the day.