 If you're going to do interval training of any intensity, warming up your muscles and your cardiovascular system is essential if you want to avoid cramps or other injuries.For brief interval training, five to ten minutes is enough time to warm up. Good warm-ups include a brief jog or jumping rope. You also can jog in place or just do jumping jacks for a few minutes.
 Dynamic stretching will warm up your body effectively while also stretching all muscle groups so that your whole body is ready for intervals. Follow up your five-minute warm-up with five minutes of dynamic stretching.To organize your dynamic stretching routine, think of going from your head down to your feet. Start by doing head circles, then move down to shoulder circles, then arm circles, and so on.
Do leg circles while standing, being sure to do them with your knees bent as well as straight. You can also do these while lying on your back if you are having problems with balance.
 Aerobic exercises are those that engage your cardiovascular system. Anaerobic activities are those in which you remain relatively stationary, such as lifting weights.Make a list of the exercises you want to include in your routine, and label them as aerobic or anaerobic. Then, set up your routine so that you are doing an aerobic exercise followed by an anaerobic exercise followed by another aerobic exercise.
For example, you might start with scissor jumps, then do weight lifting or static stretches, then do burpees.
 Especially if weight loss is one of your exercise goals, alternating high intensity and low intensity can increase your metabolism and get your body to burn excess fat, even after you've finished your workout for the day.Your low-intensity periods should be longer than your high-intensity periods. For example, if you're doing low-intensity exercise for one-minute intervals, you should follow up with a high-intensity exercise for 30 seconds.
 Since interval training typically does not include rest periods between exercise intervals, working alternate muscle groups allows the muscles you just worked to recover.This can be difficult if you have a lot of whole-body exercises in your routine, but think about what muscles are most targeted by the exercise. For example, if you're doing planks, this is a whole-body exercise that primarily targets the core. Mountain climbers also target the core, so you wouldn't want to follow up a plank interval with an interval of mountain climbers.
 To build an effective interval routine yourself, you need to think of what you want to accomplish through your workouts and then look for exercises that will help you achieve those goals.Scissor jumps are an effective whole-body exercise that will help increase your overall fitness, including your cardiovascular fitness. If your goal is simply to become more physically fit, you should incorporate scissor jumps into your routine.
If you want to lose weight around your midsection and build strong abdominal muscles, you want to include core exercises such as planks and mountain climbers as well.
If you're new to exercise, work with a personal trainer to build your routine, or search online for free instructional videos of interval routines.
 If you've decided to start doing high-intensity interval training, you need to be aware of the toll it takes on your body. Although this is a quick and efficient way to improve your fitness, you must allow enough time for your body to recover.Typically you don't want (or need) to do more than one or two high-intensity interval sessions each week.
Leave at least 48 hours of recovery time between high-intensity sessions.

