 In the event of an emergency, many services like electricity and water that are often taken for granted may become unavailable. To ensure your survival, have clean food, water, and supplies ready to go at a moment's notice. Make sure that every member of your family knows where to locate these supplies in case they need to be grabbed quickly. In addition to sterile food and water, you will want to include the following in your emergency supplies:


Torch/Flashlight
First aid kit
Money
Simple clothing
Blankets

, You and anyone you live with should have a plan to quickly get to safety at a moment's notice. Every member of the house should know exactly what to do and where to go when an earthquake hits. They should know the 'safe' spots in your house - under sturdy tables and against interior walls, especially in corners. They should also know the 'danger' spots in the house - near windows and hanging objects, e.g. mirrors and paintings.


Conduct practice drills every 6 months or so to ensure you and your loved ones know exactly what to do in the event of an earthquake.
 If one of your family members is hurt in an earthquake, basic knowledge of first aid can be a life-saver. Take a basic first-aid course and become CPR-certified so that if the worst happens, you'll be ready to save lives.
 Earthquakes can sever a house's pipes and/or damage electrical lines, creating situations that can easily become deadly. Be ready to turn off your house's utilities after an earthquake to preserve your safety.


When you turn off the gas after an earthquake or during a drill, DO NOT try to relight the gas pilot. This can cause the gas to leak and cause a fire. Call the utility company and ask them to do it for you.
 To minimize the risk of injury or damage in the event of an injury, keep any dangerous possessions, like breakable objects, heavy objects, flammable liquids and hazardous liquids, away from places where they are likely to fall or spill. Keep these things in safe, secure locations away from the designated safe zones in your house.

