 It’s sometimes difficult for a child to remember that their parents have lives, too. What’s more, it can be hard to believe that their lives didn’t always revolve around you and your siblings. Sitting down with your parents and asking them about their lives shows you care and take an interest in them. You may even learn something about them you never knew before.


You can begin the conversation by saying, “What was it like for you growing up?” Or you could say, “I think it’s really cool you went backpacking across Europe. What was that like?” The most valuable thing you can offer your parents is your time, and they will really appreciate your doing so.;
, A great way to bond with your parents and demonstrate affection is by doing something they are interested in. If your parents have interests or hobbies, participate with them. Activities are much more enjoyable when you have someone doing them with you, especially when it is your child. They will appreciate you showing interest in what they like and the time you’ve taken to engage with them.


For instance, if they enjoy sports, strike up a game with them. If they attend a book club, ask if you can join. Spending time with them while they are doing something they love will create happy memories for all involved., There’s a good chance your parents have been cooking for you your entire life. Now is the chance to turn the tables. Give them the night off and cook a meal from the heart—even if it’s macaroni and cheese!


Don’t worry if your meal isn’t perfect. Your parents won’t mind if your cuisine isn’t five-star. They will only appreciate the time and effort you put into meal., If your parents attend religious services, one of the most thoughtful ways to show you love them is to attend services together. There’s something special about sharing your faith and worshipping with others, especially parents and your children. This heartfelt gesture will surely be something they remember for a long time.Make it a weekly thing, if possible, to attend devotional or other spiritual meetings with your parents. You can even learn meditation together.
 Parents, particularly after children become teens or adults, often feel excluded from their children's lives. Make an effort to include your parents in what's happening with you. This could be by sharing essays or projects you did at college, inviting them to the kids' birthday parties, or asking them for advice about dating.


Introduce them to your friends.

