 Specific performance is a remedy for a contract breach. You should get your copy of the contract and review it.


Some contracts may be oral. You could have made an oral contract to purchase a painting from someone. In this situation, you should sit down and write out what you remember about the terms of the agreement: when the sale was to take place, its location, what was said, etc.
Real estate contracts, however, can’t be oral. According to each state’s statute of frauds, real estate contracts must be in writing.For this reason, you must have a written contract to sue for specific performance of real estate.;
, You can agree in the contract to limit the remedies available as the buyer. For example, the contract might limit your remedy to a refund of the earnest money you deposited. You can’t seek specific performance if you agreed in the contract to a different exclusive remedy.However, your contract might be silent as to what remedies are available when the seller breaks the contract. In this situation, you might be able to seek specific performance.
 Before you can sue, you need to know whether your contract is valid. Real estate contracts, for example, contain many “contingencies.” These are conditions which must be met before the real estate contract is valid and binding. One contingency is that the buyer must have financing.


The contract terms also need to be sufficiently definite in order to win specific performance. The contract should identify the seller, buyer, purchase price, the property, and the time and manner of payment.You also must have paid adequate “consideration” before you can seek specific performance. In general, if the purchase price is reasonable given the property and its location, then there will be adequate consideration.
 You are not entitled to specific performance as a right. In fact, many states consider it an “extraordinary” remedy which the judge can use only where money compensation is insufficient.Typically, money damages are insufficient when the object you are trying to purchase is unique.Depending on the circumstances, real estate, artworks, and sentimental mementos can all be unique, so you can seek specific performance for those things.
However, a court won’t grant specific performance of an employment contract, even if the employee is “unique,” since forcing someone to work is too much like slavery.Instead, the court might issue an injunction, which would prevent the person from working for anyone else for a certain amount of time.
 You will need to show the court that you were ready and willing to go through with the contract before the seller backed out. To get specific performance of a real estate contract, for example, you need proof that you had adequate financing.Gather paperwork that shows your financing or proof that you had sufficient money to go through with the purchase.
 Because specific performance is not typically granted, you should meet with an attorney to discuss your case before filing a lawsuit. The attorney can advise you about whether specific performance is a legitimate remedy for your dispute.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your state’s bar association and asking for a referral.Once you have the name of an attorney, call and ask to schedule a consultation. Ask ahead of time how much the attorney charges.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” for breach of contract with the court. In this document, you identify yourself and the seller and explain the circumstances of the dispute. You also tell the judge what remedy you want: specific performance.Many courts have printed, “fill in the blank” complaint forms that you can use. Alternately, you could find a sample complaint form in a book of pleading forms and use it as a template as you draft your own.
Be sure to attach a copy of the contract to your complaint.
 Specific performance is an “equitable” remedy. Depending on your state, you may have to file your complaint in an equity or chancery court, since those courts were set up to grant equitable remedies such as specific performance.


However, most states have merged their equity courts with their law courts, so you simply need to file your complaint with the local court where the real estate is located. If you are suing for specific performance of something other than real estate, then file in the court where the defendant lives or does business.
Check the website for your local court to see if there are separate law and chancery (equity) courts or of they have been merged.
 There will probably be a filing fee. You should contact the court ahead of time to check the amount and acceptable methods of payment. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask the court for a fee waiver form., The seller needs to know he or she is being sued so that they can respond. You can give notice by serving a “summons,” which is a legal document you can get from the court clerk. You should also serve a copy of your complaint along with the summons.Generally, you can’t make service yourself. Instead, you need someone 18 or older, who is not part of the lawsuit, to hand deliver the summons and complaint to the seller.
You could hire a private process server to make delivery. (Check in your phone book). Or you could have the county sheriff or another adult make hand delivery.
 After being served with notice, the seller generally has around 30 days to file a response, and a copy should be sent to you. If you have an attorney, then the attorney will receive the copy. Typically, the seller will file an “answer.” In this document, he or she admits or denies each allegation you made.In addition, the defendant might file counterclaims, which are allegations against you.


In a lawsuit requesting specific performance, a defendant can also raise certain defenses that they couldn’t raise if you were seeking money damages. For example, they could argue that the consideration is inadequate, that there is no contract because of a mistake, or that the contract is too vague. They also could argue that the court would have trouble supervising the specific performance., You need to prevent the seller from transferring the property to someone else. If the property is real estate, then you can go to the Recorder of Deeds Office and file a “notice of lis pendens” on the property.This notice tells people who research the property’s title that the piece of property is the subject of a pending lawsuit. You will have to provide the Recorder of Deeds with the following information:the court where you have filed your lawsuit
the names of the parties (you and the seller)
the date you filed the lawsuit
a description of the real estate
a statement that you are seeking specific performance of your real estate contract

, The court will focus on the written contract and whether it is sufficiently definite, as is required for specific performance. However, you might still be able to get helpful information from the seller using discovery techniques.


For example, you could use a Request for Admission to ask the seller to agree that your copy of the contract is authentic. You would attach a copy of your contract to the Request.Another option is to request documents from the defendant. If your request is relevant, the other party will generally have to furnish the documents you ask for. You could ask for contracts, emails, and bank statements, to name a few.
You can also send an “interrogatory” to the seller and ask that he or she send you a list of the names of any witness the seller intends to call as a witness.
You might also choose to conduct depositions, which are in person interviews with parties and witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and answers can be used in court.
 As soon as discovery concludes, most defendants will file a motion for summary judgment, which asks the court to end the litigation immediately and rule in their favor. To be successful, the defendant will have to show the judge that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant will have to prove that, even if all factual assumptions are made in your favor, you still could not win.


To oppose this motion, you will file a motion of your own. Within your motion you will show the judge how there are genuine factual disputes that need to be settled at trial. You will do this through your motion, exhibits, and affidavits.If the defendant files a counterclaim against you, you might choose to file a motion for summary judgment of your own.
 If your case continues after the summary judgment stage, you might want to consider settling before trial. Trial can be an expensive and time consuming endeavor. Often, a defendant will be willing to settle to minimize their litigation costs and save some of that time. When you attempt to settle, start by taking part in informal discussions to try and work out your differences.


If informal discussions don't work, try mediation. During mediation, a neutral third party will sit down with both parties to try and find common ground. The mediator will not inject their own opinions and will not take sides.
If mediation is unsuccessful, try arbitration. During arbitration, a judge-like third party will hear arguments from both parties. After each party presents his or her case, the arbitrator will take sides and opine on the case.
 To prepare for your trial, you should look at all of your evidence and see what is helpful. Identify key witnesses and documents. For example, you will certainly have to testify as to how the contract was formed and how the seller broke it.


Also create exhibits. You’ll want to introduce a copy of your purchase and sale agreement into evidence, so get an exhibit sticker and attach it to the first page of the contract. You can get these stickers from office supply stores. Turn any other helpful document into an exhibit the same way.
The judge will give you a deadline for handing over copies of all exhibits to the seller.Make sure not to miss the deadline.
 As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will go first. Juries aren’t allowed when seeking an equitable remedy like specific performance, so a judge will probably hear your dispute instead of a jury.


The judge might not want opening statements; instead, you might jump in by presenting your witnesses., If you have a lawyer, then he or she will ask you questions. If not, then the judge might let you deliver your testimony in the form of a speech. Be prepared, however, for the seller’s attorney to cross-examine you.


During cross-examination, try to relax as much as possible. This may be difficult, but if you appear rattled or nervous then you won’t seem like a credible witness.
Always think before answering. Repeat the question in your mind and form your words carefully.
Remember to always tell the truth. If you don’t know the answer to something, then say, “I don’t know.”, The seller gets to put on their case after you finish.You should expect the seller to testify, although there may also be additional witnesses, depending on the circumstances.


Just as the seller got to cross-examine your witnesses, you can cross-examine theirs. See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 Because few facts are in dispute, the trial will focus mostly on the law. After all evidence has been presented, the judge will probably let you make an argument explaining why you are entitled to win. Remember what you have to prove:You had a valid contract with the seller. All contingencies had been met.
The contract was sufficiently definite, so specific performance is an acceptable remedy.
The seller had no legitimate excuse for not going through with the sale.
You were ready and willing to pay. You had proper financing.
 After hearing all of the evidence, the judge might deliver an immediate verdict, or the judge could take the issue under consideration.Depending on the verdict, the following might happen:


If you lose, then you can think about bringing an appeal. Discuss this option with a lawyer. When you appeal, you ask a higher court to overturn the verdict because the judge made a mistake.
If you lose, you probably will also have to remove the lis pendens, since the lawsuit is over. Alternately, the seller might have to file a motion to get it removed.
If you win, then the judge might set a date for you to close on the sale.

