 This weight loss fast needs to be performed for at least five days to be effective in the long-term. But it should not be performed for longer than 20 days. You can repeat this fast more than once, but you should have 10 day breaks (at least) in between.Speak with your doctor before attempting a fast, especially if you are on medication or have a health condition, such as kidney or liver disease.If this is your first fast, start with a short one. Be very aware of how you are feeling. You should be feeling better, not worse.;
, The following psyllium mixture is designed to help your body through the fast. It is a liquid mixture that contains psyllium husks, comfrey, whey powder, marshmallow root, slippery elm bark, echinacea, powdered bentonite, Shepherd’s purse, wild yam, kelp, and bayberry bark.You can make the liquid yourself (if you’re familiar with herbal remedies) or you can purchase it at a natural health food store.
The psyllium husk, which is the main component of this liquid, causes a bulking reaction in your digestive system.
Comfrey, whey powder, marshmallow root and slippery elm bark all help to control the quantity and quality of the mucus in your intestines.
Echinacea, Shepherd’s purse, bayberry bark, and powdered bentonite help detoxify your body and digestive system.
Wild yams help control the spasms and cramping in your intestines.
Kelp helps to regulate the minerals in your digestive system.
 For breakfast every day of this fast, consume 2 tablespoons of the psyllium mixture and 2 tablespoons of protein powder.The 2 tablespoons of psyllium mixture and the 2 tablespoons of protein powder should be mixed in any type of liquid. The psyllium mixture tastes best in tomato, apple, or pineapple juice.
 For lunch every day of this fast, consume 1 tablespoon of psyllium mixture and 2 tablespoons of protein powder. You can also add a bowl of clear vegetable broth with lunch, as long as it’s made from non-starchy vegetables., For dinner every day, consume 2 tablespoons of psyllium mixture and 2 tablespoons of protein powder. You can add a salad of non-starchy vegetables to your dinner as well.You can switch the soup and salad between lunch and dinner if you want.
 For every day of your fast you need to drink at least 12 cups (2.8 liters) of fluid. What fluid you drink doesn’t matter. These 12 cups are in addition to the fluid you mix the psyllium mixture and protein powder into., In order to ensure your diet is effective and well-rounded, make sure you include 20 minutes of aerobic exercise every day. This 20 minutes should be all at once and not broken up throughout the day.