 When you enter a room with a cat, or if a cat enters a room you are in, do not approach it. Instead, kneel down or sit at the cat's level. This will ensure that the cat doesn't see you as threatening or aggressive., Once you are at the cat's level, extend your index finger out in front of you. Do this slowly and calmly, and do not get too close to that cat in doing so. The aim is to give the cat the feeling that it has control in the situation, and can decide whether or not to approach you., Hold your position and wait for the cat to approach you. It will likely sniff your finger first, a move that mimics cats' nose-to-nose greeting to each other. Allow the cat to sniff your finger and rub against it if it wishes to., If the cat does not respond to your gesture, or moves away after sniffing your finger, leave it alone. Respect the cat's space and do not attempt to approach it or extend your finger again. Pushing an unwilling cat into an interaction can result in undesirable reactions such as:Hissing
Intense staring
Running away from you
Swatting at you
Scratching

, If a cat is especially shy, try introducing yourself via play. Toss a toy for the cat to chase, making sure to throw it away from both you and the cat to create a neutral playing zone. This way, the cat will comfortable playing and might warm up to you during the game., A neutral way to encourage a cat to approach you is to dangle a wand toy near it. If the cat is interested, this will allow it to approach you with a goal and interest outside of you. Playing with the wand toy may relieve stress and apprehension and make the cat feel more at ease near you.If the cat demonstrates any signs of distress (e.g. hissing), put down the wand toy and give the cat some space.
 If a cat is apprehensive around you, do your best to ignore it while you are in its presence. Keep your distance and avoid any eye contact with it. Your presence, without the threat of a forced interaction, will likely become more familiar and less threatening with time., When a shy cat finally starts to warm up to you, be careful about how you pet it. Pet it on the neck, head, or side in a gentle manner. Do not offer any resistance if the cat moves away from you or re-positions itself.
 With its owner's permission, offer a shy cat treats to coax it into an introduction. This will give the cat an incentive for greeting you and create a positive association with you in its mind. Be calm and gentle during the interaction.