 May wears tight, navy blue shorts that hit at mid-thigh. If you don’t already own a similar pair of shorts, purchase, make, or borrow a pair. Items that will work include:


Navy blue bicycle shorts
Navy blue spandex shorts
Navy blue leggings or yoga pants cut and hemmed to an appropriate length;
, Over her tight, black shorts, May wears a white mini-skirt. The skirt hits May just below her bottom. If you don’t own a white mini-skirt, consider:


Buying a skirt from a department store, thrift shop, online retailer, or costume shop
Making your own skirt
Cutting and hemming a longer white skirt to an appropriate length.
Wearing a long, white shirt that covers your bottom, In the Advanced Generation series, May dons a red, collared t-shirt. Between the shirt’s neckline and shoulder seam is a thick navy blue circle. For the costume, buy, borrow, make, or reuse a short-sleeved red polo shirt or button up blouse.To duplicate the navy blue details:


Wear a blue infinity scarf around your neck
Hand-tack navy fabric between the neckline and shoulder seams
Use fabric paint to color the area around the shirt’s neck navy blue

, When May is dressed in her traditional outfit, she always wears a bright yellow fanny pack around her waist.If you don’t own a fanny pack, you can purchase one online, buy one from a thrift store or at a garage sale, make your own, or order one from a costume shopMay wears her fanny pack backwards., When she is dressed in her main outfit, May accessorizes with gloves. Her gloves have navy cuffs and fingers. White material covers the palms and fronts of her hands. You can purchase or make gloves that match hers.


If you can’t locate navy and white gloves, consider wearing gloves that are navy or white., May’s red bandana has a white Pokémon sign on it. You can purchase this bandana online, or make your own with fabric paint. When you position the bandana, make sure the Pokémon sign sits on the front right side of your head.To tie the bandana like May:


Fold the bandana in half so it forms a triangle.
Pick up the bandana at the two corners along the fold.
Wrap the bandana around your head. The two corners and the apex of the triangle should be pointing away from your face.
Tie the two corners together in a knot at the back of your head.
Tie the apex and two corners together in a second knot., May’s tennis shoes are red, yellow, white, and blue. You may purchase exact replicas of her shoes from costume stores. If your cosplay budget is limited, consider wearing red or yellow sneakers.May wears black ankle socks with her shoes., May has light brown, shoulder length hair. She also has piecey bangs that hit just above her eyebrows. You may cut and/or dye your hair to match May’s tresses or purchase a wig similar in cut and color to May’s locks.


May’s hair is straight., Cosplayers go to great lengths to make their costumes and appearance as accurate as possible. For example, May has beautiful blue eyes. If your eyes are not naturally blue, consider purchasing blue-tinted costume contacts.


This step is optional.
 May is a natural beauty. She has a gorgeous, even complexion, rosy cheeks, and dark lashes.Apply foundation to even out your skin tone.
Apply a light pink blush to your cheek bones.
Coat your lashes with black mascara.

