 When cleaning an acrylic bathtub, stay away from harsh astringent powders such as Comet and Ajax, as well as harsh chemicals like bleach. Acrylic is a soft material and is therefore easily damaged. These types of products are almost guaranteed to ruin your tub's finish.It's generally a good idea to start with the gentlest cleaning solution available to you and work your way up to more powerful options if that doesn't work.;
, Distilled white vinegar makes an excellent natural cleaning solution, especially on smooth surfaces like acrylic that release stains easily. Fill a spray bottle with vinegar and keep it on hand for routine bathroom cleaning tasks. Apply the vinegar liberally to completely cover the affected area.Lemon juice makes a fine alternative to vinegar if you happen to have some in the refrigerator.
 As it sits, the acidity in the vinegar will break down mold, grime and discoloration so that they can wiped away with ease. You may even see stains begin to dissolve and run off on their own, before you even begin scrubbing.Make sure you give the vinegar ample time to begin working.
For especially troublesome spots, sprinkle a little baking soda onto the vinegar as it soaks., The yellow side of a normal dish sponge will do the trick. After being soaked with vinegar, dirt and grime should simply lift off with little difficulty. Use a quick back and forth scrubbing motion, and continue treating the stains until they vanish.You can also use specialty scrubbing tools, like the Mr. Clean Magic Eraser, which are made from porous melamine foam for added stain-fighting power., Run the faucet for a few minutes to wash away every last trace of dissolved grim and dirty vinegar solution. If you’re cleaning a bathtub with an adjustable shower head, turn it on and direct the stream over the areas you just treated. Once it’s clean, the tub will need to dry so that stain-causing bacteria doesn’t return.Most bathtub stains are the result of germs that create a filmy residue as they accumulate.Leave the shower curtain drawn and switch on the overhead fan so that the tub receives steady airflow.

