 Chip a hole in the plaster until you can see the brick and what condition it is in. Brick was a common construction material in the 19th century, but sometimes the quality was not always the best. By testing a small area, you can see if the brick underneath is worth exposing. The brick should not crumble or break when you touch it and should be free of any major cracks. If the brick looks good, proceed with the project.;
, There will be a fair amount of dust and dirt from the bricks, so seal any doorways or heating vents to limit dust from getting into other areas of the house. Put plastic sheeting on the floor near the wall you will be working on the catch the debris for an easier clean up. Keep windows uncovered so you can open them to help ventilate throughout the process.
 Start at your test hole. Position the masonry chisel at an angle and hit the end with a hammer. As plaster comes off continue to chisel away at the edges. You can also chisel wherever you see cracks in the plaster. This may help you remove bigger sections. Clear away any debris as it builds up.
 Apply moderate pressure to sweep away any dust that may still be on the bricks or mortar. Brush the entire wall, starting at the top of the wall and working down so the dust falls to the ground. Sweep up any debris.
 Using a clean cloth, start at the top of the wall and work your way down washing the wall clear of any remaining residue. Rinse out the cloth frequently and change the water as needed. There are several different techniques you can use to clean the exposed brick, like sandblasting and using muriatic acid, but water works just as well once the plaster and debris have been removed and is still considered the preferred method for those who do not have access to a sandblaster or want to work with acid.
 Since you no longer have plaster covering the wall, any air that was seeping in through the bricks will not have that buffer now. By using a brick sealant, you will seal those cracks and eliminate the drafts. Use a matte finish sealant for a more natural look, otherwise your walls will look too glossy.
