 Some psychics are strongest in one psychic area or they choose to focus on one at the expense of others.


Imagine you are using your “third eye” – the chakra (or energy field) that is located above your real eyes. Visualize this third eye opening and expanding. See what you notice in the mind’s “inner screen.” Try this with your eyes shut.Clairvoyance means you are able to see spirit images. One aspect of clairvoyance is “remote viewing,” which is the ability to see things that are not known by the common senses. Clairvoyants work through the aura to receive impressions from spirit communicators.For remote viewing, determine a remote location you want to sense. Shut your eyes, and think about the location. Shift your intention upward to your third eye. Note the first impression you have, and write it down. Clairaudience means the ability to receive spirit impressions but in the forms of sounds. Words are transmitted through the aura into the medium’s subconscious, as if the medium is a telephone. To practice clairaudience, repeat a word in your mind as you think it. This helps develop your inner voice. Clairsentience is the ability to sense the presence of a spirit, including its emotions and personality.;
, Some psychics, such as those working on criminal investigations, will use clothing. The key is to find an object that’s been used, as psychics believe it will have more energy than an unused object.Put the object in your hands, close your eyes, relax, and feel – what your body feels. You could ask yourself whether you think the object belonged to a man or woman, what the emotions were of the person who owned it, and what kind of work they did.
Write what comes to you as instinct. This is called an energetic impression. Don’t edit anything. It’s best if the person who gives you the object actually knows the owner but doesn’t tell you. That way you can compare what you write down to the actual facts.
 Have someone hide an object, and see if you can find it. The key, again, is to see whether you can sense the energy in the object. Try to “feel” where the object is located.


Visualize yourself connecting with the object’s energy in order to figure out its location. Ask yourself whether it seems somewhere high or low, and whether it’s hidden under something or placed inside of something.
You could use pictures instead as the objects. Have a friend select photos out of magazines, and seal them in envelopes. Then, see how many details you come up with about the photos.
 This will allow you to clear your mind and better focus on your sixth sense. It's extremely important that you reduce clutter.


Upon waking in the morning, make an effort to lie still for a few minutes without opening your eyes. Try to notice as many sounds, textures and smells as possible before you decide to open your eyes. This exercise, if carried out for several weeks, can greatly help to increase your levels of awareness and intuition.
To meditate, close your eyes and draw in a deep and slow breath. Then, inhale through your nose. Hold the breath in for a moment. Breathe back out through your mouth.Playing soft music in the background could help you still your mind. Or you could chant a mantra to do so – this is a word or short phrase that you repeat to yourself over and over again. The goal is to screen out unwanted mental clutter. The reason meditation works is that it helps you turn off your analytical mind and free up the subconscious mind.Imagine a “plus” sign when you inhale, and imagine a “minus” sign when you exhale. Do this exercise repeatedly. Clear your mind of all negative thoughts, as they can impede psychic abilities. 