 Make sure that your aging dog is physically fit and doesn’t have any scrapes or injuries by examining their body weekly. Run your hands along the dog’s body from head to tail, and check for any lumps, sores or wounds, rough areas, or any tender spots that cause your dog to show discomfort.You can also check your dog’s weight. Run your hands over your dog’s ribs: you should be able to feel the ribs, but not see them through the skin and fur. Similarly, you should be able to feel your dog’s spine, but it should not protrude or be visible.;
, Many aging dogs suffer from arthritis, which is caused by the breakdown of cartilage in a joint and the subsequent inflammation of the joint. Arthritis is a painful condition, which causes swelling and stiffness, and will decrease your dog’s mobility and quality of life.Throw a ball for your dog as part of the weekly checkup; make sure it runs smoothly and without favoring a joint or showing pain.


Arthritic dogs may also lick or chew at a painful joint. If you notice your dog exhibiting signs of arthritis, take it to the veterinarian, who can prescribe medication and other diet-based treatments.
 Older animals are liable to develop gastrointestinal problems, ranging from relatively mild issues such as an upset stomach or constipation to more serious medical concerns.Lightly palpate your dog’s stomach—the dog should show no signs of discomfort, and its stomach should not feel bloated or distended.


A distended stomach may be a sign of Cushing’s disease, a serious hormonal disorder that can afflict older dogs. Other symptoms include increased urination, hair loss, and lethargy. Cushing’s disease can be fixed with medication, if you bring the dog to your veterinarian.Aging male dogs may experience an enlarged prostate. During a regular vet checkup, ask the vet to check your dog’s prostate and make sure it’s healthy., Aging animals are at risk of developing gingivitis (gum inflammation) and periodontitis (gum disease) through lifelong poor dental health and hygiene. Gum disease is a serious medical condition which can result in the loss of one or more teeth. If your dog is suffering from gingivitis, its gums will appear swollen and tender, and may be red and bleeding.While checking your dog’s mouth, make sure that its tongue is moist and its breath is not excessively bad. These symptoms indicate good health in dogs.
 Many older pets suffer from vision-related problems, and are especially susceptible to contract cataracts, which may lead to blindness. As part of your weekly checkup, open your dog’s eyelids and examine the eyes: if your dog’s eyes seem clouded or covered by a white layer, they may have cataracts.Ask your vet about the best way to proceed; they may recommend surgery to prevent blindness.


You can also evaluate your dog’s vision by watching its day-to-day behavior. If your dog frequently runs into clearly visible objects or often falls down, this may indicate vision problems.
 As dogs age, they may develop ear infections. Check your dog’s ears weekly: look inside the ear, and make sure that there is not excessive buildup of wax, dirt, or other debris. The interior of the ear canal should be a light shade of pink, and should not have any odor or unexpected bumps.If your dog’s ears are dirty, you can clean them out with cotton swabs and rubbing alcohol.
Older dogs can also develop hearing loss. If you notice your dog becoming less responsive to your voice or other stimulating sounds (other dogs barking or birds chirping), ask your veterinarian if your dog may be losing its hearing.
 Conspicuous urination habits can indicate a number of serious health conditions in an older dog. If your dog’s attempts to urinate are frequent and seem painful to the dog, this could indicate a urinary tract infection or, more seriously, urinary tract disease. Painful urination could also indicate the presence of bladder stones, which aging dogs commonly contract.Many aging dogs also experience urinary incontinence, and are unable to control their urination. While this can be an annoyance, urinary incontinence can also indicate a more serious problem: kidney disease.Older dogs are at risk for kidney disease—which, left unchecked, will develop into kidney failure, which is an often deadly health risk.
For either of these urination-related symptoms, take your dog to your veterinarian. He or she will be able to prescribe a medication to fix a UTI, or help your dog pass bladder stones. Your vet can also check your dog for kidney disease.
 Older dogs are susceptible to weight gains, usually due to an increasingly lethargic lifestyle and a slowing metabolism. Weigh your dog weekly to track any substantial weight gains or losses. Obesity is a common health problem for old dogs, and can lead to health conditions including hip dysplasia and osteoarthritis.Conversely, excessive weight loss can also signal serious health problems. If your dog loses a substantial amount of weight, even if it also exhibits an increase in appetite and thirst, this could indicate an onset of diabetes. Serious weight loss can also be an early warning of congestive heart failure, kidney disease, or Cushing’s disease.
 Cancer is the leading cause of death among older dogs, and afflicts dogs at roughly the same rate as humans.In its early stages, cancer can be difficult to detect through regular blood tests, so you’ll need to check your aging dog for lumps and tumors. You can do this while checking your dog’s body—run your hands over their body, including neck, legs, and groin, and feel for developing tumors.


Cancer can also manifest through dramatic weight changes, slowly healing sores (or open sores that don’t heal), and bleeding from the nose, mouth, or ears.If you notice any of these symptoms, or feel any new or quickly-growing lumps on your dog’s body, have them screened for cancer immediately.
 Older dogs are at risk for a mental deterioration known as “cognitive dysfunction,” similar to Alzheimer’s in humans.Make sure that your aging dog is staying healthy mentally; you can do this as part of a weekly checkup by giving your dog commands it has been trained to obey. Play fetch with the dog, or place a treat in the room and make sure your dog has the mental focus to find it.


You can also evaluate your dog’s cognitive function throughout the week by watching its behavior. If your dog often seems confused or disoriented, or if it forgets its training or goes to the bathroom in the house, the dog may be suffering from cognitive dysfunction.If you suspect your dog may be declining cognitively, schedule an appointment with your veterinarian, who may be able to provide medication.

