 Vitamins A and C play a major role in the immune system’s function. Mix up the color and kind of vegetables you eat in order to provide your body with the nutrients it needs to produce blood cells.Eat leafy greens, like kale and spinach, as well as orange vegetables, like carrots. Be sure to talk to your doctor about any dietary restrictions due to medications like blood thinners., Protein provides your body with the amino acids necessary for WBC production. Choose lean proteins, like seafood, skinless poultry, lentils, and beans.Consume between 0.8 and 1 gram of protein per kilogram of your body weight daily. If you weigh 130 pounds (about 59 kg), you should consume a minimum of 47 grams (about 1.7 ounces).Avoid processed or deli meats.
If you’re undergoing cancer treatment, you’ll likely need more protein than recommended. Ask your registered dietitian how much daily protein you should eat., Multivitamin supplements can be helpful if you’re having trouble eating during medical treatment. If you’re undergoing any treatments, it’s essential to get a recommendation from your specialist or dietitian.Some vitamins and minerals can be harmful during cancer therapy or interfere with chemotherapy or radiation.
Selenium and zinc can help your body produce more white blood cells.Consult your doctor before taking any vitamins or supplements.
 You should drink at least 64 fluid ounces (1.9 L) of water every day. Water is essential to the function and production of cells.You may need to drink extra water if you’re vomiting, experiencing diarrhea, or not eating much. If you’re undergoing chemotherapy or radiation treatment, talk to your dietitian about goals for water intake.  

, While your immune system is compromised, it's important that you take time to rest. If you overwork yourself, it can cause your condition to worsen. Instead, plan breaks into your day, say "no" to unnecessary activities, and ask for help when you need it.

Remember that it's okay to ask for help.
Don't say yes to things that aren't important to you. Spend your limited energy on your priorities. When asked to do something you don't want to, say, "I'm sorry, I have another commitment," or "That sounds wonderful. I wish I could participate, but it's just not a good time for me right now."

, While it may seem difficult to get the sleep you need while you're worried about your health, it's essential that you get a good night's sleep every night. Too little sleep can further reduce your white blood cells, worsening your condition.Set a bedtime and discuss it with those who live with you.
Follow a calming sleep routine. For example, get ready for bed earlier, take a warm bath, lower the temperature of your home, lower the lights, and do a calming activity such as reading or knitting.

