 If you’re planting rye seed on new soil, it needs to be tilled. This allows oxygen to get into the soil. It also breaks up clumps of soil, allowing the rye seed to germinate. Evenly till the soil to ensure even growth of your rye seed., This is crucial if you’re growing rye grass in an area that is a permanent lawn - that has other grasses or plant growth during other times of the year. Mowing the existing lawn as short as possible will give the rye seed more room to take to the ground., If you’re using the annual variety of rye grass seed, you’ll need to spread more than you would with the perennial variety. You generally need 15 to 20 lbs (7 to 9 kgs) per 1000 square feet (9.5 square km) when you’re using annual seed.Perennial seed should be spread at 10 lbs (5 kgs) per 1000 square feet.
These amounts apply equally to overseeding an existing lawn and seeding new soil.
 You should divide the amount of seed that you need to use in half. Spread one half of it in one direction, and then spread the second half of the seed perpendicular to your first planting direction. This will help ensure an even spread of your seed.Depending on the size of your lawn, you may want to use either a push spreader or a hand spreader to spread the rye seed. Hand spreaders are typically used for small lawns that have large amounts of detail, while push spreaders may be best for larger lawns or new soil with larger open areas., Using a metal rake, rake the seed into the soil to ensure most of it gets into the soil (rather than lying on top). Rake gently - you don't want to move the seed around too much, and you don't want to damage the soil.If you're overseeding an existing lawn, it might be hard to rake the seed into the soil. If you can't rake an existing lawn, that's fine. The existing growth - even if it's short - should ensure the rye seed isn't disturbed.
 Once you've spread the seed, water the seeded area until it's moist. This will soften up the soil and make it easier for the rye seed to take root. It will also help the rye seed sink into the soil.