 Nachos often come in big portions. If you are making some at home, consider inviting some friends over to help you eat them. You can even turn the nacho-eating-party to a game or movie night. If you are at a restaurant with a group of friends, consider ordering a bowl of nachos as an appetizer.


Guacamole and sour cream are popular toppings, but not everyone likes them. Consider serving the guacamole and sour cream in separate bowls so that those who do like them can serve themselves., Some foods work well at formal, suit-and-tie events, while others don't. Nachos, being a messy finger food, are one of those. They fare better at casual events where people aren't wearing their best clothes and practicing good etiquette.


Barbeques
Casual parties and dinners
Movie nights
Sports games, especially the Super Bowl

, Set out a big bowl of tortilla chips along with a stack of plates. Next, set out smaller bowls filled with various nacho toppings. Your guests will serve themselves and make their own nacho plates. Here are some ideas for toppings:Beans (black or pinto)
Black olives and/or pickled jalapenos
Cilantro, onions, and/or scallions
Guacamole and/or sour cream
Pulled pork
Salsa and chopped tomatoes
Shredded cheese and/or cheese sauce
Limes cut into wedges

, Not everything goes well with nachos. Whether you are trying to turn a bowl of nachos into a more complete meal, or add variety to your nacho bar, it is important to select the right dishes. Here are some popular side dishes that many people find complement nachos well:


Beans (black or pinto)
Chicken tortilla soup
Corn
Green salad
Spanish rice
Quesadillas

, Like pizza, nachos are heavy and greasy. A cold, fizzy drink, such as a soda, will help them go down better. If you are of legal drinking age, try pairing the nachos with a cold, pale beer, lager, or ale instead.Other alcoholic beverages that go well with nachos include margaritas and mojitos.
Wine goes with many dishes, but nachos are one exception. When eating or serving nachos, skip the wine.