 Lightly sketch six ovals, arranging them into the form of a ring.


These ovals will become the petals of the lily.
The narrow ends of each oval should point toward the center, rather than lying against the perimeter of the ring.
Allow the ovals to slightly overlap at the center of the ring.
 Go back over each oval, altering the outline slightly to define the petal shape.


For each petal, you'll need to make the blunt, rounded tip a little more pointed. You should also curve the sides of each petal slightly. Each petal should curve in toward the right.
While defining each petal outline, you should also decide how the petals fall. The petals on the right are "closer" to the viewer, so the full outlines should be visible. As the petals progress toward the left, the overlapping sections will be "hidden" beneath the closer petals.
 Draw four curved line pairs (eight lines total), starting each set in the center of the lily. Top each pair with a small oval.


These will be the stamen of the lily.
Keep the lines within each pair close together. The oval at the top of each pair should close off the lines, making the resulting shape appear solid.
Each stamen should curve slightly downward. Try to make them about half as long as the lily petals, and keep them relatively even in length.
 Draw two slightly curved lines at the bottom of the lily. These lines should both fall in between the same two petals on the bottom right side.


These lines will create the stem of the lily.
Both lines should curve away from the blossom. The space in between the lines should be slightly wider at the top and narrower toward the bottom.
 Draw a single line down the length of each petal. Position each of these lines in the center of its respective petal.


The lines should span most of the length without actually touching the bottom or top of each petal.
Each line should follow the curve of its respective petal.
 Darken the lines you wish to keep by tracing over them again in pencil. Erase any lines you do not wish to keep, working carefully to avoid the permanent lines.


If you do erase one of your permanent lines by accident, redraw the line as soon as you notice the mistake.
 the shape of the lily is already done. If you want to make it more realistic, though, you could shade it with pencil or color it in.


Regardless of which option you choose, try to visualize how the lily would look in natural light. Any area that would come into direct contact with a light source should be kept lighter, but any area that would be hidden in shadow should be made darker.

