 Electronics and video games are such a regular part of life for children that it may be best to find video games that actually promote movement and fitness. Most video game consoles (ex. XBox, Playstation, and Nintendo) have a variety of games available that focus on body movement. These games can be a great way to encourage physical fitness among kids who do not enjoy taking part in sports or other outdoor activities. Try out some of the following games:Wii Fit Plus: Provides a number of exercises to be completed.
XBox Dance Central: Requires the player to mimic the dance moves being completed on the screen. A fun way for kids to be active and listen to their favourite songs.
XBox Kinect Sports: Using a motion controller, players can take part in 6 sports (bowling, boxing, track and field, table tennis, football, and volleyball) that will get them moving.
Playstation Zumba: Requires players to complete the dance-based Zumba workout using Playstation Move technology.
NFL Training Camp for Wii: Uses new remote sensors on your arm and leg to track your fitness while taking part in an NFL training camp.
 Companies are in the process of creating a multitude of games that combine technology with toys in an effort to get kids moving and away from their tablets and phones. Disney has come up with an excellent solution called Playmation. This game consists of wearable technology that requires kids to complete a mission that includes role playing, running, and jumping. It can be used indoors or outdoors.The wearable technology is synced to an app that displays new missions as well as scores and achievements.
 New apps are also being developed to encourage kids to get moving. For instance, Pokémon Go became a global craze and got children outside and moving around as they hunted for virtual Pokémon characters. By combining mobile app based technology with physical movement this game has inspired kids to get outside. Other apps and games have been developed to encourage physical activity and have even been termed “exergaming.” Other apps include:Zombies, Run!: Is set during a zombie apocalypse and users are tasked with outrunning the zombies. While running you listen to zombie noises chasing you. The further you run the more supplies you will collect.
Geocaching: Uses GPS technology to track down hidden containers around the world. It is like a real life scavenger hunt.
Jump, Jump Froggy: Is excellent for younger children and actually requires kids to jump around collecting flies for the frog to eat.

