 A toprock is a basic but essential whole-body groove. Start by standing in place. Lean backwards a little, rolling your shoulders backwards. Then lean forward to your original position. Practice until you get a rhythm, then stop.As you master this, you’ll bounce a little as you move. Your movements will get shorter and faster.;
, Stand straight with your feet next to one another. Move your right foot forward like you’re going to take a step, except take that step diagonally to the left. Your right foot should be far out ahead of your left foot, not touching it. Let your left heel lift up to support you.
 Bring your right foot back so that you’re standing in a neutral position. Your feet should now be next to each other again.
 Repeat the cross step you did before, only with your left foot. Bring it forward and across your right foot. Let your right heel rise to support you before you step back. Practice this, then try adding a hop when you bring your feet back to the neutral position.
 Now it’s time to incorporate your arms. When you step out, bring your arms up from your side. Let your palms face forward, away from you. Practice raising your arms as you step forward and bringing them back as you step back., Now repeat the step movements, raising your arms. When you step back, bring your arms into your chest. Cross them to form an X.
 Get into the habit of this dance move. You may want to select a music track and try to dance to the beat. When you step back, bend your knees a little. Also add a small hop when you step back if you haven’t already.


Practice this regularly. As you get more comfortable, your movements will get more fluid and you’ll get a better sense of the rhythm.
Once you can do this, you can customize it with your own moves or transition to different toprocks.
 Footwork techniques such as the six step add variety to toprocks. The six step looks intimidating but isn’t as hard as it seems. Start off by lowering yourself to the ground. If this is painful, practice squatting as low as you can to build more strength in your calves.


Once you can squat a little, you can also practice shifting your weight. Lean backwards to the right and catch yourself by planting your right hand on the ground. Raise up and repeat with your left side.
 Sweep your right foot outwards. Bring it all the way around and under your left knee. Wrap it as far back as you can and use your right hand to brace yourself against the ground., You’ll have to rise a little to do this. Bring both hands forward and plant them on the ground as you move your left foot backwards and away from you. Your left foot should go diagonally to the left rather than straight back.
 Bring your right foot back and away from you. It should also move diagonally, except to the right. You will be in a flat position like you’re about to do a pushup. Keep your back lowered, though, and your head and torso raised. Try to get your feet past the width of your shoulders., Bend your knees a little before you do this to avoid putting pressure on them. While keeping your foot close to the ground, bring your left foot directly to your right hand. To get it across your body, you’ll have to raise up a little. Keep your left hand planted. Bring your right hand to your right hip., While supporting yourself against the ground with your right hand, move your right foot forward. Keep it pointed straight out, away from your body. Now your left leg will be wrapped under your right knee.
 Bring your right leg back to a neutral starting position. Plant it on the ground and you’ll find yourself in the squat position again, completing the six step. Practice it to get faster. Also try the six step while starting on the opposite leg.
 The corkscrew up is a stylish way to get off the floor. Like any breakdance move, it can be linked with other moves. Start practicing by squatting.
 Wrap one foot around the other the same way you would in a six step. For example, your right foot goes under your left knee. Plant your right hand on the ground behind you to support yourself.Breakdance moves can be performed in either direction. You can do this move by starting with your left foot, too.
 Right before you begin to rise, twist yourself a little towards the hand that’s on the ground. Use slight motion. All you need is to generate a little momentum when you rise.
 Give a gentle push with your limbs to help give you force to rise. You’re going to need the momentum to uncoil and turn back to a neutral standing position.
 As you rise, turn away from the hand that’s on the ground. Spin around until you are near the direction you want to face. To stop, you can raise the foot that was curled earlier and stomp it down with flair.


This move can also be done in reverse to get closer to the ground.
 Freezes are pauses at the ends of moves and a handstand is one of the simplest freezes. Plant your hands on the ground ahead of you, shoulder-width apart. Keep your back bent.
 Start by kicking one leg up to get a sense of how much force you’ll need. Once you’re ready, try to kick up your leg with force, allowing your other leg to follow. For extra momentum, stand straight and kick immediately after planting your hands.To overcome fear and learn balance, you can balance against a wall first.
 Most breakdancers learn to bend their legs backwards while doing a handstand. This gives them extra stability so that they can freeze in place for a few seconds. At first, concentrate on getting upright and monitoring your balance. As you go, adjust your legs.
 Landing also requires learning balance. Shift your weight into one of your arms. Lean the opposite leg towards the direction you want to land. Once you start leaning, gravity will pull you down, but you’ll have control. Plant your feet on the ground and stand.