 Your paper can be vertical or horizontal, depending on your preference.


You can draw your rectangle just inside the edges of the paper, so that it is almost the same size as the paper. This will allow you to have nice, large boxes in which to write summary information from a story, book, textbook, or other reading passage.
Use a ruler to help you make the rectangle so that the edges are straight.
 Take the height of your large rectangle and divide it by five to get an approximate measurement for the height of each row.


For example, if your paper is vertical, then 11” divided by 5 equals 2.2” (or approximately 2 ¼”) for the height of your rows. If your paper is horizontal, then 8.5” divided by 5 equals 1.7” (or approximately 1 2/3”) for the height of each row.
 Make a small horizontal mark with your pencil at that measurement.


Then, you need to turn your ruler horizontally, so that it is parallel with the top of the large rectangle, and draw a line across the width of your rectangle. It should be perpendicular to the sides of the rectangle.
 Then, repeat the process of marking a small horizontal line at the correct distance and tracing a horizontal line across the width of your large rectangle.


You now have two of the five rows that you need for your summary chart.
 Trace a line along your ruler horizontally so that you have a third row across the width of your rectangle.
 Make your horizontal mark at that distance, and draw your line across the width.


This last line separates row 4 and row 5. You should now have five same-sized rows across the width of your rectangle.
Do your best to measure each row to the correct size with your ruler.
 Then, use your ruler to draw a line vertically from the top of the rectangle to the bottom at that 1-inch mark.
 You can use this summary chart to summarize a reading passage, story, book, or nonfiction passage. Here is a basic way to summarize most stories or articles, so you would write each of these in one of the five boxes along the narrow vertical column on the left:


Who?
What?
When?
Where?
Why?

, You can use bullet points, numbers, or complete sentences.


For example, next to “Who,” you will write the person, people, or characters who are involved. Then, next to “Where,” you would write the setting of the story or where the article takes place. After that, you would answer “When” by writing the date or time period. Next, you can answer “What” by describing what happened, like a major plot event or the topic of a news article. Lastly, you will answer “Why” by explaining why that event happened, according to the details given in the story, article, et cetera.

