 Vinyl is one of the most popular type of bathroom flooring because of its reasonable price and practicality. You can install it in any type of bathroom and it is easy to clean, waterproof, and stain-proof. Starting at about $1 per square foot ($10.76 per square meter), vinyl will help your renovation money go the furthest.Vinyl tiles are relatively easy to install and are great for DIY projects. Vinyl sheeting is more difficult to install but better at keeping out moisture.
Vinyl flooring is also warmer and softer than ceramic or porcelain tiles.
 This type of flooring has a high visual aesthetic value and is relatively easy to install. Linoleum, which is made from linseed oil, cork powder, wood flour, ground limestone and pigments, is also considered a green flooring option because it is made with renewable and biodegradable materials. It is also pitched as being capable of preventing the growth of microorganisms and repelling dirt and dust. However, it can be rather expensive, with a starting price around $4 per square foot ($43 per square meter).One major drawback to linoleum is that it is susceptible to staining.
 These hardy tiles require little maintenance and are among the most visually appealing flooring options. Both sets of tiles come in multiple sizes and colors and can be installed by a more adventurous do-it-yourselfer. However, these tiles are much colder and harder under your feet. The prices for these types of tiles start at around $1 per square foot ($10.76 per square meter).You may want to consider installing a radiant floor heating system under your tiles.
 Cork is considered a green flooring alternative and can add some panache to your bathroom. The material is mold and mildew resistant and very warm and soft on your feet. Unfortunately, cork floors are more high maintenance, needing to be treated with polyurethane every few years to prevent moisture from seeping to the flooring. Cork flooring starts at $2 per square foot ($21.52 per square meter).In order to prevent water seeping into the flooring, it is best to buy unfinished tiles and treat them once the floor is installed. Because this can be difficult, it is best to let professionals install the floor., This type of flooring is the cheapest option at only $.49 per square foot ($5.27 per square meter) and comparatively low maintenance. It is also easy to lay laminate. However, it does not handle moisture well and can buckle and warp over time.To prevent laminate floors from buckling, you will need to regularly caulk any gaps near the walls, tub, or any other fixtures.
 If you have the resources, stone tiles, made from natural stones like limestone, marble, granite, and slate, offer a variety of unique bathroom styling options. However, stone tiles can be extremely expensive, with prices ranging from $2 to $100 per square foot ($21.52 to $1,076 per square meter). In addition, natural stone tiles are high-maintenance, requiring regular cleaning and sealing.You should consider hiring professionals to stone flooring.

