 There are many ways that you can avoid contact with people you don’t want to see. If you know their schedule, you can adjust your own to avoid them. The key is to avoid becoming a hermit. Don't just stay in your home all the time. Weigh the pros and cons. Should I risk seeing other people? Is that risk so great that I should just stay at home all the time?


There are even apps that can help you avoid people. An app called Cloak collects geo-positioning data from other social medias like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter and then tells you if someone you are trying to avoid is nearby.It is not foolproof, but it can be a good tool especially if you're trying to avoid a person who uses social media a lot.
 Give them the silent treatment. If you are forced to interact with someone who hasn’t responded to your subtle or direct forms of communication, you might need to resort to more obvious, non-violent measures. The silent treatment isn’t just for children. This is a rather “toxic” maneuver because it is normally perceived as very obvious and rude. It is a quick way to tell people you aren’t interested in talking to them.


In many cases, this move can backfire. If you have a person who accepts no blame for their relationship with you, they may try to irritate you into talking. You’ll have to persevere or try something else., Violence is rarely the answer, unless you need to defend yourself. It can be very tempting to strike someone who is bothering you rather than stick to your non-violent methods. You'll want to slap or punch someone who is particularly insulting or annoying, but resist the urge. Use your words not your fists.
 If your relationship has escalated to harassment and even stalking, you might consider calling the police and filing a restraining order. Restraining orders should not be filed lightly. They can have serious legal repercussions for a person. So don’t file one unless you no longer feel safe around a person. If someone has physically assaulted you or made threatening remarks to you or your loved ones, consider a restraining order. 