 Pay attention to your breathing while repeating the word “relax” in your head. Think “re-“ as you breathe in through your nose and “-lax” as you exhale through your lips. Let go of the tension in your body when your exhale also.Don’t worry about the speed or depth of your breaths, as long as you establish a rhythm and your inhale is shorter than your exhale.
Focused breathing helps relieve pain and allows you to conserve energy for later stages of labor.
 Focus your attention on something that makes you happy and imagine it in your head during intense pain. It could be your favorite object or your partner’s face, or anything that gives you pleasure when you see it. Imagining you are in a relaxing place can also help you forget about the pain for a few minutes.

Think of your favorite vacation spot or imagine sitting in your most comfortable chair at home.

If you could be anywhere, would you be sitting on a beach in the sun, listening to the waves crash and seagulls? Maybe you would prefer a cabin in the woods with a rocking chair out front and listening to songbirds and insects.
The more fully you can imagine the scene, the better doing so will distract you from any pain. Use all of your senses to make your image seem more real. Try to feel the sun on your skin or the breeze blowing by.
 Include soft music, candles, comfortable pillows for your bed or chair, or whatever you typically use as tools for relaxation time. Spend the minutes in-between contractions enjoying your surroundings in the moment, instead of anticipating the next contraction or thinking about the last one. This will help you get through contractions one at a time, instead of them having a cumulative effect.Use the candle flame as a focal point to bring your attention to the present if you are having trouble keeping your mind calm. Sit comfortably and look at the flame, watching how it flickers.
Include an object from home that you love and has personal value for you. Concentrate on it and think about what it represents or how it makes you feel to see it.
Try using your favorite small thing you bought for the baby to remind you of why all the pain is worth it.
Ask your partner to massage your feet, hands, or back to help you relax more. For some women, the counter pressure of massaging sore areas can relieve some of the pain., If you can, get up and take a short walk. If not, change positions where you are as frequently as you feel the need. Sit on the bed on your hands and knees, squat down, lean over the bed or counter, roll on a birthing ball, move from the bed to a chair, etc. Moving your body helps labor along by taking advantage of gravity, and it also gives your mind something to concentrate on instead of the pain.If in the hospital and hooked up to monitors and IVs, change your position in bed any time the pain starts worsening. Try sitting on the side of the bed with your feet on the floor, or getting up on your knees, if it is comfortable to do so. Ask your partner to support your torso with their weight.Make sure someone is with you while walking around in case you get a contraction and need support or someone to lean on for a moment.
Keep your walk short and go more than once if you like, rather than walking for too long and tiring your body out before the late stages of labor.A birthing ball is similar to an exercise ball, often used in yoga and pilates. Bouncing and using it to rock your hips back and forth can help ease pain., If you are at home or at a birthing center, you likely have a bathtub nearby. Fill it up with warm water (100 degrees F) and soak. Have your partner use a cup to pour water over your shoulders too. Or, take a hot shower instead. The streams of water can feel like a massage and relax you even more.You should be dilated at least 5 cm before using water therapy.If used earlier in labor, this technique might slow labor down.
 TENS, or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, units can help to manage pain naturally during labor. These units emit a small electrical impulse that is delivered through electrodes placed on your lower back. They can help to reduce the need for other types of pain relief during labor and give you a sense of control, since you can control the frequency of the electrical impulses.Ask your doctor about getting a TENS unit to use during labor.
 Although there are few studies on the effects of aromatherapy during labor, aromatherapy has not yet been found to be effective at reducing pain during labor.However, it may be a nice addition to your labor experience to help promote relaxation. In one study, aromatherapy seemed to help reduce anxiety in women during labor and it also seemed to correlate with a reduced need for opioid pain relievers.Try using lavender, chamomile, or clary sage essential oils in a diffuser during labor and breathe in the scent as you inhale through your nose.

