 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the stuffed lobsters, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 450°F (230°C) and allow it to fully heat., Place a 9-inch (23-cm) skillet on the stove, and heat it over medium heat. Add 8 tablespoons (113 g) of unsalted butter to the pan and allow it to melt completely, which should take 5 to 7 minutes., Once the butter is melted, add 1 medium onion that’s been finely diced to the skillet. Allow the onion to cook until it is softened but not browned, which should take about 5 minutes.You can substitute a shallot for the onion if you prefer.
 When the onion is soft, add the roughly chopped leaves from 2 sprigs of tarragon and 2 sprigs of Italian parsley to the skillet. Stir well so the herbs are fully incorporated.You can substitute your favorite fresh herbs, such as rosemary, thyme, sage, or basil, for the tarragon and parsley if you prefer.
 For the stuffing, you’ll need 4 ounces (113 g) of seafood. If you’re using raw seafood, such as peeled shrimp or scallops, mix it in with the onion and herbs and allow it cook for 1 minute., After the seafood has cooked for a minute, remove the skillet from the heat. Let the mixture cool for about 3 minutes, and then mix in some kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.If you’re using cooked seafood, such as cooked crabmeat or lobster, add in into the onion and herb mixture after it has cooled slightly.
 Add 4 to 5 inches (10 to 13-cm) of water to a large pot and place a steaming rack in the bottom. Set the pot on the stove over high heat, and allow the water to come to a boil, which should take 7 to 10 minutes.You may want to add a pinch or two of salt to the water before you boil it.
 This stuffing recipe makes enough for 2 1 ½ to 2 ½ pound (680 to 907 g) hard shell select lobsters. Slice them in half lengthwise by inserting the knife just beneath the head and cutting downward to split the belly., When you’ve cut the lobsters open, use the knife to remove the brain, heart, guts, and other innards. Don’t remove any of the meat, though., Once you’ve cut and prepared the lobsters, place them in the pot with the boiling water. Cover the pot with a lid, and allow the lobsters to steam for 10 to 15 minutes.You'll know the lobsters are finished steaming when their shells are bright red and the meat is white.
If you prefer, you can boil the lobsters instead of steaming them. Fill the pot with ¾’s of the way full with water and bring it to a boil. Place the lobsters directly in the water, cover the pot, and let them boil for 10 to 20 minutes.
 Place the seafood and herb mixture into a medium bowl. Add 1 cup (61 g) of crumbled crackers, and mix well so they’re fully incorporated.You can use any type of crackers that you like, but oyster crackers, saltines, or Ritz crackers are good options.
You can also substitute crumbled cornbread for the crackers if you prefer.
 When the crackers are fully mixed into the seafood mixture, sprinkle a little lemon juice and white wine into the bowl for seasoning. Stir well to ensure that the liquids are evenly distributed.Fresh lemon juice works best for the stuffing.
 After you’ve mixed in the lemon juice and wine, add a little kosher and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Mix well so the stuffing is evenly seasoned., When the lobsters are finished steaming, use a spoon to fill them with the stuffing where you removed the innards. Be careful not to pack the stuffing too tightly in the lobsters’ opening or they won’t bake evenly., Once they’re stuffed, set the lobsters in a roasting pan so they’re belly-side-up. Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) of lemon juice and a little water into the bottom of the pan so the lobsters will stay moist as they cook., Before you bake the lobsters, use 3 tablespoons (43 g) of melted butter to coat them. Lightly stroke the tops of the lobsters, including the stuffing, with the butter on a pastry brush.If you don’t have a pastry brush, fold a piece of parchment paper into a strip and use it to brush the butter onto the lobsters.
 After you’ve brushed them with the melted butter, place the roasting pan with the lobsters in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the stuffing is crisp and golden and the lobster claws begin to split., When the lobsters are finished baking, use a pair of tongs to lift them out of the pan and onto a platter. Place lemon wedges around the edge, and serve.