 You can use candle bases, wooden spools, or no pedestal at all, depending on your preference. The wooden spools will take a little longer and require the addition of wooden discs, such as those found in craft stores. However, the wooden spools make a neat effect stacked beneath the trees like trunks.


Hot glue wooden spools together by gluing the top of one to the bottom of another. Repeat until you have the trunk height you desire. Glue the bottom spool to a wooden disk as a stand. Repeat this for each tree.Be careful when handling a hot glue gun, and follow the safety precautions that came with your glue gun. You can read more about glue gun safety at http://safety.ucanr.edu/files/3260.pdf.
 Get paper mache or Styrofoam cones. If you’re using wooden spools as pedestals, fit a wooden disc into or onto the bottom of the cone (depending if the cone is open- or closed-bottomed). Secure it in place with hot glue.Glue the end of the spool stacks to the discs on the bottoms of the cones.
 There are multiple materials you can pick from to make up the primary texture of your trees. You can apply ribbon, felt, or jingle bells to your cones. Cut any fabric material, as needed, and apply it to the cones using a hot glue gun. If you opt for ribbon or felt, glue a strip about two inches wide around the bottom of the base, and start your layers above that strip. Glue the layers on row by row, with the points of the fabric triangles facing down. Alternate where the downward points of the triangles overlap for each row.


If using felt, try muted neutrals like gray, white, and beige balanced out with some baby blue or soft green. Cut felt into triangles one and a half inches long.Consider ribbon colors in silver, gold, red and green, or go with any color theme you like! Cut ribbon into pieces about two inches each.Create a clean point in each piece of ribbon by folding its corners on one end and gluing them down in the backs.Hot glue jingle bells with every other row shifted, as if they were making up a brick wall. Give them extra flair by spray painting the whole thing white, or with a glitter sealant!, The options are endless as to what you can put on top of your mini Christmas trees! You can hot glue Christmas bows, ornaments, pine cones, or whatever decorations you like onto the tops.

