 Choose a foundation for oily skin if your face tends to get shiny or greasy, and avoid dewy finishes. Choose a mineral-based formula if your skin is sensitive. Pick a creamy and moisturizing formula if your skin tends to get dry or flaky.For oily skin, look for noncomedogenic (pore-clogging) makeup that is oil-absorbing and oil-free.
For sensitive skin, make sure the foundation doesn’t contain dye, preservatives or fragrances.;
, Avoid powder foundation, which is drying and can look caked-on. Use liquid foundation for full coverage. Choose stick foundation for full coverage and to cover up blemishes.For anti-aging effects, choose a hydrating liquid foundation with a satin finish, ideally using glycerin or hyaluronic acid.
If you’re traveling and want to take your foundation in a carry-on, opt for the stick version.
 Don’t test the foundation on your hand or wrist. Smear a bit of foundation from a test sample onto your cheek, nose and jawline. Go out into natural daylight and see if the shade matches your skin.You can order foundation samples or ask for some at a department store makeup counter.
The lighting in a store is not an accurate reflection of how the foundation truly matches your skin.
Foundation that is too light will make you look pale. Too-dark foundation can look like you overdid bronzer.
 Wash your face and pat it dry with a clean towel. Use a washcloth to gently rub off any flakes if you have a skin blemish, and apply spot treatment to it. Apply moisturizer to your whole face.To make your makeup last even longer, spritz primer on your face after cleaning and moisturizing.
 Consider your reason for wearing the foundation. Opt for sheer, light or medium coverage for minor blemishes, freckles or under-eye circles. Choose full coverage to camouflage darker areas such as birthmarks., Begin in the center of your face and work outward.Use your fingers or a makeup sponge. Dot foundation across your nose, forehead, cheeks and chin.Stick foundation can be dotted directly onto your face.
Pour foundation on your palm, and use a sponge to gently rub it onto your face.
 Don’t use your fingers. Use a blending brush or damp sponge to work the foundation into your skin. Make sure to get your eyelids and cheeks, and blend down your neck last, from the jawline down.Blending your foundation in before applying powder is key.
Using your fingers to blend makes foundation streak or appear blotchy.
Wetting your makeup sponge with water gives you an invisible application, and saves foundation.
 Look for any areas with extra moisture. Pat those areas with a sponge to pick up any excess foundation. Let your foundation air dry before using powder and/or a setting spray., To boost the longevity of your makeup, wait until you’re completely finished applying makeup. Apply a light layer of setting powder, if desired. Then spritz on a makeup-setting spray, with your eyes closed., Do touch-ups during the day, as needed. Check your reflection occasionally to see if coverage of any flaws or blemishes has worn off. If so, reapply foundation in those spots, avoiding any blush or contouring.For example, check around your nose, and re-blend any built-up foundation.

