 Once you are ready to graduate from training on your own to practicing with real live partners, resist the urge to treat sparring sessions as actual matches. Instead, utilize these sessions as what they are: practice. Begin sparring at a pace and volume that suits your abilities at the current moment, rather than launching into an all-out bout right from the get-go.As an upcoming match draws near, increase the intensity to match-level during the week leading up to it to prepare yourself for an actual fight. Allow a day or two of rest immediately before the match to recuperate and avoid injury. Slow things down again once the match has passed so you can continue to work on new techniques or improve on those that need more work.;
, Team up with people who are willing to stick to a given pace and volume. Avoid those who may escalate the intensity of your sparring out of boredom, disrespect, or competitiveness. Before you begin each session, have a conversation with your partner about how “hard” you wish to spar, and then agree to stick to that level of intensity.Things to consider when discussing the parameters of your sparring include the length of each round, where and where not to hit, and the acceptable force of impact.
Ideally, find a partner who is either on the same level as you or better. A partner with equal abilities will allow the two of you to grow together, while a more experienced partner will most likely have better control over their level of intensity.
 Once the two of you start sparring, be on the lookout for the first steps of escalation. Even when you have a well-meaning partner, one quicker or more powerful strike than agreed upon can easily lead to an even quicker or more powerful strike from the other, and from there the intensity will only continue to mount.If you find the pace and volume growing beyond what was discussed beforehand (or slackening off), speak up. Rein the both of you back to the agreed-upon level of hardship.Expect a sparring partner with more experience than you to possibly overestimate your abilities and/or regress into their own performance level without realizing it.
Expect a partner with less experience to have a more difficult time resisting the urge to give it their all.
 There are far too many different types of strikes and combos to use effectively all at once right from the start. Ease up on your expectations of yourself. Take baby steps. Before you spar, determine which techniques you need to work on the most. Choose one or two to focus on in any given session. Learn how to do each one well before broadening your scope and incorporating other techniques.Punches: cross; hook; jab; uppercut.Kicks: front; hook; round; side; spinning back.Combos: 1) front kick + cross + hook; 2) left jab + left side kick + right cross + round kick; 3) double left jab + cross + hook + round kick., Treat your sparring partner as a teammate, not an opponent. Use them as a source for pointers on how to improve your techniques. After each session (especially if they managed to dominate you throughout or delivered any surprises that took you off your feet), ask them what openings they saw that allowed them to score points on you. Utilize their eyes to spot any weaknesses or habits that you may have shown so you can work at hiding them from future opponents.Remember: teamsmanship is a two-way street, so reciprocate. Be honest with your feedback when your partner asks about their own performance, and volunteer advice when you catch them making mistakes that they may not be aware of, in order to ensure that they will do the same for you.
 Spar with a variety of people who range in size, body-type, speed, etc. Go up against tall fighters, short fighters, scrawny ones, bulky ones, those who are lightning fast and those who rely less on speed and more on brute force. Seek out right-handed and left-handed fighters to learn how to adapt your own stance and techniques to both situations. Develop strategies to counter each opponent's strengths and take advantage of their weaknesses.For example, say you are very quick on your feet, while your partner is much larger, but slower. Use your speed to get in and out of striking range as quickly possible, with just enough time for you strike, but not enough for them to do the same. Now, let's say the opposite: your opponent is much quicker to you. Back them into corners so they have no room to retreat.
 Wear three- to five-pound wrist- and ankle-weights during sparring sessions, as well as during other training. Grow accustomed to having to work harder to accomplish strikes, blocks, and footwork effectively. Develop the necessary speed and power with this extra weight in order to increase your endurance during live matches, when your hands and feet will be that much lighter without the weights.This will also make it easier for you to keep your hands up to block strikes despite growing tired over the course of particularly long or brutal matches.
Be aware that consistent use of ankle and leg joints have been linked to injuries due to the extra strain they place on your joints. Such injuries are not universal among all users, but play it safe anyway. Avoid using them all the time and discontinue immediately if you begin to feel pain in nearby joints, tendons, and ligaments., Take time out from sparring to practice your offense. Ask a partner to hold up pads for you to punch and kick. Use this opportunity to perfect your strikes without having to worry about being struck in return. Focus on delivering your strikes with optimum force and minimal effort so that doing so comes more naturally to you in the midst of a match.

