 Consider the styles below:


Casual: Casual style basically consists of simple jeans, t-shirts and sweaters. This is the safest and most common style among high school boys.
Sporty: As the name suggests, this style is most favoured by members of school sports teams. The sporty style includes track pants, sneakers, sports team tops and varsity jackets.

Preppy: The prep style is conservatively classy. This style involves lots of polo shirts, khakis and button-down shirts.

Skater: The skater style is fun and functional. If you choose this style you'll be wearing lots of flat sneakers, skinny jeans, hats and accessories.

Goth: The goth style is dark and brooding. The goth style has lots of black clothing, combat boots and trench coats.

Emo: The emo style is philosophical and sensitive. You'll be wearing lots of skinny jeans, long bangs and band t-shirts. Be careful with this style, because if you don't do the style right then you might be labelled goth instead of emo.

Hipster: The hipster style is vintage and anti-establishment. Expect to be wearing lots of skinny jeans, plaid shirts, big glasses and scarves as well as clothing that isn't "mainstream".

Classy:The classy style is formal and out-standing. Lots of suits, nice pants, some scarves, good-looking shoes, belt, good watches (preferably Rolex) that will show your esteem and how you aren't afraid of being different then the casual clothes, gangster type clothes, or "fashionable" clothes.;
, This is important because some stores cater only to one of the above style groups. If you are worried about not being able to find what you're looking for, then try a mall since they have tons of stores in them.
 You might think that neon yellow vest with purple stripes looks terrific on you, but they will probably have another opinion. However, if you still really like something after they give you the thumbs-down, buy it anyway as long as it isn't super expensive and you think that you will like it until you outgrow it.



Your jeans shouldn't be skin-tight, overly baggy, overly torn up or high-water.
Get a pair of khakis or dress pants for formal occasions like dates, dances and job interviews. Make sure you get dressier pants in both lightweight and heavy fabric so you're ready for any weather.
Jeans are appropriate for anyone, you can just choose a fit or colour that matches your chose style. For example, if you are goth or emo, pick out black jeans. Hipsters, pick out skinny fit jeans.



Avoid shirts that are skin-tight or overly baggy.
Keep in mind that stores size things differently, so always try on shirts before you buy them.
Add a few button down or polo shirts to your standard t-shirt collection. Get these in both short and long-sleeved combinations. These types of shirts can be very versatile.



Hoodies and sweatshirts are a great, casual way to keep warm for everyday wear.
For dressier occasions, get a few solid color sweaters. Avoid overly patterned sweaters and sweater vests, as these are generally though of as nerdy and unstylish.
Blazers are great for dressing up a button-down shirt, or even jeans and a t-shirt. You might want to save this look for out of school events, however, as its a little formal for everyday wear.
Invest in a quality leather, canvas or down jacket for chilly weather. Especially if you live in a cold region, you'll be wearing this every day so make sure it's flattering on you.



Buy a good pair of sneakers to wear to school. Save your beat up tennis shoes for the gym! Converse, Vans or Superstars are your best bet for everyday school wear. They are always in fashion and will match most outfits. Choose a versatile colour such as black, grey, navy or maybe red or green if you wear those colours a lot.
Invest in some quality leather shoes for dates, dances or dressy occasions.
Get a pair of sturdy sandals - not flip flops - for hotter weather.



Cargo and jean shorts should be staple items in your summer wardrobe.
Athletic shorts are appropriate on hot days as well, as long as they're not too short.
 Accessories aren't just for girls.Get yourself a nice watch, pair of sunglasses and a quality belt.
Grab a tie or two for formal occasions.
The right hat can complete your look and cover up a bad hair day. Besides a standard baseball cap, consider purchasing a beret, newsboy cap or fedora to increase your classiness. Be careful about this though: only wear hats in you're sure you can pull it off.
Depending on your comfort level, jewelry like necklaces, bracelets, rings and possibly even an/some earring(s) can add spice to an ordinary outfit. Just stick to one item at a time though, you don't want to overdo it.
 If it's buried in the bottom of your closet, chances are you'll never wear it again.
 Add a baseball cap and watch, plus a hoodie if it's getting cold.
Dressy for Fall: Wear a vest over a long sleeved button-down shirt with a tie. Add dress pants (with belt) and pair with leather shoes. If it's getting cold, top everything off with a leather jacket or blazer.
Casual for Winter: Wear a short or long-sleeved t-shirt with jeans, sneakers and a hoodie. When you go outside, put on a down jacket, beanie and gloves and possibly a scarf.
Dressy for Winter: Wear a blazer over a long sleeved button-down shirt with a tie. Add dress pants (with belt) and pair of leather shoes. For outside weather, stick to a non-leather coat.
Casual for Spring: Wear a t-shirt with jeans and sneakers. Pair with a baseball cap or watch to add interest.
Dressy for Spring: Wear a short or long-sleeved button-down shirt with a tie and khakis or dress pants. Add leather shoes.
Casual for Summer: Wear a t-shirt and shorts with sneakers or sandals. Add a baseball cap and sunglasses to keep the sun out of your eyes.
Dressy for Summer: Wear a short-sleeved button-down shirt with a tie and khakis or dress pants. Depending on the occasion, you may be able to swap sneakers for your leather shoes.

