 Make sure that the oven rack is placed in the bottom third of your oven.If you have a larger oven with two racks, then place one in the bottom third and one in the upper third.;
, Keep mixing them until they form soft, white peaks. If you do not have an electric mixer, you can also use a food processor fitted with whisks. Save the egg yolks for another recipe; you won't be using them in this one.
 Mix in the sugar until the whites turn stiff and keep their shape. Then, mix in the vanilla and salt until evenly combined.
 For basic macaroons, use 3 cups (180 grams) of shredded coconut. For lighter, crispier macaroons, use 5 cups (300 grams) of shredded coconut.Consider toasting the coconut first for extra crisp and flavor. Spread shredded coconut on a baking sheet and toast it in the oven for 5 minutes. Let it cool before adding it to the egg white mixture.For the ideal macaroon, it is recommended that you use 4¾ cups (285 grams) of shredded coconut., You can form them using your hands (dip them in water first prevent sticking). You can also form them using two tablespoons or a cookie scoop. A small ice cream scoop will also do in a pinch.


If you can't fit all of the macaroons on the baking sheet, start filling up another one. If you don't have another baking sheet, or enough room in the oven, set the extra macaroons aside. You'll bake them in a second batch.
 Place the baking sheet into the oven, and bake the macaroons until they turn golden brown, about 15 to 20 minutes.


If you are using both the upper and bottom racks at the same time, rotate the baking sheets halfway through the baking time. After about 10 minutes, move the bottom sheet to the upper rack, and the upper sheet to the bottom rack., Once the macaroons finish baking, take the baking sheet out of the oven, and let the macaroons cool for 5 minutes. After that, transfer them to a baking sheet so that they can finish cooling.If you have a smaller oven with only one baking rack, you can start baking your second batch of macaroons.
 Macaroons are often dipped in chocolate, but they also taste great plain! To learn how to make the chocolate dip, click here. Just make sure that the macaroons have finished cooling off first!

