 Make certain that the vehicle is shut off completely and remove the grounded terminal first, to prevent arcing, then move the battery to a well-ventilated area to charge it.


It is possible to charge a battery without removing it, but you need to know whether or not the battery is grounded to the chassis, to avoid clipping the negative in the wrong place. If it is grounded to the chassis, clip the positive to the positive terminal, and the negative to the chassis. If it isn't, then clip the negative charger to the negative terminal, and the positive to the chassis.If you want to know how to jump your vehicle, read this article.
 On most well-used car batteries, corrosion will typically build up around the terminals, and it's important to clean these periodically to make sure that your battery terminals make good contact with the leads. The best way to do this is to use plain baking soda and water, and brush the terminals with an old toothbrush to remove the corrosion.


Refill each cell with distilled water, to the proper manufacturer levels, if necessary. Do not overfill. Some lead-acid batteries won't have removable ports, so defer to the manufacturer's instructions as always.
 Usually, you'll be able to find this in the owner's manual for your vehicle, if it isn't listed on the battery itself. If you're unsure, you can also usually visit any auto parts retailer and have them check for your, at no charge.
 Depending on your vehicle and the battery in it, you'll need a charger with enough capacity to recharge it. Typically, batteries will be either 6 or 12-volts, but depending on whether or not your battery is a Standard, AGM, and Deep Charge model, you may need a stronger charger, depending.Some chargers are manual, which means you'll have to shut them off when the battery is fully charged, while other automatic batteries will shut off when the battery is full. Other than that, and slight differences in design, all chargers work in essentially the same way.
Again, if you're not sure, head to the auto-parts store for a quick check. You don't have to pay for it, and you'll be sure you've got the right info.
 After you know the voltage of your battery, you can set the output voltage to match. Most chargers have digital readouts, which just let you toggle up or down to the appropriate voltage. Some chargers have adjustable rates, but it's always better to start lower and slower than you think your battery might be able to take.
 Chargers come with two clips, one of which you should attach to the positive battery terminal and one of which to the negative. Switch the charger to the "OFF" position and remove the plug from the wall to be safe. Don't let the clips touch each other at any point during the process, and turn away from the battery itself when you make the final connection.


First, connect the positive cable, which is usually the ungrounded one.
Next, connect a jumper cable or an insulated battery cable that's at least two feet long to the negative post, and connect the negative battery cable to this cable.
If the battery is still in the car, you'll want to clip the ungrounded cable to the ungrounded peg on the battery, and the grounded cable somewhere to the chassis of the car. Never clip a charger to the carburetor, fuel lines, or the body of the vehicle.
 Stretch the cables as far as they go, and never place the charger directly above the battery that's being charged. Corrosive gasses will sometimes be emitted from the battery, which can be dangerous.
 Depending on the battery and the charger you're using, it may take as many as 8-12 hours to charge your battery. If you're using an automatic charger, it should shut off as soon as the battery is charged. If you're using a manual charger, you'll need to check and make sure the battery is charged before you do.


If you want to know how to use a voltmeter to do this, read this article.

