 Once you have friends, you should take steps to maintain your friendships. Gaining good friends is difficult and you do not want to have to start at square one if you start losing friends over time. You should always make an effort to spend quality time with your friends, doing things you both enjoy. This way, you and your friends have fun and you also build memories and share experiences together.For example, if you know your friend is a big fan of a certain comic book character, you may get her a pass to see the creator of the character at next year’s Comic Con. Or, you may treat your friend to a night out at their favorite restaurant. Doing nice things for your friends and making your time together meaningful will show them how much you value their friendship.
Don't get into the habit of waiting to be invited to do things with your friends. Invite your friends to do something fun. Sometimes people become complacent and wait around for an invitation, when instead they should take the initiative to plan and invite their friends to something.
Try asking your friend something like, "Are you around on Friday night? Do you want to see a movie or go to the football game?"
Or you can ask, "Do you want to get together sometime this weekend? I would love to see you!"

, You can also be a good friend by supporting and cheering on your friends when they need you. You should make an effort to keep up with what your friends are interested in and their goals. Supporting your friend’s goals and aspirations will show them that you can be there for them and are on their side.You may have friends who play sports and attend their games to show your support. Or you may have friends who do the performing arts and attend their performances so they have a familiar, friendly face in the crowd.
 A good friend will also be honest. You should try to be okay with constructive criticism and feedback from your friends, especially if they have your best interests at heart. You should be willing to be honest with your friends and accept that sometimes they may be honest with you.You should feel comfortable talking to your friends about issues or problems in your life, and they should also confide in you. You should look to your friends for advice and support and feel you can also give them advice when needed.
 An important part of having friends is maintaining contact with them. If you haven't seen your friend in about a week or so, or you've been spending time with other friends, drop them a quick text or call to ask how they're doing.


You can say something like, "Hey! How'd your test go the other day?" or "Hey! I miss you! Let's grab coffee this week?"
If you move away from your friends (or a friend moves away from you), set up a weekly or monthly phone call with that person. Try to make a plan to go visit your friend for the weekend.

