 Medications such as phenothiazines, birth control pills, phenytoin, hydralazine, quinine, ACE inhibitors and amoxicillin are drugs that can induce LA. If you believe your LA is caused by a medication you are taking discontinuing the medication can help. However, you should not discontinue any medication until you have confirmed with your doctor that it will be safe to do so.
 The nicotine in cigarettes constricts the blood vessels and impedes blood flow.Smoking will only exacerbate the formation of blood clots, so it is best to abstain from it completely.
 Exercise minimizes the chance of blood clot formation by improving blood flow to different parts of the body. Exercises such as brisk walking, jogging, stair climbing, cycling, swimming and aerobics all offer good ways to get moving.


Avoid sports or exercises with a high risk of injury, especially if you are on medication which makes it more difficult for your blood to clot.
 Obesity leads to overproduction of substances in the body that come from fat cells and liver cells. These substances can inhibit clot breakdown and promote clot formation., Binge drinking makes platelets more likely to clump together into blood clots, which can lead to heart attack or stroke. According to a study by Harvard researchers in 2005, binge drinking doubled the risk of death among people who had initially survived a heart attack.Binge drinking is defined by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) as patterns of drinking that bring blood alcohol concentration (BAC) levels to 0.08 grams per decilitre. For men, this usually means about 5 drinks over about a 2 hour period, for women this is typically 4 drinks in about a two hour period. Keep in mind, however, that BAC is affected by many other factors besides gender.
 Vitamin K is responsible for the clotting of the blood. High intake of foods rich in vitamin K can contribute to blood clotting in persons with lupus anticoagulants. Also, if you are on anticoagulant therapy, such as warfarin or heparin, high vitamin K intake will counter the effect of the anticoagulant or blood thinning medications which are meant to inhibit the production of vitamin K.


Foods rich in vitamin K include the following: asparagus, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, chili powder, cucumber, lettuce, oregano, parsley, prunes, spinach, spring onions.
 If you must spend a lot of time sitting (e.g. for work or on a long flight), get up and move around for a few minutes at least once per hour. If you cannot get up, at least try to move your feet and ankles around while sitting.Doing so will make it more difficult for clots to form.

