 If you can prove that you’re witty and capable of snappy answers and fun banter, the girl will be impressed by your flirting style. Show her that you can play ball by knowing how to make punchy or clever remarks at the right moment. Here are some great ways to impress the girl with your wit:


Show that you can keep up the banter. If she's firing a sarcastic or clever comment at you, fire one back.
Be original. Part of being witty is finding a new way to think about old topics. Don't tell her something any guy could say.
Understand your audience. If the girl is really smart and clever, you can make a sophisticated reference in an unusual way. But if she doesn't seem as well-read, don't try to impress her with your knowledge, or she won't get it.
 Guys who are truly funny are hard to come by, so you should make yourself stand out by showing your funny side. There are a few ways that you can use your humor to flirt and to get closer with the girl.


Work on your delivery. Time your jokes so you don't interrupt the girl or lose the flow of conversation.
If she says something funny, don't ever say, "Oh, that's hilarious." Instead, match her sense of humor with a funny comment of your own.
Don't overdo it. If you're trying too hard to be funny, the girl will know.
Learn to make fun of yourself. Girls like guys who are comfortable enough to know they aren't flawless and who don't take life so seriously.
 Being confident is the key to being able to charm a girl and to flirt with her from the moment you open your mouth. If you’re confident and comfortable with who you are and what you do, you’ll find it much easier to flirt with her.


Be positive. Talk about the things you love -- your job, your interests, or your friends. If you're negative about everything, you'll come off as unhappy with who you are.
Don't be self-deprecating. Making fun of yourself lightly is different from calling yourself a loser or talking about how you'll never be able to get a good job.
Talk about something you're good at, whether it's sailing or learning new languages. You don't have to brag to show you're a capable and interesting person.
Don't act like you're so great that she's lucky to be getting a minute of your time. That is a big turn-off. Keep things on the same level. You both should feel that you're lucky to be talking to each other.

