 For an evening wedding, twinkling, lit candles will create a cozy, intimate setting. You can put candles in glass candleholders, decorative lanterns, or mason jars – whatever works for the look of your wedding. Place them in precise rows on either side, or scatter them however you see fit. These are ultra romantic, and they don’t require too much work.If you don’t want to risk having an open flame along your aisle, battery-operated candles are always an option.
 Keep things simple and cascade fabric along chairs lining the aisle. This will add a bit of color to your aisle and tie in your wedding color, but it doesn’t need to be too expensive or extravagant. Choose a color that will complement any flowers or bridesmaid dresses., Designate your aisle by using an aisle runner. This is a rug, mat, or piece of fabric that runs the length of the aisle. You can find aisle runners for purchase in a variety of colors, or you can get creative and purchase fabric to make your own. Using an aisle runner will make your aisle look polished and special.For a sophisticated look, try runners made of silk or satin.
A bohemian wedding could incorporate lace or burlap material.
 Your wedding day is all about celebrating the relationship between you and your partner. You can express your own story or relationship with meaningful pictures or quotes decorating the aisle. Your guests will appreciate the personal touch. The more meaningful it is to you, the better.For example, you could hang your favorite snapshots of you two in decorative frames on the chairs lining the aisle.
If you have a favorite quote, lyric, or Bible verse, you could these on signs along the aisle.
 Never forget that it is your big day, and you can decorate your aisle however you want. If you’re getting married on the beach, why not decorate your aisle with seashells and fake starfish? If you’re going for a rustic or western theme, you can hang horseshoes and burlap along the chairs. If you and your partner love the circus, you can even hang colorful, whimsical decorations. There are no rules!