 The Health Insurance Marketplace, which is also known as the ‘exchange’ or the ‘Obamacare exchange’ is where you can shop and sign-up for health insurance if you do not have employer coverage. Only people without employer coverage, Medicaid, Medicare, or Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are able to purchase insurance via the Marketplace.If you have an employer health insurance plan, but that plan doesn’t meet certain minimum requirements, you may be able to purchase health insurance via the Marketplace, but you will have to pay full price.
 Open enrolment for the Marketplace normally starts November 1st of each year. If you enrol before December 15th, your coverage will begin on January 1st of the following year. If you enrol by January 15th, your coverage will begin February 1st. If you enrol by January 31st, your coverage will begin March 1st. Open enrolment ends on January 31st.You can only add a spouse after open enrolment has finished if you qualify for a special enrolment period.
During open enrolment you’ll be asked a number of questions about your income and your household. The income questions are asked to determine how much you will be asked to pay for your plan (those with lower incomes will pay less than those with higher incomes). While the household questions are asked to determine who needs to be covered by the plan.
A household is considered someone who is the ‘tax filer’ plus their spouse and other dependents (if they have any).
In order to qualify your spouse under the Marketplace plans, you must be legally married. In order to qualify for any of the cost savings, you and your spouse must file your taxes jointly.
 If you want to add your spouse to your Marketplace plan outside of the open enrolment period, a qualifying life event must have taken place. These events can include getting married or your spouse losing some or all of their health insurance via their employer.If you have a qualifying life event, you have 60 days from the date of that event to make changes to your Marketplace plan.
If you already have a Marketplace plan, and you want to add your spouse, you simply update your existing application. To do this, you’ll need to log into your Marketplace online account and select ‘Report a life change.’ You will then be able to update your application to include new members of your household and change to your insurance coverage. Note that adding a new member of your household may change your eligibility regarding cost savings (if your spouse also has an income).
If you do not already have a Marketplace plan, you can start a new application on the Marketplace website to determine if you qualify for a plan. This process will be similar to open enrolment, except that it is happening in the middle of the plan year.

