 Take your dirty pan, and add enough water to cover all of the scorched areas. You should add a two to three inches of additional water to the pan because some of it will evaporate when you heat it.Make sure to dry off the bottom of the pan after you’re done filling it with water. You don’t want to put it on the stove if there are drops of water that may fall onto the burner.;
, Water alone isn’t enough to remove scorch stains from your pan, so you’ll need to add a cleansing agent to get rid of the burnt film. Squeeze three to four drops of your usual dish detergent into the water and swirl the mixture around to spread the soap throughout the water.For very stubborn scorch marks, you may want to use dishwashing detergent in place of liquid dish soap. You can use a single tablet, several drops of liquid, or 1 to 2 tablespoons of powdered dishwashing detergent.
 Once you’ve combined the detergent and water, place the pan on the stove. Turn the heat up to high, and bring the mixture to a boil. Allow the water and dish detergent to boil for approximately 10 to 15 minutes to help loosen all of the debris from the bottom of the pan.Be sure to boil the water and dish detergent mixture, not just simmer it. You’ll know that it’s boiling when you see large bubbles rising from the bottom of the pan and it’s giving off nearly constant steam.
 After you’ve boiled the contents of the pan for approximately 10 minutes, remove it from the heat and allow it to cool completely, which should take approximately 20 minutes. Discard the water and detergent mixture -- you’ll likely notice that the pan already looks a little cleaner. Next, scrub it with dish detergent and hot water to remove the burnt film and debris.You may need to use some type of scrubbing sponge or tool to remove all of the scorch marks. Steel wool pads are effective, but they often scratch the bottom of the pan, which may cause further damage. Sponges that are covered with plastic netting are an ideal alternative because they help scrub away scorch marks but won’t scratch your pan.

