 It’s important to make sure the symptoms you experience are the result of farmer’s lung and not another medical problem before you begin treatment. This is best done by making an appointment with your doctor. Let them know when you go in that you suspect farmer’s lung, and talk about the levels of exposure you experience, as well as your symptoms.Your doctor may request one or more tests including blood tests, lung function tests, CT scans, an inhalation challenge test, or other types of diagnostic testing.
If you are experiencing a severe attack that is impairing your ability to breathe, do not wait for a doctor’s appointment. Seek emergency medical help.;
, Farmer’s lung has a number of symptoms that it shares with other common afflictions such as the flu and asthma. To get proper treatment, let your doctor know if you have been exposed to the types of mold spores that grow in crops, or otherwise work in an inherently moldy or dusty area. Farmer’s lung is most common among those who work with:Agricultural chemicals
Silage or grain storage silos
Farm animals with feathers, hair, or fur
Crop fields
Hay, corn, wheat, or other grains
Fish meal

, Sub-acute and acute attacks of farmer’s lung may be treated using corticosteroids or other prescription medication. Fill the prescription immediately and take as directed by your doctor.Let your doctor know immediately if you have any negative reactions to the medication so that they can provide a different prescription or help you seek alternative treatment.
 Acute attacks may also require oxygen therapy, and those who experienced chronic attacks may also find therapy helpful. Talk to your doctor about a specialist recommendation if you think oxygen therapy would be helpful.Oxygen therapy may be delivered at a hospital or specialist's office to treat an acute attack, or you may be prescribed a portable oxygen tank or machine and mask for long-term care., In some cases, bed rest may be required by your doctor. In all cases, though, you should take time to make sure you can fully recover. Try to avoid returning to work and other physically strenuous activities until your breathing is under control, your fever has passed, and you feel strong enough to do physical labor again., The first thing you need to do if you have been diagnosed with farmer’s lung is to limit your exposure to the moldy or dusty environment. The length of time you will need to stay away depends upon the severity of your condition, but someone who is diagnosed with acute farmer’s lung could be asked to stay away from the exposing environment for a few weeks to a few months., If you must return to work shortly after recovering from a farmer's lung attack, ask for accommodations with proper ventilation. This will help prevent dust accumulation and reduce the risk of a subsequent attack. It is also helpful to avoid moldy or dusty areas in your home during recovery., Help prevent inhaling mold spores by wearing protective gear including face masks or respirators. Depending upon your location, your employer may be required to provide you with protective equipment. Ask them for proper protective gear prior to beginning work for the day., Once you are allowed to return to work after a farmer’s lung episode, do what you can to minimize your exposure to mold in your work environment. When possible, implement preventive techniques to keep mold from proliferating in an agricultural environment. These techniques may include:Drying crops completely prior to storage
Wetting feed or grain before moving to prevent excess release of dust
Using mold inhibitors to prevent crops from molding, In addition to limiting exposure to mold, it can be advisable to limit your exposure to the crops or animals that can carry the mold. If you have the ability, consider mechanizing the harvesting and feeding processes so that you can reduce your direct interactions with the offending environment., Many people are able to return to work after an acute or sub-acute farmer’s lung episode. However, if you experience chronic farmer’s lung, or if your work refuses to provide you with proper safety equipment and risk reduction techniques, it may become necessary to leave such an environment.Chronic farmer’s lung can pose serious problems that could lead to permanent breathing problems, disability, or death. If you suffer from chronic farmer’s lung, talk to your doctor or a medical specialist about if it is safe for you to continue working in your current environment.