 Chanukah begins on the same day of the Jewish calendar each year, the 24th day of the month of Kislev. Because the Jewish and Roman calendars are different, Chanukah begins on a different day each year on the Roman calendar.In 2016, Chanukah begins in the evening of Saturday, December 24, and ends in the evening of Sunday, January 1.
In 2017, Chanukah begins in the evening of Tuesday, December 12, and ends in the evening of Wednesday, December 20.
In 2018, Chanukah begins in the evening of Monday, December 10, and ends in the evening of Tuesday, December 19.
In 2019, Chanukah begins in the evening of Sunday, December 22, and ends in the evening of Monday, December 30.;
, All Jewish holidays begin at sunset, so you should get your friends or family together with you to light the candles just after the sun sets.The exception is Friday night, when the menorah should be lit before sunset. This is because Friday night is the start of Shabbat, or the day of rest, and lighting the menorah constitutes as work (which should not be done after Shabbat begins).
Including friends and family in the candle lighting ritual a very important aspect of Chanukah. A large part of Judaism is sharing the miracle of Chanukah and passing the tradition onto your children. For this reason, try to include others in the candle lighting!, On your chanukiah, you should see 9 slots for candles, with eight slots on one level and one slot elevated above the rest. This is the spot for the shamash, or the candle used to light all the other candles. Place one candle in this elevated spot.


Every night of Chanukah, you place and light the shamash first before the other candles.
The word “shamash” means “attendant” in Hebrew, and its elevation away from the other candles is meant to separate it from the candles that represent each day of Chanukah. Its position also alludes to its important role of lighting the other candles.It doesn’t matter what color candles you use. Some choose traditional blue and white candles, while others prefer differently colored candles!
An electric chanukiah is a great decoration, but it can’t be used to properly fulfill the ceremony of Chanukah. You need to use a candle or oil chanukiah to fulfill the mitzvah (the commandment or good deed) of lighting the chanukiah.The candelabra Jewish people use for Chanukah is actually a "chanukiah," which has nine branches, not a menorah, which has seven. People incorrectly call the chanukiah a menorah, but they have become accepted as the same thing. If you wish to be technically accurate, call the candelabra a chanukiah.
 Every night of Chanukah, you add one more candle. On the first night of Chanukah, place a candle in the right-most slot. After the first night of Chanukah, add one candle for each night, starting from the right-most slot and going left.For instance, on the second night of Chanukah, place the shamash candle in its slot and the candle representing the first night of Chanukah in the right-most slot. Place the candle representing the second night of Chanukah in the slot next to the previous candle (the second to the right-most slot).
On the third night, place the candles as you did on the second night, adding a fourth candle in the slot third to the right.
 Once the sun has set (unless it’s Friday), light the shamash candle using a match, lighter, or other flame source. It’s very important to light the shamash first. The shamash is what you will be using to light the other candles, so you should never light the other candles before it.On Friday night, start the candle lighting before sunset. Use long-lasting candles so that the candles burn for at least thirty minutes after the sun sets.
 Whenever candles are lit in a Jewish ceremony, a blessing is always said over the candle lighting. This is the first blessing that you will say on each night of Chanukah.Baruch Atah Adonai Eloheinu Melech Ha'olam, asher kidshanu b’mitzvotav v’tzivanu l’hadlik ner shel Hanukkah.
Blessed are You, O Lord Our God, Ruler of the Universe, Who has sanctified us with Your commandments and commanded us to kindle the lights of Chanukah.


You can sing the blessing with the traditional tune, or simply recite it. You can also say it in English if you can’t pronounce the Hebrew, though you should use the Hebrew if you can.
It’s traditional to say “amen” after each blessing has been recited.
 The second blessing thanks God for the miracle that God performed for the Jewish ancestors, and is recited every night of Chanukah after the candle lighting blessing.Baruch Atah Adonai Eloheinu Melech Ha'olam, she’asah nisim l’avoteinu, b’yamim haheim bazman hazeh.
Blessed are You, O Lord our God, Ruler of the Universe, Who made miracles for our forefathers in those days at this time.
 If it is the first night of Chanukah, recite the Shehecheyanu after the other two blessings. The Shehecheyanu is a special blessing that is traditionally said every time you do something for the first time, or do a specific ritual for the first time in this year. Because you will be lighting the Chanukah candles for the first time this year, say this blessing on the first night, but not on the following nights of Chanukah.



Baruch Atah Adonai Eloheinu Melech Ha'olam, shehekheyanu, v’kiyamanu vehegianu lazman hazeh.
Blessed are You, O Lord Our God, Ruler of the Universe, Who has kept us alive, sustained us and brought us to this season.
 After you finish reciting the blessings, pick the shamash candle up with your dominant hand. Use the shamash to light the candle/s, going from left to right. In other words, light the newest candle first, then light the preceding candles.


Always use the shamash to light the candles. Never use an already lit candle to light the others.
Although you placed the candles from right to left, you always light the candles from left to right in order to acknowledge the new candle representing the new night of Chanukah before the others.
 After you finish lighting the candles, place the shamash candle back in its slot. You have just finished lighting your chanukiah!

, Another important part of Chanukah is placing your chanukiah in the window after you light it. Placing the chanukiah in the window is a way of proudly showing your Jewish heritage and traditions.


A key part of the Chanukah story is the defeat of the Hellenistic forces by the ancient Jewish Maccabees. The Greeks had taken over the ancient Jewish temple and were trying to smother the Jewish religion. This is why displaying the chanukiah and expressing your Judaism is an integral part of the holiday.Custom says to place the chanukiah in a window to the left of the door, if possible. The chanukiah belongs on the left side of a doorway, opposite the mezuzah on the right side, so that the family can be surrounded by mitzvot (commandments) as they celebrate Chanukah., Instead of blowing out or extinguishing the candles, let them run their course. Make sure that they burn for at least a half an hour after sunset. If you have to leave the house, time it so that they burn for at least 30 minutes after you have lit them.If it is Shabbat, use long-lasting candles and make sure that they burn for at least a half an hour after the sun sets.
If you have to leave the house, let the candles burn for at least 30 minutes after sunset, then extinguish them for safety purposes.

