 Perhaps the easiest way to get active as a family is simply to pop on some fun music and start dancing! You can make a family dance party a fun part of every day, or a special Friday night treat.Take your family dance party to the next level by:


Moving furniture to create space
Curating a playlist of favorite songs
Using scarves, ribbons, or fabric as props
Turning on some fun party lights or a disco ball
Incorporating glow sticks
Wearing fun costumes;
, To play “freeze dance,” one person needs to periodically pause the music. When the music stops, everyone must “freeze” and hold their position. This is a great way to get active, while also working on listening skills.Take turns being the “pause person.”
The “pause person” should be in a place where playing cannot see their hands.
Experiment with staying ”frozen” for longer or shorter periods of time.
If somebody doesn’t freeze (or can’t hold their position), they can be “out.”
Alternatively, you can just dance and freeze without competition!

, Thanks to YouTube, there are millions of dance-instructional videos at our fingertips! Try searching for a beginner-level dance routine to a song that you like. Watch the video and try learning the dance moves together.Learning new dance moves exercises both the body and the mind.
This can provide you with new moves to use in your family dance party!

, If you have three or more players, you can have some fun with musical chairs. Once again, this game incorporates both physical movement and listening skills. All you need is a few chairs (one chair less than the number of players), enough space to place them in a circle, and some music.Arrange chairs in a circle.
You should have one less chair than players. For example, if four people are playing, you should only have three chairs.
Start the music and have the players walk in a circle around the chairs.
When the music stops, each player must quickly find a seat.
The player who is left standing is out.
Remove one chair and play another round. Keep going until you have one winner.

