 Your Burmilla cat will do well on a diet of quality, meat-based food. Make sure the food is meat-based because cats need the amino acids from proteins found meat. Read the label to check the ingredient list. Meat should be listed as the first two or three ingredients.


Check the instructions on the cat food for guidelines for how much to feed your cat. Depending on the weight of your Burmilla, you will feed them between 1/3 cup to 1/2 cup each day over two to three small meals.Avoid cat foods that contain less than 40% protein.
The Burmilla has a stocky body tends to get overweight. Make sure to monitor how much food your cat eats.;
, Burmilla cats are generally healthy, and if healthy, will live to be 10 to 15 years old. To ensure your cat’s health, take them to the vet at least once each year. During this exam, your vet will check them for diseases and give them an oral exam.


Get your cat vaccinated against common feline diseases to protect their health. They will need booster shots each year.
 Burmillas commonly develop allergies. The allergies may be to fleas or food, or general allergies to things they inhale or that touch the skin. You can monitor for signs of allergies, like red and sore areas on your cat’s skin, adverse reactions, inflammation, or respiratory issues.If you suspect your Burmilla has allergies, take them to the vet to have them allergy tested.
 Burmillas have a genetic predisposition to develop polycystic kidney disease. This can lead to the kidneys not functioning properly. Common symptoms of kidney disease are vomiting, frequent urination, and appetite loss. Take your cat to the vet often to have their kidneys and overall health checked.If possible, get your cat from a breeder who has the parents' kidneys tested before breeding.
 If your cat isn’t spayed or neutered when you get them, consider desexing them. Cats can be desexed young, around five to six months. This is before a female cat can get pregnant. Desexing the cat helps reduce the some negative behaviors, like urine marking or heat-related behaviors.


Being spayed helps reduce a female cat’s risk of ovarian cancer.

