 Depending on the event, the dress code will vary whether it is stated explicitly or not. Are you going to a wedding, cocktail party, dinner party, funeral, job interview, night club, the theater, first date, luncheon/ brunch, or a formal gala? Honor the dress code and let the occasion dictate the formality of your wardrobe., Having good clothing etiquette will allow you to look great and feel comfortable. Don’t make the mistake of wearing the wrong outfit for the occasion, like wearing a ball gown to a cocktail party or revealing clothes in a conservative culture. You need to know your colors, too. For example, it’s not appropriate to wear white to a wedding or light-colored clothes to a funeral.There is also a difference between daytime clothes and evening clothes. For the day, it’s better to wear light colors, natural-looking makeup, minimal jewelry, and low to medium heels. At night, you can go more formal and choose darker colors, heavier makeup, high heels, and glitzier accessories., Understand your body type and choose clothes with proportions that play up your best assets. Wear a particular color that looks great with your skin or hair. Dressing in clothes that look fantastic specifically on you can put you on your “A” game., Often, what looks good is not comfortable and what’s comfortable is not stylish. The key is to spend time choosing the right outfit that meets both these criteria. If you wait until the last minute, you’re apt to throw anything on and then regret wearing those itchy pants or unbearably tight shoes! Remember you not only want to look good to the other person but you want to feel confident, too. The way to do that is to wear an outfit that shows your personality but that you don’t have to think about once you put it on.Keep it casual for a daytime date, and dress it up in the evening.
Avoid wearing anything that’s political or offensive.
 Dressing up is not just about picking the right outfit. Also take into consideration your hygiene, hair, skin, and makeup. Bathe yourself well; create a flattering hairdo, and carefully apply some makeup. You don’t need to go over the top -- groom according to the formality of the occasion.
 To create an elegant look, pick one feature that you want to accentuate, and keep the rest of your look simple. With your makeup, play up your eyes or lips but not both. If you start with a little black dress, try adding a statement accessory like a fancy clutch or an eye-catching necklace. The goal is to not overwhelm the look but to have each element complement the other.