 The soup spoon is the largest one at your place setting.In some restaurants, a soup spoon will be brought out to you along with your soup. Use the soup spoon and not a smaller one. Using a smaller spoon increases the chance that you will spill soup on yourself.


In British and American dinner culture, soup spoons are placed at the far right of your dinner setup.There are occasionally exceptions to this depending on the culture. Italy's dinner etiquette dictates whatever utensil you are supposed to use first should be set the furthest away from your plate.;
, Do not blow on your soup to cool it down.Blowing on your soup can make you seem impatient and it can also cause you to splatter soup on the person sitting across from you.


If your soup is too hot to eat, then put down your soup spoon and wait until it is cool enough to eat. Enjoy the conversation of your dining companions and then check the soup again after a few minutes.
 While you may naturally want to spoon your soup towards you, this may increase the chances that you will drip soup on yourself. Instead, spoon the soup towards the back of your bowl and then lift the spoon up towards your mouth. This will give any excess soup on the spoon a chance to drip back into the bowl.When the soup is getting low in your bowl, then you can tip your bowl away from you slightly to get the last bit of soup at the bottom of the dish.
 Your spoon has a tapered end, but sipping from this part of the spoon increases your chance of spilling soup on yourself. Sip your soup from the wide edge on the side of the spoon instead.Never slurp your soup if you are in a restaurant in the west, such as somewhere in Europe or the United States. This is considered rude by many people in western cultures. Try to eat your soup as silently as possible.
 After you have finished eating your soup, put your spoon on the plate underneath your soup bowl. If there is not a plate under your soup bowl, then place your spoon in the soup bowl.Do not place the used soup spoon on your napkin or on the table.

