 Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are helpful in easing the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis.


NSAID's reduce the pain and inflammation process, thereby reducing the swelling in the joint.
Some examples of appropriate NSAIDs for rheumatoid arthritis treatment are Voltaren (Declofenac salts) and ibuprofen, which are available in many dosage forms in most pharmacies.
However, if you have a gastrointestinal disorder or ulcers or are taking blood thinners such as Warfarin, you should be careful while using NSAIDs due to increased risk of bleeding.
Always ask your doctor before using these medications.;
, Antirheumatic medications, such as Methotrexate, can reduce the symptoms of arthritis and relieve pain.


These are prescription medications, but are much more effective at treating arthritis than NSAIDs alone.
Antirheumatics also go beyond addressing symptoms, they can thwart joint deterioration and enhance joint function.
Methotrexate is usually the first line treatment and can be combined with NSAIDs for enhanced pain relief.
 Steroids can also be used to minimize the effects of inflammation and restore joint movement.


Steroids can be used systemically, especially if other organs are affected.
In less severe cases, steroids can be injected into the affected joint to ease the symptoms and irritation.
An example of a commonly used steroid is Prednisolone.
 If medication doesn't have the desired effect, you can look into treatments beyond pharmaceuticals.


Your doctor can apply a wrist splint to support your joint and ease the pain while you are involved in your normal daily activities.
In severe cases, surgery to cure the damaged joint can be an option.
This usually involves sucking the inflamed synovial fluid out of the joint, or as a last choice, joint replacement.
 Doing certain exercises can help restore mobility to your hand and reduce pain. Try some of the following exercises:


Left your hand up straight, open your hand while your fingers are straight, and gently make a fist; without excess squeezing of your fingers or putting your thumb out, open your fist and close it again slowly.

Repeat this ten times for each hand.


With your hand facing up, bend your thumb gently toward your hand palm, count to five then release; do this again with the rest of your fingers, then repeat with the other hand.
With your hand straight up, try to bend the thumb toward your hand palm, reaching the bottom of the pinky finger or as far as you can. Count to five, then release.

Repeat ten times, then do the same exercise for the other hand.


Put your pinky finger side of your hand on a table, holding your fingers straight while your thumb faces up. Slowly close your fingers, making a fist while keeping the thumb in a “L” shape. Count to five, then release your fingers to the starting position.

Repeat ten times, and do it with your other hand.


Put your hand palm on a table, then with the other hand raise each finger up for about three seconds starting from the thumb. For all five fingers, do the same with the other hand.
Raise your arm a little in front of you with your palm facing the floor and your fingers straight. With your other hand, hold the fingers and slowly push them up till you feel a stress at your wrist, count to five, then release.
Repeat ten times, then do it with your other hand.

