 Espresso is a slightly different beast than your standard drip or filtered preparation methods. It not only requires a specialty machine, it also requires a particular type of coffee blends, grind, and experience with packing the basket correctly. While it's more complex (and will likely result in a few less-than-delicious cups of coffee at first), once you get the hang of it you may never visit that mermaid place again!

, You will need an espresso maker with a clean basket and filter, a grinder, a brewing cup, and the proper cup for your finished brew., Shocking the freshly-brewed espresso with a cold cup will not do your coffee flavor any favor. You may also wish to preheat your serving cup at this time, too., Set your grinder to fine, and if possible, grind directly into the filter and basket. Fill so that it is rounded above the basket., Use your finger back and forth in all ways using a sweeping motion to fill the basket-be sure not to lose any espresso and to stay even. Never use your tamper to "fill the empty spaces" because this is a good way to crack your porticup (this is what the basket is called)!, Place your PortaCup at the edge of the counter so the spout is not on the counter. This is to prevent the spout from breaking off. Using your tamper, apply even, firm pressure on the grounds. Keep your tamper flat so that all the grounds are evenly pressed so that the extraction doesn't have any "hot spots" where the coffee is packed looser than other parts., Firmly attach the filter onto the head, and start the machine., It will come out of the spout in one or two thin, creamy tails, and not spurt out. After about 26 to 33 seconds, remove your cup of espresso, and taste it. It may be very bitter, but the end goal is to have the thought "I can have another sip."

Make notes when you first get started, so that you can adjust your grind to make the perfect cup every time. If it comes out fast and is too thin, make the grind finer. If it's too thick and takes too long to come out, make the grind coarser next time.
 Either drink it straight, or with a cube of brown sugar, or however you like your espresso. Here are some quick drink guides:

Cappuccino: A single or double shot of espresso topped with one part steamed milk and one part milk foam.
Latte: A single or double shot of espresso with steamed milk and a thin layer of foam.
Cafe Americano: One or two shots of espresso in a coffee cup, topped off with hot water.
Cortado or Gibraltar: A single shot of espresso with 4 ounces of steamed milk (think "mini-latte")
Macchiato: A single shot of espresso with a dollop of foamed milk (think "mini-cappuccino")
Con panna: A single shot of espresso with a dollop of whipped cream.
Mochaccino: A single or double shot of espresso in hot chocolate.
Red Eye: A single shot of espresso in hot coffee. A blue eye is 2 shots.

