 Mountain pose doesn't look like much, but it's a starting point for all standing poses. This pose helps you become more aware of your lower body and the positioning of the muscles in your legs.Stand on your mat with your feet together. Your big toes should be touching, but your heels slightly apart. Extend your arms to your sides, keeping your palms flexed and your fingers together.
Focus on your breath as you lengthen and straighten your spine. Your shoulders should be neutral, with your shoulder blades falling in line with your back. Even though it may look like you're just standing, if you're particularly stiff this may be a difficult pose for you to maintain. Spreading your feet slightly can help.
Breathe deeply in through your nose, pause, then exhale slowly out of your mouth. Try to inhale for a three-count, then exhale for a three-count. After each exhale, don't rush to inhale again. Pause, then slowly and deeply inhale.
 The staff pose is a seated position that will strengthen your back and improve your posture, as well as lengthening the muscles in your legs. This pose typically is used as a transitional pose into other seated poses that will improve your flexibility.Sit on your mat with your legs extended out in front of you. Your legs should be together comfortably, not pressed together forcefully.
Pay attention to your torso. If you find yourself leaning back, it may be because your hamstrings are especially tight. In this case, you may want to sit on a blanket or rolled towel to ensure the proper alignment of your pelvis.
Extend your arms and press your palms flat against the floor on either side of you. Your arms should be straight down from your shoulders, not angled forward or back.
Firm up your thighs, turning them slightly inward, and flex your ankles. You want your legs to be a line of energy pressing out through your heels from your pelvis. Your spine is a staff, reaching up to lengthen your torso from the floor.
Hold the position for a minute or longer, imagining yourself growing ever rooted to the ground, your spine lengthening up from the base.
 A wide-angle seated forward bend really opens up your hips and improves the flexibility in your lower body while stretching the insides and backs of your legs and strengthening your spine.This pose can help you get ready for wide-leg standing poses, such as extended hand-to-big-toe pose. From staff pose, lean back and open your legs to about a 90-degree angle. Press your hands into the floor and slide forward to widen your legs further.
Press your outer thighs into your mat, keeping your knee caps pointed straight up to the ceiling, and push through the balls of your feet to stretch out your feet.
Walk your hands slowly forward between your legs, keeping your arms extended and your back flat. Remember to bend from the hips, not from the waist. Stay in the pose for at least a minute, moving deeper into the bend with every exhale. Don't bend any further than you can comfortably do while still maintaining your breath.
Raise up on an inhale, focusing on keeping your torso long and your spine straight as you come out of the bend.
 Extended hand-to-big toe pose lengthens your hamstrings as well as opening your hips, improving your flexibility, and increasing the flexibility in your legs and hips.While standing in mountain pose, pull your left knee toward your belly, reaching your left arm inside the thigh to cross it over your ankle. Hold the outside of your foot and firm up the front thigh muscles of the leg you're standing on.
On an inhale, extend your left leg forward, straightening it as much as you can. When you find your balance, swing it out to the side. Breathe deeply.
Hold the pose for about 30 seconds, then bring your leg back in on an inhale, releasing it and going back to stand on an exhale. Repeat the pose with the other leg.
 Your gluteal muscles are a key part of lower body flexibility, particularly if you want to tone your legs with yoga. The active pigeon pose stretches and improves the flexibility in your lower core, hips, and glutes.You can enter this pose from a full push-up or plank position, with your palms under your shoulders. Bend your left knee and slide or lift it to the floor near your shoulder. Your left heel should be near your right hip.
Lower to your forearms, rolling over your feet to bring your right leg down, resting the top of your right foot on the floor. If you have the flexibility to manage it, you can bring your chest all the way down to the floor, extending your arms out on the floor in front of you.
Tighten the muscles in your pelvic floor, contracting your glutes. Hold the position for a couple of breaths, with every exhale sinking deeper into the stretch. To come out of the pose, roll back over your right toes and press your right leg up through the balls of your feet. Bend your right knee to the floor so you can gently pull your left leg back to join the right.
You can repeat this stretch up to five times on one side before switching, or do it once and then do the other leg.

