 Get out a yellow legal pad, and decide how you're going to make this happen. Make sure you plan out some games, pick out some food, drinks, and music. Also, make sure you plan out the party almost beginning to end. It's easier to fix any inconveniences now than it is to fix them at the party. Plan out how you'll get them out of the house, how you're going to decorate, how you're going to sneak everyone in, and how you're going to all yell out surprise.;
, A party is no fun when there aren't any guests to attend! Invite your parents friends and family with an internet invitation or a mail invitation saying this is a secret surprise party, so they know not to ask your parents about it. Better yet, call your invitees. Make sure they RSVP, so you know how many people to plan for, and how much food and drink to get. Make sure you have games and music to entertain your guests, and plan out how you're going to hide their vehicles so your parents don't see them when they pull in to the house.
 Have your parents go out to dinner, or to see a movie. In the time they are gone, you should start decorating the house for the party. Feel free to invite a friend or two to help, if they're up to it. In the invitation, it should specify that this is the time the guests should arrive. Let them in and turn on the music and make sure they are having a good time. Make sure you socialize!

, Have a friend or a relative keep lookout for your parents car. When they see the car, have them alert you, so you can have everyone hide. Notify everyone, turn off the music, and hide with them. Make sure everyone is nice and quiet. Turn the lights off.
 When the walk in the door, have everyone jump up and yell "Surprise!". Hopefully, your parents will be excited and be happy you planned this out. Give them some food, hug them, and have them play some games.
 Keep an eye on the to make sure there are no rude guests, and ask them if they need anything. You planned this out pretty well, so they should be fine.

