 Most skater styles emphasize very tight pants or very loose-fitting pants. Both of these look great, but they can hinder you when you’re trying to pull off a trick. Go for pants that are somewhere in between.If you really want to wear an extreme fit, make sure you road test them on your board before attempting to publicly pull off a trick in them.
If you’re more interested in wearing skater styles and not actually skateboarding, choose the extreme fit that you like best.;
, T-shirts are by far the most comfortable and popular shirts worn by skateboarders and they wear them in every fit imaginable, with the most popular being over-sized, basic and slim-fit. They are usually screen printed with a graphic design of some kind.


Thrasher t-shirts have always been iconic and still enjoy immense popularity today. If you aren't sure where to start, start with Thrasher.Thrasher t-shirts are manufactured by Thrasher skateboarding magazine and are typically very affordable, making them all the more popular.Oversized hoodies that zip up look casual and they will keep you warm while fitting neatly into the classic skater style. Toss one on over your t-shirt.Plaid flannels over t-shirts is another popular look.
 Shoes also need to offer plenty of flexibility and flat-soles are a must. Wearing shoes without these key elements will not look authentic.


Don’t worry about keeping your shoes shiny and new looking. A real skater’s shoes will get ripped up and beaten up from use.
Look for shoes made specifically for skateboarding. These will include all of the authentic-looking features and keep you on your board.
You can’t go wrong with a classic skater brand like Vans. Choose versions that you can slip on. If you get Vans with laces, go for those with the fat laces that don’t actually require you to tie them., Basic skater hairstyles vary widely, ranging from bowl cuts to mohawks. Tony Hawk's hairstyle, which is a New-Wave inspired short cut with long bangs in the front, is still one of the most recognizable skater hairstyles of all time and very popular.Many skaters sport an alternative look with brightly dyed hair in colors like blue, red, and green.
Dreads are a classic look, as well.
 Not just because they look cool, but get them because clothing made specifically for skateboarding will feature all of the authentic elements that a real skater needs.


They offer skater style along with the practicality and functionality required to rock your board.
 If you aren’t sure what skater style you like best, check out what the pro skateboarders are wearing. They usually have endorsements from skateboard brands, so they will publicly sport the newest fashions in whatever style they like best.


If you see a pro who’s style you really like, try getting a few similar pieces and building your wardrobe from there.
Reference skateboarding videos for additional ideas.
 A real skater is most concerned with clothing that won’t get in the way of doing tricks and performing.Don’t overly concern yourself with trying to impress others. Go for a casual look that doesn’t give the impression of trying too hard.


Skateboarding is an extreme sport and will be hard on your clothing. It looks normal and authentic to have ripped, stained and faded items.
In skateboarding, clothing style is important. But it’s not more important than landing your tricks and honing your craft.

