 Public bathrooms are used by many people, and people get understandably upset when others leave a mess behind. If you have to get ready in a public bathroom, always be considerate of the people who will be using it after you.Always clean up after yourself. This means cleaning your hair out of the drain and making sure you don't leave globs of toothpaste in the sink.
If you changed out of dirty clothes, be sure to take them with you.
Avoid doing anything too gross, like flossing your teeth or clipping your nails, in front of other people.
Understand that people typically act differently in locker rooms than they do in bathrooms. It may be fine to get completely undressed in a locker room, but this is usually frowned upon in bathrooms. If you need to change your clothes in a public bathroom that is designed to be used by more than one person at a time, it's best to do so in a toilet stall.;
, If you are using a public bathroom that is used by many people, like those in dorm rooms, try to get a sense of the schedule. Whenever possible, get ready during quieter times. This will give you more privacy and prevent you from bothering others.


This is even more important if you are doing something that others might find offensive, like washing your hair in the sink at a restaurant, for example.
 The right part of the bathroom for you will depend on what exactly you need to do to get ready. Try to take up as little space as you can if the bathroom is crowded, but make sure you have enough room that you are comfortable.


If you need to change your clothes, look for a toilet stall or shower stall.
If you need to apply makeup, brush your teeth, or do your hair, find an area with a sink and a mirror that is as out of the way as possible.
If you need to use an appliance, like a hair dryer, set yourself up in an area that has an outlet so you won't have to move when you're half ready.
 You are not likely to find anything except hand soap and paper towels in a public bathroom, so be sure to bring everything you will need to get ready with you. Travel-sized toiletries can make this much more convenient.


If you need to brush your teeth, bring a toothbrush (preferably in a travel case to keep it clean) and a small tube of toothpaste with you.
If you plan on showering, be sure to bring a towel, shampoo, and soap.
If you plan on changing clothes, be sure to think of everything you will need for your new outfit, including undergarments and shoes.
It's a good idea to keep a hairbrush and some makeup necessities in your bag at all times, just in case you need to do some touch-ups or change up your look with no notice.
Having all of your necessities organized in a caddy will make getting ready in a public bathroom much easier, especially if you need to take a shower.
 Sometimes it's just not possible to perform all of your grooming activities in a public bathroom, especially if there's no shower. Since bathing in the sink is typically frowned upon, look for ways to freshen up that don't involve a lot of water.Consider wiping yourself down with some baby wipes in the bathroom stall if you need to get rid of body odor.
If you don't have baby wipes, damp paper towel is better than nothing.
If possible, always reapply deodorant after you wipe yourself down.
Spritzing yourself with some perfume or cologne can help too. Just be careful not to spray so much that the whole bathroom smells like it, as this may annoy people.
 You may be limited with what you can do with your hair in a public bathroom, but it's not hopeless! It's actually pretty easy to freshen up your hair with very few resources.A lot of times, just running a brush through your hair will make a big difference.
If you've been sweating or your hair is just looking a little oily, spray on some dry shampoo, massage it in with your fingers, and brush your hair out. This is super easy to do in a bathroom.
If you need to style your hair, go for something simple, like a pony tail. Braids are also great for disguising wet or oily hair.
 If your face is looking a little shiny or dirty, don't sweat it! You can look fresh-faced even if you don't have your normal skin care products with you.


The simplest way to wash your face in a public bathroom is to splash some water on your face at the sink and pat dry with a paper towel.
Washing your face with hand soap will dry out your skin, so don't do it.Always keep blotting pads on you. These are the perfect tool for removing oil from your face, especially if you don't want to have to worry about messing up your makeup., Always be aware of everything you touch in a public bathroom and wash your hands thoroughly after you touch anything potentially germy. For the best results, wash your hands for a full 15 to 20 seconds.This is especially important if you plan on doing anything that involves touching your face, like applying makeup.
Try to avoid touching anything on your way out of the bathroom, including the faucet or the door handle. If it's impossible not to touch it, consider using a piece of paper towel as a shield.
 Public bathrooms are not the cleanest places in the world, so it's important to be careful about what surfaces you touch. To avoid spreading germs, don't anything directly on a bathroom surface unless it's absolutely necessary.


Avoid putting your toothbrush or makeup supplies on a public sink.
If you need to put something on the sink and your don't have a caddy, put a piece of paper towel under it.
 The floor is one of the dirtiest places in the bathroom, so avoid contact at all costs. Ideally, nothing but the bottoms of your shoes should touch the floor of a public bathroom.Avoid putting your bags on the floor if possible. Look for hooks or benches instead.
If you're changing into clean clothes, avoid throwing your dirty clothes on the floor. Put them directly in a bag if you can.
If you plan on taking a shower, wear waterproof flipflops.

