 Once there, click on the “Register now” button to become a developer. To become a game seller, you must have a distribution account. Fill up the registration form in four steps, namely Profile Information, Apps Distribution Agreement, Payments, and Tax Identity.


If you are already an existing distribution account holder, just log into your existing account using your registered email address and password with Amazon.;
, In your account dashboard, there is the tab “Apps Sales (Units).” As you are a new developer, this list will be empty at first.


Submit your games by clicking on “Add a New App” button.
Select the “PC & Mac” option when you see a pop-up menu of supported product types. After selecting the “PC & Mac” option, you will be directed to a new form.
Put the general information about your selected games in this new form. You have to type the title, platform, and minimum system requirements of your games to help the customers on Amazon in buying games according to their demands and choices.
Click on the “Save” button. A green check mark should appear on the General Information tab to confirm your successful saving. Fill in information on the other tabs. Remember, every tab must have a green check to complete the submission process.
Remember that the product information, tab by tab, will be displayed to your Amazon customers, and it is the most important option to attract your customers to buy your games, so try to be accurate and as compelling as possible to make your work shine.
You can also add several screenshots of your games to make your product even more attractive.
Finally, click on the “Submit App” button below the data entry area. Make sure that all tabs have the green check before submission.
 After completing your submission, you may need one additional bit of data regarding your game product key. If your game uses a product key to unlock content or functionality of your submitted game, you must upload that key on the last data tab.


It is a major requirement of the Amazon selling method to distribute this key to their paying customers. You will then be directed to the Key Management page. Upload your games by clicking on the “Upload” button.
 You should browse Amazon’s quality scale, and rates for different games before pricing your game. Moreover, you can check other websites for selling games to observe the going rate.


You must pay attention to your games’ quality and their shipping costs. Try to check if there is any problem with the games or any possibility of damaging them during shipping.
Lastly, include the shipping cost in the final selling price of your games.
 Your games are then live to the Amazon customers in nearly 200 countries worldwide. Keep selling, and keep track of your selling progress by checking “My Apps page” regularly. Build up good customer rapport by providing your feedback.

