 They may imagine that their comments or actions were just “joking around.”However, you should explain to them that words have power, and can cause others to feel sad, angry, or distressed. If your child was engaged in physical bullying, remind them that this behavior is unkind.


Ask your child to think of a time someone else made a hurtful comment about them, or pushed them around. Ask, “How did it make you feel?” If your child can’t think of such an occasion, ask them to imagine how they would feel if someone said or did to them what they said or did to the child they were bullying.When your child puts themselves in the bullied child’s shoes, they will be able to empathize with them and understand why bullying is wrong.
 Young children (5-8 years old) tend to not understand that bullying is wrong, but that does not mean that they should get away with it. They cannot identify power imbalances and repeated behavior. They also do not usually know how to reflect on their own behavior, or consider other points of view. Therefore, it is important to teach your child what bullying is, no matter how young they are.Tell your child specifically what kind of behaviors are unkind to help them understand bullying. You might tell them that pushing, name-calling, and yelling at others are bullying behaviors.
To solve bullying in young children, it is important to use simple language and examples they can understand. For instance, you might explain that it is not nice to leave others out of their games, or that mean names are hurtful.
Keep an eye on your child and ensure they are being kind to their friends and playmates.
 To correct their behavior, you should not only tell them how bullying is hurtful, but teach them how to act properly. Behaviors you could suggest to your child include sharing, forgiving, being kind, staying calm (and not yelling), and accepting differences in others.


Tell your child that to make friends and live happily, it is important not to engage in bullying.Watch your child as they play with other children. If they act in an inappropriate way, give them a prompt to correct their behavior, such as "can you share your toys?" or "remember, we don't call people names."
It may take a while for your child to learn how to behave properly. Be consistent with your expectations, and remind them periodically.
 For instance, you might make a list of different behaviors with your child and help them categorize each into “bullying” and “kind” behaviors.


Divide a piece of paper into two columns. Label one column as “unkind” or “bullying” and label the other as “kind” or “nice.” Provide several words or phrases to your child and ask them to place each in the appropriate a column.
You could include words or phrases like yelling, showing respect, pushing, sharing, complimenting, being mean, and hugging.
Ensure the language you use is appropriate for your child’s age. Don’t use complex terms for a pre-teen (or younger) child. Speak to your child at a level they understand.
 Role-playing is a valuable method you can use to demonstrate to your child how bullying feels. Preface the exercise by explaining to your child that you want to show them what it is like to be bullied. Perhaps you can take a pencil or crayon they were using, or tell them you don’t want to play with them. Ask them how they feel. Then, allow them a turn to play-act bullying, and respond with expressions of sadness and emotional pain.


Always make it clear before and after the role-playing that you in fact love and care for your child.
End the session with a reminder that bullying does not feel good, and encourage your child to think about the role-playing session next time they interact with their peers.
 Many films, books, and plays teach forgiveness, kindness, empathy, and respect. They can also offer valuable lessons about the effect of bullying on others. Use relevant media to explore qualities that build friendships and the consequences of bullying.


You might use Hercules to demonstrate how bullying affects people. Refer to the scene where Hercules is bullied by his peers and feels bad about his differences.Think about what films or books your child loves and use appropriate examples to teach your child appropriate and inappropriate behavior.
 If you are a kind, generous, and loving person, your child will notice. Likewise, if you are domineering, verbally or physically abusive towards others, and stingy with your affection, your child will be more likely to adopt bullying tactics and behaviors. Be a positive example for your child and you can indirectly teach them not to be a bully.Make sure the whole family is included in modelling this behavior. Talk to the other parent as well any step-parents, grandparents, and extended family members who spend time around your child.
Act kindly around strangers in public as well, especially if the other person is getting on your nerves. Be calm and polite, and your child will learn how to properly interact with other people.
Avoid gossiping or insulting other people behind their back. This will teach your child that it is never acceptable to speak badly about others.

