 Treatments for depression can help to alleviate symptoms and improve your overall functioning. A mental health professional can help you put together a comprehensive treatment plan that will help you improve your mental health.


Counseling psychologists focus on helping people overcome difficult times in their lives. This type of therapy can be short or long-term and is often problem-specific and goal-directed. A counselor usually speaks with careful questions and then listen to what you have to say. The counselor will be an objective observer helping you to identify significant ideas and phrases, and discuss them in greater detail with you. This discussion will help you work out emotional and environmental issues that may be contributing to your depression.Clinical psychologists are trained to administer tests to confirm a diagnosis and therefore, tend to focus more psychopathology.. Clinical psychologists are also trained to use a wide range of therapeutic techniques.
Psychiatrists may use psychotherapy and scales or tests in their practice, but are typically seen when a patient wants to explore medication. In most states, only psychiatrists can prescribe medication.You may choose to see more than one kind of therapist. Psychologists and psychiatrists often refer patients to one another when they cannot provide a kind of treatment a patient may need.
 If you haven’t started seeing a counselor yet, consider recommendations from friends or family, leaders in your religious community, community mental health center, your Employee Assistance Program (if your employer offers one), or contact your doctor.Professional associations like the American Psychological Association may provide search functions for locating their members in your area.
Make sure your counselor is licensed. The most important thing about any mental health professional is not the letters after their name, but that they are licensed to practice in your state. Check with the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards. This organization provides basic information about how to choose a therapist, what the licensure requirements are in your state, and how to check whether someone is licensed.
 Ongoing mental health treatment should be covered by your health insurance to the same extent that so-called physical ailments are, you still should check to determine your specific coverage. Visit a counselor who accepts and will be paid by your insurance., Cognitive behavioral therapy, interpersonal therapy, and behavioral psychotherapies are three types of therapies that have most consistently shown a benefit to patients. Try therapies that work best for you.If you feel that you’re not making improvements, ask your therapist about trying a different method.


Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT): The goal of CBT is to challenge and change beliefs, attitudes, and preconceptions that are thought to underlie depressive symptoms and effect change to maladaptive behaviors.
Interpersonal Therapy (IPT): This therapy focuses on life changes, social isolation, deficits in social skills, and other interpersonal issues that may contribute to depressive symptoms. IPT may be particularly effective if a specific event (e.g., a death) has triggered a recent depressive episode.
Behavioral Therapy: This therapy aims to schedule enjoyable activities while minimizing unpleasant experiences through techniques such as activity scheduling, self-control therapy, social skills training, and problem-solving.

