 Lyme disease is spread by the deer tick. It may take a few months after being bitten by an infected tick for the dog to show signs. One unfortunate outcome, which seems to affect Golden Retrievers more commonly, is chronic kidney failure. There is a vaccine for Lyme disease in dogs which helps protect against disease.In dogs, the symptoms of Lyme disease are lameness, swollen joints and stiffness, a decrease in appetite, fever, dehydration, and lethargy.
It is the same Lyme disease that humans can acquire.;
, Anaplasmosis is another disease, like Lyme, which is spread by deer ticks. In fact, some dogs will have co-infections of Lyme and Anaplasmosis. It has also been called dog fever.Anaplasmosis can cause similar symptoms as Lyme: painful, swollen joints and stiffness, lameness, lack of appetite, fever, and fatigue. Dogs can also vomit and have diarrhea with Anaplasmosis. A few affected dogs can have seizures.
Dogs will have symptoms for one to seven days.
 Canine Ehrlichiosis is a serious dog disease found worldwide. It is spread by the brown dog tick and the Lone Star Tick. Dogs can contract this disease throughout the year. It is most common in the US on the Gulf Coast, the eastern seaboard, Southwest, California, and other warm places. Symptoms start to present one to three weeks after the bite.This disease causes numerous symptoms, including lethargy, lack of appetite, weakness, trouble breathing, swollen limbs, and bleeding. In extreme cases, dogs can have neurological signs, such as head tilt, difficulty walking, or seizures.
 Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is spread by the American dog tick, the Rocky Mountain wood tick, and the Lone star tick.Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is a disease that can also infect humans, sometimes with very serious consequences.The organism attacks the cells lining the small blood vessels in the body and cause a variety of symptoms.


Symptoms include vomiting, lethargy, lack of appetite, weight loss, swollen limbs, sudden bleeding from the nose or other body orifices, difficulty stopping bleeding, trouble walking, and discolored spots in the mouth or on skin due to bleeding.Most infections of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever occur between March and October.
 Canine Babesiosis is spread by the dog tick or brown tick. It can also be spread via blood transfusions, from pregnant dogs to fetus, and through dog bites.The disease destroys the red blood cells in the body leading to anemia, jaundice (yellowing of tissues), weakness, lethargy, and vomiting.


This disease is common in American pit bull terriers and greyhounds.
 Tick paralysis is a disease caused by a toxin transmitting via the saliva of certain female ticks.The disease happens six to nine days after the tick attaches to the dog. The symptoms develop gradually.


These symptoms are generally related to a gradual paralysis of muscles. They include vomiting, difficulty eating, drooling, change in voice, trouble breathing, muscle weakness, and paralysis.Often, just removing the tick will reverse the symptoms. Sometimes the dog also needs supportive care.