 Your family may want to know why you think you’re depressed. They may want to know what it feels like and if they are the cause of it. You don’t have to explain yourself to anyone, especially someone you don’t feel comfortable with. Simply tell them you don’t want to discuss it.

You could say, “Thank you for your concern, but I just don’t want to talk about it.” Hopefully, they will respect your request and drop it.It is also common for family members to ask, "Are you okay?" If they ask you this, then tell them that you are not feeling yourself and would like some personal space.;
, Your family wants to help with your depression. However, if they’ve never been through it themselves, they have no idea what you’re going through. Let them know that although you appreciate the thought, you don’t need their advice.

Oftentimes, family can try to be helpful but come off as critical, instead. For instance, they may say something like, “Why don’t you just decide to cheer up?” You could say, “I appreciate that you want to try to help me, but I’m going to stick to what my therapist tells me to do.”, Your family may think that going somewhere fun or spending time together will help you “snap out of it.” You can let them know that you want to participate in activities with them. Try joining in relaxing activities, such as fishing, walking in nature, or swimming. Certain activities may help, but it is okay to rest when you are not feeling your best as well.

Let your family know if you’d rather them not try to make you feel better. You may think they are demeaning you instead of trying to help., Tell your family if they are suffocating you by trying to help too much. Your family may try to keep track of how often you take your medication, if you make your doctor appointments, and how you’re feeling. This can feel too overbearing for some. Let them know if you feel they are crossing the line.

You could say, “I know you are concerned and want to help, but I can keep track of my medication and appointments on my own. I feel like you are suffocating me by watching my every move and trying to keep track of me all of the time.” They may have hurt feelings initially, but they should eventually understand.Another option is to let your family know that you’d rather they didn’t bring the issue up unless you mention it.
 Dealing with a mental health condition often carries stigma that can negatively impact your recovery. If you don't want family friends or distant relatives learning about your condition, then you should share your wishes with close friends and family.

You might say, "I'd much rather not have everyone looking at me differently. Could you please keep my illness to yourself for now? I'd really appreciate your discretion."

