;
, For example, if you use the treadmill just for walking, a basic model would be suitable for your needs. If you use the treadmill a lot, you should go for a high durability treadmill.
 There are two types of treadmill’s controller:



Analogue control treadmill changes the speed faster than the digital control ones, but the sensor can over time be interfered with via external impacts like overheating, dust...

Digital control treadmill has a high durability and cannot be affected with external impacts, making it much better and safer. Thanks to this control system the speed changes smoothly.
 For example, a tall person will have a bigger stride and would benefit more from a larger running space.
The number of users will tell you how heavy duty the machine should be and a model with variety of programmes could be a good choice for different needs.
,
Running belt: It should not be any larger than necessary and stay away from overly thick belts. The more belt surface area, the harder the power system has to work to keep it all going.
Shock absorption: A cushioned running deck with good shock absorption is essential for reducing wear and tear on the joints. Make sure the running deck has a shock absorption system with a minimum of 6 pads.
Incline: It help to burn calories much quicker. There are two types of inclination:

Manual: Manually adjust to change the level.
Automatic: Use a motor that change the inclination.


Noise: All treadmill makes noise, but a reasonably quiet machine generally means less friction and wear.
Heart Rate Control: get a treadmill that measures your heart rate, this is vital information to see when you exercise. The best option is a running machine with heart rate sensors.
Programmes: provide variation in your workout. If you just want the running machine for walking or running at the same speed, you will not need a treadmill with variety of different programmes.
Folding: A folding treadmill makes storage and transportation pretty easy.
 Think about the use you will give to the running machine lose weight, tone up, rehabilitate.
 If you use the treadmill just for walking, a basic model would be perfect. But, if you love running, a treadmill with a high speed is the machine you are looking for.
 A normal use would be around 30 minutes per day for two people. For every extra 30 minutes go for a better quality treadmill.
 If you live in a reduced space, purchasing a treadmill that can fold up into a standing position for easy storage may be your best option. In addition to the size of the unit itself, it also is important to leave some space around the machine while it is in use.
 Every running machine needs to be maintained for Balance, Cleaning, Adjust running belt and lubricate.
 Look for a lifetime frame warranty and the longest extension of time on motor, parts and labour.