 It would be a huge bummer to put in a bunch of time and effort into a clever way to ask him/her to prom, only to find out that he/she is going with someone else. To save everyone an awkward couple of minutes, find out if he/she has already been taken.


You can ask your prospective date directly if he/she has a date by subtly mentioning prom. Say something like “Are you excited for prom?” Hopefully he/she will allude to having a date or not in his/her answer.
Get your friends to do some serious recon. This method works especially well if your friends are also friends with your prospective date. Get them to find out if he/she is going with anyone.;
, It would be weird to ask your date to prom by serenading him/her with a country song if your date hates country. Also keep in mind that some people don’t want to be asked in an elaborate way, while others hope for the entire school to be in on it.


Again, be subtle. When you’re talking to your potential date, say something like “Did you see how Timmy asked Sandy to prom? He had practically the whole school in on it!” If your prospective date says, “Yeah, it was awesome!” he/she would probably be in to getting asked in a creative way. If he/she says, “Yeah, it was a bit much” then you should probably opt for a subtler method with which to ask him/her to prom--potentially even just asking them in a straightforward way.
 This step applies to every method you might use to ask someone to prom. Occasionally, people do reject invitations to prom. There are many reasons why someone might say no, but just stay cheerful. Accept rejection gracefully, even though it sucks. As they say, there are more fish in the sea.


Smile and say something like, "Thanks anyway! I hope you have a good time with whomever you go with."
If you don’t want to go with anyone else, consider going stag (which means going without a date.) Get a group of your dateless friends and all go to prom together. A lot of the time, dates don’t stick together for the whole prom anyway--there is a good chance you can still dance and hang out with the person you were hoping to go with.

