 The best way to use mirrors in decorating is to use them to create depth. Place them in smaller or narrower rooms to make the room seem larger.;
, Reflecting light is another great way to use mirrors in decorating. Place them opposite of a window, especially in rooms that have only one window, to double the amount of light in a room.
 If you have a large space to fill and you don't want to spend a fortune on a big mirror, you can also use multiple small mirrors to fill the space instead. Get mirrors in matching styles and hang them collage-style.


If the mirror frames don't match color-wise, you can paint them to all have the same frame color, creating a united look.
 Your mirror placement should also take practicality into account. Placing a mirror near, for example, the front door is more useful than in a room like an office.
 Too many mirrors in a home and you'll be venturing dangerously into 1970s decorating territory. A good rule of thumb is 2 mirrors per level on your house (not counting your bathroom).
 Studs are the wooden frame pieces which act as the structural support for a wall. If you're not anchoring your mirror in your studs, reconsider. If you put a nail in something that's not a stud, even if you use something like a screw anchor to add support, you run the risk of driving a nail into something you don't want to hit, such as a pipe or electrical wire.
 The stud is part of the inner frame of the wall and is usually needed to hang items that are on the heavier side. The easiest way to find the stud, of course, is to use an electronic device specifically for this purpose. You can purchase them from just about any hardware store and they range from $10-40 (USD) in cost.


There are stud finders that use a magnet to locate the stud based on nails that may be in the wall and stud finders that work by testing the density of the wall. The magnetic stud finders are usually cheaper but might not work as well.
 If you don't want to use a stud finder, you can locate a stud by using your ears. Knock on your wall with your fist. If the wall is made using modern methods (built after ~1950), you should hear a hollow, deeper, longer echo when you knock on an empty part of the wall and a short, higher-pitched sound when you knock on a stud.
 There are other indicators of a stud if the knocking method isn't working or you want to double check for the stud location.Look for outlets. Outlets will be built into a box which is anchored on a stud. If you find an outlet, the edge of the stud is probably within 2" from the edge of plate.
Look for windows. Windows are also built between studs, so a window can similarly indicate a stud.
Look for molding nails. Molding and trim is usually nailed into a stud, so you can check your molding for nail placement.
 In most modern construction, studs are 16" from center to center. In older homes (built roughly before 1950 or so) the studs are placed 24" or less apart. If you find one stud, it will make it much easier to find another.


Studs are also located in the corners of rooms. Another way to find a stud would be to measure from said corner.
 Once you think you've found a stud, test to be sure by hammering a nail into the spot in question. If it goes in like a knife cutting through butter, you missed the stud. If, however, it gets more and more difficult to get it to go in, you found a stud.
 An extra hand (and eye) can be handy during this part of the process. Get a friend to help you!

, Will the mirror need a hook? A peg? One or two? You'll need to know in order to plan where you will place the anchor points., Trace the mirror onto a large piece of cardboard. You can then place tape on the cardboard and place it on the wall, moving it as necessary and even testing it out in different locations. Use a level to get it straight and then mark the location on the wall with a pencil., Place the mirror on the wall at roughly the height you'd like it to be at and then mark the upper or lower edge with a pencil. Next, use a level and a measuring tape to make sure that the bottom guide line is straight. Measure the height of the mirror and then mark the upper guide line using that measurement.
 The old adage holds true: it's better to be extra, super sure that everything is correctly measured and prepared than have your mirror come crashing down on your feet.
 There are a number of commercial adhesives which work well for hanging this type of mirror. Command adhesive strips are the most popular brand in the US and work well. Make sure that whatever strips you buy are appropriate for the weight you want to support.
 Place the adhesives on the back of the mirror as listed in the instructions for your product. You should have roughly one strip to each corner.
 Place the mirror where you want it to go. You'll essentially only have one chance, so this is a good reason to outline your mirror location on your wall if possible.
 With Command and similar strips, they can usually be removed without leaving a mark on the wall, so don't worry if you have to remove the mirror in the future. Just be careful to attach and remove them correctly.
 With heavy mirrors, it's a really good idea to have at least one contact point in a stud. Try to be sure that you place your mirror so that it can hang from at least one stud.
 Place a strip of painter's tape on the back of your mirror going just over or just under the hanging hardware. Mark on the tape the spots where the mirror will hang from. This will give you the distance between your two wall contact points.


Most heavy mirrors come with hardware attached at the back for hanging. If they don't, however, use the steps in Method 4 to attach a picture wire.
 Measure the distance from the top of the mirror down to where the attachment hardware is. Then, mark this distance on your wall down from the line you made for where you would like the upper edge of your mirror to be.
 Place the painter's tape on your wall, so that the marks are level with the hang height you found in the previous step. This will show you where to place your nail or screw. Mark this location with a marker or leave the tape in place. Just be sure that it is level.
 The contact points, in this case a nail or screw, will need to be placed securely in your wall. You will definitely want at least 2 points, more if your mirror is very wide. Insert a screw into a stud at the location you found, or, if you must install a contact point where there is no stud, place an anchor and then the included screw.
 Once you have your wall contact point or points in place, hang your mirror, being careful not to let the mirror go until you're sure it's firmly in place and the hooks are able to support the weight.
 If the mirror is heavy, you'll want to try to get your wall contact points anchored in a stud. Since the brackets that will support this type of mirror don't need to be anywhere to specific underneath the mirror, this is not as hard as it might sound.
 For the bottom, you'll want to get 2 J brackets, with a cradle wide enough for the thickness of your mirror. For the top, you'll want to sliding J brackets, which are J brackets that come with a separate piece that they slide and lock into.
 Install the lower brackets into the stud, at the line you measured in the section on lining up your mirror. They should preferably come at least 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) in from the outside corners. If you cannot install them into a stud, be sure to use an anchor.
 Install the upper bracket holder according to the manufacturer's instructions. Make sure that it is not too high. Place the J bracket just inside the holder, making sure not to lock it into a lower position.
 Slide your mirror into place. If it is heavy, get help.
 Lower the upper bracket until it holds the mirror securely in place.
 Attach D-rings or loops to the back of the mirror at two places so that they point towards where the mirror will be hanging from. A wire will go between the rings to hang the mirror on.
 Get a picture wire from your local hardware shop. Thread the wire between the rings then twist the end several times to create a strong connection.


Make it long enough to go between the two D rings and reach the place where the mirror should hang at. You will also need to leave some extra to wrap and attach to the rings.
 If the mirror is light, one hook should be enough. If it is heavy, you will need two. If placing two, try to place them around 4-8" apart (depending on the width of the mirror). They should leave room for the mirror to hang, not being so high that you can see the wire once it's up or so low that the mirror is difficult to adjust or won't hang at all.


If your contact points are on a stud, a nail, screw or hook can go straight in and no other pieces of hardware are necessary.
If your contact points are not on a stud, you will need to use anchors or thick-threaded screws (anchors are preferable). Install the anchors and then hang the mirror from the included screw.
 Once you have your wall contact point or points and hanging wire in place, hang your mirror, being careful not to let the mirror go until you're sure it's firmly in place and the hooks are able to support the weight.

