 If you are beginning with a collection of papers that have not been organized and are in disarray, you will need to begin by pulling the papers together. Find a workplace and collect everything in one pile. You will then be able to work on organizing., These papers should not get filed, or you may not remember to do the work that needs to be done. Set this “action” folder aside to be addressed soon. Then proceed with filing the remaining papers.Organize the “action” file. The papers that need to be dealt with immediately should be sorted into smaller groups based on the work that you need to do. For example, set up such subcategories as call, write, deliver, and pay.
 As you sort through the loose papers that you are filing, make decisions about each one as you review it. Pick up the paper, read over it, decide which category and subcategory it belongs to in your filing system, and then put it away. Working this way will help you with consistency in your filing and will help you save time by dealing with each item only once.As you review each item, you should determine whether you even need to keep it. If the paper is something that has already been dealt with and is not something that you need to keep as a record, then consider discarding it rather than filing it.
 Most of the papers you have will probably have come in correspondence and are likely to be in envelopes and folded. Remove the papers from their envelopes, open them flat, and then file. Filing each paper in this way helps your folders fit uniformly in the file drawer, without bulging where the folded papers stack up.Decide whether you need to keep any envelopes. In most cases, the envelopes are unnecessary and can be discarded. However, if you believe you may need proof of delivery or proof of a postmark, then you should staple the envelope to the papers and keep them together.
Multiple papers should be stapled together. This will prevent things from getting separated or lost. Staples are preferable to paper clips because (a) they fit more uniformly in the files and (b) they do not have the problem of slipping off.

