 With the exception a a few professional inline leagues, most inline hockey players do not wear shoulder pads because direct checking is not allowed, although, rubbing players into the boards is OK. There are players however, that feel more comfortable and protected wearing shoulder pads anyway. Another alternative to shoulder pads that many high level players wear, is a padded shirt. These are breathable stretch shirts with pieces of foam and hard plastic shells inserted. They offer good protection without having bulk of shoulder pads.(They are also socially accepted so you won't get chirped at. XD);
, One piece of equipment a lot of inline players do not wear but should is a girdle or "hockey pants." Inline girdles are more lightweight and cooler than ice girdles. There might not be legal checking, but this is still a contact sport and collisions are frequent. Most inline girdles have a jock built in and some even come with a cup.
, Shin guards are both recommended and required equipment. Ice hockey shin guards are more often than not exactly the same as inline, as in, shin guards are shin guards as long as they are designed for hockey. Hockey shin guards also provide knee protection unlike soccer shin guards for example, and are designed to take the impact of a puck as well as a stick.
 Many players over the age of 18 prefer no extra face protection or wear a half shield. A full face cage or shield is highly recommended.
, Often times sticks from opposing players will get up on the hands, many times unintentionally. Gloves are the same as shin guards in the sense there is no difference between ice hockey and inline gloves.
, Inline Hockey skates for the most part, are ice hockey skates with wheels. If you are looking for skates, try them on first and see what feels comfortable to you. If you have the option, bake new skates. Baking skates helps them conform to the shape of your foot and much faster. This makes the breaking in process shorter and less painful. One mistake a lot of new or inexperienced skaters make is not tying their skates tight enough. Once you have the skates good a tight, pull them tighter. The tighter the skate the healthier for your ankles and knees but also, the better and faster you will be able to skate. Loose skates will be harder to stand on and when you take a stride will absorb the energy of your push whereas a tight skate will transfer that energy through the skate to the floor.
 This is a matter a preference. Some people like to wear their shins over the tongue of their skates. Other players prefer to wear their shins under the tongue, or inside their skates.
 Ice on the other hand calls for a bigger girdle so nothing is worn over it, instead hockey socks are worn to cover the shin guards. Some inline players also play ice and wear an ice girdle and hockey socks when playing inline. Other inline players wear shorts over their girdle and wear ice hockey socks. Wearing pants or socks is not important however, most leagues require you to cover all your pads.
 The type of jersey you wear does not matter however, inline jerseys are much cooler than ice jerseys.

