 When your clothes smell bad, you (hopefully) wash them, so why not use the same method for your shoes? For best results, remove the soles and laces from the shoes, then put all the pieces in a pillowcase or laundry bag to keep them together. Wash on warm or hot with your standard detergent. Repeat the wash cycle for especially-smelly shoes.If you can, let the shoes air dry in the sun. Not only will this expose them to plenty of fresh air so that they can "air out" — the sun also acts as a natural disinfectant for odor-causing bacteria.Note that this is not a good choice for shoes that can be damaged by water (like leather shoes).
 Shoes that have been exposed to sweat, moisture, and foot odor for years can have bacteria and fungi living deep within their fabric. To kill these organisms, a strong disinfecting soak may be necessary. This method uses bleach, so it's not a good choice for dark-colored shoes. You also won't want to use it for moisture-sensitive materials like leather. Follow the steps below:


Soak the shoes in rubbing alcohol. Let it saturate the outside and inside fabric completely for about five minutes.
Let the shoes air dry in the sun. If the weather isn't being cooperative, use a dryer set to low.
Mix equal parts bleach and water. Put this mixture in a spray bottle and mist the inside and outside of each shoe carefully. Pull out the tongue, sole, and laces to make sure the spray gets everywhere.
If you have an anti-fungal spray, use this like the bleach mixture. Otherwise, let the shoes air dry again before wearing.
 If your shoes smell especially bad, you can try replacing parts of them to eliminate the source of the odor. A new set of insoles it probably the most effective thing you can buy. Insoles are sold as accessories at most of the same places where you might buy shoes and are usually fairly cheap. They can also feel great — many are made to provide extra comfort and support to people who spend lots of time walking or standing.
 Heat is a great way to kill bacteria — this is one of the reasons why meat is usually cooked before eating. You can heat your shoes in the microwave to kill bacteria, but if you do, you need to be cautious. Heating for too long can damage your shoes or the microwave itself. As with some of the methods above, this is not a good method for shoes made out of leather or water-sensitive materials. It should also not be used for shoes with metal pieces. Follow the steps below:


Soak a rag in water. Rub the inside and outside of the shoe so that the material is damp all the way through, but not soaking wet.
Put the shoes in the microwave. Remove the rotating plate if your microwave has one.
Heat the shoes on high for 30 seconds. Stop and carefully check their temperature with the back of your hand. If they aren't hot, heat for another 30 seconds.
Continue heating in 30-second intervals until the shoes are quite hot. Use a set of tongs to remove them and let them air dry.
 A great way to get rid of smelly shoes is to fight the odor at its source — your feet. Keeping your feet as clean, dry, and odor-free as possible will make it much harder for your shoes to get smelly in the first place.


One way to keep your feet fresh is to use talcum powder. Sprinkling a little on your feet and in your socks once you start sweating will help absorb moisture and prevent the bacteria that cause odors from forming.
See our article on foot odor for more ideas.

