 Ice fishing rods are typically shorter than freshwater or saltwater rods. They vary in length from 24 - 36 inches. You will need to choose the size of your rod based on the thickness of the ice and type of fish that you are fishing for., Ice fishing requires a very sensitive rod. Fish are not very active in cold water so you need a rod that is both able to withstand the harsh weather conditions and be flexible and sensitive enough to indicate when you have a bite. Look for graphite or fiberglass rods.The type of fish that you are planning to catch will also determine how sensitive and flexible you want your rod. For example, panfish require a rod that is very light whereas game fish, like Northern pike, need a heavier rod.
 Choose a spinning reel or a spring tension spool with a line to match your rod. For example, if you are using a lightweight rod, use a lightweight line. You may also use a fly reel instead of a spinning reel.A fly reel has less line to twist relative to the spinning reel.
 A tip-up is a device that dangles bait beneath the ice. It lets you know when a bite happens with a flag set above the ice. The device is similar to a rod in that it uses a reel that is submerged under water. A fish takes the bait and turns the reel which releases the flag to signal that you have a strike.Tip-ups are usually made of wood and some are circular to fit over your hole and prevent it from freezing over. Use a heavy line when using a tip-up with braided line for larger fish like walleye.
 Setup two holes at different locations. Make sure the locations are close enough for you to react in case you have two bites but far enough that they give more opportunities for multiple strikes. Use your spinning rod to jig in one hole as your monitor your tip up.Jigging means that use a special device -- a jig -- to produce a jerking up and down motion as it moves through the water. The jerking motion is meant to illicit the strike reflex of certain types of fish.
 Both live and artificial baits will work for ice fishing. For artificial baits you may choose banana jigs, and teardrop jigs. For live bait you may try worms, bee mother larva, maggots, fly larvae, mayfly larvae, or minnows. Slowly jig the bait for whichever bait you choose.