 The 1” barrel will allow you to create large curls that you can then shake out and scrunch up to create a wavy look. You can also use a curling iron with a larger barrel or a smaller barrel, though it may be more difficult to achieve the wavy look.You can buy curling irons from a beauty supply shop or online.;
, A protective hair serum made from natural products, like argan oil, or a serum made to protect hair from heat will ensure your hair does not dry out when you curl it. Applying a protective serum to your hair before you use the curling iron on it will also help to protect your hair from any damage or breakage due to the heat.You can find a protective hair serum or spray in the beauty aisle or online.
 To set the wavy look, you should apply a protective finishing spray once your hair has been curled. The spray can contain a setting agent or a finishing agent that will keep your hair in place but it should also have a protective element so your hair stays healthy and shiny throughout the day., The most effective way to get the wavy hair look is to curl your hair in sections. You can use a comb to divide your hair into two even sections on either side of your head.








You can then clip one section of hair with a large clip. Make sure the section is out of the way so you can focus on the loose section first.
 This will ensure your hair does not dry out when you curl it. You can apply a few spritzes of spray on your hair or rub the ends of your hair with the serum.
 Before you start curling the section, you should run the curling iron over the ends of your hair in quick, fluid motions. This will ensure your hair is smooth and ready to be curled.








This step is especially useful for individuals with wavy hair who want to give their hair more of a controlled wave. You should try to start with smooth, straight hair so the waves stick to your hair more effectively.
You can also use a hair straightener on your wavy or curly hair to make it straight or try a straightening balm. Once your hair is not as curly through straightening, you can curl your hair in sections and give it a more controlled, wavy look.
 Grab a small chunk of hair from the loose section, about one to two inches of hair. Starting at the base of your hair, close to your roots, wrap the section around the curling iron away from your face. This will ensure the wave flows away from your face, rather than into it.








Hold the hair in the curling iron in your hair for about 10 seconds. Then, loosen your grip on the curling iron handle and pull the curling iron down to the end of your hair.
Curl the same section of hair again to the top of your head, close to your roots. Hold the hair for 5 seconds and then gently release the handle on the curling iron, releasing the hair. You should now have curls moving away from your face.
 Once you have curled one section of hair, move to the other section. Work carefully and curl each small chunk of hair so the curls look uniform when they fall side by side. Always curl away from your face the curls do not crowd or hide your face. Remember to apply protective spray or serum on your hair before you apply any heat to it.








If you have shorter sections of hair around your face, you should take small pieces of the hair and curl them one small section at a time. You can alternate the direction of the curls so they have a more wavy look.If you have bangs, you can brush your bangs to one side of your face. Choose the side where your hair naturally parts and try to brush all of your bang hair to the same side.
 Once you have curled all of your hair, you will need to make the curls appear more loose and wavy. Run the comb over the curls in sections, softly loosening up the curls with the comb. You can also use your fingertips to gently loosen up the curls.








Another option is to flip your head upside down and use your fingers to loosen up the curls. Try to separate all the curls by running your hands through them. Check that the curls appear loose and wavy, rather than stiff and uniform.
 Now that you have the ideal wavy hair look, you should use a finishing spray to ensure it stays put for the rest of the day or night. Apply a few spritzes of the finishing spray to your hair and run your fingers through the curls one last time. This should keep your hair looking wavy and loose.








If you have straight, fine hair you may want to put in a volumizing or texturizing spray on your wavy hair to give it some body. Apply a few spritzes to your hair and then use your fingers to lightly rub the spray into the ends of your hair.

