 Some social stories are meant to be used generally while some social stories target a specific event, situation or activity.


Examples of social stories that can be used generally are: how to wash hands, how to arrange the table for dinner, or how to cope with sensory overload. Examples of stories that target a specific situation or event are: going for a medical check-up, boarding a flight.
Social stories which have a general purpose can be read out or reviewed once or a couple of times a day depending on the child and his readiness to pick up the behavior. But, the social stories meant for a specific purpose should be read out or reviewed several times before the event or activity occurs.
For example, a social story on visiting the doctor’s office for a medical check up should be read for several days before the child leaves for the check-up.;
, Each story should focus on only one particular behavior, emotion, event, or situation. This is because autistic children may find it difficult to take in lots of information all at once.
 Try to make the hero of your story sound much more like the kid. You can do this through physical appearances, gender, by the number of family members the child have, interest, or skills. Help the child like and identify with the character.


Once when the child starts identifying with the main character, it will be easier for you as the narrator to convey your message. The hope is that the child will start relating to the character in the story and will do whatever she does.
For instance, while telling a story to Eric you might say, “Once there was a boy named Eric. He was smart, intelligent, tall, very sweet, and he loved playing basketball like you.”

, Stories can be read out to the child, or they can be brought out in the form of a simple book which the child can always carry in the bag and read whenever she feels the need to.

If your child can read, keep the social story books where she can access them. She may want to browse them on her own.






Autistic children benefit from visual aids, so pictures, photos, and drawings can be included in the social stories. These draw your child's attention and make the book more interesting.
Learning can be maximized when the child’s participation is voluntary rather than imposed. Try making social stories a routine activity that your child can enjoy. If she is reluctant, try adding in some "fun," non-educational picture books to your reading session too.
 Social stories should always be presented in such a manner that the child is able to associate the stories with positive behaviors, positive tools to combat negative emotions, and positive ways to approach and accept new situations and activities.


The social story should have no negative undertones. The atmosphere, attitude, and tone of the people involved in the presentation of the story should be positive, comforting and patient at all times.
 It helps to directly involve the people who have a part to play in the social story: for example, if the story is about sharing toys with others, then it helps to involve the sibling or a friend of the child.


The child will be able to relate better and will also see for themselves what sharing is like, and view the change in the attitude of the sibling or friend towards him when they are willing to share.
This will encourage more and more positive and rewarding behaviors.
 Time, place and mood should be kept in mind when presenting a social story to the child: the child should be in an anxiety-free mood, fresh, relaxed and reasonably energetic.


You should not tell the story when the child is hungry or tired. Your child won't be able to concentrate well if her mood and energy are faltering.
Also, the place should be free of bright lights, loud sounds and other distractions which the child can be sensitive to. Telling a social story under the wrong conditions is pointless and stressful to the child.
 Social stories are highly effective when told right before the expected behavior is supposed to happen.


As the story is fresh in the child's mind, she will remember what happened in it and will base her behavior off of the familiar story.
For instance, if the story is about sharing your toys while playing, the teacher can have a story session just before recess time so that the effect stays fresh with them during the recess where they can practice sharing their toys with other children.
 Social stories can also be used to help autistic deal with emotions that they find overwhelming and uncontrollable. For example, these stories could involve narratives about what to do when you do not feel like playing with others, how to deal with death of a loved one.


Social stories can also teach the needed social skills to the child, such as communicating well with peers, communicating needs and want clearly and politely, and building friendships and relationships. Explicit instruction helps autistic children pick up social skills that neurotypical children learn independently.
Social stories can also impart skills to the child that are essential to him for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene, for example what to do after waking up, how to use the toilet, how to wash hands, etc.
 Stories are the best way for a child to communicate their cognition with other people. From time to time, ask the child to tell you a story of their own. Through this story try to see if she includes the stories that you have been telling her or whether she makes up her own.


Usually children make stories of what they go through every day or what they would want to go through every day. Make note of potential problems which she might bring up in the story.
For instance, if the child tells a story that begins “Once there was a girl who hit everyone in school and stole their food all the time,” that might indicate a problem. Your child might be trying to tell you about some bullying problem that she is facing in school with ‘this’ girl.
 The social stories can be modified depending on the skills which the child acquires. You can remove certain elements from the social story or add new ones to suit the current condition of the child.


For example, if the child has now understands how to ask for a break when she feels overwhelmed, then you can phase out the story and move on to new ones.
It helps to periodically review old social stories (e.g. once a month) to help maintain the behavior. You can also place the stories in reach, so the child can access them if she wants to reread them.
 These sentences talk about a particular situation or event, give details as to who the participants are or who is involved in the situation, what the participants will be doing and the reason behind their involvement. They deal with ‘where’, ‘who’, ‘what’, ‘why’.


For example, if a social story is about washing hands before suppertime, descriptive sentences should be used to talk about the situation, and provide information about who should wash their hands and why (to prevent spread of germs).
Descriptive sentences provide factual information. For example, "The sink is a clean white bowl with two silver handles that control the water."

, These sentences talk about the psyche of the person with respect to a particular situation, including the person’s emotions, thoughts and mood.


For example, "Mom and Dad like it when I wash my hands. They know that it is good to wash your hands before supper. They are proud of me."

, Use directive sentences to talk about the desired responses or behaviors.


For example: "I will try to wash my hands before suppertime every day."

, Affirmative sentences can be used along with descriptive, perspective or directive sentences.


Affirmative sentences increase or highlight the importance of the sentence, be it descriptive, perspective or directive.
For example, "I will try to wash my hands before supper. It is very important that I have clean hands." The second sentence is highlighting the importance of washing hands

, These sentences make the child understand/realize the importance of others in the situation or activity.


For example, "There is a lot of traffic on the road. My mom and dad can help me cross the road." This helps the child understand that he needs to cooperate with mom and dad in order to cross the road.
 Control sentences should be written from the perspective of the autistic child to help her remember and apply it in a particular situation. They are like personalized sentences.


For example, "I need to eat vegetables and fruits at every meal to stay healthy just as plants need water and sunlight to grow."
It is ideal to use 0-2 control sentences for every 2-5 descriptive and perspective sentences. This helps keep the story from being too commanding and turning into an "anti-social story."

, These sentences help the child to do some guesswork about a situation. The child will be allowed to guess the forthcoming step in a situation.


For example, "my name is ------ and my brother’s name is ------ (descriptive sentence) . My brother will feel ------- when I share my toys with him (perspective sentence)."
Partial sentences can be used with descriptive, perspective, cooperative, affirmative and control sentences and can be used once the child has a decent understanding of certain situations and what behaviors are appropriate and expected.
Try to make a game of figuring out the missing word.
 Social stories can be used for a number of different purposes, for example: to acclimatize the child to any changes in routine, to new environments, to dispel fears and insecurities in them, to teach them the hygiene and cleanliness, to introduce them to certain procedures, etc.
 For example, the story could be something like "I am angry and upset. I feel like screaming and stomping my feet. But that would upset the people around me and make them feel bad. My mom and dad said I should tell an adult who is with me that I am frustrated. I am taking deep breaths and counting to myself. If I need to take a break, I can go to my quiet space. I will feel better soon."

, A specific social story should be developed with to prepare the child mentally for what they can expect to encounter at the doctor’s office.


This is very important because it has been observed that autistic children are usually bothered by bright lights, loud sounds, close proximity, touching owing to their heightened responsiveness to sensory stimulation. A visit to the doctor’s office/dentist involves most of the above things. Social stories help prepare the child and reduce anxiety.
The stories can cover aspects such as what the doctor’s office looks like, what toys or books the child will get to play with at the office, what the lighting with be like, what the procedures will be like, how he is supposed to respond to the doctor, etc.
 Social stories can be used to introduce the child to new games and sports during physical education sessions.
 Social stories can be used if an autistic child is starting school or moving to a new school, moving to a new campus, or moving to next grade. Change can cause anxiety in autistic children, and social stories help reduce fear by teaching them what to expect and giving them confidence.


Since the child has already visited the places through the social stories, the child feels less insecure and less anxious about exploring the place. It is a known fact that children with ASD find it difficult to cope with change. But, when planning and preparation are involved, the child can be made to accept change with less resistance.
 Sometimes social stories can be divided into parts to simplify their understanding. This can be useful for significant events, such as preparing to travel on an airplane.


The story will need to be very detailed, and will involve things like the need to wait in line, the need to wait in lounges, what the child is supposed to do while waiting, and what the general behavior rules are.
In the above example about travelling in an airplane, the first part of the story can talk about situations that involve preparations, such as: "Florida is very warm, so I need to pack lighter clothing, with no heavy jackets. It might rain once in a while so I need to carry an umbrella. I will have plenty of free time, so I will carry my favorite books, puzzles, and small toys."

, The second part can talk about what the child can expect in the airport, For example:


"There will be lot of other people in the airport. It is normal because they are travelling just like me. My mom and dad have to take a boarding pass so that we are allowed onto the flight. For that we need to wait in line for our turn. This might take some time. I can stand with mom and dad or sit in the stroller next to mom or dad. I can also read a book if I want to."
The third part can talk about what to expect once on the flight and how to behave appropriately. For example: "There will rows of seats and lot of other people in the flight. A stranger might sit beside me, but that is okay. I have to put on my seatbelt as soon as I sit in the airplane and I should keep the seatbelt on. If I need something or need to say something I should say it softly to mom or dad. No yelling, screaming, kicking, rolling, hitting…I have to be calm at all times in the plane and listen to my mom and dad."

