 If you have reason to doubt or question a doctor’s diagnosis, you may want to get a second opinion. This can ensure that you get prompt and proper treatment. However, your insurance company may have restrictions on getting a second opinion. Let your insurance company know you want to get a second opinion. This can ensure you know what is covered as well as prevent confusion or denial of the bill.Tell your insurance representative why you’d like a second opinion. This could be because you are not sure your doctor understood you or your physician suggested a second opinion from a specialist.
See what your insurance will cover and if you need to see certain specialists within your plan. This visit may need to be approved first.
 Before you go for a second opinion, make sure to have any information relevant to your case ready for the appointment. This can help the doctor better evaluate your case. It can also ensure a prompt and proper diagnosis and treatment. Take the following to your appointment:Previous medical records
Contact information for the first physician
Insurance card
List of prescription medications and allergies
Diagnostic test results

, There is nothing wrong with getting a second opinion. In fact, it may help ease your mind and/or get you the most optimal treatment. Many doctors will welcome and even suggest getting a second opinion. Choose to see another general doctor or a specialist, depending on what your condition is.Let your first doctor know you’re seeking a second opinion. It is within your rights as a patient to ask another physician for their assessment of your condition. Recognize that the doctors may work well together to ensure you get the best treatment possible.
Tell your second doctor that you’ve sought a first opinion and what those results are. You can say, “I saw another doctor about this and I’m really reluctant to undergo such a radical procedure before exploring all of my options.”

, The new doctor should offer a diagnosis and treatment plan. This could be the same or differ from the first opinion. Ask the doctor to explain the benefits and drawbacks of each option to help you make the right choice for your needs.Recognize that you could get a third opinion if the first two don’t agree.

