 After reading the casting call, take some time to go over your photos and portfolio. Ask yourself: does my portfolio meet the expectations of this client? Do my pictures seem to fit with the client’s style? If you answered “no” to either question, then consider taking new pictures or, at least, updating your portfolio and composite to be more specific for this job.
 Even if you feel confident in front of a camera, applying for a job is a stressful situation. Watching yourself make expressions will not only help you to make those movements more natural, you’ll learn how they “feel” on our face, so that, during the go-see, you’ll be confident that you’re showing the client what they want to see., In the days or weeks before the go-see, pay extra attention to your health. Make sure that you’re eating healthy foods that are high in vitamins and antioxidants, in order to reduce any inflammation of the skin or body. Exercise to keep your muscles toned, and use gentle products on your skin and hair to reduce the chance of irritation or oiliness.


Make sure that you eat enough; undereating can lead to irritability and disorientation, which could cause a mistaken impression of your personality during the go-see.
Get enough sleep so that your skin can replenish itself and so that you don’t have circles or bags under your eyes.
 Although you want to look as relaxed and natural as possible in the casting call, you should still sharpen up your usual look. Get a trim to reduce split ends or try a new style to update your look.


Try to schedule your hair appointment for a few days before the casting call. This will allow your new haircut to settle and give you a chance to play around with it as well.
 Most potential clients want to see someone with a natural look that they can dress up or down. Try wearing nice jeans and a t-shirt with medium-heels. Wear minimal make up, such as blush and lip gloss, so that they can see your face as a palette.Avoid trying to appear “glamorous,” as that might not be the style they want, and many aspiring models may not yet be able to pull of that look.
 Have your portfolio and composite on hand, as well as knowledge about the agency’s and the client’s styles. Modeling can be fun, but it’s also a professional industry, so treat every call as a serious job interview. If you take yourself seriously, the client will, too.
 The successful models are not self-involved diva-types. In fact, the most highly recognizable faces in the industry are genuinely friendly and open with photographers and other members of the profession. In the call, have a positive attitude about modeling, about yourself and your willingness to learn, about the agency, and about the client. This attitude will help you survive the many rejections, but also let your potential client know that you’ll be enjoyable to work with.Be as warm and genuine as you can. You don’t need to be falsely charming to get a modeling job. Instead, be the best version of yourself: natural and relaxed in any context.
Answer questions about experience honestly, but with the confidence that you can learn.

