 This may help determine whether or not you are accomplishing what you want. Depending on your reason, sock puppets may or may not be the ideal way to achieve your goal., Wikipedia does not make its decisions based on vote counts. Decisions are made based on consensus, policy, and guidelines. Having two or more users say they support a cause does not have the same power as someone citing an existing policy or guideline to show something should be a certain way, or giving a good argument why a policy should change. It is not uncommon for the minority's wishes to come true when the argument is stronger, and in fact, some articles have been deleted in spite of unanimous 'votes' to keep, all because of existing policy.

Or maybe, no one who knows you in real life knows your screen name, but many other Wikipedians know you as an editor with a certain screen name, and you are embarrassed for them to see you edit certain articles.
Or possibly you have an account you use to edit at home, but you do not want anyone to know that is really you. It might be a good idea to have a different account to edit in public.
Or if you are afraid your main account could be hacked if you edit in public. That is another reason for having a separate account for public editing.
 Examples include edit warring or casting multiple votes in discussions. Be aware that decisions on Wikipedia are made based on the site's policies and guidelines, not numbers of votes, and sock puppets will not help under these circumstances. It would be more productive to become an expert on Wikipedia policies and guidelines, and perhaps you could use them to your advantage.
To vandalize the project. Be aware that Wikipedia has become so good at fighting vandalism that most acts of vandalism are reverted in minutes, if not seconds, and some vandalism is reverted automatically before it even appears.
 Or multiple purposes so they do not get labeled as single purpose accounts (not necessarily a bad thing).For example, you may use one account for edits about your career and your favorite TV show. Another could be used for edits pertaining to your religion and your favorite sports team.
 This is not to be malicious, but for protection of your privacy. If you have a home internet connection and a smartphone subscription, you have two connections you can use in your home right now (be aware that if you use the same WiFi you use for your home computer, it'll register as the same IP address). Also keep track of all the other connections you frequent, e.g. your work, school, a friend's or relative's house, a cafe, etc.

