 If you aren't seeing each other everyday, you will need to develop ways to talk to each other and interact. Share your ideas and emotions with your boyfriend or girlfriend, even if they seem minor. It's hard to read emotions into a phone or online conversation.
Talk about your experiences openly and honestly.
Ask about your partner's day and share what happened with yours.
Discuss weekend plans and set aside times to talk and/or visit each other.;
, With all of the ways to communicate through technology, long distance relationships can really thrive. Programs like Skype and Snapchat can allow you to talk to your significant other face to face over the phone or computer.
Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ are great social media tools to keep in touch and to get involved in similar interests and activities.
Text and email nearly everyday. Even if it is just a quick message, it lets your partner know you are thinking about them.
Return any calls or messages as quickly as you can.
 Don't take the other person for granted and try to be creative when you communicate. Don't forget that even if you live far apart, you can still treat Skype chats or phone conversations like dates. Dress up when you face chat and make your dorm room or apartment look nice, for example.
Do some of the same activities, that way when you talk you can discuss a movie you both saw, or a sport you both play.
Make use of regular snail mail. Sending a postcard, a letter, or even a small care package with your partner's favorite snacks or items can spice things up and add variety to the way you communicate long distance.
Doing these things can also help your partner feel appreciated.
 This can be particularly helpful if you are dating someone from another high school.


Many communities have activities such as social events, classes, sports, and volunteer opportunities for teens.
Getting involved in the same activities is a way you can see each other often and get interested in something together.
This is also a good way to connect with your boyfriend or girlfriend's friends. Getting to know their social group will be a good way for you to maintain a relationship outside of going to school together.
You can also invite your significant other to events at your high school, such as dances, plays, sporting events, etc. You should also attend events at your partner's high school.
 Even though there are many ways to communicate outside of seeing each other in person, it is essential to reconnect face to face when you can.


Weekends and holiday breaks are great times to get together. Chances are you both are already going home for a holiday break and you can plan to see each other then.
Plan to visit the other person at their school. That's a great way to meet their new friends, see what they are getting involved with, and have fun together on the other person's home turf.
Seeing your significant other in their own environment will help you imagine what their life is like and what experiences they are having when you talk to them.
You can also plan to go on short weekend trips together or on spring break. While traveling can be costly, there are a number of travel agencies, such as STA travel, that offer cheaper student pricing on bus or plane tickets and hotels.

