 You should expect the seller to know how much comparable homes have sold for in the neighborhood. Likewise, you need to be prepared with this information as well.You can do this research on the Internet. Visit a website such as Trulia to research sales in your zip code. You can find out how much the home sold for. Remember not to go too far back in time since the market changes quickly. Only look at sales within the past three months.It may be difficult to define a “comparable” home since no two homes are exactly alike. However, you should compare square footage, the number of bedrooms and baths, as well as age.
 You can’t negotiate effectively if you don’t know the maximum amount you can afford to pay.Before going into negotiations, you should sit down and calculate how much you can spend on a new house.


Remember to calculate all of your monthly living expenses, such as car loans, credit card balances, student loans, and other non-negotiable obligations.Also try to calculate commuting costs. The farther away from work you are, the more you will spend on gas and maintenance for your car.
You should use one of the many mortgage calculators on the Internet to calculate how much you can spend., Successful negotiation will depend on each side’s willingness to bargain. Accordingly, you should try to figure out how motivated the seller is to sell.If the seller is anxious to sell, then you could get the home for a cheaper price.


Try to ask innocent questions. You could say, “I don’t know why anyone would leave this neighborhood” and wait for the seller to tell you why they are moving.
Another strategy is to ask bluntly whether they are anxious to sell and then gauge their reaction. Not everyone is a good actor and some people might signal by nervous laughter that they are anxious to sell.
 You want to show the seller that you are serious about the property. This means making a serious first offer. Don’t offer something ridiculously low, which will only insult the seller.As a baseline for your offer, use your market research to set an initial price you think is fair for the property. Then deduct from this price anything functional that needs to be replaced or repaired.
Remember that “functional” doesn’t mean “taste.” If you don’t like the color of the carpet, then you shouldn’t deduct for replacing the carpet because color is an individual preference. However, if the carpet is torn or stained with pet urine, then replacing it would be necessary.
A “functional” problem would be a refrigerator that is old and in need of being replaced. You can deduct $2,000 or so from the price. When you submit your offer, you can include an addendum in which you explain your reasoning., If you appear too enthusiastic, then the seller will know that they can try to hold out to increase the amount you will pay. You want to come across as professional and driven by facts and data., If you make an offer, then give the seller a short time limit for acceptance—24 hours or less. If you give a longer period of time, then you are inviting other competing offers. You don’t want the seller’s agent to find someone else to make a competing offer., It might be difficult to get a seller to come down off their price because they are emotionally invested in it. A seller who believes their home is worth $250,000 might be unwilling to go down to $240,000 to close the deal. If this is the case, get creative. You can try to sweeten the deal by asking for concessions which will lower the overall price you pay.


For example, ask that certain repairs be made to the home. Getting the seller to pay for the repairs will ultimately reduce the amount you have to spend on the home.
Alternately, you could ask that the seller cover some of the closing costs.This also would reduce the total amount you spend on the house.
 Before going into negotiations, you should have a walkaway point. This is the maximum you would be willing to pay for the property. To negotiate successfully, you need to be prepared to walk away if the seller can’t meet your walkaway point.


There are plenty of homes on the market, even when the market is tight. It is very common to find a home one week later., A purchase and sale agreement contains more than just the purchase price and down payment. You also should settle on a closing date that works for you. As a buyer, you can also negotiate the following:Whether the sale is contingent on an inspection. You want to understand the condition of the home and surrounding land before closing on the sale. For this reason, you should probably make the sale contingent on having an inspection done. You can negotiate as to who should pay for the inspection.
What happens if the inspection is negative. The home will probably have flaws. You should understand what your options are. For example, you can get a provision included in the purchase and sale agreement giving you the right to walk away from the purchase. Alternately, you could negotiate with the seller to fix the problem.
Whether the sale is contingent on you selling your home or getting financing.
Who pays taxes. You probably don’t want to pay all of the tax bill, unless you bought the property on January 1. Accordingly, you can negotiate to prorate the taxes with the seller. Explain in your purchase and sale agreement how taxes will be prorated.
 A qualified lawyer can guide you through the negotiation and closing process. You don’t need to hire the lawyer to actually handle the negotiations for you. Instead, you can find a lawyer who will offer advice and who can look over the purchase and sale agreement to make sure that it protects your interests.


To find a qualified attorney, contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral.