 Write down everything you would like to accomplish for the day or week, or keep a running list of tasks you need to get done. To-do lists are tried-and-true productivity tools, but they only work if you use them correctly.


Be as concrete, specific and reasonable about your tasks as possible. For example, don't just write "clean the house." Instead try "pick up living room," "vacuum rug" or "take out trash"—smaller, more discrete tasks are better.
Don't let yourself get intimidated by or distracted by your to-do list. If you are spending all your time thinking of things you need to put on your list, that can be just as bad as not keeping one at all. Try to create your to-do list in one sitting and don't let yourself add to it throughout the day unless you have to.;
, Figure out what things on your list you can reasonably accomplish, and decide what order you are going to do them in. If you can, make a schedule for the day that includes when you are going to work on each task and when you are going to stop to eat or take a break.


Be aware that tasks will often take more or less time than expected. Don't beat yourself up over this, and don't let it throw your whole plan out of whack. If something doesn't go as planned, just do your best to adjust your schedule and move on with your work.
 Have just way to many things on your plate to get everything done in a timely manner? Decide which things are most important and do those. You might have had big dreams of doing your taxes and washing the dog, but one or the other might have to wait. Trying to take on too much at a time is the fastest way to end up overwhelmed and unproductive.


If there are tasks you have been meaning to do for a long time and never get done, don't let them hang over your head forever. Set yourself a deadline or pick a day to do them—or else decide that you can get by okay without them.
 Whether cleaning, studying or working, set reasonable but challenging goals for how much you are going to write, read, or create in a day. Don't let yourself quit until you've accomplished that amount. Try to be positive about your goals and don't let them intimidate you. Know that you can accomplish them if you stay focused.


Consider creating rewards or punishments for yourself around your goals. Promise to treat yourself with something you want if you are successful. Threaten yourself with an undesirable consequence, such as donating money to a cause you disagree with. This works best if you can hand over control of the reward or punishment to a friend who won't let your welch on your agreements.
 Don't get caught up thinking about how productive or unproductive you are being in the moment, but later do reflect on how well you stayed focused, how much you stuck to your plan, how accurate your schedule timing was. Note unexpected problems or disruptions to your workflow and think about what you can do to improve next time.


Consider keeping a journal to jot down what worked and what didn't work at the end of each day.
 Nothing will slow you down like not knowing where to find some vital file or object, or having to search through emails to remember the time of an appointment. Create robust systems to file information, store instruments, and record your appointments.

