 Before you commit to telling him that you love him get a grip on your true feelings. Have you suddenly become overwhelmed with feelings or has your adoration grown over time? Typically infatuation is something that comes on suddenly, whereas true love builds over time.You should know someone well before you declare your love. If you have been together for at least 3 months and had a couple of arguments, you will have a much better understating of who your man is.
If you have only been dating for a few weeks and everything seems perfect, you may be infatuated and not truly in love.
It is better to keep your feelings to yourself until you are sure that you really do love him.
Telling him that you love him too early in the relationship can really freak him out if he does not feel the same way.;
, Your man may be feeling the same way as you, but has not told you yet. Although he has not said it, his actions may demonstrate how he really feels. Men often show their feelings through their actions instead of their words.Think about your relationship to see if he has been giving you signs. Ask yourself some questions.Does he make you a priority?
Does he mention you when he talks about his future plans and goals?
Have you met the people (e.g. family, friends, coworkers) that are important in his life?
If his actions say that he cares about you, he may not be scared by your strong feelings for him.
Does he speak in terms of "we" instead of "I"?
Does he consistently try to take care of you and keep a smile on your face?
Is he affectionate? Does he want to hug, kiss, and hold hands?
If he acts like he loves you, he probably will not be scared by you expressing your feelings. If his actions do not say that he may be in love with you, you should probably hold off on telling him.
 You should only say "I love you" if you truly mean it. You should not say it to feel more secure in your relationship or to hear him say the words back to you.Never use those words to manipulate him, keep him around, or fix a mistake that you made.The best reason to say "I love you" is that you simply cannot keep it to yourself any longer, and you want him to know how you feel.
Saying "I love you" can change your relationship. Be sure that you are ready for this.
 Although you are ready to say "I love you," your boyfriend may not be ready. This does not mean that he does not care about you or that he will never love you. It only means that he does not feel the same way as you right now. Think about what you will do if he does not say it back to you.If he does not feel the same way, you may feel rejected or uncertain about your relationship.
If you feel that you would be crushed that he does not love you as well, you may want to hold off on telling him.

