 When you get a text from a guy you like, it is very exciting. You will want to write him back right away. But not so fast! If you make him wait, he’s more likely to chase you.Wait anywhere from one hour (if it is a direct and specific question) to one day (if it just a casual "hello") before responding to a text.
You may want to set a timer or a reminder for yourself.;
, When you’re thinking about a special guy, anything can remind you of him. You may be compelled to reach out to him, to mention a song you heard or invite him to do something fun. But instead of initiating conversation with him, wait for him to contact you.You may want to write down things that you want to say to him.
This way, when he initiates conversation, you have a few interesting comments to use.
 If you are out at a party with a guy that you like, go ahead and flirt with other people. Let the guy you like see you dance with another guy, or put your hand on someone’s shoulder. Let him see you laughing and having fun. This will make him want you more.Go up to a friend at a party and say something funny.
Find extra reasons to stand close to someone, or find reasons to touch them.
 You will seem more attractive to him if he sees that you don’t need him to stay busy. Find fun ways to spend your time, such as making plans with friends or joining a club, and keep your schedule full. Make him work around your schedule if he wants to spend time with you.If he calls you and wants to go out on Friday night, say “I’d love to, but I have plans that day. Can we do Saturday instead?”

, When your guy would rather play basketball with his friends than go see a movie with you, don’t let it bother you one bit. Just shrug it off and do something with your friends instead. When he notices that you are giving him plenty of space, he will be drawn to you.If he makes plans with someone else and you feel upset, choose one person to talk about it with (someone who you trust) and then let it go.
Make sure he is not blowing you off or ditching you. If you had plans together first and he changes them (and if this happens more than once), it may be time to ignore him for good.

