 You can search for the magazine on your computer, smartphone, e-reader, or tablet. The format will be similar on your smartphone, e-reader, and tablet, but will look different on your computer. This is because you will use apps on those devices to download the magazine, but probably not on your computer.If you’re using your computer, you can go to the website to download a copy of the magazine or subscribe. This will only work if the magazine offers a digital version.
 Most major (and many minor) magazines have an application that can be downloaded to your device. Many of them are free to download, but some cost an initial, one-time fee. Once you are on the app, you can usually look at a limited amount of content, but you will need to subscribe to get access to the full magazine. Or, you can purchase on copy to download.The app may be free, but it will ask you provide payment information if you decide to purchase a magazine or subscription.
 It is also an option to download the magazine without an app. The process is easy and user-friendly. For example, the Kindle Store has more than fifty popular magazine titles available. The periodicals are free for a two-week trial period. You can order periodicals through the Amazon website or directly from your Kindle or other similar device. The process is simple:Press “Menu.”
Select “Shop in Kindle Store.”
Choose “Magazines.”
Select the magazine title you want to download. You may have to pay if it isn’t a trial or free download.
 Some magazines allow free downloads in PDF form. You can search for magazines that offer free downloads on your computer or tablet. You will either find a free download, or you can subscribe to a free trial. Keep in mind that you will most likely be charged once the trail period is over if you do not cancel it before the end date.You can type “free magazine downloads” into a search engine to find magazines.
 Many libraries allow you download your favorite magazines free of charge. If you aren’t allowed to download the entire magazine, you will often be allowed to download specific articles from magazines. You will mostly likely have to have a library card before downloading a magazine.Many libraries will also allow you to check out print copies of magazines.

