 Salmon is your best friend when it comes to planning a healthy hair diet. Salmon is full of essential omega-3 fatty acids, as well as having a high vitamin D and protein content, all of which are vital for strong, healthy hair. Omega-3 is really important for healthy hair, as it makes up approximately 3% of the hair shaft, while also being found in the body's natural oils which help to keep the scalp hydrated.You can also find omega-3 fatty acids in other fish, such as trout, herring, mackerel and sardines. Or if fish doesn't float your boat, try incorporating more avocado and pumpkin seeds into your diet.
 Besides making a delicious snack, walnuts have significant benefits when it comes to the health of your hair. Unlike any other type of nut, walnuts have a high omega-3 content and are rich in Vitamin E and biotin. Interestingly, walnuts also contain the mineral copper, which helps to protect and enhance your hair's natural color and shine.In addition to eating walnuts as a yummy salad and dessert topping, you can also sprinkle a little walnut oil over salad leaves, or use it in a stir-fry.
 These tasty shellfish have a high zinc content. Zinc is extremely important for healthy hair - in fact too little zinc in your diet can potentially lead to hair loss. It may also lead to a dry scalp and dandruff problems. Just three ounces of oysters contain almost five times your daily zinc requirement. They are also bursting with protein, which is extra good news for your hair.Zinc can also be found in nuts, beef, eggs and fortified cereals and whole grain breads.
 Sweet potatoes provide your body with high quantities of beta carotene, an antioxidant which aids in the production of vitamin A. Vitamin A stimulates the production of oils that hydrate and protect the scalp. A lack of vitamin A can lead to a dry, itchy scalp and problems with dandruff.Other natural sources of beta carotene include: cantaloupe, carrots, mangoes, apricots and pumpkin.
 Aside form being rich in protein (which makes up about 97% of hair) eggs contain four essential minerals, namely: zinc, selenium, sulfur, and iron. Iron is the most important of these minerals, as it enables the transport of oxygen to the hair follicles and helps to prevent anemia, an illness which can lead to hair loss.Other animal products, such as beef, chicken, pork and fish, can also help to increase your iron intake.
 Spinach is a super-food containing iron, beta carotene, folate, and vitamin C - all of which contribute to beautiful, shiny hair by stimulating oil production on the scalp and encouraging healthy hair follicles. If you're not a spinach fan, try eating other leafy vegetables with a high nutrient content, such as broccoli, kale, and Swiss chard.
 Lentils - the friends of vegans and vegetarians everywhere - are packed with loads of hair healthy vitamins and minerals, such as protein, iron, zinc, and biotin. So even if you're a meat-lover, you should try to incorporate some of these small but mighty legumes into your diet., Greek yogurt is high in protein (which hair loves) vitamin B5 (also known as pantothenic acid, which you'll find in many shampoos and conditioners) and vitamin D, which has recently been linked with healthy hair follicles.Other similarly beneficial dairy products include cottage cheese, low-fat cheese, and skim milk.
 Blueberries are a super fruit with numerous health benefits, but it's their high vitamin C content which really helps keep hair in top shape. Vitamin C stimulates circulation, which is essential for carrying the tiny blood vessels necessary for the health of the scalp and hair follicles. Without enough vitamin C, hair would become brittle and break., Nothing beats poultry for providing protein, in addition to providing zinc, iron, and B vitamins which help keep hair strong and thick. As hair is almost completely made of protein, protein-rich foods are literally the foundation for great hair, so eat to your heart's (or hair's!) content.Turkey, lean beef, oily fish, pork chops and veal are other great sources of protein.
 Although maintaining a healthy diet is an excellent way to get the vitamins necessary for healthy hair, taking a vitamin supplement can make it easier to ensure that you are getting all of your daily requirements. The top 5 vitamin supplements you should take for healthy hair are biotin, vitamin A, vitamin E, vitamin B5 and Inositol.Remember to check with your health care professional before adding any supplements to your diet.

