 If calling your service provider does not yield the desired result, consider taking your claim to a small claims court. A small claims court is part of the state court system in the United States. In this court, a person can sue for monetary damages up to a certain amount stipulated by state law. There is no need for an attorney (you can represent yourself), and the applicable rules of evidence are generally simple rather than complex., It is important for you to research the laws of the state in which you are resident regarding small claims actions because the process involved and the rules may vary from state to state. In Texas, for example, you can sue in a small claims court if the amount in dispute is up to $10,000while the upper limit in Connecticut is $5,000.While the amount in dispute on your cell phone bill is likely to fall within the upper limit stipulated by most states for small claims actions, there have been reported cases of international roaming charges exceeding thousands of dollars.Know what specific rules apply to small claims actions in your state.
 Follow your state’s rules on the forms required to initiate a small claims suit. In Illinois, e.g., to initiate a small claims lawsuit, you must visit the courthouse where a small claims clerk will provide you with the necessary forms (i.e. a summons and a complaint form) to initiate the lawsuit.You can find a useful repository of all the rules on small claims in every American state and links to the official government websites that contain information on how to file and what forms are required in your particular state by visiting this website.
 Go to your hearing with your attorney if you have hired one or by yourself if you are representing yourself. Bring all the evidence necessary to present a strong case (e.g. your cell phone bill, the facts of your case, promises made to you by customer care specialists).
 To present your strongest case to the judge, be sure to get to the heart of your argument quickly. The judge will likely have heard dozens of cases similar to yours, and you need to present a strong case that does not lose her attention. You can present a strong case by describing the events that led to your dispute and offer concrete evidence that supports your claim against your service provider.