 Think of it this way: if there's no space between your butt-cheeks, then how can the fart get out? Though this can be a bit painful and can't be sustained for that long, if you clench your cheeks, you will prevent your fart from escaping. To do this, you really have to tighten your anus and have it stay that way; if you let go, you are more likely to release the fart. If you're lucky, doing this for long enough can help the fart get "sucked up" back in your body — just know that this isn't a permanent solution, and that the fart may return with more force than before.;
, Sometimes you may just need to wiggle around a bit to move that fart to a different part of your body. Just don't make any sudden movements or the fart may be more likely to come out. If you're sitting, try standing up. If you're standing, sit down. If you're sitting but can't get up, try shifting from one butt cheek to the other.
 This is another time-tested strategy. If you're sitting down and need to fart, place both hands on the arm rests, put your weight on your toes, and gently lean forward a bit, lifting your bum off the seat. This can sometimes help the urge to fart go away, as pointing your toes and leaning up can also help you clench your anus a bit.
 If you're sitting up or standing and need to fart, sometimes lying down can help you change positions and get rid of the urge to fart. If you're hanging out with friends, this can be hard to pull off, but if you're all sitting around watching TV, see if you can sprawl out on the couch or do something that helps you hold in your fart while looking pretty natural.
 If you're standing and have the urge to fart, improve your posture, try to move your head as high up as you can, and help your body become more erect. This can help the fart have more room to move around your body without releasing.
 If you're sitting and feel the urge to pass gas, one thing you can do is to delicately shift from cheek to cheek. Sometimes, this motion is all you need to make that farting feeling go away temporarily. This can also help you release the fart in a less noisy manner, if push comes to shove. The problem with this maneuver is that it can look a bit obvious, so you may want to make it look like you're suddenly fascinated by something to the right of you — and then to the left of you.
 Though holding in your farts can be a great short-term strategy, know that a fart rarely just "disappears." These strategies can help you minimize embarrassment, but eventually, your fart will come back — with more power than before., Though the jury is still out on whether holding in a fart is bad for your health, some doctors do agree that doing this routinely can cause bloating and cramps. So, if you're in a public situation, you can hold your fart in as much as possible, but as soon as you can, relax every part of your body, stand up, and let all systems go., If you're in public and have no escape route and know that the fart is coming on any second now, then your best bet is to slowly release it. Carefully and slowly unclench your butt cheeks, wiggle around a bit, and then let the fart slowly escape from your body. If you let it out all at once, it'll be more likely to make a loud noise.
 So this isn't the most ideal maneuver, but sometimes, you just know you have to fart, and you have no option but to make a loud noise or to cause a diversion when you know the time has come. Here are some things you can do:


Cough loudly
Laugh loudly
Drop a textbook
Turn on the radio
Set off a phone alarm

, This is the easiest way to fart and get away with it. If it's possible, then you should simply excuse yourself for a minute and then go and do your business. Here are the easiest things you can do:


Pretend to take a phone call
Go "check something out" on the other side of the room
Say you need some fresh air
Say you want to wash your hands
Use the bathroom

, Some foods that are rich in sulfur may make you pass gas more often — not to mention that they may make those farts smell even worse! Foods filled with carbohydrates are also more likely to make you pass gas, but every person has his own "trigger foods". Though you shouldn't avoid these foods entirely, you can cut back on them if you know you'll be going to a place where you may not want to fart. Foods that are known to cause gas include:


Vegetables such as beans, broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, onions, and mushrooms
Fruits such as apples, peaches, and pears
Bran and whole wheat products
Milk products such as cheese, yogurt, and ice cream
Eggs
Carbonated drinks, such as sodas

, Another reason why you may have gas is because you down your food or drinks too quickly and don't give your body time to properly digest your food. The next time you eat, make a conscious effort to slow down and to carefully chew your food until each bite is thoroughly digested. Stop eating on the run, if that's what you do, and make an effort to slow down and eat a few minutes earlier if you need to. If you like soda, make sure you sip it slowly instead of downing it in three gulps, or you're guaranteed to make the gas situation worse.
 The repeated motion that accompanies chewing gum or sucking on hard candy can actually make you fart more. This can especially be the case if you're doing this on an empty stomach. If you want to minimize your embarrassment, then cut back on the chewing gum and hard candy. Chewing rapidly causes you to swallow extra air, and leads down to the breakdown of food in your gut, which can cause farting., Though this isn't necessary and should only be used if you really have a problem with this, you can consider taking some over-the-counter medication to relieve your symptoms of flatulence. You can take something like Beano, Gas-X, Mylanta Gas, or even Lactase tablets. The medications tend to break down sugar in your body, making your food easier to digest. However, talking to your doctor before you make this a regular habit can help you have a better sense of what you really need.
 Sometimes people can fart more just because they aren't getting regular exercise or that they're sitting for prolonged periods of time — these two things tend to go hand in hand. If you make a goal of exercising for at least 30 minutes a day and moving around as much as you can throughout the day, then your body will be in better shape overall and you'll be less likely to pass gas. Exercise also helps you get rid of the extra air in your system., Everybody farts. This bodily function is perfectly natural and healthy. The average person farts between 14 and 21 times a day — even if he/she doesn't realize it. Don't think that there's something wrong with you just because you pass gas occasionally.