 You should not change your looks or personality to fit into a stereotype. Alternative models often have piercings and tattoos, but you should not alter your appearance just to become a model. You should change hair or acquire body art because you desire them, and/or because they are meaningful to you. Alternative models typically look alternative on a daily basis, rather than dressing up for photo shoots.If you are under 18, you must have a parent’s permission before getting a piercing or tattoo.;
, There are several categories of alternative models. Some of the categories are similar, but some require completely different looks. Some categories are emo, hipster, punk, Goth, Lolita, burlesque, and for the heavily tattooed, a walking piece of art.Goth and emo are each distinct styles, but they share many similarities. Goth and emo styles are both known for black clothing, black or brightly colored hair, dark makeup, and a lot of accessories, like chokers and corsets. Punk is a style that is related to Goth and emo, but it is more focused on punk music, like band t-shirts and vests with pins attached.Hipster style has become very popular in recent years. “Hipsters” often wear flannel shirts, ironic shirts, beanies, and skinny jeans. Men often have beards, and women sometimes dye their hair in pastel shades.Dita Von Teese is perhaps the most well known celebrity that wears a burlesque style. Burlesque is a style deriving from the 1800s, and it is often associated with stripteases. Velvet clothing, red lipsticks, corsets, garters and stocking, and high heels are associated with burlesque style.Lolita derives from Vladimir Nabakov’s Lolita that was originally popular in Japan, but it is now popular all over the world. It is typically a “cutesy” style that strives for the wearer to appear youthful, like a young girl., Don’t be afraid to dress in a way that doesn’t follow the social norm. Alternative models often model for goth, hipster, and emo brands. You can find these types of clothes at stores like Hot Topic, Vivienne Westwood, Jeremy Scott, and Moi Meme Moitie. Some types of clothes and shoes to wear are:Big boots. Doc Martens or platform boots.
Gothic Lolita dresses
Black clothing
Pastel clothing
Accessories with skulls and pentagrams.
 It is not necessary to have an unnatural hair color to become an alternative model, but many do. Pastel colors like light, pink lavender, and turquoise are popular right now. You can also try bright colors like blue or hot pink, as well as mixing multiple colors. If hair color isn’t your thing, consider getting an alternative hair cut.An alternative hair cut could be buzzed, short pin-up style bangs, and spiky hair.
Hair can be colored at home, but it is safer to leave the job to a professional.
Unnatural colors fade quickly, so be prepared to re-dye your hair every few weeks.
 Traditional modeling usually frowns upon an alternative style, but alternative models are encouraged to have tattoos, piercings, and body modifications. You should choose the style, location, and for tattoos, the content. It’s okay to have as little or as many as you want. There is no such thing as too many tattoos for an alternative modelSome areas you can pierce are your ears, nose, septum, lips, and eyebrows. You can also have gauges, which involves putting a hole into your earlobe and stretching it out.
 Traditional models typically are required to be thin and youthful, but that is not the case with alternative models. It’s okay to be thin and youthful, but there is room for all kinds of body types. You can be short, thick, older, etc. Do not try to change your body type to become an alternative model. Chances are, there is a place for the body type you currently have.Only eat healthy and work out to lose weight if you desire to do so for personal reasons.
 You do not have to professional photos taken right away. Social media like Instagram, Facebook, and Tumblr are valuable tools to get your name out there. You should create a social media account for your modeling and have a separate personal account. Take selfies or have someone take photos of you and post them. Post regularly and respond to those who make comments.The photos do not have to look professional at first. Just be sure to have them taken in good lighting and style yourself in a way that makes you feel confident.
Do not give away personal information to anyone who you interact with on social media. If a photographers contacts you, ask to see their website before agreeing to do a shoot.
 You should practice modeling before hiring a photographer. Posing for pictures helps you become comfortable for the camera, and it is a good way to see if you enjoy modeling. These photos can be posted to social media.Try modeling some of your favorite clothing in different areas of your backyard, city, or home.
Pose in some pictures, but try out some candid photos of you walking, moving, or posing with other friends.
Review the photos to see which poses turned out the best and appear the most natural.
 Look for photographers in your area. Many photographers will be willing to do a photo shoot for you. But, it is better to search for a photographer that has experience with models, especially alternative models. Hiring a photographer can be costly, so make sure you have money set aside to cover the entire cost of the session.Look through several photographers’ websites before choosing one. Choose the one whose photos stand out to you the most.
Student photographers will sometimes be willing to do a photo shoot for a lower price. Look for high school and college photographers in your area.
 You should come out of the session with at least one good headshot and photos of you in a variety of angles. It is good to have a straight on photo, photos taken from all sides, and some candid pictures. Take a few changes of clothes with you to the photoshoot., A comp card, or composite card, will serve as your business card. It is a marketing tool that agents will take with them when considering you for a job. Photographers typically will be able to make a comp card for you. The front of the card should have your headshot. The back of the comp card should have about four photos. Include a candid photo, and pictures of you from a few different angles.6”x9” is a good size for a comp card.
 There are websites out there for models that help them network, find jobs, and promote their pictures. Pure Storm and Model Mayhem are two well known sites. Sign up for an account on one or both websites. Then, add your information, post pictures, and search for casting calls. These sites will help you build up a portfolio.You will need to choose a picture for an avatar, add your name, put your location, what you are willing to do, and write about your physical characteristics (tattoos and piercings).
 There are some websites, like Wix, that offer free options for websites, but you will want to buy a domain name eventually. You may want to wait until you have experience to create a website, but it is okay to create one with your photos taken by a photographer when you first start out. You should have a main page, about me, and portfolio section. Most websites will have templates, both free and priced, available, but you can create your own template if you or someone you know is knowledgeable about creating websites.You should have your contact information either on its own page, or in the about me section. Put your email, but avoid adding your phone number unless you think it’s necessary.
Add a resume and update it as you gain experience.
You can buy a domain name sites like Wix, Squarespace, and GoDaddy.
 If you have model friends, socialize with them as much as possible. If you do not, look on websites like Model Mayhem for people to talk to, or for meetups in your area. Making connections is the best way for a new model to find out about jobs and opportunities. Go to concerts, festivals, parties, and events. Make friends not just with other models, but with photographers, stylists, musicians, and actors..


Always be safe when meeting up with people you don’t know. Meet in a crowded area, have your cell phone on you, and bring a friend if possible.
 Working for free is not ideal, but it is often necessary. This is the best way to build up your portfolio when you don’t have much experience. Take every opportunity you can. Offer your services for fashion shows, photo shoots, events, music videos, etc. Even the smallest jobs add to your portfolio., Look for agencies that have and continue to sign alternative models. You can usually see some of the models that are currently signed with the agency. Focusing on agencies that cater to alternative models will increase your chances of finding a place to sign you.Look at the policy for sending in photos to the agency. Also, look for open call dates.
 Open calls give new model a chances to visit agencies in hope of being signed. Look for agencies that host open calls and attend as many as possible. You can attend local open calls, or to travel to attend an open call. Agencies may have different and specific requirements, but you will typically need to at least bring a headshot and comp card. [[


Don’t worry if you do not hear anything back from go-sees at first. It may take attending a lot of go-sees to find an agency willing to sign you. This is not necessarily because of you, but because a lot of people attend go-sees.
Make sure to be on time, dress in the outfit you feel best in, and be able to accept criticism.
 Once you have been signed with an agency, you will need to attend go-sees. Go-sees are meeting that your agent sets up for potential job opportunities. A go-see may be for a fashion show, magazine, music video, or catalog. These are important to attend because this is how you find jobs once signed with an agency.The requirement for a go-see, such as what you wear and what you bring with you, depends on the agency and who you are meeting with.

