 The rule of thirds is concept of photography that says you should divide every photo you shoot into nine parts. Imagine a grid on your photo with two equally spaced vertical lines and two equally spaced horizontal lines, slicing your photo into nine even sections.Important elements of the picture should lie on one of the lines or the intersection of lines. In theory, this creates a tension in your photo that makes it appear more interesting.For example, if you're shooting a sunset, position the horizon line in the intersection between a horizontal and vertical line. This should create a more interesting photo than simply shooting the sunset in the middle of the camera frame., When shooting buildings, it's recommended you angle the shot up. This will create a fun, triangular appearance for the building. Stand on the ground in front of the building and angle your camera upward, pointing to the building's apex., If you're shooting people, especially small children, it can be fun to take shots from a downward angle. Full body shots may be slightly easier to capture with a downward angle. You can also lie or kneel on the floor to get down to your subject's level., You do not need to use flash for the most part. A camera's flash often needlessly brightens pictures, especially pictures of people. People's faces often look unnaturally bright when flash is on, even if you're shooting at night. For the most part, turn off the flash setting on your camera.


You can usually turn flash off in your camera's settings. Oftentimes, a lightning bolt-shaped icon indicates flash is on. You usually select a lightening bolt with a cross going over it to turn off flash.
In some cases, flash may be helpful. If you're taking pictures very late at night, it can help to use flash to highlight people's faces.
 Photography is like any other craft. It takes practice to get better. Spend a lot of time experimenting with your camera. Adjust the settings and take pictures of many different subjects. Eventually, your pictures will start looking more professional.

