 Locate the small tag on the inside of the shoe. All of the information listed on the manufacturing sticker should also be on this tag. Make sure the information is exactly the same as what’s on the box sticker, especially the style number.The stitching on the tag ought to look uniform and neat.
Spelling errors on this interior tag are almost always an indicator of inauthentic Jordans.
 Jordans have a very specific label under the tongue. Lift up the tongue and check out the underside. You should see the words “greatest player ever” embroidered there. The embroidery should be white, easy to read and look professional., Double check the details on the logo located on the back of the shoes (or sometimes on the tongue). The logo should appear crisp and uncompromised. Look at the hands, basketball and feet to ensure everything looks properly proportioned. Nothing should look blurry or smudged.Fake Jordans may have an uneven or lumpy Jumpman, with poor stitching and unusual proportions.
 The spaces between the shoelace tabs should be even. All of the shoelace tabs will be the same size and shape. Make sure they are all attached firmly, with the same amount of tension. Fake Jordans will often have some shoelace tabs that are looser than others., Inspect the shoes carefully for neat and professional looking stitching. Everything should look evenly spaced, with no unfinished edges or frayed threads. The stitching on the heel is often a giveaway – if it looks poorly done or uneven, question the authenticity of the shoes., This is where the side fabric transitions into the front of the shoe. It is usually a different fabric and color than the toe section. On real Jordans, the midsole point will be in front of the bottom lace hole. On fake Jordans, the midsole point will often match the bottom lace hole.


View the midsole tips. The “mountains” of the sole molding should be sharp tips, not curved edges.
 Go to Footlocker.com or Nike’s own site to find the authentic colorways. Colorways are a color combination that is updated with each new style of shoe. Occasionally there are special edition colorways.


If a site or individual seller is selling a colorway that is not listed on any direct Nike supplier site, it is a counterfeit product.

