 If you’re ever unsure whether or not a product is right for your skin type or cleansing and moisturizing needs, doctors can give you recommendations and even prescribe treatments to get your skin glowing. Dermatologists may also be able to offer in-office treatments that improve the appearance of skin or help with various skin concerns.Ask your dermatologist for recommendations on products and treatments you can do at home.
Make sure your dermatologist walks you through all steps of at-home skin care. Ask the doctor, "What specifically should I do to care for my skin every morning/evening/throughout the day?"
Take notes about specific care products. Be open and honest about your budget, so the doctor can make recommendations that fit your needs and are affordable.
 Your dermatologist or a professional esthetician can administer injections of this medication. For most people, this almost instantly minimizes the size of pimples, and can be used regularly to clear up acne, bug bites, rashes, eczema, and other chronic skin conditions., This is no longer the face-freezing treatment it used to be. You can even ask your dermatologist about “Botox Lite.” This is the placement of small amounts of Botox across the forehead (not just at the creased areas around eyes) that gives the eyes and forehead a smoother overall appearance without the frozen look people dread. Botox treatment cost between $100 and $200, and should be touched up two or three times each year., These treatments are fast and comfortable. Great for both oily and dry skin, they use crystals to remove dead and dying skin cells, revealing healthy new skin below. This also allows other products to penetrate more deeply for improved effectiveness. You can get these treatments form a dermatologist or esthetician, but they may cost as much as $400. You can also remove dead skin at home using cleansers with exfoliating beads and skin brushes at least once each week. These products can cost as little as five dollars., Professional facials remove dead skin, unclog pores, and rejuvenate the appearance of skin tone for a healthy glow. If you’re unable to afford the cost of regular facials with a professional esthetician, you can also do your own facials at home. Check your local beauty store or pharmacy for products that include alpha hydroxy acids and enzymes that typically cost between $20 and $100. These are the ingredients that make professional facials effective. Laser facials can be used to quickly and effectively remove dead skin, heal scars or dark spots, and leave skin flawless.
Get a full body facial. These professional masques pull out toxins, remove dead skin cells, and even skin tone.
Pulsed light and radio wave facials also offer improved quality and comfort for patients wishing to remove or minimize the appearance of dark spots, varicose veins, and other flaws. Additionally, these treatments pulse the skin flattening, smoothing, and tightening the appearance of face, neck, hands, and other areas. Radio waves can be used to redo the entire surface of the body tightening and smoothing.