 Before resizing your image in Paint, make a copy of the file so that you don't lose the original. This will allow you to do the process again later if you aren't happy with the results.


To make a copy of the image file, right-click on it and select "Copy." Right-click a blank area in the same folder and select "Paste" to create a copy of the image.
 Paint is a free image editor that comes with every version of Windows. Right-click on the image file and select "Edit" to open it in Paint.
 If you want to resize the entire image, select the whole thing by pressing Ctrl+A. You can also click the "Select" button in the Home tab and choose "Select all." You'll see a dashed line appear around the edge of the image.
 You can find this in the Home tab, or you can press Ctrl+W. This will open the "Resize and Skew" window.
 You can choose to resize by percentage or by pixels. If you select "Pixels," you can enter the exact size that you want the resized image to be. You can enter percentages larger than "100" to make the image bigger than the original.


By default, Paint will maintain the original aspect ratio, and entering a value in one field will automatically change the value in the other. This keeps the image from stretching or squishing during the resize. You can uncheck "Maintain aspect ratio" if you want to be able to define both the Horizontal and Vertical fields independently.
Making an image larger than the original will result in a blocky final image.
 Once you click "OK," your image will be resized according to the values you entered. There is no preview available, so you'll need to apply the changes to see them.


If you aren't happy with the outcome, press Ctrl+Z to undo the resize changes you made. You can also click the "Undo" button at the very top of the window next.
 Your image will be resized, but the canvas will stay the original size. Click and drag the boxes around the edges of the canvas to resize it accordingly and remove excess white space.
 Once you're satisfied with the new size, you can save the changes to the file. Select "Save As" from the File tab and choose "JPEG picture." You can then name the file and choose where to save it.

