 There are three basic options for hauling your car; it's up to you to determine which method best fits your situation. The three options covered in this article are: using a trailer, using a dolly, or using a tow bar.


The other option that is not listed in the following steps is using a strap, rope, or chain to pull your broken down car to the shop. This method calls for someone sitting in the car, working the turn signals, steering wheel, and brake pedal. If it's not an emergency, or if you have further than a few blocks to go, do not try this method, as it’s just not safe.
If you have to tow your car in this manner, just remember to let the towed car handle the brake loads, and be sure to avoid letting your rope, strap, or chain get too much slack. You also need to remember to put on your hazard lights.;
, The first, and likely least difficult, option is to use a trailer that allows you to raise all four wheels of your towed vehicle off of the ground. These are pricey to buy, but your local moving van service might have something you can rent. To use the trailer:


Drive, push or winch your car up onto the trailer. Lock your car down; there are generally strong nets you should place over the front wheels, and chains to ratchet down your rear axel.
 The next option is a tow dolly, which lets you get your front wheels up off the ground, letting the rear wheels roll on their own. These are especially handy for front wheel drive vehicles. As with trailers, drive, push or winch your car up onto the dolly. Wrap your wheels in the nets, and ratchet them down a little tighter than you think you need to. There may be a chain for your front axles, or a hook, even, depending on the dolly.


If you are using the dolly to haul rear wheel or four-wheel drive vehicles, you might want to disconnect the drive shaft, especially for long distance travel.
The other option is to leave the towed car in neutral; for automatics, there is a consensus that this is a bad idea for long hauls, but when speaking of standard or 'stick' transmissions, opinions vary as to the necessity of disconnecting the drive shaft.
 The tow bar is a common, popular choice for RVers and toy haulers. It is often chosen for long distance travel. When using a tow bar, all four of your wheels will be left on the ground. They are much cheaper to buy than a trailer or dolly, and can be left on your towed vehicle (you'll see them on jeeps and buggies a lot) as a permanent part of the car’s setup.


The way you connect your tow bar to your car will depend on the model of bar that you use. Some tow bars connect to the frame of your car, while others hook to the front bumper. When you get to your destination, simply unhook the bar and you’re good to go.
 Tow bars also come in a variety that stays coupled to your towing hitch, and connects to the towed car via "D-Rings". It is put on in the same way, but can be removed more easily from the towed car, and you can generally leave the d-rings on without impacting your car's good looks if you are just moving it occasionally.


The third variety, commonly available from a moving company, just uses straps and pads to create a temporary hitch-able connection, which can be completely removed when you are done with your move, and requires no alterations to your towed car. Cushions press up against your bumper, straps wrap around your front axle or undercarriage, which results in a fairly solid, snug connection to your towing rig.

