 You might be tempted to hide your gift cards away in a sock drawer for a rainy day or an item you really want, but by doing so you might forget about the card. You might want to keep gift cards in a special sleeve or compartment of your purse or wallet so that you're less likely to forget about them.Millennials are twice as likely to lose gift cards.If you're in this age group, you may want to be extra careful about where you keep your gift cards.
 More and more these days, digital equivalent of physical products, like gift cards, are available. Digital gift cards are usually linked to an account or email and most are accessible with your cell phone, so these are harder to lose. Be sure you enter the recipient's information (like name and address) correctly. Otherwise, they might not get it.In some cases, recipients might mistake your e-gift card for spam. To prevent this from happening, you might want to say something like, "I wanted to get you this e-gift card. I'll be sending it, so keep an eye out for it.", To help prevent dishonesty and fraud, laws were pass in 2009 in the USA for gift card fees and expiration. If you live outside the US, your home country might have similar laws in place. Track your balance on your card and fight unfair fees and premature card cancellations. Generally, in the US, where gift card fees and cancellations are concerned:


All cards must be valid for at least five years. Any money added to the card must be valid for a full five years starting from the date it was added to the card.
In most cases, issuing companies cannot charge service fees and so on to the card in the first year after its purchase. However, you may be charged an initial fee or a fee for card replacement, should it be stolen or lost.
Following the first year after the card's purchase, card fees from the issuing company are limited to one fee per month., Closed loop cards are only valid for a specific retailer or retailer group. Open loop cards are general, network-branded cards that you can use wherever the network is accepted. Both closed and open loop cards have upsides and downsides:


Closed loop cards, in most cases, have no fees. However, if a retailer doesn't have convenient locations nearby or an online store, these can be inconvenient. Also, if the retailer closes, your card could become worthless.Open loop cards are frequently stamped with a major card network, like Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and so on. Expect to pay a fee to purchase the card, and potentially more fees a year after purchasing it.