 Beyonce enjoys snacks to keep her energy levels up, foods such as fruit, oatcakes with cottage cheese, or yogurt-covered almonds.It's important not to skip meals; Beyonce aims for three meals with two snacks in between each day.Eat plenty of vegetables and fruit, whole grains, and two servings of fish each week.



Drink plenty of water, just like Beyonce.
Cut down on sugary foods, salty foods, and junk food, in general. But don't cut these out of your diet completely; after all, Beyonce allows herself treats occasionally, saying that "When I'm being bad, I'm bad – burgers, pizza, French fries, the lot...".Enjoy junk food in moderation now and then; just don't go overboard.
Provided you're exercising regularly, the aim is not necessarily to lose weight, and curves are good. The aim should be to tighten up your body with better nutrition.;
, Beyonce has to be able to handle the strenuous pace of dancing, singing, and touring. She works out five days a week and does 100 squats, 100 step-ups, and 100 walking lunges a day.Beyonce does circuit training, and runs two-and-a-half miles each day.If you enjoy running, this can be a great form of exercise. While you might find her schedule way too punishing unless you're doing a music tour too, you can borrow some of her ideas. For example, try choosing exercise that you can follow at least two days of the week; three is better. Have a day of rest between exercise days.You could try swimming, running, dancing, lifting weights, or doing aerobics, whatever exercise fits in with your working out strengths and is something that you enjoy.


Do your exercise to music. Beyonce suggests that this is how to make it fun,thereby motivating you a lot more.
Beyonce works out with weights, including 5 pound weights for bicep curls during an entire song, or 3 pound weights to box for the length of one music track.Beyonce loves cycling and dancing as fun ways to improve her fitness levels.
If nothing else, follow a walking program. Walking is easy, but it is one of the better overall exercises. Get one or more friends to walk with you for more fun and motivation.
Consider getting a personal trainer if you think this will help keep you focused and you can afford the expense.
 Beyonce has a goal and so too should you. She keeps a poster of an Oscar on the wall of her gym to inspire her to keep working at it.What's your goal? Perhaps it is to keep fit, or to stay healthy for all your life, or to get ahead in a career or hobby aspiration. Whatever your reason, ask yourself how will you represent this goal visually so that it can serve as a source of motivation for you. A poster, messages, or photos of your goal can all be good ways to inspire you. Be sure to put these in places where you'll be reminded often of the purpose of getting a great body.
 Beyonce works constantly to achieve her goals, including dancing all day long in high heels in order to get ready for a music tour.Set yourself regular exercise schedules that you can stick to, no matter what else is happening in your life.
 Beyonce has said that she "wears skimpy outfits" because she's "proud of her body".She's not afraid to show off what she's got, being proud to celebrate her body shape the way that it is. She accepts that she is not naturally skinny and she detests fad diets after trying them and finding they don't work.Take a leaf from her book and love your body the way it is and don't harm your health with fad dieting.


Love your curves. They are attractive and beautiful.
 Beyonce is renowned for wearing beautifully tailored clothes that make the most of her good features. If you can sew or get your clothes tailored to your own body shape, you'll find that you look your absolute best; clothes that fit properly flatter your body. Clothing off the rack is trying to fit a range of sizes that may or may not suit your own shape and this can be made worse by the broad-ranging belief that you should fit into a single size. The reality is that a good wardrobe may well be filled with the sizes that fit in each style of clothing you try on. That may mean that you have larger tops and smaller bottoms, or larger jacket and smaller blouse sizes. Don't make the mistake of preferring a smaller size in the hope it'll look better on you; something that looks too small will ironically make you appear larger! Get the sizing right and a lot of your quest to appear "bootylicious" is sorted.


Even jeans can be worn skin-tight with curves. Look for versions that are made with curves in mind, such as jeans with fake pockets around the thigh area, so that bulk is removed.Wear skinny jeans with high heels to elongate your look. The boot cut is also an excellent style for women with curves.If you can't figure out what looks best on you by yourself, invest in spending some time with a personal stylist to help you or search in stores and/or on the Internet for your body shape and what suits it.
 Don't seek to transform into Beyonce or be a dead ringer for her. You're a unique wonder in your own right and while she offers a great inspirational role model, your ideal image of her must be tempered by the realities of what's achievable with the body and lifestyle you've got. Love what you have and make the very most of it; use Beyonce's inspiration to motivate you to exercise regularly and to eat well.

