 Cruises can now take passengers anywhere in the world. Whether you want to go to Caribbean, Alaska, Greece or Australia, the world is at your fingertips. Decide exactly what you want to do and see on your cruise and this will make you choosing your destination much easier.;
, This determination will in essence help you decide how long you want to stay on the cruise. Keep in mind, there are cruises year around so if you are not able to spend what you want on the first one, start planning another one immediately upon your return.
 You can stay on a cruise as little as 3 or 4 days and as long as a month. The only thing that determines this time is how long you want to stay and how much money you are able to spend.
 Depending on what you have decided about what you expect to do and spend on your cruise, the cruise line you choose should meet these expectations. There are Disney cruises, lesbian and gay cruises, singles cruises and even booze cruises, so the choice is yours.
 This is a much more difficult choice than some people assume. If you choose a suite, you will pay more for the room and also probably have a butler service and a beautiful view. Many cruise lines are updating their staterooms so that most have a beautiful view and are larger than the original staterooms. In other words, you will be getting more for your money.
 These activities will vary depending on what cruise line you choose and which places the ship stops. Make sure you take extra money for souvenirs, alcoholic beverages and extra activities aboard the ship that were not included in the price of the cruise.
 This can be done directly through the cruise line's website or through a travel agency. Booking in advance can sometimes get you a good discount but that is not always offered through all the cruise lines. If something comes up and you are not able to make your cruise, some cruise lines will reimburse you the full or partial price of your ticket if canceled a certain amount of time prior to the cruise.

