 This shows that the head is partially turned towards the viewer.


Notice how the head is slightly tilted this time. This will make the picture look dynamic and be more interesting.
The artist used a squashed oval to give this girl a wide face. Feel free to experiment with rectangles, triangles, hearts, and other face shapes.
 Start with an oval, and refine the shape from there. This girl is black, so her nose is wide with a shallower bridge.
 This smile started out as a crooked trapezoid, and then teeth were added. One corner of her mouth is farther away from the others, giving her an impudent smile.
 This girl's eyes are almond-shaped. Notice how the bottom lids slant upwards—this is what eyes do when a person smiles. The big eyes make her look cute and friendly.
 Children have big heads, especially cartoon children. Shape the body like a rectangle, with arms coming out from either side.


The bottom of her sleeve is simply a random squiggly line. Lace does not have to be even in order to look cute.
 This girl's hair is curly and thick, so it is represented by random squiggles in a general oval-like shape. Curly hair is wild, so use loose scribbles and don't worry about the exact shape.


This is one way that art can send a positive social message—by showing that black girls can embrace their natural hair texture and feel good about it. You can send a message about diversity by drawing cute children of color, disabled children, and children of all shapes and sizes.
 Here you can add any extra details (like her gap teeth) and refine the shapes more. This artist added a few wrinkles to the clothes and worked on the shape of the hair more carefully.
 Take note of where the shadows fall—under her nose, her neck, her eyelids, and the back of her hair.


Curly hair can be shaded with squiggles of different colors. The hair is the same color as the eyes and the freckles to give unity to the picture.
The girl's shirt has a purple texture. Digital artists can use screentones with layer modes such as Multiply or Screen to add interest to clothes.

