 If you are having trouble remembering when your payments are due, scheduling automatic payments can help. Online payments can be scheduled to automatically withdraw funds from your checking or savings account. Just make sure that you always have enough money in your account to make the payments.


To set up these payments, you'll have to register for online banking and follow through the provided instructions to set up automatic payment. Call your bank's customer service number if you run into any difficulties.;
, Another option is to establish a payment reminder system so that you receive reminders whenever your credit card payments are due. These alerts can be set up on a virtual calendar or with your bank. You can also try setting an alarm or reminder on your phone if it has that functionality. This can be helpful if you feel uncomfortable with automatic payments., Credit card issuers all have very specific rules regarding the timing and methods of payment. These details are outlined on the back of your credit card bill, in your original card agreement, and online if you're enrolled in online banking. Read through them thoroughly to make sure you are paying your bills on time and correctly. If you fail to follow the guidelines, your payment might be credited late, resulting in late fees. Adhere to the following rules to avoid this situation:


If you are paying by mail, use the payment envelope provided by the credit card company.
Make sure your payment check is filled out correctly, with your card number, signature, and the correct payment amount.
Send your payment to the address requested with the required postage.
Try to send payment at least a week before it is due.When mailing in your payment, there may be delays in the mail. In addition, the credit card company's processing time between receipt of your payment and credit to your account might vary.
It's always better to allow for a few extra days than to expect your payment to arrive on the day it's due.
 Pay as much as you can if you cannot pay the full amount off. Paying only the minimum on your credit card does not help you to pay off the full amount. If you continue to only pay the minimum, it could take you many years to pay off your full balance. You need to pay more than what is requested and, if possible, pay off the credit card before adding more debt to it.


Any balance remaining after you pay off your bill each month is subject to interest. Interest will be charged based on the remaining balance, so any amount you can pay off reduces your interest fee.Some credit card purchases provide a set payment period, such as one year, without interest provided the debt is paid within the period.
However, if you can only afford the minimum, pay it immediately to avoid late fees., In some cases, your credit card bill might be due at a bad time of the month, when you are low on cash. To remedy this, you can call your credit card company and ask them to change your due date to a more convenient time. For example, try setting your credit card bill due date right after you receive a paycheck so that you'll have plenty of cash to pay it off each month.If you have more than one card, consider setting the due dates on the same day. This will make payment easier to remember each month., Most credit cards allow a grace period for purchases. You should pay your current balance in full every month before the grace period ends. This way, you can avoid paying interest. But a cash advance usually has no grace period, and interest begins accruing immediately. Paying the "current balance" will not save your from paying interest if you've taken out a cash advance. The only way to stop it is to pay the account off to a zero balance. Do this online, over the phone, or in person. If you mail a check, more interest will have accrued before your payment is posted, and you will still owe a small balance that continues to accrue interest.


In addition, cash advance interest rates may be even higher than your standard credit card rate.
Cash advances are expensive and should only be used when absolutely necessary.