 Wearing jeans is fine while scratchy running pants with the same material as snow pants would give you away.


Avoid wearing any chains, necklaces, bracelets, and anything else hanging. Wear only clothes!
If you can, try to get a ghillie suit if you are in a high grass or forested area so that you can hide.;
, Wear dark brown and green colors when outside. When inside, stick to dark places and wear grayish-coloured clothes.


Try to wear clothing that conceals all of your skin, as skin shows up when a light is shone upon it.
 Always act as if someone is looking for you at every moment. Never relax and be ready to freeze at a nanosecond's notice.
 Don't try to dart into another hiding spot when you know that your target is right outside the room. Don't make noises to annoy your target. Keep it stealthy and quiet.
 Make sure no one is following you and that no one is around. If you hear someone's footsteps, then immediately find a hiding place. Your hiding place shouldn't be somewhere where you will be found easily, such as your bathroom or closet.
 People usually look right, left, and back, but not up or down. Hiding under the bed is just as good a hiding place as the top shelf of a closet.



Walk next to the wall where the floor is less likely to squeak.
Avoid the wall opposite the door in every room so that a glance into the room won't spot you. If someone comes walking toward you, freeze and don't move for a while, and you probably won't be spotted.
Be aware of the background when outside. Avoid sky or grass and stick around mixed shadow and light, buildings, and trees. Stay low as much as possible and avoid wide open spaces. If you have to get to the other side, and there is no coverage straight across, go around and make big circular detours.
Inside your house, know where everything is. Know where the floorboard squeaks are and map them. Know which doors never get closed and slip behind them for a quick and temporary hiding spot. Know the best hiding spot in every room and all possible escape routes.
 When sneaking, every movement counts, and it's important to be as graceful as a cat, as quiet as a mouse and as light as a bird. Move slowly and carefully most of the time. Sometimes, though, you'll need to move swiftly, to get to where you need to be without notice. Move quickly when in the open and rest in complete silence when safe.


Use the balls of your feet whenever you walk, run, or jump. This will help silence your feet. It is best to go barefoot, but if you need shoes on, then carefully and slowly walk in shoes that don't make a lot of noise.
Support your weight on the handrail when walking up or down the stairs. If you are walking on a squeaky floor, grab furniture or handrails to support yourself, as it helps you to make less noise.
 Laying flat on your stomach helps when hiding behind small things. If you need to look around something, use one eye so your whole head does not show. If you have long hair, put it up so when hiding it does not show and get you discovered. Never allow your form to be shown against the horizon.
 As soon as you enter a room, start looking for places to hide. You could squeeze in between a dresser and the wall. You could hide under a rumpled bedspread. If you're in the bathroom, you could get behind the shower curtain and pull it out just enough to hide you so it wouldn't look suspicious. Just look around for more clever hiding places.


At night, use shadows to your advantage.
 If you move anything, put it back in place. Someone very observant would be able to tell that an item was moved into a different position. It is best to assume that there is such a person if you're dealing with a group of people.
 Move when something is making noise. When the coffee grinder is going, the TV volume is up, or a car is passing, that is your time to move. Do not do it otherwise unless you really have to. It's risky.


A good time to move is when there's background noise. If some people are talking, then that's an excellent time to move because they would probably be paying close attention to the conversation, not so much for things around them (like you sneaking around).
If someone hears a noise they will wait to hear another sound. If you don't move for a while, they may think they were hearing things and will probably forget about it.
 If you think that someone is going to find you (if you're hiding from someone), carry a small object that you can throw a fair distance away, to create a distraction that will allow you to change your hiding place.


An alternative to this: Set up a noise maker in a nearby room. Try taking a clear string and tying it to something in the closet. Make sure it is a long string. After you have secured the knot, close the closet door as far as it can go. Get into position in your hiding place. Make sure you have a firm grip on the string. If your target is about to find you, give the string a quick but strong jerk. Whatever it was tied to should topple over, making a loud noise. Your target will run to the noise, and then, seeing no one is there, will probably get discouraged and leave the room. Just make sure your target doesn't see the string!

, For instance, if you are caught, you could say you are playing hide-and-seek, you're there to do repairs, or you're looking for someone/a particular house number.

