 Start by visiting your regular physician, especially if the fears are a sudden or recent change. Your doctor will be able to address any potential neurological conditions, medical conditions, or responses to a new medication that could be contributing to the change. Your doctor may recommend that you try behavioral modifications such as relaxation, stress reduction, caffeine or alcohol avoidance, and better sleep habits, as well as cognitive behavioral therapy or psychotherapy. Additionally, they may prescribe medication that may help or provide you with a referral to a mental health professional.Say:


”I'm experiencing a lot of fear and anxiety. I'm not sure what to do about it, so I'm hoping you can help.”
”I'm fearful and anxious every time I have to spend time with other people. It was difficult for me to even make it here today.”
”It's just been getting worse and worse. It's affecting my ability to work and my relationships with others.”;
, Medication can help treat your anthropophobia if your doctor thinks it's right for you. Anti-depressants, anti-anxiety medications, and beta-blockers can all help alleviate the symptoms of your anxiety and fear. While you will still need to work on your issues, the medication can help., Phobias are valid and legitimate fears. They can, however, be seen as not rational.Due to a phobia being an irrational experience, it would not be successful or even possible to talk yourself out of it alone.A mental health professional, such as a counselor or a psychotherapist, will be able to help you along this process. Make an appointment with a mental health professional to discuss the following possible treatments.


Consider Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), which is a type of psychotherapy that helps people change the way that they think, behave, and react to certain situations. This includes anxiety-inducing situations. CBT can also help you develop your social skills if you have social anxiety.Try talk therapy.Depending on the extent of your anthropophobia, you may benefit from talk therapy, where you work through your fears by talking with a therapist about them.
Explore exposure or systematic desensitization therapy.These therapies focus on a gradual exposure to situations which cause anxiety, in order to practice relaxation and calming techniques until you no longer experience the anxiety.
Work with Acceptance and Commitment Therapy or morita therapy. These therapies are based in Zen Buddhism and focused around accepting the phobia., While there is no one cause of anthropophobia, there are some occurrences which may trigger the start of your fear. It may help to engage in individual therapy or treatment to process through any potential causing factors for your phobia. You may also want to address any potential risk factors for worsening your anthropophobia. Potential causes or risk factors could include the following.Being the victim of a violent crime
Being bullied or abused
Being autistic
Having a disorder that involves paranoia, such as schizophrenia
Schizoaffective disorder
Bipolar disorder
Physical problems or adrenal insufficiency
Genetics

, Medication, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, and talk therapy can all help you overcome your anthropophobia. For best results, combine your types of treatment. Using medication and psychotherapy together provides the best results.