 It may seem easier to avoid the challenges in life than to face them head-on. But avoiding your problems will only lead to more problems down the road, which may result in your feeling a lack of control. The best way to deal with challenge and struggle in your life is to acknowledge it and face it.Don't avoid dealing with your problems. Address them as they arise, and recognize that a given problem needs your attention.
Think about the times you've faced your problems in the past. You no doubt walked away with a greater sense of purpose and a stronger sense of confidence. Remember this as you approach new and bigger problems, and take comfort in this fact.
 One of the best ways to feel content with the conditions of your life (no matter how challenging) is to practice accepting your situation as it is. Though you may wish things were easier (like having more money, a more secure job, or even better health), dwelling on what you don't have will not make living in the present any easier.Remember that without hard times, you would not have as much appreciation for the good times.
Accepting your life the way it is right now is the only way you can truly appreciate everything you have. Be grateful for the people in your life, no matter how difficult your life's circumstances may be at the moment.
Recognize that everyone has similar struggles in some form or another. No life is without difficulty, but it is through perseverance and mindfulness that life becomes joyous and meaningful.
 It's not always easy to see the silver lining in unfortunate or challenging situations. But the reality of the situation is that struggle often leads to new insights about yourself, a new perspective on life, and even a renewed sense of purpose.It will not be easy to see your problems as an opportunity for growth, but with mindfulness and a lot of practice, you'll quickly see that you do actually grow and develop from living through your challenges.
Recognize and always remember that life is full of meaning. Just because you are going through a hard time (like being unemployed or losing a loved one), or even suffering physical/medical ailments (like chronic illness or the loss of a limb), it does not mean that your life is without meaning.
Try to use the problems in your life to motivate you. Perhaps living with a medical condition might give you the opportunity to join others in raising awareness of that condition, or even working towards finding a cure.
Know that even if a given problem doesn't work out favorably, you'll still have grown as a person and developed more confidence as a result of facing your problems and trying to learn from them.

