 HPV is becoming such a common thing that the number of products available is spreading like wildfire. Take a trip to your local Walmart and see what they have available next to the aspirin and Neosporin.


Many users main complaint about these is that it just takes too long. Generally, you'll be looking at at least a few weeks before you start noticing results.If you have the time, these are pain-free and FDA approved.;
, This is one of the safest, most popular treatments -- but it can take months.Compound W and Occlusal are two products that use salicylic acid to soften the warts, aiding in their eventual non-existence. It's the same stuff used in most acne medications.


With salicylic acid, it's best to soak the wart in water first, apply the acid, and leave it overnight. Cover the area with a bandage or cloth so it doesn't rub off on your sheets., When they said it was all-purpose, boy, did they mean it. In 2007, USA Today featured an article on this tool being used for genital wart removal -- and it worked for 20% of subjects. 1 in 5 is better than nothing, right?With this method, you place duct tape over the warts and leave it for six days. After that length of time has passed, remove the tape and file away at the warts with an emery board. Repeat until the warts are gone., This stuff has been used for ages for numerous medical purposes. If you can't stand the smell (it's rather potent!), mix it with a better smelling oil, like peppermint. There are a couple different ways to go about this method:


Soak a cotton ball in the stuff and tape onto the wart. Change it three times a day, or as desired.Make a paste with baking soda and apply to the wart. Reapply every few hours. To avoid getting the mixture on your clothes, cover with gauze or a bandage., If you've heard of it working in the fight against acne, it works similarly on genital warts -- with less of a burning sensation than apple cider vinegar. The research is still being done, but it's promising.


Apply it just like the castor oil -- a soaked cotton ball should be left on the wart throughout the day (and night) until the wart has completely disappeared. The length of time is determined by the size of the wart -- weeks to a few months, usually.