 A good kiss is a moment out of time, so savor it. Don't feel like you must immediately move forward or have something to do next. Just enjoy the kiss! More often than not, the two of you will naturally find something to talk about, do, or just keep on kissing -- so let the moment just happen.


In general, the best advice is just to go slow. Don't rush into anything. Instead, just take a breath and slow down your thoughts.
The best advice for responding after a kiss is to follow your heart. It sounds cliche, but all kisses are different, and you will know what to do if you just trust yourself.;
, After the kiss, pull your head back slowly to give each of you some space. If you wrapped a hand around each other, you can lightly ease off, or hold each other close for a more intimate moment.
 As you peel back, a simple, small smile is a great way to show your emotions without having to think of anything suave to say. More likely than not, there will be some nervous, happy giggles and smiles either way, but don't worry if you have "nothing to say." This giddy, semi-awkward moment is the perfect way to show how much you enjoy each other without movie-perfect quotes. You could also:


Run your hands through their hair.
Pull them in for a hug.
Wrap your arms around them, or cup their face.
Nuzzle your noses against each other.
Keep your faces, like forehead and nose, touching.
Hold each other for a quiet moment alone., Post first kiss, no matter the circumstances, can often get a little awkward. And that is okay! Learn to embrace this moment, which is honestly less awkward and more exciting, without feeling like you need to say something. Most "smooth" lines that people come up with after kisses are laughably bad -- a smile and a simple "I liked that," is often more than enough.


Don't overthink things! Just keep being yourself.
If you feel confident and have something to say, say it! Even if it is a little corny, more likely than not he/she will laugh.
 A first kiss is just one step in a relationship, so don't put so much significance on it that you forget to be yourself. While things may be a little different for a day or two, there is no reason why a single kiss needs to change how you treat each other.The more you treat a kiss as a small growth in a larger relationship, and not the single most important moment in your lives, then it is doubtful that this will be your last kiss.

