 It's not all about being a Satanist even though some bands are. If you don't want to write about that kind of stuff, then don't. Many bands choose to write about other subjects such as philosophy, religion, misanthropy, fantasy, mythology, occultism, magic, personal, mental subjects, the cosmos, stars, cosmology, astrology, and seasons. Winter is usually used for season-themed songs.;
, Bands such as Venom, Satryicon, Immortal, Asmodeus, Emperor, Belphegor, Behemoth, and Mayhem are great for learning the basics of how to play black metal. If you don't like Satanic bands, you can try listening to "unblack" metal, which is basically Christian black metal, and includes bands like Horde, Frost Like Ashes, A Hill To Die Upon, Miseration, and Ancestor.
 Don't expect to be a wizard when you first pick the instrument up. The black metal guys weren't gods when they started out either. You will need to know how to read music, but learning tabs or symphonic sheets won't matter as long as you can read it and play what you read. If you want to do vocals, learn how to do black metal vocals. if you want to play guitar, learn the guitar techniques of your favorite bands. Bass isn't really heard in the black metal genre, so don't expect to be very loud or recognizable in here. If you want to play drums, learn to blast beat. This will probably require you to have a double-bass drumset. You might also be interested in playing keyboards if you know how to play piano. You can also learn other orchestral instruments if you like symphonic or atmospheric black metal.
 Again, don't expect to be awesome when you start. Chances are that your first riffs will sound like your favorite artists. This happens with all beginning musicians. Don't give up.
 Find a way to record your songs. You can do it in a professional studio, a homemade one, or even record it with an audio recording device.
 Find other metalheads and try to start a band. Be sure to have common influences. A great place to try to find band-mates is at heavy metal shows, so go there and try to meet other musicians and see if you can start a band with your original material.

