 Conserving electricity in your home is an easy way to start being greener right away. Electricity-powered lights, appliances and more are require the use of energy that is generated at power plants that pollute the air. Most plants burn fossil fuel or coal and release emissions that make the air less clean. Here are ways you can help today:Turn off your lights when they aren't in use.
Turn off and unplug appliances and electronics when you aren't using them.
Use energy saving lightbulbs and appliances.
Lower your thermostat in the winter, and use less air conditioning in the summer. Insulating your home helps you heat and cool it more efficiently, too.;
, Cars play a big part in polluting the air. The processes of manufacturing cars, fueling them, and building roads for them to drive on all pollute the air in different ways. The best way you can help is to be less reliant on cars as your main mode of transportation. Here's what you can do:Take public transportation. Use your local bus, subway or train instead of driving where you need to go.
Try biking. Many towns are building bike lanes to make it easier and safer to commute by bike.
Try walking where you want to go. It takes more time, but it's the greenest option available. Any place you can drive or bike to within five or ten minutes should also be walkable.
Carpool to work or school.
 Food often has to travel a long way to reach the shelves of your grocery store. It may have spent time on ships, planes and trucks, not to mention your car, before it finally lands on your plate. Buying food that was made locally means reducing the amount of energy and emissions required to feed yourself and your family.Check out farmer's markets for the greenest options. Most farmers can tell you exactly how far the food traveled to get to you.
Why not grow your own food? Check out local community gardens and see about starting your own vegetable plot.
 Every item you bring into your house has a history. Take your new pair of jeans, for example. Do you know what materials went into making the jeans? Do you know how far they were shipped before arriving in a store near you? If you bought them online, how do you think they got to your door? Often the steps required to make an item available require means that pollute the air. Thinking more deeply about what's behind every item can help you make greener choices.Check labels to see how far products had to travel to get to you. If an item came from another continent, a lot of gas was burned to get it to your door. Look for a local option instead.
Buy secondhand. Any time you can do without a brand new item, it's better to get a secondhand version. That way energy isn't required to produce a new item from scratch.
 Many environmental groups are passionate about stopping air pollution by encouraging individuals, companies and governments to make greener decisions. Your personal actions matter, but if you want to make a bigger difference, join up with a group and make your voice heard.See if there are local groups working on ways to stop air pollution in your community.
Or join up with a national group focused on reducing carbon emissions and stopping global warming.

