 In some cases, your grandma might live in another country and have a very different culture from what you're used to. But also, many grandmas are old enough that the culture today is very different from what they grew up with. This can make grandma feel out of her element. To respect cultural differences you can:


Avoid judging or making jokes about grandma. Even if some things she does seem weird in your home culture, she probably thinks the same thing about your culture.
Get to know your roots. Learning the meaning and history behind family traditions can be very interesting, and is also a way you can show respect., Some grandma's may have no difficulty following the lingo used by you and your friends. Other grandma's might struggle to understand, have difficulty hearing, and so on. You should talk with grandma clearly, choosing words that aren't slang.


You might say, "Hi grandma! How are you? I'm good. I've been busy with school. My favorite subject is English. What was your favorite subject when you went to school?"
Instead of avoiding fun new slang words and terms, grandma might be interested learning fun, popular expressions and using them herself.
You might teach grandma slang by explaining, "I'm sorry, you might not be familiar with that expression. When I said "to' up" I meant "tore up" or "ruined." "
If your grandma is hard of hearing, you might get a little frustrated speaking with her. When you start feeling frustrated, imagine how happy you would be if someone took time to talk to you if you were hard of hearing.
 Grandma has spent her entire life working and taking care of people. It's only natural that at this point in her life she wants to take things easy and relax. When you push grandma to do too much, it can sometimes cause her to get cranky or overwhelmed.If you feel yourself rushing, you can slow down by breathing slowly in and out on a 10 count. Inhale deeply and completely as you count from 1 to 10, pause for a moment, and then exhale completely as you count to 10 once more., Sometimes, nothing you say can change your grandma's opinion on a thing, even if she's wrong. Then again, if you spent most of your life believing something, it might turn into a habit that's hard to break, just like grandma. When you find a conversation is going nowhere and beginning to frustrate you, change the topic by saying things like:


"Grandma, I love spending time with you, but talking about this is starting to make me feel uncomfortable. Could we talk about something else?"
"We can agree to disagree, but I hear what you're saying. Let's talk about something different. How have your hobbies been going? Have you made any new crafts?"

