 You will need some sort of heat-resistant container, such as a mason jar or an old candle holder, to pour your melted wax into. Make sure that the mouth of your container is wide enough for you to reach into and that the container can withstand high temperatures.;
, You can use any candle wax for your candles, such as paraffin, soy, or even old, unscented candles. Cut or break your chosen wax into cubes. Make sure that you have enough to fill your container, plus some extra. Wax shrinks a little when it hardens, and you may find that you will have to add a little extra wax into the container during the cooling process.
 Fill your double boiler with water and place it on the stove, then fill the smaller chamber with wax. Turn on the stove and wait until the wax melts. It will look mostly clear.


If you do not have a double boiler, you can make your own by filling a large pot part-way with water and placing a smaller, heat-resistant container, such as a glass measuring cup, inside it. The smaller container should be at least as tall as the larger pot; it should not be submerged in the water. Place the candle wax into the smaller container, and set the large pot onto the stove.
If you want to add some color to your candle, you can add in some crayons or wax dye.Wax dye usually comes in blocks, and you can find it online or in the candle-making section of an arts and crafts store. If you choose to add some color, be sure to stir your wax to blend it all in.
 Use about ½ teaspoon or 10 drops of oil per one pound of wax. You can use more essential oil if you'd like a more potent candle, or less essential oil if you'd prefer a less potent one. You can find citronella essential oil online or in the essential oil section of a health food store. Once you have added the oil, stir the wax to mix it all together.


Be sure to use essential oil, as a synthetic citronella oil (or citronella scent) will not be as effective at keeping the bugs away.You can also add other candle-making scents to help compliment the citronella. Consider using scents that other insects don't like, such as eucalyptus, lavender, lemon, peppermint, or pine., Measure out a pre-waxed candle wick and cut it with a pair of scissors. The wick should be a few inches longer than your chosen container; you will be trimming the wick down later.


If your candle wick came without a metal tab, you will need to purchase one online or from the candle-making aisle of an arts and crafts store and attach it to one end. Simply slip the metal tab onto one end of your candle wick and pinch it shut using a pair of pliers.
 Take the candle wick and dip the metal tab into the hot wax, then slip the wick into the container. When the wax hardens, it will affix the metal tab to the bottom of the jar, securing the wick., You want your candle wicks to be straight inside the candle, so you will need to secure them. You can do this by taking a wooden clothespin, closing it around your candle wick, and resting the pin on the top of your container.If you do not have any clothespins, you can support the candle wick by resting chopsticks or pencils on top of the container, and placing them to either side of the wick. This will help keep the wick upright and prevent it from falling over.
 Carefully lift the container holding the wax off of the double boiler and pour the melted wax into the container. Leave about ½ to 1 inch space from the rim of the container.
 You can tell if your candle has cooled if it is solid colored. Most uncolored waxes will appear white, ivory, or yellow when they have cooled.


If you find that your wax has shrunk a little, simply add more hot wax and wait for it to cool.
 Once your candle has cooled, you can remove the chopsticks, and trim the wick until it is about ½ inch long.

