 If you've ever searched for a diet, food journal or exercise app, you probably came across a whole variety of options. Make sure you find one that fitness your needs the closest.


Determine what your goal is for your app. Are you interested in just tracking your food intake? Do you want to lose weight? Do you want workout videos on-the-go?
Many apps are designed and tailored for one specific need. For example, you may find an app that helps you track calories and log foods in a journal or diary.
Other apps may have a combination of functions. It can help you track calories, food and provide recipes and diet plans.
Make sure you choose an app that meets your primary goal. So for example, if you want to track calories, don't get swayed by other functionality like workout videos. You want an app that's great at providing a method of counting calories.
Some fitness apps provide consulting and coaching. They might even put you in touch with a personal trainer or nutritionist who will check in with you periodically.;
, Many of the diet and fitness apps available do more than one thing. It's common to find diet apps that track fitness and fitness apps that track calories. But there are some other functionalities that you may enjoy as well.


Some apps provide recipes for you to try. These are most commonly found in weight loss apps. They can give you some ideas of what to make that will fit into your diet plan.
Other apps have calming music, sounds or chants. You can play and listen to these to help you de-stress and calm down.
Many fitness apps not only tell you what to do as far as exercise or track exercise, but they also provide workout videos.This is great for exercise on the go.
Some newer fitness apps now offer music to exercise to. In addition, some of these apps are able to track your pace and provide music that matches your tempo.
Listening to music will boost your energy level and allow you to work out better. Some fitness apps, such as FitRadio, are specifically designed for the fitness buff. These apps tend to have shorter mixed versions of the music that can provide variety.
 When you go to download an app, its important to read over ratings and reviews of the app. This can help you get a good idea of whether or not it'll fit your needs.


Both Android and iPhone app stores give you an overview of the app itself which will provide you with the information on what the app does and how it works. This is where you'll get a lot of information on whether the app meets your needs.
The app store also will give you information on ratings. If you find a app that's not rated well, it might not be worth the download or purchase.
Also read the customer reviews. Previous users can give great insight into how the app actually works. Look to see what others are saying about the key components of the app.
For example, if you want to download an app to track calories, see what people are saying about the interface, food options and ease of use.
 A small thing that you should consider when purchasing a diet or fitness app is your budget. Although many apps are free, some do come with a cost to download.


If you want a free app, search for free apps only. There is an option to only search free apps from the app store on your smart phone.
If you don't mind paying for an app, you can search all diet and fitness related apps. Most will only cost a dollar or two for the download.
However, some apps are a little more expensive or have different levels you can choose. Some are free for the initial version, but the more expanded or detailed versions are more expensive.
Also make sure you figure out whether or not the app you download has a monthly fee. Some of the apps with videos or meal plans do have a monthly cost.
 A newly popular workout and fitness app is Sworkit. The name stands for Simply Work It and the app delivers just that - ways to add simple workout routines to your day.


Sworkit is an app that has two versions - the "lite" and "pro". The lite version is free and the pro version will cost you $4.99.It's available for both iPhone and Android phones.
Sworkit will help customize a workout for you based on the stored exercises in the app itself. The pro version is much more robust and has many more capabilities than the free lite version.
The app has "playlists" which are workouts that are created by fitness professionals. You can watch any of these workouts and do them any place. The great thing is that all of the workouts do not require equipment to do.
 If you love to run or jog, a great app for you might be RunKeeper. It's perfect those who want to track their runs, improve their pace, timing and distance.


RunKeeper is another app that has both a free and a paid version. The paid version is $9.99 for the download.It's available for both iPhone and Android phones.
RunKeeper uses the GPS function in your phone to track your mileage, pace and speed. It will also show you on a map where you were jogging (or cycling) and how many calories you burned (this is an average).
The pro version of this app has a coach that chimes in with certain cues as you're running. It might give you information on your pace, time or distance depending on the settings you've chosen.
You can also set pace or speed goals in this app. The coach will chime in to tell you to either speed it up or slow it down to meet your goal.
 If you're a little newer to the exercise scene, you might be interested in the Couch to 5k app (or C25K). It's great for those just beginning an exercise or jogging program.


This app only has one version and it's a paid version. It's $1.99 for the download and there are no other costs.It's available for both Android and iPhone.
The jogging routine in this app has become very popular. You're only running or jogging 3 days a week. And you can start from not doing any exercise or activity whatsoever.
It's a 9 week plan and virtual coaches guide you through each workout. In addition, the app tracks your distance, pace and routes.
In addition, you can post your progress and share with others on the app and through different social media channels.
 If you're a strength training buff or want to improve and include more strength training, Jefit might be the app for you. It focuses almost exclusively on strength training exercises and performance.


Jefit has three versions - a lite, a pro and an elite subscription version. The lite version is free and the pro version is $4.99 for the download. The Elite version is the most robust and it comes with a monthly subscription fee of either $4.99 a month or $19.99 a year.It's available for Android and iPhone.
Out of all fitness apps, Jefit has the most robust and wide variety of strength training exercises (especially the elite version). It has over 1,300 different exercises and over 2,000 routines.
This app lets you track and analyze strength training progress - like your total weight, reps, sets and time. The pro and elite versions will provide you charts on your progress.
 Probably one of the most popular diet apps (and fitness apps), MyFitnessPal does a great job at tracking food and helping you lose weight. It's a great app overall and generally gets wonderful reviews.


MyFitnessPal only has one option and it's free. It's available for both Android and iPhone use.MyFitnessPal has a few different capabilities, but is most well known for it's large foods database, easy food tracking diary and nice customized nutrition charts. This is great if your into finding out exactly what percentage of each daily nutrient you're consuming.
Another great thing about this app, is that you can sync it to other apps and fitness gear. For example, you can import exercise information from your FitBit to the MyFitnessPal app.
 Another very popular calorie counting app is Calorie Counter Pro. This has a little bit different functionality, but has also been rated as a great app to use.


Calorie Counter Pro is free on android devices. However, if you have an iPhone this app will cost you $3.99 to download.Calorie Counter Pro is very simple and easy to use. It's got a great database of foods and its easy to track everything you're eating.
This app also gives you a list of over 500 different exercises that you can do to help you with your weight loss.
 A more unique diet app is Diet Assistance. This is somewhat like your own personal diet coach and provides you with a lot of information about diet, meal planning and exercise.


Diet Assistance is available for both Android and iPhone. It's also completely free for both.Diet Assistance offers a variety of features to users. It will help you create meal plans and grocery lists, help track your weight with interactive and easy-to-use graphs in addition to being able to track exercise.
Another great feature of this app, is that you can customize your diet plan. It has options for vegan, vegetarian and pescatarian eating plans.
 Lose It! is another popular diet app. It's a very general app but still allows you to track calories, weight and fitness goals.Lose It! is available for both Android and iPhone users and is also free for both types of users. In addition, it syncs with other fitness gadgets like scales or a FitBit.
One of the most well-liked things about this app is the look and design of the app itself. It's very easy to use, has interactive charts and allows you to set goals and reminders for yourself.
In addition, this app allows you to do the basics - count calories, track foods and track your exercise as well. You'll also be able to track your weight or BMI if you'd like.

