 Binary options are enormously popular in Europe and are extensively traded in major European exchanges, like EUREX. In the United States there are a few places where binary options can be traded:


The Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) offers binary options trading on the Target Fed Funds Rate. To trade these contracts, traders must be members of the exchange. Other investors must trade through a member. The value of each contract is $1,000.
Nadex is a U.S.-regulated binary options exchange. Nadex offers a range of expiration opportunities (hourly, daily, weekly) that allow traders to take a position based on market developments. The choice is vast with over 2,400 binary option contracts each day. These range from popular currency pairs (such as Great Britain Pound/USD) to key commodities like gold and oil. Members' funds are held in a segregated U.S. bank account in accordance with Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) regulations, adding an extra layer of security., Binary options brokers should not charge any per-trade fees, nor should they collect any commissions. You should also understand the percentage of time would you have to be correct in order to profit from the binary option you are considering.


For example, if you were buying into options at for $40 each and each one has a settlement value of $100 if you are correct, you would need to be correct 2 out of 5 times to break even, and more often than that to turn a profit (cost: 5*$40=$200, return: 2*$100=$200).
Screen several brokers before making a selection. Each broker is going to provide his or her own trading platform, contract terms, assets, return rates, and educational resources. Each of these elements can have an impact on overall earnings potential.
 It is extremely rare and difficult to outperform the market consistently. That means that options traders typically have to engage in many transactions in order to wind up with a profitable position. Consequently, a trader faces the possibility of high transaction costs and lower profits.
 How different are the terms (for instance, "strike price") on one side of the trade (above strike price) compared to the reverse side (below strike price)? If they are significantly different, the buyer would be forced into the unusual position of having to predict the magnitude as well as the direction of a price movement.

