 After you escape Helgen and get to Whiterun, start improving your smithing, alchemy, and enchanting. You can get a smithing tutorial from Alvor in Riverwood or Adrianne in Whiterun. Farengar in Dragonsreach will teach you a little bit about enchanting, and Delphine or Orgnar in The Sleeping Giant Inn of Riverwood can give you an alchemy start.;
, Be sure to pick up valuable weapons and armor, too, because they can be sold. Potions are useful for curing diseases, filling your attribute meters, and making more money. Poisons, as well, are deadly, yet expensive. Some miscellaneous items aren't worth taking up, but some are worth the extra weight. Gold, lockpicks, and gems are all key items and can end up handing you some more septims.
 For mages, pick up some spell books, new robes, some magicka and health potions, and even a dagger for extra protection. Warriors may invest in good weapons and armor, poisons and potions, and a few healing or destruction spells. Lastly, stealthy characters should purchase lockpicks, some armor, a bow or dagger, invisibility potions, spells, some poisons and potions.
 Race and item choices should make up whether you want to be a wise mage, strong warrior, or stealthy thief. For example, if you choose a warhammer and heavy armor, you should probably pick a warrior. Players interested in dumber spellcasters may choose a mage. Wood elves who wear light armor and are equipped with a bow and arrow would be a good thief.
 If you're a thief, you should join the Dark Brotherhood and Thieves Guild. Warriors would fit right into the Companions or in a side of the war. Mages are a perfect fit for the College of Winterhold or the Bards College. However, once your skill in those factions are high, you should consider joining the others.
 They just add more fun to the mix. When you've finished the game, be sure to add Dawnguard, Dragonborn, and Hearthfire. Dawnguard gives you two new factions: Dawnguard, the vampire hunters, and Volkihar, the vampires. Dragonborn takes you to Morrowind where you must find and destroy the first Dragonborn, Miraak, before he takes over. Lastly, Hearthfire allows you to build and decorate your own home from scratch, adopt two children, choose any follower as a housecarl or use the provided one, and move them all in.
 Not all of them are cheat mods. There are so many varieties of mods, such as ENBs, lighting, weapons and armor, quests, factions, homes, actions, and even integration between games, such as Mario Bros and Diablo. There are also ways to add mods to Xbox by using a USB, but I've never tried it, so I can't be sure.

