 Before you start brushing your dog’s fur you’ll need to remove their collar and any other accessories that they have on. You want to be able to brush the entirety of their coat and the collar impedes that.
 If your dog has long fur, you will brush both against and with the hair’s grain. Use the wire pin brush and keep the strokes short. Be careful to pull on the hairs, which can pull them out and be painful.For short haired dogs, you can brush with the grain., Working in small sections, you can use the wire pin brush to brush the entirety of their coat. Brushing helps to remove dirt and dead hair from your dog’s coat to keep it healthy.Be very gentle with the fur around your dog's face.
 Since your dog has thin fur, you can take this time to also inspect their skin. Look for any redness, irritation, scratches, or bites. Many thin furred dogs also have skin problems that manifest themselves in skin infections, so it is a good idea to check their skin weekly.If you notice any significant irritation, call your veterinarian and have your dog checked out.
 Your dog may or may not have any knots or tangles in their fur. Dogs with longer hair are more likely to have mats or knots than shorthaired dogs. When you encounter a tangle, use the soft slicker brush to try to work the knot out.You can use your fingers to untangle knots as well. Matts happen when tangles become knotted together. You can use the soft slicker brush to untangle the mats.


You may have to use scissors to cut out mats if you aren’t able to untangle them. Be very careful with the scissors and cut the mat out near the root. If the mat is very large, you may need to take your dog to the veterinarian or to a professional groomer to have it removed.
 You should expect to brush your dog’s fur about once a week. Dogs with long and silky hair, like Afghan Hounds and Maltese, need daily brushing to prevent tangles even if their fur is thin.During shedding seasons, usually the spring and fall, you may need to brush your dog's fur more often. This is usually the case with dogs that have double coats, like Siberian Huskies and Pomeranians. Since your dog has thin fur, they probably won't shed very much during these times.

