 You will know that you are being sued in a court when you receive a copy of the complaint and a summons.The person suing you is the “plaintiff” and you are the “defendant.” You should read the complaint closely to identify why you are being sued. Also note the court where you are being sued.


The complaint should also explain why the court has power over you. This power is called “jurisdiction.” Generally, a court has power over you if it is located in the same state as where you are domiciled.
A court might also have jurisdiction for other reasons. For example, if you manufacture airplanes, then you could be sued in a foreign country where a plane accident occurred.You can also be sued in a state or country where you have business contacts.;
, You are probably surprised that the plaintiff is suing you when there is an arbitration agreement. Often, a court will refuse jurisdiction. Over 150 countries have signed onto the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, and courts in these countries should not assert jurisdiction over a case. However, a plaintiff might still file a lawsuit for the following reasons:The court is in a country which did not sign onto the New York Convention. In this situation, the Convention has no effect.
There exists some dispute as to whether the arbitration clause is valid. In this situation, the plaintiff might try to get the court to find the clause invalid, thus allowing the lawsuit to proceed.
The dispute falls outside the arbitration provision. For example, the contract might state you will arbitrate employment issues but not issues involving intellectual property.
A parent company or an affiliate is sued, and they were not a party to the arbitration agreement.
 You might be a large corporation. If so, you probably already have a general counsel, as well as a law firm you work with regularly. They can help you respond to the lawsuit. However, if you don’t have a lawyer, then you need to get one quickly. This is a complicated area of law and you will need professional help.


You can get a referral to a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.Tell the referral service that you need a lawyer with experience handling arbitration disputes.
Once you have the name of a lawyer, call them up and schedule a consultation. At the consultation, explain your issue and also ask how much it will cost to hire the attorney.
 You should challenge the court’s jurisdiction to hear the case on the grounds that there is a valid arbitration provision.Have your lawyer or general counsel draft a motion to stay the proceedings.


If the plaintiff filed suit in the United States, then you can also include a motion to compel arbitration. The U.S. has a strong policy of enforcing arbitration agreements.
You have to serve the plaintiff with a copy of your motion. You can expect the plaintiff to respond by filing their own motion in response.
 Your lawyer should prepare to argue the motion in front of the judge. Your lawyer will need to explain why the arbitration provision is valid and why the court should stay its proceedings while you arbitrate the dispute.
 The judge can decide to stay the proceedings. Alternately, the judge might decide to go ahead with the lawsuit. You should receive a written opinion from the court explaining its decision.


If you win, then the lawsuit should be stayed until the arbitration is concluded.
If you lose, then you might be able to appeal immediately. However, in some states, you can’t appeal until the lawsuit is over. In those states, you will need to defend yourself in the lawsuit and then appeal if you lose.If you can’t appeal, then you should also discuss with your lawyer whether you should try to pursue arbitration at the same time. If you are able to get a favorable arbitration decision, then you might be able to enforce that award before the parallel court lawsuit is resolved.
 An anti-suit injunction is an option where a court asserts jurisdiction although there is a valid arbitration agreement. This type of injunction is a court order directed at the plaintiff to stop pursuing the parallel lawsuit. Unfortunately, anti-suit injunctions are not available in every country. For example, courts in many civil law countries will not issue one. Most European countries are civil law countries.


However, common law countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom will issue anti-suit injunctions.Courts in Hong Kong will also issue them.If both you and the plaintiff are domiciled in the U.S., then you can seek an anti-suit injunction.
 You can’t ask just any court to give you an anti-suit injunction. Instead, the court must have jurisdiction over the other party in order to issue one. You can sue for the injunction in the country where you had agreed to arbitrate.


For example, you might be a French company. You have an agreement to arbitrate disputes in New York City. In this situation, you can seek an anti-suit injunction in New York. Read your arbitration agreement to see if you had identified a location to arbitrate.
You can also seek an anti-suit injunction wherever the plaintiff is domiciled., You may be able to get an anti-suit injunction from an arbitration panel instead of from a court. For example, an arbitration panel might already have been created for your dispute. In this situation, the panel probably has the power to grant interim relief, such as the injunction.However, arbitration panels don’t have inherent authority to enforce any anti-suit injunction. For this reason, you might want to seek an anti-suit injunction from a court, unless you can’t find a court with jurisdiction over the other party that is willing to issue one.
 Some courts will refuse to grant an anti-suit injunction if you don’t request one promptly enough.In fact, some courts might want you to file for an anti-suit injunction before you even challenge the court’s jurisdiction to hear the parallel action.Talk about the proper sequence with your attorney. You may benefit by racing to the courthouse to file for the anti-suit injunction before you challenge the court’s jurisdiction in the parallel suit.
 Anti-suit injunctions are not something you can handle on your own. Even if you have a general counsel or a law firm that represents you, you might need to obtain local counsel in the country or state where you are seeking the anti-suit injunction.


For example, you might be located in Florida. If you want to seek the injunction in New York, then it is necessary to have someone who is familiar with New York law. This person knows the law and can also physically file papers for you.
 You have to request that the court enjoin the plaintiff from continuing with their lawsuit.Your lawyer should draft a complaint requesting an anti-suit injunction and file it with the court.


Provide your lawyer with all necessary information, such as a copy of the arbitral agreement. Your lawyer will need to refer to the agreement in the complaint.
 You need to make sure that the plaintiff gets a copy of your complaint, along with a summons. You should have them served according to the rules of the country or state where the court sits.


The other party might not even be in the same country. For example, you might sue for an anti-suit injunction in New York, because that is where you were going to arbitrate. The other party, however, might be in Australia. This type of service of process can be quite complicated and is another reason why you need local counsel.
 After being served with a copy of your complaint, the plaintiff will respond. They will explain why the anti-suit injunction is not appropriate. For example, they might claim that you took too long or that the parallel lawsuit is too far advanced to stop.Your local counsel should receive the copy.


Always ask local counsel for copies of any documents served. Read them with your own lawyer.
 The judge will probably want to hear argument before deciding whether to grant the anti-suit injunction. At the end of argument, the judge may issue an order. Alternately, the judge could take the issue under advisement and issue a written opinion at a later date.
 Hopefully, the plaintiff will move to stay or dismiss the parallel lawsuit if you win your injunction. However, on the off chance that they don’t, then you will need to ask the court for an “order to show cause” why the other party should not be held in contempt of court.Your lawyer can draft another motion and file it with the court. The judge can then try to compel compliance by fining the other party or possibly ordering jail time.
 You can get compensated for any amount spent defending yourself in the parallel lawsuit. This amount of money is called “damages,” which you will receive because the plaintiff breached the arbitration provisions. Hold onto the following types of expenses:


attorney’s fees
filing fees
mailing, printing, and copying
other costs, such as the cost of expert witnesses, court reporters, etc.
the amount of money you are ordered to pay if you lose the parallel proceeding, You can generally sue for damages because of the breach in two different places: arbitration or in a court. You and your lawyer need to analyze which is the better choice for you. Analyze the following:


What courts have jurisdiction over the other party. You can only bring your suit for damages if the court has jurisdiction because the other party is domiciled there or has business contacts.
Whether courts in the country where you can sue award damages for breaches of an arbitration agreement. Not all courts do. For example, courts in the United States do not generally award damages for breach of an arbitration agreement.However, courts in other countries might.
Whether courts will recognize an arbitration panel’s award. Once you win an award, you need to register it with a court. Only then can you enforce the arbitration award. Some countries might not allow you to register an award for breach of an arbitration provision.
 You might have to file a new arbitration seeking a declaratory judgment that the other party breached the arbitration agreement.Alternately, you could file for a declaratory judgment in a court that has jurisdiction over the other party.


When you file for the declaratory judgment, include you claim for damages.
 You will have to convince the arbitration panel or the court that the other party breached the exclusive arbitration provision. As evidence, you will need the arbitration agreement itself, as well as evidence of the parallel lawsuit, such as court documents. You also will need to prove your damages.
 If you obtain an award of damages from an arbitration panel, then you can enforce the judgment by entering the judgment in a court that has jurisdiction over the other party. The other party may try to claim that the arbitration award is invalid.If the other party won’t pay up, then you can typically put liens on property, garnish wages or bank accounts, or use other mechanisms.

