 Snow making depends on the weather. The ideal conditions are temperatures 28 °F (−2 °C) or lower, with a low humidity.Snow making works best with a humidity under 50%.;
, The items for a snow maker can range from cheap to expensive. For a reasonably priced snow gun, visit the plumbing section in your local hardware store. You will need the following items:


1/4” cap - 1
1/4” NPT Tee – 1
1/4”close hex nipple - 1
1/4” x 2” pipe nipple - 4
1/4" Female Ball or Gate Valve – 2
Female garden hose adapter – 1
Teflon tape, This aids in the sealing process of the parts of your snow gun so it doesn’t leak. Wrap the tape around the threaded ends. The threads should be visible through the tape.
 Use a 7/64" drill bit when you drill the hole. This hole is where the snow will come out. This hole needs to be small, so make sure you don't make it any larger. When the water comes out, it should be a fine mist. Otherwise, you won't have snow.


Make sure the tape is wrapped in a way so it does not come apart when screwing the pieces together.
 The parts should fit together if you bought the correct sizes. All fittings should be 1/4” NPT fittings. You will need adjustable wrenches and vice grips when putting these parts together. Also make sure that each part is as tight and secure as possible. Put the parts together the following way:


Screw the cap onto one end of the hex nipple. Then, connect one of the vertical ends of the Tee to the other end of the nipple.
On the other end of the Tee (directly across from the hex nipple), connect the 2” nipple. This should leave one smooth side on the Tee, and one remaining opening.
Connect one gate or ball valve to the other end of the 2” nipple. On the other side of the valve, connect the other 2” nipple.
On the remaining opening of the Tee, connect a 2” nipple. Next, the other valve should be attached. On the other side of the ball valve, attach the last 2” nipple.
Finally, the female garden hose adapter should be attached to end of the 2” nipple.
 You want the snow to blow up at an angle, such as 45 degrees. You can set the snow maker on a tripod made from metal bars, the edge of a fence or deck, or any other sturdy, tall surface. Make sure to secure the snowmaker securely to the stand.
 The garden hose should first be attached to the water spigot. The other end of the hose should be attached to the female garden hose adapter.


When setting up the snow maker stand, make sure to think about how long the garden hose is. You must have enough room between the water spigot and the snow maker.
 The air compressor should be able to pump 8 CFM at 40 PSI or 6-7 CFM at 90 PSI. You can find this on the side of your air compressor. Turn on your water. The air and water pressure should stay around 40-50 PSI.


CFM means cubic feet per minute, while PSI means pounds per square inch.
Before turning on your compressor or the water, make sure the valves are closed.
 This will be trial and error. Start off slowly, just letting a little water and air through at a time.


Don’t let your air pressure get higher than your water pressure.
This snow gun uses internal mixing, which is when the water and compressed air mix inside the snowmaker to make snow.Make sure you watch and regulate the amount of water and air flow.

