 Set yourself up for success. You can weed out poor matches by being vocal about your boundaries to potential dates. Inform pals and coworkers who are trying to set you up. Place a disclaimer in your online dating profile.


For example, in your online dating profile, you might say something like "I'm interested in a serious relationship" to let people know you aren't interested in casually dating., Rather than leading your dates on or fooling yourself into thinking they will suddenly change, be clear upfront about what you expect in a relationship. Use discretion, however. You don’t have to bring a list of your boundaries on the first date. But, it may be nice to share a few in casual conversation to ensure your date understands what you’re looking for.For example, if you expect someone you like to be exclusive with you, you’ll need to share this. You might say, “I really like you, and I’m not seeing anyone else. Are you?”

, No matter how rigid your boundaries seem, refuse to defend them to your dates. If you come off like you have to explain yourself, you won’t appear firm on your boundaries. Express what your boundaries are in simple terms and move on.Say, for instance, your date asks if they can come back to your place. You should reply “I like to get to know someone before inviting them to my house. I hope you understand.” This appears like you are firm on your limitations as opposed to a vague “Not tonight,” which may prompt them to see if they can change your mind.
 Remain firm with your boundaries no matter how uncomfortable it feels. Chances are dates are going to push the envelope a few times to see how steady your limitations are. Expect this and respond with assertiveness.For instance, you already told your date that you won’t be inviting them back to your house. The next week they try again. Simply say, “No. I’ve already told you that won’t be happening. I thought I made myself clear.”

, If you meet someone who tries to persuade you to violate a boundary, end the relationship as soon as possible. While it can come off as romantic that a date claims they are so head-over-heels for you that they want to toss out the rulebook, you don’t want to be with someone who sees your limitations as negotiable.


Cut off contact with this person by deleting their number and removing them as a social contact. If they call, you might choose to explain, but you can also just ignore them. They will get the message. You don’t have to explain yourself to someone who compromises your safety.