 Positive thinkers are infectious, and by surrounding yourself with those who are positive, your mindset will become more positive too. A positive mindset is necessary for both achieving your goals and being satisfied with your life in general.


Avoid pessimists and naysayers. Don't allow people to talk down your goals.
Be aware of the emotions of the people you associate with. They have a powerful effect on the emotions and motivations that you feel.
 There will always be someone in a higher position than you. Do everything you can to engage those that have more power than you.


Start by greeting and engaging in light conversation. As the person becomes more familiar with you, ask for some advice. See what you can do to help this person, and he or she will be more inclined to help you.
Avoid being overbearing or overeager. Be persistent, but not an annoyance.
Again, confidence will take you far. Powerful people respect confidence, and reward those who are willing to go the extra mile.
 Networking is an essential social tool for advancing your goals. Broaden your scope by engaging people outside of your relative position and field.


The more people you know, the more opportunities you will have. You will also expand your support group, as you will meet people who can help you on your path to achieving your goals.
Your personal influence grows as your network expands. You will find that as you are able to influence more people, you will increase your ability to make your goals a reality.
Take advantage of professional social sites such as LinkedIn when networking at a corporate level.
 Solid relationships are built on mutual trust and respect. If you want to be able to count on someone when you need them, you have to have developed a trusting bond. This bond is not possible if you base your relationship off of impolite exchanges.


People in positions of power over you expect to be respected. They will not respond well to those that are disrespectful. Defer to them, and if you disagree with something, state your objection without antagonizing them.
 When interacting face-to-face with others, body language is a major indicator of how that person feels about you. There are numerous ways to read and interpret signals from another person's body language, here are some major ones:


If the person is not making eye contact, they most likely are not interested in what you have to say, or they feel you are not worth their time.
If he or she visibly straightens their body, makes eye contact with you, and their eyes open wider, then they are probably interested in you or what you have to say.
Crossed arms are usually a sign of defensiveness; the person may be adverse to your ideas or thoughts.

