 Set aside a book or journal to write down all information you found, its sources and when you obtained it. This will help you keep track of all data so it can be organized better. A journal will help you to ensure that nothing is lost, as you may come across quite a lot of information, ensuring as well that you don't forget anything.


Once you have the information neatly sorted in a journal, you will know where to go to get verification.
 Talk to as many family members as you can, especially older members of the family, such as grandparents, who would be happy to give you any information or family history that they know of.


Consider recording your talks with family members, especially older family members. These oral records can be kept on your computer for ease of reference and verification of exactly what was said.;
, Ask them about their great-grandparents and about what they know and remember of your family's history on that side of the family.


Ask about how they got to America, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, etc., if you live in such places. Or, ask them how they got to wherever they are now anyway––all the facts are relevant in piecing together your history.
Ask questions about who your ancestors were, what they were like, where they were native to, etc.
 Ask for anything your eldest family member didn't know or hasn't made clear. It's also good to ask as many people as possible, to allow you to cross check the information gained.
 If your family keeps such a record, it would be useful to construct a family tree from this information. You can also contact family members through these records to get more information.
 This is very useful if the pictures have descriptions behind it, if not, you would want to find an older family member to go through the pictures with you. If you have constructed a general family tree already, this would be a good way to put a face on those people. Pictures can also be very good clues about the personalities and occupations of your relatives.
 This would include christmas cards, holiday greetings and letters. If you are researching beyond your grandparents, any kept letters from their time should provide a little insight into the generation older than them.
 There are websites online dedicated to tracking down family history and ancestry. These include such sites as Cyndi's List - www.cyndislist.com and LDS - www.FamilySearch.org.
 Libraries have very many old newspapers and might have diary-like books from a long time ago. Look for stories, awards, work histories, etc., with your ancestors in it.


If any of your ancestors were writers, you may be able to find written work of theirs, anything from advertising blurb and stories to letters to the editor and articles.
 Once you have all your data and a good enough collection to finalize it, put it together in a professional data base. Examples of free and commercial databases are: Brother's Keeper (Windows, Free Trial once downloaded), RootsMagic Essentials (Windows, free), Gramps (Linux, Free open source), Family Tree Maker (Windows, fee-based) and MyHeritage Family Tree Builder (Windows, Free).
 You are who you are, no matter what your parents are, your grandparents are, your great-grandparents are, or what your ancestors were.

