 A full-sized large dog can weigh between 100 and 150 pounds (45 to 68 kg), with some of the larger breeds maxing out at 200 pounds (91kg). Owning and caring for a big dog will require that you lift and move a relatively large amount of weight. This will become particularly important as the dog ages and it loses some of its mobility due to arthritis and other joint issues.If your dog is injured, you may have to pick it up. For any dog over 40 pounds (18kg), make sure that you have someone help you lift it. This will ensure that the dog does not wiggle out of your grasp and fall, injuring itself further.
Because your large dog eats a lot of dog food, you will also need to be able to regularly lift and move heavy bags of dog food.
You could also talk with your veterinarian about your ability to care for a large dog.;
, Some large breed dogs can grow to weigh more than some humans. If you are a smaller statured person, owning a large dog presents some challenges. Because of its size, a larger dog would have a much easier time pushing and pulling you around. This is particularly true if you do not train your dog properly.For example, if you are smaller statured, a large dog may pull you around during walks if it is not trained properly.
 If you know someone who owns a large dog, ask him or her if you could see what it is like to care for such a big animal. Take the dog for a walk and see if you are able to rein the dog in and control it. Take the dog to your place and see if it has enough space to lounge around. Try lifting the animal’s large bags of dog food. If you have any family members, have them meet the dog and spend some time around it.
 Although the prospect of physically handling a large dog may seem daunting, anyone can control a big dog with the proper training. If you leash train your dog and teach it to obey simple commands, you should be able to walk a dog regardless of you or the dog’s size.A big dog should be trained in the same manner as other dogs. Be sure to use an even tone and positive reinforcement to train your dog. Loud voices and harsh reprimands can lead some large breed dogs to develop behavioral issues like obstinacy and aggression.
It is important that your also socialize your dog properly so that it does not get out of control around other dogs.
 If you live in a rental property, check with the owner to make sure that they allow large dogs. Many large property management companies have size, weight, and breed restrictions for the dogs that they allow in their properties. If your property manager does not allow large breed dogs, you may need to reconsider getting a big dog or look for a new place to live.If you are having a difficult time finding places for you and your dog, consider bringing the dog along to meet the owner or create a pet resume to show your dog’s good behavior.
 If you live in a small apartment, a large dog may not be a good fit. Big dogs need space to spread out. Large dogs have a tendency to be clumsy and bump into things, a problem that is magnified in a small apartment. Ideally, a large dog does best in a home with a large yard or park nearby.Because they are accident prone, a large dog might damage your home and knock over or break fragile items.
 Some larger dogs, like German Shepherds, tend to be very active. They need a lot of physical activity and play to stay mentally stimulated and healthy, which a park or green space facilitates.However, many large breed dogs only need about 30 minutes of exercise a day. They spend the rest of their time lounging around.
Make sure that you get a breed of large dog that meets your activity expectations.
 Although most large dog breeds are good with kids, they can be a little clumsy and can hurt small children. Especially when they are young, big dogs have a difficult time accounting for their size and often knock smaller children over. You will want to make sure that a large dog is a good and safe fit for your family.A big dog is a great option for a family with older children who can play with the dog and give it plenty of exercise.
 On average, larger dogs live much shorter lives than small and medium sized dogs. Make sure that you are emotionally capable of handling your dog’s shorter lifespan. It is important the understand that the time that you spend with your dog will be relatively brief, especially if the dog is adopted or rescued.The lifespans of many larger breed dogs is often half of that of smaller dogs. Many small to medium sized dogs can life for 15 to 20 years. However, large dogs may only live for 7 to 10 years.
 Because of their large size, many larger breed dogs develop joint and bone issues as they age. This can limit their mobility and lead to changes in their temperament. Caring for your ailing dog can also be a financial burden due to increased veterinary and medical expenses.In order to help with your dog’s joint health, consider feeding it a diet high in healthy fatty acids.
If you run with your larger dog, try to exercise on dirt or wood chip trails to minimize joint damage.
 A large breed dog will eat between 4 ¼ and 6 cups (435 to 610g) of dog food a day. This is twice as much food as a medium sized dog. Because they eat so much food, you will end up spending significantly more money feeding your large dog. It is important that you understand the financial responsibilities of feeding a big dog before you bring one home.The monthly cost of food for a large dog is about $60. However, this can be significantly higher or lower depending on the quality of food you feed it.

