 If a business or corporation purchases a bond, accounting entries must be made to record the purchase and subsequent payments. Start by determining the bond's terms, such as issue price (what you pay), face value (what the bond pays at maturity), and the frequency and amount of interest payments (if any). This information, along with other terms, will be listed in the bond covenant, which is a sort of investment agreement for bonds., A bond purchase is recognized like other purchases a business might make. A debit is recognized to the asset account Investment in Bonds and a credit is made to the Cash account, both for the amount paid for the bond. This is true for bonds purchased at par, at a discount, or at a premium.


For example, a $1,000 bond purchased at a premium for $1,050 would be recognized as a $1,050 debit to Investment in Bonds and a $1,050 credit to Cash.
The Investment in Bonds Account is sometimes called Investment in Long-Term Securities so that other long-term securities may be included in the same account.Bonds with a maturity date of less than one year are included in current assets. Long-term bonds are transferred from long-term assets to current assets in the year preceding their maturity.
When they are transferred, bonds are valued at the lower of book value at the date of transfer and original cost., Interest paid to bondholders is recorded as a inflow of cash. The accounting entries made are a debit to Cash and a credit to Interest Income, both for the amount of the coupon payment. If a bond is purchased at a discount or premium however, interest should be recorded differently. The discount or premium is amortized over the life of the bond by either increasing or reducing the recognized amount of interest income.


For example, imagine a $1,000, 3-year bond, that pays 5 percent interest semiannually. The bond was purchased at a premium for $1,060. The interest payment would be half of 5 percent of $1,000, or $25. However, the $60 premium must be amortized for $10 each time interest is paid because there are six total payments.
So, the entries made would be a debit to Cash for $25 (the payment), and credits to Interest Income for $15 and Investment in Bonds for $10.
For a discounted bond with the same terms sold at $970, the opposite entries would be made. This time, interest income would be increased from the $25 received to include some of the discount (specifically $5, as the $30 discount would be spread out over 6 payments).
The entries made here would be debits to Cash for $25 and Investment in Bonds for $5, and then a credit to Interest Income for the sum, which would be $30., Finally, when the bond reaches maturity and is redeemed by the bondholder, the bondholder must recognize the receipt of cash and the reduction in their Investment in Bonds account. Make entries for a debit to Cash and a credit to Investment in Bonds for the face value of the redeemed bonds.