 People rarely get opportunities where they can be unapologetic about how they talk about themselves.Giving them the floor to talk about themselves is a way to learn more about them and allows you to be more interesting by being interested in them.


Ask open ended questions that delve into the person’s past and present. Find out their career ambitions, their hobbies, and what they enjoy about life.Also ask about their love lives. Sometimes inquiring about a person’s dating life is one of the things that hint towards you being interested in them as more than a friend. Friends don’t tend to ask you about your last relationship and what went wrong.;
, Recalling the moments you have shared together in a way that feels intimate creates a flirting dynamic between you two. Talk about how you met online, in line at the coffee shop, or in study group for class.


Take the time to recap an attribute that made you notice him or her by saying something like, “Your smile took my breath away.”
If you have been out with him or her before, mention a detail of an outfit you’ve seen them wear before and mention how it made you feel watching them in it: “You had that amazing sundress on that day and it had me looking at you like, wow.”

, Flirting can come with a lot of sexual undertones. Use them to your advantage in subtle ways like casually mentioning that you just got out of the shower, or if you’re asked what you’re wearing, state some boxers or a t-shirt.Say their names purposefully. When you know someone, you very rarely refer to them directly by their names. In a husky voice, say their first name. It will personalize the conversation and make them think about you saying their names in other places. It will make their heart race slightly.Diffuse the tension a little by laughing and joking saying, “Don’t go getting any ideas!” It’s a way to play with the sexual tension without fueling it to a point you aren’t ready for just yet.
 Have setting an official date or plans to hang out act as a natural stopping point for the conversation, that way things are left on a high note and the conversation doesn’t go on and on and on until it hits a plateau. Think back on mutual likes to figure out a good date idea for the two of you.