 If they have ever seemed interested in you, then it might be a date. Being flirtatious (giggling and teasing, holding eye contact, etc.); joking around with you; and being touchy with you are signs they might like you. A long history of hanging out as just friends, however, may mean this is not a date.


If they seemed nervous or excited when the plans were established to see each other, it might be a date. If the person is usually calm and cool and could barely get the question out or look you in the eye when they asked, it's a sign they're probably interested in you.
 If they pick you up or want you to pick them up, it is a good sign that it is a date. They might want to pick you up because they have something planned or don’t want you to flake. If they invite you to come over, it might be more casual of an event.Notice if the person opens the car door for you. This can be standard for older people regardless of their feelings for the other person, or it may be something the person always does. If it's not their usual behavior, however, and they open the door for you, it indicates the person may care about you as more than a friend.
 If they have suggestions or a plan, it might be a date. Especially if the plan is dinner, a movie, a hike, or something else that is traditionally done on a date. It is a very good indication it is a date if they make a reservation. It is less likely to be a date if they do not seem to care what you do, invite you over to just hang out, or suggest you play it by ear. Finding out if they have a plan can be as simple as asking what they want to do. Say something like, “Hey! What did you want to do on Friday?”

, Has this been planned for a week or did your “date” invite you over last minute? If they gave you plenty of notice, it is more likely to be a date than if they suggested you come over last minute. Wanting to see you at odd times, like in the middle of the night or in the middle of work times, could also mean it is not a date. , It's unlikely the person referred to it as a "date," even if that's what they are. To minimize the chance of rejection, a person may ask you to "hang out" when they really want a date. Or, the person may see it as a totally casual thing, and just "hanging out" is exactly what they have in mind. If the person suggests hanging out, don't make any assumptions about whether or not it is a date. If the person says they'd like to get to know you, see you, or spend time with you, it is more likely they are asking you on a date.


If they asked you by saying: “I would love to see you Friday night to get to know you better,” it might be a date.
 If they invite you to hang out with a bunch of their friends or go to a party with them, then it is probably not a date. If they want to see you one on one, it is more likely that it is a date. You can subtly find out if it is going to be a group thing ahead of time by asking.If you want it to be a date, try saying, “Hey! What are you and I doing on Saturday?” If you emphasize that you just want it to be “you and I” when you ask, they will hopefully get the hint.

