 Before you can use the Diamond Camo, you need to unlock all the other camos first. For the first eight camouflages, you need to attain a certain number of kills using only the Combat Knife:


DEVGRU—Get 10 kills with held Combat Knife
A-TACS AU—Get 20 kills with held Combat Knife
ERDL—Get 40 kills with held Combat Knife
Siberia—Get 60 kills with held Combat Knife
Choco—Get 80 kills with held Combat Knife
Blue Tiger—Get 100 kills with held Combat Knife
Bloodshot—Get 120 kills with held Combat Knife
Ghostex: Delta 6—Get 160 kills with held Combat Knife
Kryptek: Typhon—Get 200 kills with held Combat Knife
To attack, damage or finish off an enemy with a Combat Knife; approach your opponent while the Combat Knife is equipped and press the “Attack” button to stab it.;
, The next six camouflages have more specific requirements before you can unlock them. These challenges are a little hard, but with patience, you can do it. Note that these camos are only available once you unlock Kryptek: Typhon.


Carbon Fiber (Knife 10 enemies in the back)—This is rather easy to complete. Just sneak behind (crouching or jumping from behind) enemies or attack them from behind, and kill them with the Combat Knife.
Cherry Blossom (Get 5 Survivor medals using Combat Knife)—You get a Survivor medal every time you kill an enemy while your health is severely low or injured.
Art of War (Earn 5 Revenge medals with the Combat Knife)—You earn a Revenge medal by getting back on an enemy who killed your first by finishing them off using the Combat Knife.
Ronin (Kill 5 enemies using their own weapon, after killing them with the Combat Knife)—When you see an opponent, you have to attack them with the Combat Knife first. Once they drop their weapons, pick those up and finish them off using their own weapons.
Skulls (Get 5 Bloodthirsty medals using only the Combat Knife)— To get a Bloodthirsty medal, you need to kill 5 enemies in succession, without dying, using the Combat Knife.
Gold (Complete all Camo unlocks for the Combat Knife)—Once all the camouflages are unlocked, you will be able to use the Gold camo.
 Once all the camos for the Combat Knife are available, the Diamond Camouflage will be unlocked , and you can now use it on your Combat Knife. Go back to the Main Menu and select “Create a class” from the options. Use the directional keys to select which class to view, which will open the Weapon Class screen.


On the Weapon Class screen, scroll across and select the Combat Knife. Once you’ve selected the weapon, press the “Personalize Weapon” button to begin customizing it.
 On the Personalize screen, click on the “Camo” tab on the upper-left section of the screen to view all the different camouflages you can use. Scroll down the screen, and right beside the Gold camo, you’ll see a new one called Diamond.


Apply the Diamond camo on your weapon by pressing the “Select” button.

