 Pick fresh, ripe plums that are free of blemishes, wrinkles and spots. Taste one of the plums from the batch to make sure they're perfectly ripe, and not too green or overripe. Rinse the plums under cool water to remove any dirt or debris.


If the plums are still a little green, ripen them on your counter for a few days before freezing them.
 Packing plums in syrup and freezing them, then reconstituting them causes the peels to lose their pleasant texture and get a little mushy. You can skip this step if you prefer to keep the peels, but it might be worth the extra effort in the long run. You can peel plums using the same technique that is used to peel tomatoes:


Bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil.
Fill a large bowl with ice and water.
Use a knife to make an "x" in the skin at the tip of each plum.
Place the plums in the boil water and blanch them for 30 seconds.
Remove them from the boiling water and plunge them in the ice bath for 30 seconds.
Remove them from the ice bath and pull away the skin in strips to peel the plums. Blanching the plums loosens the skin, making it easy to peel.
 Use a sharp knife to slice the plums in half, working your way around the pit. Pull the halves apart, then remove and discard the pit. Continue until you've sliced and pitted every plum.


If you wish, you can cut the plums into smaller slices. The plums will retain their texture better if they're left in halves.
If you're worried about the plums darkening in the freezer, you can toss them with lemon juice, coating their surfaces. The citric acid preserves their color. You may also buy a product you can sprinkle on the fruit to achieve the same effect.
If you'd prefer not to cut the plums in half, you still need to remove the core. Buy a plum or peach corer, which easily pops out the core without cutting into the rest of the fruit's flesh.
 Preserving the plums in a sweet solution enhances their flavor and also keeps them fresh longer (up to 12 months). Put the plums in a bowl and pour in just enough solution to cover them completely. Here are a few options to use as a sugar solution:



Light syrup. To make this, just heat 3 cups of water and add 1 cup of sugar in a saucepan. Stir the mixture until the sugar dissolves, then cool the solution before you pour it over the plums.

Heavy syrup. If you want a very sweet solution, heat 3 cups of water and 2 cups of sugar in a saucepan. Stir until the sugar dissolves, cool the syrup, then pour it over the plums.Fruit juice. Try plum juice, grape juice or apple juice. There's no need to heat it; just pour enough over the plums to cover.

Plain sugar. Some people use plain sugar to draw out the plum's juices. This is a delicious, but extremely sweet and sugary choice. To do it, pour white sugar into the bottom of your freezer container. Add a layer of plums. Sprinkle more sugar over the layer. Continue layering plums and sugar until the container is full.
 Pour the plums and sugar solution into freezer bags, filling each one to within an inch of the top. Use a vacuum sealer or a straw to remove excess air from the bags, then seal them tightly. Label and freeze the bags. You can stack them in the freezer for easier storage.
 When you're ready to use plums, simply remove them from the freezer and thaw them in the refrigerator or on the counter. The plums are ready to eat directly from the bag. Syrup-packed plums are delicious as a topping for vanilla ice cream or on their own with some whipped cream.

