 Local libraries typically archive materials such as local newspapers that you may not be able to find anywhere else.


The main branch of your local library typically has the entire archives of the local newspaper from the date of the first issue, usually on microfilm or microfiche.
For example, the New York Public Library has microform copies of The New York Times beginning with issues from 1857.Unfortunately, many of these microform collections are not searchable the way an online database would be, but if you know the approximate date of the person's death, you can scan through the newspapers until you find the published notice.
Many local libraries also provide free access to databases such as NewsBank, which let you search newspaper obituaries and death notices nationwide. These databases typically are only available with a paid subscription, but library subscriptions enable patrons to enjoy free access., If you know where the person was buried, you may be able to find a listing in the cemetery's records that provides more information about the person's death.


Cemetery records typically catalogue everyone buried there, since gravestones can become weathered and illegible over time. Burial records can be particularly helpful if you know where the person is buried but can't find their grave.
Although typically you have to visit the cemetery itself to view these records, some districts now have their records available online. For example, you can use the Orange County Cemetery District's searchable database to find graves in Anaheim Cemetery, El Toro Memorial Park, and Santa Ana Cemetery., If the person died in the United States, you probably can find death notices and additional information by researching at the state archives.


Keep in mind these facilities typically are located in the state's capital. However, if you're unable to travel to that city to review the documents in person, you may be able to request them through the library of a local university or historical society.State archives tend to have older records than Social Security or other national records, and the records themselves may go into greater detail.
 The National Archives has a network of research facilities across the country that have federal records and other resources available.


For example, ancestry.com and other such services are available free of charge on computers at Archives facilities.You may be able to find records on those services that you wouldn't otherwise be able to access without paying for a subscription.
You can find the location you need on the National Archives website at http://www.archives.gov/locations/. The directory lists the address of each facility along with the particular services offered there.
If you're looking for the death notice of a person who was in the military, or who died overseas, you can most likely find something in the National Archives.