 No one rental car agency consistently offers the best rates, so it pays to shop around. Common United States car rental agencies include Avis, Advantage, Budget, Dollar, Hertz, Payless, National, Thrifty, Enterprise and Alamo.


You can compare car rental prices directly with the rental agency or online through most travel aggregators, such as Orbitz, Priceline, Expedia, Travelocity or World Choice.
You might also be able to get better rates by shopping with locally owned, independent car rental agencies. The best way of finding these is to consult a local phone book or through an Internet search.;
, Adding extra drivers might cost you a fee per extra driver.


Your primary driver should be over 25 years old if at all possible. Some United States rental agencies will charge higher fees to renting to a driver under 25, and others might refuse to rent to drivers under 25 at all.
Inquire about special discounts. Members of AAA (the American Automobile Association) often receive discounts on travel-related services including rental cars. If you're a member of any roadside-assistance or travel associations in your home country, check whether they have discount partnerships with AAA or any American rental car companies.



If your personal insurance doesn't cover you, check with your travel insurance (if you have any) and with the bank that issued the credit card you plan to use for hiring a car. If neither source offers coverage for a rental car, you might have to pay extra for rental insurance.
If your car insurance, credit card company or travel insurance offers rental car coverage, bring proof of that coverage with you to forestall any paperwork hassles.
 You're often given the choice of returning the car with a full gas tank, or paying a set gasoline fee for the privilege of not having to return the tank full.


The set gasoline fee is usually much more expensive than refilling the tank yourself. But if you forget to fill the tank up before you return the car, you'll incur even higher fees.

