 Hold your hands up to block strikes as instructed, but do not rely on this alone to keep your head protected in a match. In addition to raising your hands and arms for cover, make your head a moving target so that your opponent’s strikes are less likely to connect. Stand in front of a mirror. Imagine that you have a marker fixed to the top of your head. Now practice moving your head as though you were writing a specific letter of the alphabet on the ceiling, over and over again.Stick to letters that are simple in design, like T, V, C, S, and L. Be sure to practice their mirror image, as well.
Don’t bother with more intricately designed letters like A, B, and R, or any other letter that continues to feel awkward in practice, since these head movements have little practicality in a match.
Once each movement feels natural after practicing them alone in front of a mirror, incorporate them one by one into sparring sessions to learn which works best as an evasive maneuver against certain strikes.
 When you pair off with a partner to practice strikes, don’t cheat yourself by placing too much emphasis on your turn as striker. Use the role as strike to improve your defense. Since you don’t have to worry about getting hit anywhere other than your pads, seize this opportunity to strengthen skills beyond the offense:Take the time to analyze your partner’s stances and techniques. Develop your skill at identifying their weaknesses and habits in the moment, so that you will be quicker to recognize the same weaknesses in other opponents during live matches.
Since you have fewer things to do with your hands, use this opportunity to concentrate your footwork. Learn how to dictate the fight with your feet alone. Focus on how you can alternate your speed, footing, and direction to disrupt your partner’s tempo and back them up in directions they don’t want to go.
 Getting hit can literally be a blow both physically and mentally. Face the reality that this will happen. Don’t define “the perfect fighter” as someone who never gets hit.Instead, aim to be the perfect fighter who bounces back from blows instantly. Embrace every strike that sneaks by your defenses in training as an opportunity to grow that much more acquainted with the sensation of being struck.


When it is your turn to hold pads when practicing strikes with a partner, focus on your blocks and shields to further normalize the feel of receiving blows so that they are less of a distraction in live matches.Use medicine balls to acquaint your core with being struck. Ask a partner to stand beside you while you lay on the floor and do crunches, sit-ups, ab pikes, or similar exercises in which your back is on the ground in between each rep. Before you begin, agree to the amount of force your partner will use. Then, in between each rep, when your back is flat on the ground, let them drop or even hurl the medicine ball straight at your abs.
 The closer your opponent is to you, the more likely either one of you can deliver a strike in the blink of an eye. So don’t blink! Avoid missing an incoming strike or an opening on their part that you can take advantage of. Keep your eyes peeled as long as possible when you are in close, and blink rapidly to make up for it when you are spread well apart from each other.Keeping your eyes open for as long as you can is a technique that you can easily practice both in and out of the ring.

