 Like buying alcohol, smoking tobacco, voting, or driving a car, purchasing a long gun (a long-barreled gun braced against the shoulder, like a shotgun, rifle, etc.) is legally off-limits to certain categories of people in the state of Florida. While most law-abiding adults will have no problem meeting these qualifications, if you don't, you can't legally purchase a gun — no exceptions. The basic requirements are:


You must be at least 18 years of age.
You must not be a convicted felon.
You must not have a history of mental illness.You must not have a record of domestic violence.You must not abuse drugs or alcohol.
Note, however, that it is legal to possess and use a gun from age 16 onward (and at younger ages with adult supervision) for certain legal activities (hunting, target shooting, etc.).
 The state of Florida does not require firearms dealers to carry a state license. However, the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) still requires gun sellers to obtain a federal-level license.Refer to a Florida city phone book or, alternatively, perform an internet search to locate a firearms dealer in your area.
Don't forget to bring current, valid identification (such as your Florida driver's license) with you to the firearms dealer to prove your age and identity. The name and address on your identification must be current.
 After selecting the gun you want to buy, the firearms dealer will provide you with a form to complete that they will then use in conducting the background check with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. This part of the process is required for every purchase — you can buy as many guns as you wish at once, but each time you make a new purchase, you'll need to complete another background check form.


The background check form will ask you to provide basic personal information including your name, date of birth, contact information, and more.
Note that possession of a concealed weapons permit from Florida or any other state does not exempt you from the background check.
 After receiving the completed form, the dealer will call the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to receive an instant background check based on the information you provided. If you pass this check (in other words, if your official records don't contain evidence of mental illness, domestic violence, felony convictions, etc.), you will be approved and you may purchase your gun.


Note that some firearms dealers may require you to pay an eight dollar fee for the background check.

