 If the plants are the usual types that you know how to care for, this won't be such an issue as being expected to care for plants in need of special fertilizing or watering regimes. Things to ask include:


Do any of the plants require more or less water than every day?






Do any of the plants require shifting for the purposes of sunlight/shade/temperature? Or perhaps there is a need to move a shade cloth, or open a window, etc.






Will any of the plants need deadheading (removal of blooms), removal of anything in the time you're in charge?






Do any plants need misting as well as/instead of watering? Some tropical or delicate species prefer misting over direct watering.






Are there particular things to watch out for and deal with, such as insect infestations or disease? If yes, what should you do to contain the problem?






Are you responsible for indoor and outdoor plants or just one or the other?






Do you need to know anything technical, such as timer switches for irrigation systems, etc.? If so, also ask what you do should the system fail––know who to call to get it fixed.






Are there any other special requirements that you should be aware of?





;
, That way you won't forget and you'll have a checklist of what needs to be done to follow.


This might including feeding pets, checking the house is secure, switching lights on and off, etc. too. Add everything to the list, under suitable sub-headings.
 If your neighbors have plants inside that they don't want to bring out, find out their garage code or have them give a key to you to get into their house.
 The plants are used to what your neighbor is already using to water the plants, so ask to be shown all relevant water utensils they want you to use, along with any instructions for proper use.
 Unless your neighbor has given you more specific instructions, it's a good idea to check on the plants every day that your neighbor is away. Any more times than this is unnecessary unless your neighbor has made that clear.
 Not all plants take kindly to a daily watering, while others need it badly, especially when the weather is hot. For plants that need to be "well-drained", stick your finger into the surrounding soil. If it's moist, the plant may not need more water; if it's dry, water the plant.


Small plants should be watered for about 5-10 seconds, and tall plants should be watered for about 10-15 seconds. If the tall plants are producing food, water them for about 10-20 seconds.
 When the temperatures go up, the plant will need more water. Some plants may also need more shade; this is something it is wise to discuss with your neighbors before they leave. If you haven't discussed it, take note of wilting and browning; if this is occurring, consider shifting container plants or rigging up shade cloth over garden plants that don't seem to coping too well with long-term heat.
 To use the hose outside, gently turn it on, move the plants that are blocking the hose, and roll it out. Gently press down and water each plant. After using the hose, roll it back and move the plants back where they should be.


A sprayer is often a good way to water plants but never have it set high; always use the lowest settings.
 If pest infestations suddenly descend upon your neighbor's plants while they're away, do your best to defend the plants.


Use chairs, tables, or anything else to block the plants from preventing deer or any other animal eating the plants. If they get in one day, try to find something else to block the animals from breaking in.






Use organic pesticides, such as soap spray, to kill bugs such as aphids if there is an outbreak. Never use anything that might harm the plant; research online or ask at a garden center what you should do first.
 After each visit, leave the place exactly as you found it, even if some of it doesn't make sense to you. Turn off lights, lock doors/gates/sheds, etc. and put all the watering/gardening gear back inside a locked area. If anything happens, you should be able to tell your neighbor that things were done and left exactly the way the neighbor expected.
 Tell your neighbors how great the plants were and how much water you used. Ask them any questions about the plants and what you should do the next time they want you to come and take care of their plants.

