 In order to add drawings to notes in your Notes app, you'll need to be running iOS 9 or later. You'll also need to be using the upgraded version of the Notes service. You may be prompted to upgrade when you launch Notes for the first time after upgrading to iOS 9. If you're not, tap the "<" button to view the folder screen, then tap the "Upgrade" button in the corner.To update your iPhone to iOS 9, open the General section of the Settings app, or connect your iPhone to your computer and launch iTunes. See Update iOS for details.
The drawing tools are only available on the iPhone 5 or later. The iPhone 4S and earlier models are not supported.;
, You can add sketches to any of your existing notes after upgrading the Notes app, or you can create a new note.
 The "+" is in a gray circle. This will display the different attachments you can add.


You can also tap "Done" in the upper-right corner to lower the keyboard. The attachment buttons will be displayed at the bottom of the screen.
 This looks like a squiggle line. The drawing canvas will open and you'll see the various drawing tools along the bottom of the screen.


If you don't see this option, your iPhone is too old. You must be using an iPhone 5 or later.
 A line will appear in the style of your selected tool and with the selected color. As you draw back over lines you've drawn, the color will get darker.
 This will change the way the line you draw looks on the screen. Experiment with the different styles to find what works best for you. The pen makes solid, thin lines, while the marker acts like a highlighter, making broad strokes. The pencil makes thin lines that aren't as solid as the pen.
 This can help you draw precise lines. You can drag and rotate the ruler with your fingers.
 This will turn your finger into an eraser, allowing you to rub over the parts of the drawing that you want to erase. The eraser thickness cannot be adjusted.
 You can swipe left and right on the palette to view the different colors you can pick from. Tap the color you want to use, and it will be displayed on the screen next to the drawing tools.
 This will insert the sketch into your note at the place where your cursor was when you first tapped the "Drawing" button.
 You can add more than one drawing to a note. Place your cursor where you want to make your next sketch, then tap the Drawing button again.


You can insert text and other attachments between sketches. This can be useful for adding a caption beneath a sketch, or using sketches as illustrations for large portions of text. Simply place your cursor between the sketch and start typing to add text, or tap the Camera button to add a picture or video.
 If you no longer want the sketch in your note at all, press and hold it for a moment, then select "Delete" from the menu that appears.
 If you really like the sketch you made, you can save it separately from the note. This will allow you to access it like any picture you've taken with your iPhone, and will also save the note with a white background instead of the Note background.Tap the Share button in the upper-right corner of your note and select "Save Image." This will save the sketch to your iPhone's camera roll.
When you share a note that has multiple sketches, each one will be saved and shared as a separate image.

