 If the perfume contains alcohol, there are a limited number of ways you can ship perfume in the United States. For example, perfume containing alcohol can only be shipped with USPS domestically using ground transportation. Check the perfume’s ingredients and compare with an online shipping site to identify any flammable, unstable, or restricted ingredients., Mailing liquids are restricted by volume in many countries. In the United Kingdom, for example, you can only ship 600 milliliters (20.3  fl oz) of perfume at once, and the perfume must be separated into four 150 ml containers.Check with your preferred mail carrier to determine limits on volume.
 Although the United States and the United Kingdom both allow moderate amounts of perfume to be shipped under specific regulations, some countries may not be able to receive the package. Be sure to research shipping destination regulations before sending off your package.


For example, Canada cannot receive perfumes from the United States and Germany cannot receive perfumes from the United Kingdom., Some countries require special labeling on packages that contain perfume. Be sure to inquire with your desired carried on special labeling.You can usually fill out these labels online, print them, and attach them to your package before arriving at the shipping center, which will save you lots of time.
 Shipping perfumes with alcohol or other chemicals that are considered hazardous may come with a special handling or hazardous fee. Check with your carrier ahead of time to find out about any extra or hidden fees so that you can take them into account before you arrive at the shipping center., Shipping costs are partially determined by weight. Even if your preferred shipping carrier is able to ship your perfume, weight charges can add up quickly. If you are selling perfume to a customer, double check costs before completing transactions so that you don't undercharge for shipping.
 For local deliveries, transporting perfume on your own by car will be much cheaper, considerably less hassle, and there is less risk of damage to the bottle than if you ship by carrier. If the perfume is a gift for a loved one and you’re flying for a visit, you can pack the perfume in your checked bag.


Be sure to double check your airline’s regulations on transporting checked-bag perfumes or potentially flammable liquids (if the perfume contains alcohol) before you leave.
 Although certain liquids are unregulated for shipping my mail carrier, don’t lie about your package status or ignore rules on the reporting of specific chemicals. Packages go through a number of screenings during shipping.


If your package is suspected of a hazard or mislabeling, it can be significantly slowed during transit or destroyed without refund.
 To prepare your perfume for shipping, wrap the bottle with 4 to 6 layers of bubble wrap.


If you’re shipping multiple bottles of perfume, be sure to wrap each bottle individually.
 Using a sturdy tape, wrap the tape several times around the bubble wrap layers to secure it to the perfume bottle.
 You want to choose a box that offers 4 inches (10 centimeters) of space around each side of the wrapped perfume.
 In the bottom of the box, add an even layer of packing material, such as popcorn, shredded newspaper, or styrofoam chunks. Then, place the wrapped perfume in the box on top of the packing layer.
 Use more packing material to fill up the box. Make sure there is an even layer of material on each side and on top of the perfume.


If you’re packing more than one perfume bottle, place plenty of packing material in between each item.
 The box should feel sturdy when you shake it. If you hear any thudding or movement inside, you need to fill the box with more packing material., The recipient’s address should be written in large letters on the middle of the box with black ink. The sender’s address should be placed in smaller letters in the top left corner. Consult your carrier for placement of other labels, like customs forms or hazardous material warnings.


Put clear plastic tape over the addresses to protect against water damage.
 Once you’ve taken your package to your preferred carrier and all the appropriate postage and labeling is attached, use any extra space to write “FRAGILE” in big, bold letters.


Use red ink to catch people’s attention.

