 To be able play Minecraft at all, first, you need to download the game itself. The way Minecraft works is a little different than the way other games do in this regard: you can download Minecraft at any time for free, but you need to pay for an account to play the full version.


To get the Minecraft "launcher" (the application you use to play the game), first go to Minecraft.net. On the right, you'll see three options: "Get Minecraft," "Play the demo," and "Already bought the game? Download it here." Even though you haven't paid for it yet, pick the last option.On the next page, if you're working on a Windows PC, click the link for either Minecraft.msi or Minecraft.exe. Your download will start. If you're on Mac or Linux, click "Show all platforms" and choose the appropriate option.;
, Once your download is complete, run the file. The install process should start immediately. Simply follow the on-screen prompts to complete the installation.


The installation should go smoothly for the vast majority of users. However, if you have problems downloading or installing Minecraft, try consulting the official help resources at help.mojang.com., Once the installation finishes, the Minecraft launcher should start up immediately. If it doesn't, you can always start it by opening it from the directory you installed it to.
 When the launcher opens, it will ask you for your login information so that it verify whether or not you have paid for the game. Since you don't have an account yet, click "Register." Without an account, you can't play the game at all — not even the demo.


Clicking the "Register" button will open a window in your default web browser that takes you to the Mojang website to create an account. Follow the prompts to register a username and password. You will need to provide a valid email address so that you can receive a validation email as part of the registration process.
 Once your account is registered with Mojang, you should be able to log in to the Minecraft launcher. When you log in, you may notice the launcher downloading additional files via a progress bar at the bottom of the window — this is normal.


Note that you will need an internet connection to log in so that your information can be verified with the Mojang servers.
 At the bottom of the launcher window, you should see a large "Play Demo" button. Click this button to launch the game. The launcher will close and a new game window will open. Click "Play Demo World" on the title screen.
 Congratulations — you should now be playing Minecraft for free. If this is your first time playing, consider reading our Minecraft article to orient yourself. It's important to note that the demo version isn't the full version of the game — it's meant to be just a taste of what the full version contains. The biggest differences you may notice between the two versions are:


The demo version of the game is limited to a 100-minute play session.
The demo version of the game doesn't allow online multiplayer. However, you can still play LAN multiplayer games.
 If you have a friend who owns a copy of Minecraft, one easy way to play the full game on your computer is simply to use his or her login details. Do this only with your friend's permission — preferably, in his or her presence. Never use another person's account for illegal distribution of the game, as this can get your friend's account permanently revoked.


Note that the Minecraft End User License Agreement specifies that "you permission to install the Game on your own personal computer and use and play it on that computer." Though it is unlikely that sharing account login info might lead to serious ramifications unless you deliberately pirate or distribute the game, violating the EULA is grounds for revoking your privilege to play.