 If your potential employer has an official website, start your research there. Go to the homepage. Ask yourself if it makes a good overall impression. Is relevant information organized well? Does the website appear clean, professional, and modern? Is contact information (phone, fax, email, physical address) readily available? If so, you can probably conclude that the company is reasonably professional and cares about its public image.;
, Most companies have an “about us” page, which should provide you with its history, vision, mission, and philosophy. A good “about us” page will do much more than attempt to make money and state how great the company is; it should express the company’s intentions to solve a problem, provide a useful service, or satisfy its customers.


For example, a poorly written mission statement might simply say, “To be the best company out there.” Such a statement says very little about the company and does not express much thought. On the other hand, a mission statement that says, “To be the preferred provider of innovative technology to increase communications and efficiencies  for call centers throughout the U.S.” is much better – it reveals careful thought, specific goals, and a dedication to customers.
 If the company has a “careers,” “employment,” or “working here” page, read it carefully. In all likelihood, such a page will provide only the good information about a company – it aims, after all, to entice quality candidates to apply for a job. Nevertheless, reading all of the information will provide you with a good starting point for understanding and evaluating the company. In addition, it may provide you with information about salary, benefits offered, and opportunities available to employees.


Take note, in particular, of the number of jobs listed on the careers page and how long those jobs have been listed for. If there are many jobs open, this could mean either that the company is expanding or that it has a high turnover rate; try to find out which. If jobs are open for a long time, this may indicate that the company is having trouble finding and hiring qualified candidates. Consider this a potential red flag.
 In addition to official websites, many companies now have active social media profiles. These pages allow you to gather more information about a particular company and see who is following them. Some things to look for include:


consistency of information. Information about a company should be consistent throughout its social media profiles and official website. Inconsistencies could indicate that a company is dishonest, unprofessional, or lax in updating its sites.
appearance of professionalism. Social media sites should have well written statements with few errors, and they should look clean and professional.
followers. Who is following the company? It’s normal for brand new or very small companies to have only a few followers, but for larger and more established companies, a lack of followers could be a red flag.
 If you can, find employees’ profiles and see what you can learn about the type of people the company typically hires. Compare profiles to gauge common characteristics, education, and experience. See if you can determine how long employees stay at the company; if you keep seeing people who stayed for a year or less, that could be a red flag. In addition, look for:


employees’ statements or implications about looking for new work. If many of a company’s employees are looking to make a change, you might want to reconsider the company.
large numbers of previous employees who are now out of work. This could indicate massive layoffs, frequent firings, or a company’s inability to hold onto its employees.
 By using the company’s name as the keyword in a search engine, you will be able to view pages and pages of information about the company (in addition to its website and social media profiles). For example, you might find articles, books, papers and other publications about the company.
 Use the name of the company and the terms “reviews” or “ratings” as keywords, and run a new internet search. You should be presented with a list of websites that provide reviews or ratings for that particular company. Obviously, the more positive the ratings are, the more comfortable you may feel working for that company.


Try not to get hung up on one or two bad reviews. Even the best companies can have a disgruntled past employee. Consider the overall tone.
 When you speak with a recruiter, hiring manager, or other company representative, ask lots of questions about the company, the job, and the workplace environment and culture. Note whether people seem opening to answering these questions or not. If the person seems hesitant, you may have to dig a little deeper. Questions to consider asking include:


What is the management style like?
What is the company culture?
Does the company provide career development?
Does the company organize department or corporate-wide events?
Why did the last person to hold this job leave? How long did he or she have the job?

, Although you may feel nervous or uncomfortable about it, asking current employees what they think about the company may give you some much-needed insight. If employees are eager to talk with you and answer your questions positively, that’s a great sign. However, if the employees seem to pause a lot and hesitate about what to say, they may be trying to conceal negative feelings about the company.
 If the company is a consumer-oriented kind of business, visit as a customer. How was your experience? Were the employees helpful and polite? Did they seem happy? If the experience was a positive one overall, that’s a good indication that the current employees are content and that the company is striving to create a positive work experience.
 Even the best of companies will occasionally get a bad review. However, if there are many bad reviews that mention the same problems over and over – “overworked and underpaid,” for example – you should view that as a warning sign.
 As the interview process progresses and you continue your research, think about how good a fit the company might be for you. If you get the sense that you would not fit in or that you would be unhappy, take that feeling seriously. For example, if you prefer a relaxed work environment but you find that the company culture is very fast-paced and demanding, you may decide that you would be happier elsewhere.
 If you are receiving unclear or inconsistent information, follow up! Inconsistencies can indicate that you are not being told the truth, that your contacts are not knowledgeable enough, or that there is a lot of uncertainty within the company. If, for example, you were told in your first interview that you would need to work every other weekend and then, in your second interview, that you would not need to work weekends at all, you need to find out which is true – and where the inconsistencies are coming from.
 If your initial contacts treat you unprofessionally, you may not be comfortable working at a particular company. Examples of unprofessional behavior include:


poorly written emails
rudeness
harassment
comments or actions that make you feel uncomfortable (such as sexist or racist remarks)

, When you visit the workplace, evaluate your surroundings to determine whether you would be happy working there. Questions to consider include:


Do the employees seem unhappy? If you start working for the company, you may be unhappy too.
Is the workplace messy and cluttered? A messy environment can be a sign that employees’ work spaces are being disregarded.
Are there unsafe work areas? Unnecessarily hazardous work areas can cause major problems. Don’t put yourself at risk.
 Think about all the information you have gathered and all the interactions you have had. Do you feel comfortable accepting a job in that company? Will you be happier? Will you be able to stay for at least a year?

, All jobs and companies have both advantages and disadvantages. It’s important to make a list and weigh these pros and cons based on your particular preferences and specific circumstances. Keep in mind that a company might be right for one person and wrong for another. Only you can make the best decision.
 If the company’s pros outweigh its cons, then the job may be right for you. Trust your instincts and decide whether to pursue the job or not.

