 Start with your knowledge of what is right in the situation. Add your desire to do the right thing. Now notice the first input; probably yourself. You are just to tired or lazy, or it will cost you something; perhaps your money or comfort or time. Next, the input of former training or prejudices; you may subliminally hear your parent's voice of disapproval. Now, a dark input comes from the spirit world; the same voice Eve heard long ago. (He has a vested interest in your choosing not to do the right thing as he is the champion of evil.) He sends whatever thought or fear it will take to dissuade you right into your mind, and you may never discover it is not your own.;
, Think and reflect upon your tendency to make bad choices over and over again. When we have jumped the wrong way there is usually a pinpoint moment we made that decision that we can remember. Find that reason, source, or input and use that as a lesson for the future. Begin to review your decisions before you make them. Am I afraid? Selfish? Choose to override yourself even if you must!

, That would be the Holy Spirit that comes from God, the source of all that is good and right. You may obtain Him from God, simply by asking for Him, as it is written in the Scripture; Luke 11:13 "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?" Jesus said, "And you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you..." This actually gives us the strength and ability to say no to evil and yes to good.
 That could be other people who are choosing to do the right thing; It is much easier to do right at a little league game than in a nightclub! Fill your mind with good thoughts by reading good things, watching clean uplifting movies, opening your eyes to the blessings you are already enjoying... your health, family, etc. Most importantly, read the Word of God that He has left you to be your encouragement and guide. Pray often for help and you will receive it.
 We get very good at what we do often. And it gets easier too!

