 Walk in it, swish around in it and see if it feels comfortable first. If you're tripping up, it's too long. Then check how it looks in the mirror––the more streamlined styles will be the most flattering, while the flouncy Bohemian styles can add weight and don't flatter all figures.


The texture of the fabric will affect the suitability of the skirt for your figure type. Try on maxi skirts in different fabrics to find the fabric you think looks best or drapes well on you.
Just as pleats on shorter skirts don't work for all figure types, pleated maxi skirts may not suit your figure type. Don't despair, just try a different style of maxi skirt instead.;
, The fit of the skirt determines the style of top you'll choose. If the style doesn't match, the overall look can be dowdy. Some suggestions include:


Looser, flowing skirts tend to look best when the top fits well, as this tones down the overall enlarging effect of a billowing skirt.
For skirts that fit tightly, looser tops make an ideal contrast.
Cropped tops look great with maxi skirts, as the skirt keeps lengthening your body even though the top stops at your waist. A cropped top with heels can help elongate a shorter figure; indeed, if you have a shorter silhouette, make sure that the top stops at your natural waistline. Slouchy tops can look good with a maxi skirt but check the final look in the mirror before deciding. Sometimes adding a belt will improve the final look, especially a broader belt that cinches in under the ribs or around the waist. The slouchy top look tends to be carried off best on leaner, taller bodies.
Layered tops work well for taller figures., There is no hard and fast rule on this––you'll need to experiment in the mirror. But here are some tips:


Don't tuck in where doing so creates an unsightly bulge or somehow disturbs the flow of the skirt.
Thin cashmere or similar style thin width sweaters can look elegant when tucked into the waistband of a maxi skirt.
Layering can allow you to tuck in the t-shirt or shirt while leaving the other layers untucked, such as a cardigan, jacket or coat. Leaving the outer layers unbuttoned can be a good look, as the top of the skirt will be easy to see.
Obviously, if the skirt is tight around the waistband, tucking in may prove uncomfortable. Instead, try layering or a cropped top.
The texture of the top and skirt do not have to match but they must be complementary.
 There are two options here––monochrome (all one color) or matching colors. Avoid using colors that clash, as with any clothing.


Monochrome can look very slimming and elegant, as the same color all the way down your body creates a sense of elongation. However, be careful to match the shades well or it can look slightly off color.
Don't mix patterns. A patterned skirt works best with a solid color top and vice versa. Definitely avoid mixing up spots, stripes, florals and diagonals.
 If you're petite, wear heels to give you the added height to cope with the skirt length and to elongate your silhouette. If you're taller, flats or heels will work with a maxi skirt, although heels are usually preferred for evening wear. Most heels will work well with maxi skirts but always check in the mirror before deciding.


Beaded sandals are appropriate for a flowing, Bohemian maxi skirt look. Espadrilles also look very casual and beach-like.
Wedge shoes look great with maxi skirts and give you added height to carry off the longer skirt.
Rugged styles can look great with many maxi skirts.Avoid flats that are completely closed in, or loafers. These look frumpy with long skirts. Pointy toes and knee-high boots don't work either. And clogs and sneakers tend to look too chunky or dowdy.

