 Finding out what your face and body shapes are will help you to match these to the ideal dress, one that flatters and accentuates all of your good features, hiding anything you might consider a flaw. The steps in this section will help you to match your face and body shapes to your dress style.
 This means that you can choose any type of neckline you like.


If you have a round face (as wide as it is long, a little narrower at the forehead and jawline), you should look for a prom dress that elongates your face to make her look more oval. V-necks, Queen Anne and Empire necklines, sweetheart and scoop necks suit best your oval face. Always avoid high neck dresses and supersized necklaces, as they tend to hide the neck and therefore make your face look even more round.
If you have a triangle face (wide jaw line, narrow forehead), look for necklines with a stronger vertical shape that can add curves to your face: Sabrina necklines, scoop necks, sweetheart necklines and cowl necks.
If you have a heart shaped face (sharp and oval chin, slightly prominent cheekbones, wide forehead), you need to make your face look wider, so opt for necklines that draw a horizontal line near the neck: high or wide necklines.
If you have a square face (square jaw line, forehead, cheekbones and jaw having the same width), the perfect prom dress for you should have a vertical shape, so look for scoop necks, Sabrina, sweetheart, cowl neck styles, and always avoid square necklines.
If you have an oblong face (prominent chin, forehead, cheekbones and jawline having the same width), look for prom dresses with necklines that can make your face look wider and more oval: round, wide, Sabrina and cowl necks. Also, stay away from V-neckline dresses.
 You could be an apple, pear, hourglass, vase. There are various different categories for body shape and you can find your body shape by reading: How to determine your body shape. To match the body shape and dress, here are some suggestions:


If you have an hourglass body shape (well-defined waist, torso and hips having about the same width), look for prom dresses that accentuate the waist and keep a perfect balance between tops and bottoms: if they have sleeves, a full skirt is required; if the top of the dress is tight, the skirt must also tightly follow the hips and thighs.
If you have a rectangle body shape (no defined waistline, shoulders, bust and hips having the same width), you need to define your waist and add volume on both your upper and lower body. The best prom dresses for you are draped dresses with a defined waist and full skirt, Empire dresses, A-lines and any dress with a full skirt, ruffles and folds.
If you have an inverted triangle body shape (little waist definition, shoulders and bust larger than the hips), you must add volume to your lower body in order to draw attention away from your broad shoulders. You can create the hourglass silhouette illusion by wearing Empire line dresses, A-lines with deep V-necks, wrap dresses with a higher waist and other dresses with full skirts and details or embellishment on the hips.
If you have a pear body shape (torso and upper body smaller than the hips), you must make your silhouette look like the ideal hourglass figure, so look for prom dresses that draw attention to your shoulders and bust and reduce your lower body: A-line dresses, wrap and draped bust dresses, as well as prom dresses with well-defined waist and embellishments that draw attention to your upper body.
If you have an apple body shape (little or no waist definition, upper body wider than the hips), you need dresses that can create the illusion of a slimmer waist while keeping the right balance between the upper and lower body: Empire and A-line dresses with simple tops and a low and wide neckline (scoop, square, sweetheart).

