 If every day of work seems like a chore, you could be suffering from burnout. This is a kind of psychological stress that stems from deep dissatisfaction with work and/or its impact on non-work aspects of your life. Common symptoms of burnout include:Constant fatigue
Feelings of depression related to work
Increased rates of illness
Dreading going to work
Feeling underappreciated or abused at work;
, Work is an important part of many people’s lives, so much so that it becomes a primary part of their identity. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing. However, if your work leaves you no time to concentrate on other aspects of your life, you might be dissatisfied. Ask yourself if your current career allows enough time for things like:Family
Friends
Pursuing hobbies or non-work interests
Rest and relaxation

, Sometimes people become dissatisfied with a career even if they’re very good at it. You may have developed skills or even become a leader in your field doing something you actually don’t want to do.For instance, you might be a successful trial lawyer but hate every time you have to step in the courtroom. Likewise, you might be an award-winning teacher but hate have to spend most of your time grading and doing lesson plans.
If you’re in a situation like this, consider if your skills could be applied to a different career. For instance, a teacher might switch careers to become a corporate trainer. This would allow them to continue using skills in communication and motivating others, without having to worry about grading and lesson plans.
 Maybe you have everything lined up to gain a promotion or prestigious management position that would be the next step up on your career ladder. If you have significantly mixed feelings about this, can’t shake the sense that it’s the wrong choice, or think about how you might regret it, these could be signs that you’re looking for a different path., Ideally, everyone would be able to be successful in a career that utilized their skills and talents in a rewarding and meaningful way. You may already feel this way in your current career. If so, ask yourself whether a potential new career would capitalize on your skills even more. If not, ask yourself if the new career is something that you would find fulfilling and that would be a good use of your skills.For example, you might feel like you're a great communicator, but feel stuck in the accounting department of a big firm because it doesn't involve working with others very much. You might be ready to switch into a new career.
 Whatever your career and life goals are, if you're working for pay, then your wages will matter. Finding a good balance between pay and job satisfaction doesn't necessarily mean that you'll become wealthy from any job you may have. It does mean that you will feel like your work is being valued.Feeling like you aren't being adequately compensated can make you consider seeking a new career path.

