 Don't be fooled into thinking that Goth is just that – Goth. There are many smaller styles, beliefs, cultures and lifestyles within the "Goth" culture itself. Take your time to explore them, try them for yourself and determine which one fits you best. A small list of common Goth subcultures is as follows:



Vampire Goth: Obsessed, or at the very least, deeply attracted by vampires. Perhaps a fan of Anne Rice or Lestat. Vampire goths usually love anything and everything to do with vampires, from stories and outfits to fantasies and movies.

Romantic Goth: Romantic Goths lust after the dark, sensual side of the culture; and are lovers of poetry and classic literature. Most commonly they are found wearing Victorian or medieval inspired clothing – lace, velvet and corsets.

Cyber Goth: Cyber Goths love bright neon colours, worship today's technology and easily recognized with their goggles, crazy pony falls and rave inspired outfits. Cyber goths usually listen to dance music, especially futurepop/EBM and hard dance.
Cabaret Goth: Cabaret goths are also easily recognized by their attractively extravagant style – think corsets, garters and black suits. Cabaret goths are experts at combining class with over the top extravagance. Commonly found listening to Siouxsie & The Banshees, Voltaire, Tiger Lilies and the Sex Gang Children, to name just a few.

Deathrockers: Caught somewhere in between the stages of Punk and Goth. They are often seen with their torn fishnet stockings, their many band badges and fantastically extravagant hair. They commonly listen to 80s Goth Rock, as well as Horror punk and Psychobilly.;
, You will find that many Goth types share the same styles of hair. The more sensual styles, such as the Romantic goth and Cabaret goth, usually favor longer, darker hair. More hardcore or punk inspired styles, such as Deathrockers and Cyber goths, usually have brighter, more extravagant hair. Other styles, such as vampire goths, can fall anywhere in between. If it helps, try looking up the styles yourself on the internet, as well as pictures and online shopping sites, to see some inspiring hair styles.
 After doing some research and looking at different styles, decide on the haircut you want. If you're a girl, or a guy with long hair, you may choose to cut it short. Some good short styles would be straight and sleek, with bangs. You can also go for more over the top cuts, such as spikes on top with a long side fringe, a Mohawk, or something else crazy. However, you don’t have to cut your hair if you don't want to. Many styles, such as romantic goths and vampire goths, have very long hair.
 Frizzy hair generally doesn’t work well for these styles. However, loose, romantic waves, maddening curls and spikes or pin straight are all perfect. Get a quality straightener, so you can both straighten and curl your hair. Since you've already gotten the cut you want, it shouldn't be hard to figure out what you want.



Sleek, shining straight hair is perfect on romantic goths, vampire goths, cabaret goths, fetish goths, Victorian goths and mopey goths. It usually works well on any sensual style.
Rich waves or loose curls work on most of the above styles as well, particularly romantic goths, vampire goths and cabaret goths.
Crazy straight spikes or frizzy curls are good on deathrockers and sometimes cyber goths.

Crimped hair works for hippie goths or medieval goths.

Curly hair works on most romantic, sensual styles.
 There are plenty of anti frizz shampoos and straightening balms you can get your hands on. Try massaging hair oil or olive oil into your hair after washing and drying it, as it prevents frizz and gives it a sleek shine. Use gel to help you with spikes. Braid your hair for crimped curls.
 If you’re looking for a simple coloring, just get your hair dyed a dark color. The standard rich, dark black works with almost any style and will go with any color streaks. However, if you're opting for the cyber goth or deathrocker look, you may want a crazy bright color, like bright pink, blue, purple or green. Spend some time thinking what would be the best option for your hair style, and keep in mind that:


Black works well for sensual styles, such as cabaret goths, romantic goths, and usually vampire goths. It will work relatively well with any style, though if you’re a cyber goth or anything else that demands color, you may be in danger of looking a little plain.

Purple and Blue are both good colors for many styles, such as vampire goths, perky goths and deathrockers. Usually any deep, dark color will do.

Bright neon colors are perfect for more hardcore, crazy styles, those which are similar to cyber goth or deathrocker. If you're looking for this style, almost any bright color will work – try light pink, blue, lavender, orange/red and green.
Plain solid colors, like a dark hazel brown or rich blonde will work for fetish goths, as color isn't completely essential. They will also work perfectly for medieval goths.
 Any natural color – blonde, brown, black, even red/orange – can work with a style when you master the proper techniques.
 These will complete your hair coloring and help you define your style further. If you have black hair (dyed or natural), then you’re lucky, as you can choose almost any color. The colors that work best are generally deep, dark blue, violet and green, for romantic goths, vampire goths and perhaps cabaret goths. Bright colors, such as bright pink, orange, red and neon green will be perfect for cyber goths, and will work well for deathrockers and more crazy styles. Remember:


Black works with almost any color, but try to find an attractive match, such as a deep dark color or something bright and contrasting.

Subtle highlights or almost identical colored streaks give a hint of color, and work well for cabaret goths, and fetish goths, or if you don't want to draw too much attention to your hair.
If you've already dyed your hair a bright color, it may be best to just leave it.
Similarly, if your hair is your natural color or black, you can easily leave it.
 There are plenty to choose from. If you're a cyber goth, vampire goth or romantic goth, hair falls will work well – choose a color the way you would have with the step above. Purchase colored clips, headbands, bows, ribbons and ties to your liking. Fashion your own accessories from ties, bow ties, scraps of velvet or lace, or by painting old bobby pins. If you keep your eyes open, you could get a whole wardrobe full of hair accessories by simply recycling old objects.
 You may be comfortable with just leaving your hair loose, which is fine. Or you may want another style. If you already have a complete cut, such as a very short cut, a Mohawk or an extreme color, chances are, your hair will be fine just out. But if your hair is a plain color or has plenty of options, then explore. Some good styles include:


Two pony tails: Work well for Perky Goths and Cyber Goths, and also very well if you have hair with streaks, highlights or falls.

Ponytail: A simple ponytail with an eye-catching fringe works well when teamed up with ribbons, bows, and the like. Massive ponytails on top of your head work extremely well for Cyber Goths.
Pinned to the side: Pin your hair to one side with an attractive – or hideous – bow, tie, ribbon, etc.
 If you’ve gone to all this trouble to achieve the perfect look, then don’t lose it. Wash your hair a suitable amount of times a week – once or twice for dry hair, more frequently for greasy hair – and master the skill of straightening/curling, de-frizzing, spiking, etc. Use quality shampoos, conditioners, oils, sprays, balms and gels – don’t try to get away with dirt cheap rubbish. Keep a healthy diet – eggs, milk and plenty of vitamins – to help your hair shine.

