 Whether you work for someone else and plan on opening a brand new Vespa dealership of your own, or you already own a dealership and want to turn it into a certified Vespa dealership, you will need to demonstrate a high level of leadership experience in the field to be considered by Vespa.;
, One of the ways to do this is to request that customers fill out customer satisfaction surveys after making use of your services. You can also request that customers write reviews about your dealership through your website or social networking page. Bad reviews and many complaints or returned items will adversely affect your chances of being approved.
 This not only requires a comprehensive marketing strategy that includes print, Internet, and social media, but also that your dealership functions seamlessly at every level, from the sales staff on the floor to the billing department, without any internal delays or hold-ups and with the minimum amount of mistakes.
 You'll need investment money to become a Vespa dealer, and though they don't tell you how much until you've made it through their first selection, it's smart to know ahead of time what your options are for a business loan.
 If you find yourself lacking in any of the requirements, address the issue until you meet all requirements.



Vespa will need to see your credentials, annual sales, and number of years you've been in business. Do your best to fill out the application as correctly and fully as possible. The clearer and more complete your information, the easier it will be to obtain a Vespa dealership permit.
After responding to you by email that they have received your application, Vespa will review your credentials, as well as your location, to make sure you meet their requirements.
Remember that though you might have a great business and location, Vespa also checks your location against that of the existing Vespa dealer network. If there are a number of other Vespa dealers nearby, you might not be approved simply because they determine that the local market is already saturated.
 Vespa will not only allow you to sell its products, but also include you in its marketing plan, allow you to use its name and brand, as well as marketing and management strategies.

