 Adjust your daily routine by getting into the habit of writing things down once they are told to you. Carry a small pad of paper and a pen with you in your bag or your pocket. Type a note to yourself on your smartphone if you find that easier than pen and paper. Writing things down can help to trigger your memory and ensure you do not forget any important information.For example, you may write down your schedule for the day on a piece of paper so you do not forget, including any important appointments. You may write, "Pick up prescriptions at the pharmacy, stop by Michelle's for coffee, go to the grocery store, go to appointment at the doctor's at 3 pm in Westside."
You can also get in the habit of writing things on a calendar. Post a large calendar in your kitchen or your bedroom and write down important meetings, dates, and appointments, as well as routine tasks you want to remember. Color coding the calendar might help as well (doctor's appointments in blue, birthdays in red, a reminder to walk for 30 minutes in green, etc.).
 You should also start calling yourself and leaving voicemails to remind yourself of important details or dates. Try to get in the habit of doing this when you start to feel your memory slipping or fading, as the voicemail can serve as a reminder later that can trigger your memory.For example, you may leave voicemails like, "Don't forget to stop at Michelle's tomorrow morning for tea," or, "Remember to pick up the prescriptions at the pharmacy in the afternoon."
If you do not want to leave a lot of voicemails for yourself, you may try leaving “messages to yourself” on a tape recorder. Carry a small handheld tape recorder in your pocket and take it out to record messages to yourself when you do not want to forget something. You can then listen to the recordings later as a reminder.
 A big part of staying sharp is trying to stick to your normal routine as much as possible. Having a routine puts fewer demands on your short-term memory so you can save that mental energy for when you really need it. If you find doing this a challenge, make an attempt to at least get your household chores done every day. You may do the dishes, clean your floors, get the laundry done, and do yard work. Completing household chores every day can help maintain your routine and help your memory stay sharp by doing things you have always done.If you struggle with getting the household chores done on your own, you may need to get help from family or friends. Be willing to ask for help when you need it and work together with them to get your chores done.
 You can also keep your mind sharp by spending time outdoors at some point every day. You may go for a walk in a garden near your home or for a stroll through your neighborhood. Get out of your house and go outside to an area you know well. Spending time outside a familiar environment can help your memory stay sharp.You may find it motivating to go for a walk with someone else that lives nearby. You may arrange to meet them in front of your house and go for the walk together at the same time every day. This routine can be good for your memory.

