 Set aside regular blocks of time to study for specific subjects and tests. This will help the teen adequately prepare which in turn can lower anxiety levels.


Sit down with the teen and have them prioritize subjects to study each day. Make this part of the teen’s daily schedule.;
, Studying efficiently and being adequately prepared for a test are key to doing your best. Encourage them to ask teachers or a school counselor for help with learning more efficient ways to study for tests.


Try saying to your teen, "I heard from another parent that Mr. Miles is great at helping students learn new study skills. Maybe you could talk to him after school on Wednesday."
You can suggest your teen approach a teacher and say, "Mr. Miles, I heard you sometimes help students with study skills. I'm having trouble studying for the upcoming history exam. Could you help me after school one day this week?"

, It’s important to develop good test-taking skills. Teachers and school officials can point teens to specific resources that can help. There are also a few simple guidelines that will improve your teen’s test-taking skills.Read each question on the test carefully.
Make an outline for each essay before beginning to write.
Answer the easiest questions first and then move on to the harder ones.
 When teens study it’s important to sit down for a set amount of time and walk away from the studying when that time is up. Taking breaks will give their mind a rest and help them refocus for the next block of study time.Urge studying in one hour blocks. Study for the first 50 minutes and then take a 10 minute break. If it's hard to focus still, try a 5 minute break every 30 minutes.
 Researchers from Eastern Illinois University found that relaxation and breathing exercises helped reduce test anxiety. Work with the teen to establish some relaxation exercises they can do at home and while taking an exam.Try inhaling for ten seconds and then slowly exhaling for another ten seconds. Make sure you are using your diaphragm, not your chest, to breathe. Your lower abdomen should rise and fall.

