 Blueberry muffins are one of the best kinds of muffins. Using cake flour to make the blueberry muffins gives them a bit more rise and a lighter flavor. This recipe makes 12 muffins.Preheat your oven to 380 degrees Fahrenheit. Sift 1 teaspoon baking powder, a pinch of salt, and 12.5 ounces of cake flour.
In another mixing bowl, mix 1 cup of sugar, ½ a cup of vegetable oil, one egg, and 1 cup of yogurt.
Remove 1 tablespoon of the dry ingredients to a small cup or bowl and mix the remainder in with the wet ingredients. Stir the mixture vigorously for about 10 seconds.
Mix 1.5 cups of blueberries with the tablespoon of dry ingredients you set aside previously. Stir 1 cup of blueberries into the mix for three seconds.
Use an ice cream scooper, scoop the dough into a greased muffin pan. Top each muffin with a few of the remaining blueberries. Three berries per muffin should be adequate.
Place the muffin pan in the oven and raise the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes.
Remove from oven and allow to cool. Consume with friends.
Your muffins will stay good for two to three days in an airtight container.
 Crumb cake muffins are a sweet treat you can share with friends. They taste great with a cup of coffee. And when you use cake flour, the flavor is even better.Preheat your oven to 325 degrees. Line the muffin pan with baking cups.
Whisk together 1/8 teaspoon of salt, 1/3 cup of brown sugar, 1/3 cup of granulated sugar, and ¾ teaspoon of cinnamon.
Pour 8 tablespoons of melted butter over the cinnamon mixture and mix together. Add 1.75 cups of cake flour and mix until the ingredients turn into a thick dough. Set aside.
In a stand mixer bowl with a paddle attachment, combine 1.25 cups of cake flour, ½ a cup of granulated sugar, ¼ teaspoon of baking soda, and ¼ teaspoon of salt. Mix on low speed.
Slowly add 6 tablespoons of butter in one-tablespoon increments.
Continue mixing for one or two minutes until the mixture looks like wet crumbs.
Add 1/3 cup of buttermilk or plain yogurt, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, one egg yolk, and one egg. Continue mixing everything until the batter is fluffy and light.
Remove the bowl from the mixer and use ¼ cup measure to scoop the dough into the muffin tin. Sprinkle the dry cinnamon mixture you prepared previously on top of each muffin.
Bake for 20 minutes or until the crumb topping is golden brown. Remove and let cool five minutes before serving.
 If you love carrot cake, you’ll love carrot muffins. To get started, preheat your oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit and grease a muffin pan for later use. The following recipe makes 12 muffins.Mix 2 tablespoons of rum with ¾ cup of raisins. You could use water instead of rum, but the muffin will be less flavorful. Stir them together so the raisins all get coated and microwave for 30 seconds.
Wait 30 minutes so the raisins rehydrate somewhat, then sprinkle them with sugar (superfine sugar, preferably).
In a large mixing bowl, combine ¼ cup of vegetable oil, 2 large eggs, 1 cup of applesauce, and 1 cup of brown sugar.
Stir in ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract, 1 can (8 ounces) of crushed pineapple, and 1.75 cups of grated carrots.
In another bowl, sift ¾ teaspoon of salt, ½ teaspoon of baking soda, 1.5 teaspoons of baking powder, ½ cup of oat bran, ¼ cup of buttermilk flour, and 2 cups minus 1 tablespoon of cake flour.Add the dry ingredients to the wet. Add the raisins and ¾ cup of pecans or walnuts.
Scoop the dough into the muffin tins to a point just below their top edge.
Bake for about 23 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the muffin comes out clean.
If you want, you could drizzle some icing and nuts over the muffins. Serve with whipped cream cheese.

