 The process of applying several coats of base coat, color, and top coat, having the polish chip slowly away, then taking it off using a chemical can do a lot of damage. In addition, while some manicurists use the proper technique for filing the nails and pushing back the cuticles, many don't. Getting frequent manicures weakens your nails in the following ways:


Your nails get exposed to lots of chemicals, including the chemicals in polish and polish remover - especially acetoneYour nails may get handled roughly - filed incorrectly, etc.
Your nails might get exposed to bacteria from the tools at the nail salon

, Strong, healthy nails will begin to emerge if you give them the chance by going bare sometimes. If it has been ages since your nails have seen the light of day, commit to going one month without applying any polish. It will take about that long to see the solid new nail growth coming in. Here's what you're likely to see:


Discoloration caused as a result of using highly pigmented colors on your nails (especially deep purples, dark reds, blacks and blues) will start to go away as your nails grow out.
Your nails will grow in more smooth - you'll see fewer lines and they won't feel rough.
Your nails will be less prone to breakage.
 This leads them shredded and tattered, and also makes your fingers more prone to infection. If you have a habit of biting your nails, they're bound to be weak! Make a commitment to stopping - you'll see improvement right away.


Try putting tea tree oil on your nails. The strong taste will deter you from putting your mouth on your nails, and tea tree's healing properties will go to work, too!
You can try using a formula specifically created to stop people from biting nails (sold at drug stores). However, since these formulas have a lot of chemicals in them, this may not be the best long-term strategy - it could end up making your nails brittle.
 If you wash the dishes without wearing gloves or clean your bathroom with your bare hands, that's going to have an effect on your nails. The strong, harsh detergents in dish soap and household cleaners is really hard on nails and skin. Any time you use a product with chemicals, wear a pair of nonporous rubber gloves.


Better yet, try using products that don't contain toxic chemicals. Vinegar, lemon juice and other natural substances can do a lot of the same work without hurting your nails!
Even some hand soaps have strong chemicals that can be hard on skin. Look for soap with moisturizing properties or use a gentle soap like castile soap to protect your hands.
 Using very hot water is hard on your nails and skin, too. It can make your nails get soft, and during that time they can rip and tear much more easily. Use very warm or lukewarm water and soap instead.
 If your nails are yellow or brown, and break all the way down to the cuticles, you might have a serious fungal infection that needs to be treated. For severe symptoms like these, see your doctor to discuss a treatment plan, which will likely involve taking prescription medication or using a topical anti-fungal cream.