 Snacks in general are not bad; rather, it’s what you choose for a snack that can be hurting your chances of slimming down. Having something to eat every 2.5 – 3 hours can help your blood sugar levels remain balanced throughout the day, but it only works when you eat the right things.Avoid snacks that are high in calories, fat, sugar and carbohydrates. This would include items such as chips, cookies, chocolate bars, bagels, pretzels.
Select snacks that are high in fibre, such as whole grains, beans and some fruits and vegetables.
Select snacks that have high amounts of good nutrients, such as low-fat dairy products, lean meats, nuts.
 Scientists have discovered that some of the artificial sweetener in diet soda tricks your body into thinking you’re consuming actual sugar. Because your body thinks you’re consuming sugar, it releases insulin in preparation. With no actual sugar to burn, the insulin ends up storing fat rather than burning it.There are multiple types of sugar substitutes on the market, each with their own benefits and problems. Know the difference between the different kinds and what potential effects they may have on your health. The Mayo Clinic offers an overview here: http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/nutrition-and-healthy-eating/in-depth/artificial-sweeteners/art-20046936?pg=1


, Most people do not consume enough lean protein but instead consume too many simple carbohydrates. Carbs end up producing sugar, which our bodies normally use for energy, but if we consume too many carbs, we also produce too much sugar. This excess sugar then turns into excess weight. Alternatively lean protein builds muscles and helps keep them toned.Lean protein includes: low-fat dairy, beans, chickpeas, quinoa, round steaks, round roasts, top loin, top sirloin, pork tenderloin, ham, and skinless chicken and turkey.
 Saturated fat is the bad type of fat. Saturated fat adds inches to your waist, whereas unsaturated fats can help remove inches from your waist. Saturated fat tells your body to store fat, whereas unsaturated fat tells your body to reduce the amount of fat stored and helps balance your insulin levels.Saturated fats are usually found in processed foods like cookies and pastries. It is also found in red meat.
Instead of frying items for a meal, bake, broil or grill meats.
Use fat-free or low-fat dairy products.
Exchange two egg whites for a whole egg in recipes.
Use herbs, spices, lemon juice and other types of cooking flavours instead of adding butter or margarine.
 Studies have found that for every 10 grams of extra fibre you eat per day, you can reduce your fat by 3.7% over 5 years. One quick and easy way to get more fibre is to eat ½ cup of beans every day.


Other great sources of fibre are: flaked bran cereal, whole grain bread, oranges, raspberries, baked potatoes, carrots, hummus, and pears.
Canned beans usually are less likely to cause bloating and gas than the fresh variety, if you are concerned that might be a problem.
 Unfortunately, drinking a lot of coffee loaded with cream and sugar can lead to weight gain. But drinking green tea every day can actually lead to weight loss. Green tea contains catechins, which have been found to increase metabolism and help your liver burn more fat., Carbohydrates come in both a simple and a complex version. Simple carbohydrates are the kind that lead to an increase in fat, whereas complex carbohydrates can be good for you. Make sure you eat at least three servings of complex carbs (e.g., whole grains) every day.Complex carbs include whole grains such as oats, quinoa, brown rice and wheat.
Simple carbs include items made with refined flour, including white bread and pasta, and other items like white rice.
 Pepper contains a substance called piperine. Piperine may actually be able to reduce inflammation and prevent the formation of fat cells (also known as adipogenesis)., Dark chocolate, specifically the kind that has at least a 70% cacao level, has been shown in scientific studies to actually help people lose weight. This is because dark chocolate has something called flavonoids which are good for your heart. They’re also an antioxidant and can reduce inflammation.Try adding two servings of dark chocolate a day to your meals.
 Magnesium helps your body lower your fasting glucose and insulin levels, and it may even help prevent fluid retention.Doctors recommend women over the age of 18 consume at least 400 mg of magnesium a day. And those 31 years of age and older should consume 420 mg. Men over 18 should consume 310 mg per day, and men over 30 should consume 320 mg per day.
Magnesium food sources include nuts, spinach, soy milk, beans, avocados, brown rice, bananas, salmon and other fish.

