 To trim the hair around your dog’s eyes, brush the hair on top of its head forward, toward the nose and over its eyes. Using small trimming shears, make an upside down “U” shape, starting at the outside corner of one eye and moving to the outside corner of the opposite eye.Hold your dog’s head still while you’re trimming by firmly grasping underneath its mouth with your other hand. Make sure you’re not holding too tight, but that your dog isn’t able to wiggle its head.
The hair on top of an Affenpinscher’s head (from the bridge of the nose to the back of the skull) is usually kept to about three-fourths of an inch to an inch-and-a-half long.
Clean up any hairs that are touching your dog’s eyes as well. This will help prevent eye problems. To do so, simply grab the hairs with your thumb and index finger and pluck them out., To trim your dog’s eyebrows, comb the hair on them forward with a small comb. Then, using a small pair of scissors, trim the hair so that it is short enough to stay out of your dog’s eyes., The hair on top of an Affenpinscher’s nose often grows quite long, which can block its eyes. To keep its eyes exposed, cut the hair on top of its nose when you groom your dog. To do so, smooth the hair above its eyes back, holding it on top if its head, and out of your way, with your non-dominant hand. Then, using small trimming shears, trim the hair on top of its nose like a fan, starting at one end and making a half circle to the other side., Using blunt scissors, trim the hair around your dog’s ears. This hair should be trimmed close to the actual ear, taking care not to cut your dog’s ear in the process.Sandwich your dog’s ear in between the index and middle finger on your non-dominant hand (keeping both fingers straight so they run along the edge of the ear) to ensure you don’t cut the skin.


Trim hair from the inside of your dog’s ears with forceps or blunt scissors. Using the forceps or scissors, grab a small patch of hair, twist it, and pull it out. Repeat these steps until all the excess hair inside your dog’s ears has been removed. Apply ear powder to your dog’s ears first to help provide added traction for you to get a hold of the hairs.