 If you are a mage that has the sigil stone from the quest “Conjuration Ritual Spell,” then you can craft Daedric weapons and armor using the Atronach Forge in the Midden. You will need to undertake specific steps to use the Forge to create Daedric equipment as well as obtain the necessary equipment for the process. This makes the whole process a lot complicated than simply increasing your Smithing capabilities, but it’s nonetheless a viable option for creating Daedric equipment without spending a single point on Smithing.
 Raise your Conjuration to 90, join the College of Winterhold and speak with Phinis Gestor. He will give you the “Conjuration Ritual Spell;” telling you that he needs a sigil stone. He will teach you how to summon an unbound dremora, which you will use to summon the said dremora. Summon and kill the dremora twice, and it will yield to you. Summon the dremora once more, and it will return with a sigil stone. Give the stone to Phinis Gestor, and he will use it give you a spell tome that will allow you to cast Flame Thrall before giving the stone back to you., Once you have the Sigil Stone, enter the Midden in the College of Winterhold and make your way to the Atronach Forge. Place the sigil stone in a pedestal on the Forge, and you will open up a new line of items to craft – including Daedric equipment.
 You will need a Black Soul Gem (filled or unfilled), a Centurion Dynamo Core, a Daedra Heart and the Ebony equivalent of the weapon or armor you want to craft. If you want to craft, say, a Daedric Sword, you will need an Ebony Sword to complete the recipe.Do note that crafting Daedric Boots using the Atronach forge is bugged, as it will give you a pair of inferior Dremora boots instead. This is fixed in the Unofficial Skyrim Patch version 1.2 or higher, which can be installed on PC versions of Skyrim.
 Prepare a filled Greater Soul Gem or better (Grand and Black gems count), an ebony ingot and void salts for armor or a silver sword/greatsword for weapons. This is the most efficient way to craft Daedric equipment with the Forge once you consider the commonness of the required components, although you won’t be able to control what enchantments will pop up as a result of the crafting process. These enchantments will thus cover all possible enchantments, ranging from dealing bonus fire/frost/lightning damage and banishing summoned Daedra for the weapons to fortifying your skills and increasing the damage you do with certain weapons for the armor.


Crafting random enchanted Daedric weapons is bugged, as this will only produce warhammers and war axes. This is fixed by the Unofficial Skyrim Patch version 2.0.5 or higher – again, for PC versions of Skyrim.

