 You can meditate anywhere, but it's best to find a quiet place free of distractions. If you're at work and you have an office, try closing the door. If you don't have your own space, you can go for a walk on your lunch break and find a peaceful place away from the office.If possible, reduce distractions by silencing your cellphone and turning off your computer.
Try and find someplace you can be alone for 5 to 10 minutes. If you can't find a quiet space indoors, you might want to try sitting outside (if the weather permits it).
 Comfort is very important when you meditate. There's no prescribed position; it's just crucial that you get into a position that helps you relax.When some people think of seated meditation, they picture a meditation master sitting in perfect lotus position with the legs crossed. If this is comfortable for you, then go ahead, but if not just find what makes you relaxed.
You can try sitting with your legs crossed, sitting in a regular chair or on a bench, or even lying flat on the floor.
If you're comfortable (and feel safe) closing your eyes, then go ahead. If not, keep your eyes open but try to focus on a point on the ground just in front of you.
 Deep breathing is at the heart of meditation. Concentrate on the sensation of breathing, and try to block out any other thoughts. Any time you find your mind wandering or your thoughts racing, simply return your focus to your breath.Don't take shallow breaths in your chest; instead, take deep breaths that go all the way down to your diaphragm (below the ribs).
Feel the air flow through your nostrils and into your lungs. Notice the sensation of your belly rising and falling with each inhalation and exhalation.
You can either set a timer for 5 to 10 minutes, or simply breathe until you feel a sense of calm come over you.
You can take these little meditation breaks anytime and any place when you need to calm down and quiet an anxious mind.
 When you're finished, slowly open your eyes. Don't get up right away; give your eyes and your mind a moment to adjust to your present environment.You may have things to do, but it's important to let the sense of calmness linger for a moment. Open your eyes slowly and carefully, taking in your surroundings.
Stand up slowly. If you hit a level of deep relaxation during your meditation, standing up too quickly could cause you to get light headed or disoriented.

