 You can polish the metal with steel wool or sandpaper as you would with either of the other bluing processes, but how you choose to clean the metal depends on whether you plan to blue the entire gun or touch up existing bluing.


If you plan to blue the entire gun, you may want to immerse the metal in a cleaning solution as described for the hot bluing process.
If you plan to just touch up existing bluing, you can apply cleaning oil to the places where you want to remove the old bluing and prepare the metal for cold bluing. (The cleaning oil will dissolve existing bluing if applied excessively.) Use acetone on cotton balls to remove the cleaning oil. You may have some scarring from this process that will require sanding or polishing out.
 Although this process is called cold bluing, gently heating the gun metal before applying the bluing can help it absorb the bluing better and create a better finish. Heat the metal by leaving it out in the sun for several hours, with a heat gun or blow dryer, or in a conventional oven set to its lowest setting., Slowly apply the solution to the area to be blued as evenly as possible, using a clean applicator. Apply the solution in a single pass to cover small areas, or in sections no larger than 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 cm) when covering large areas, then smooth it out using steel wool. This will prevent the bluing from appearing mottled. For applying the bluing to large areas, old all-cotton T-shirts or new toothbrushes are recommended. For smaller areas, use a cotton ball, cotton swab, or flat toothpick no larger than the area to be covered.
You can soak small parts like screws or hard to cover areas in the bluing solution. If you don’t have enough bluing solution to soak a recessed area, put it in a clean spray bottle and spray it liberally on the part over a glass pan or plastic tray. After the part is completely covered, you can pour the overspray back into the bottle and reuse it.
 Apply each layer with a fresh applicator, and use a fresh piece of steel wool to smooth out each new layer.


The more layers you apply the darker the bluing will be; however, each new layer is progressively less effective than the layer before it. Seven layers should be enough, in most cases, to achieve a dark blue-black finish. If you have spots that won’t darken, start the process over by sanding the spots with 320 to 400-grit sandpaper before applying the solution again. Try to sand no more than the stubborn spots themselves.
 Apply a layer of gun oil every few hours, using a cotton ball to remove the previous layer before applying a new layer. (In essence, you’re washing off the bluing solution with the gun oil instead of with water.)


Do not use the cleaning oil for this process, as it will take off the bluing you worked so hard to put on.