 Before you can enroll in any 4-year college or university, you must graduate from high school/secondary school. The better your GPA is, the more college options will be available to you. However, the most important thing is simply for you to graduate successfully.If Home Economics is offered at your high school, be sure to take it.
Other courses that may help you, include: sociology, health, family and consumer studies, and chemistry.;
, There are a number of schools in the United States and Canada that offer majors in family and consumer sciences or home economics. An undergraduate degree in family and consumer science is the best background for becoming a home economics teacher.In the US, these include: Ball State University, Antelope Valley College, Baylor University, and many others.In Canada, these include: University of Prince Edward Island, Carleton University, and others.Select the best school for you by speaking to current students and professors, looking at op-to-date course catalogs and reading about classes, and considering the cost of tuition (and availability of financial aid).
 A four-year degree with a major in home economics, family and consumer sciences, or other majors such as psychology, sociology, or nutrition sciences are good choices in order to be a home economics teacher. Alternatively, you can look for undergraduate teaching programs that offer specializations in home economics at the secondary school level.Before selecting an undergraduate program, visit several campuses to find the right one for you.
Speak to the chair of each department you are considering to get a feel for the program. Inquire about the job placement rates for graduates of each program.
You will need to check to make sure that the teaching program is approved by your state or province to be eligible for state certification.
 A major milestone on the road to becoming a home economics teacher is to earn your bachelor’s degree. In order to do this, you will need to be organized and driven throughout all four years of college. You will need to balance your studies with your social life, and do well on assignments and exams. If you stay focused, you will successfully earn your undergraduate degree.


Consider a minor in a related field, such as psychology, sociology, or nutrition sciences.
Seek out extra-curricular opportunities, such as volunteering with a local high school or working as a research assistant for a university professor.
 In most states and provinces, you will need to earn a teaching certification in addition to your bachelor’s degree. Search for the teacher certification requirements in your state or province to know how you should proceed.


You can research the requirements for US teachers by state on the UK College of Education site.You can research the requirements for Canadian teachers on the Canada Education Network site., If your undergraduate degree was in education, you may have already gained certification. In some locations, you may only need to pass a series of exams to gain certification. In other locations, you may need to enroll in a certification program. In areas that are very short on teachers (such as low-income regions), certification requirements may be waived.Keep in mind that you may someday want to change locations.
Furthermore, certifications that go beyond the bare minimum may make you a more attractive job candidate.
 Once you have determined the requirements for your region, take the necessary steps to achieve them.These steps may include:


Paying the required tuition and/or fees.
Attending class.
Studying and completing assignments.
Passing necessary exams.
 If you would like to teach at the university level, further education will be required. Even if you intend to teach at the high school level, additional education may be desirable. Consider pursuing a Master’s degree or Ph.D. in family and consumer science.Often times, teachers will continue to pursue further education through night school while they teach.
 As part of your professional development, you can join a professional association for home economics teachers. These associations can provide you with support and also help you stay up to date in the latest news and trends in the field of home economics education. Membership in such an organization can provide you with information about job openings, opportunities for continuing education, and eligibility to participate in Home Economics conferences and conventions.


These include state or province-based organizations, such as HETAC (Home Economics Teacher Association of California) or OHEA (Ontario Home Economics Association).
This also includes national organizations, such as AAFCS (the American Association of Family and Consumer Sciences).
Perform an internet search for organizations in your area and complete an online application.
 The final step in becoming in a home economics teacher is to find a job. Look in your local newspapers, school district websites, and state teacher certification boards for information on job openings in your area. Don’t forget to also check with your friends who are teachers and colleagues at teacher’s college who can also provide you with information about teaching job openings in home economics or family and consumer science., Review each job call very carefully, and begin putting together the necessary materials. Often this will include things like: a cover letter, a resume (or cv), teaching evaluations (if you have experience teaching), sample teaching materials, and letters of recommendation. Tailor your materials to suit each individual job call, and submit each packet of materials before each closing date.


If you move to the next level, you will likely participate in a phone interview, and then an in-person interview.

