 Acknowledge your feelings and past actions as valid, but decide to take a new path in the future. It is often helpful to think about everything that is unique about you and all of your personal accomplishments. Love yourself and others will love you too!


Keeping a journal of personal triumphs can help you to stay in a positive, forward-thinking mindset. It also gives you good material for conversations. Most people would be more than happy to offer sincere congratulations if, for example, your received a promotion at work. Also, feel free to include statements of gratitude in your journal. There is no one ‘right’ way to chronicle your journey., In your home and/or office, document your life and achievements by posting snapshots of good moments, inspirational quotes, and knick-knacks from your adventures.


If you climbed up to Machu Picchu, let people know by keeping a photo at your desk. This is a sure-fire conversation starter. Studies have shown that taking ownership over a space through personal items can result in an increase of positive emotion., It is very tempting to sacrifice and compromise in order to promote harmony. This ‘people-pleasing’ mentality is pleasant, but also forgettable if repeated endlessly. Pretend as if you are your own personal PR (public relations) agent. As such, you must encourage the positive and respond to negative attacks upon your person.Be direct, not confrontational. People often fade into social invisibility in order to avoid conflict. This is understandable, however, it can cause problems in the long term. Instead, in tense situations, try to remain calm and collected and goal-oriented. Ask your colleagues, "How can we fix this?” or “Why do you think that?” Other people seeking a skilled leader will then look to you for guidance.
 Resist this impulse. When presented with an opportunity, ask yourself if it fits your present and future personal and professional goals. If that does not help, then give yourself one day to think everything over and to reply. This mindset puts your needs first, a clear signal to others that you are someone of importance., Buy a new outfit with matching accessories. Make a statement of individuality with your clothing choices. For example, pick a memorable or unique piece of jewelry and wear this signature piece for certain special occasions. The process of enclothed cognition means that you will gain confidence from clothing pieces that you associate with strong, powerful people. In this case, a simply necklace can be the best social armor you can buy!, Make sure that you are eating regular, healthy meals. This is another area where you can express your personality and expand your social circle by joining a cooking club or even writing a food blog. Similarly, exercise does not have to be a solo endeavor. Take a class at the local gym, sign up for an outdoor exercise group, or track your progress with a support group online. All of these actions will result in greater visibility for you.


As a bonus, exercise has been shown to trigger the production of endorphins, which in turn stimulate positive emotions.When you feel good about yourself, others will notice and get caught up in that exuberant feeling along with you.
 Every once in a while embrace invisibility and disappear from the social scene. Not only will this make people appreciate you more, you will also get to recharge and reevaluate your goals moving forward. This can also be an opportunity for adventure! Book a trip to a distant locale and practice your social skills by taking on a new, bold persona, even if only for brief time.

