 As difficult as it may be, to remain healthy and avoid injury, you will have to accept that you need to limit or avoid some tasks that would be routine for others. Specifically:Avoid heavy lifting whenever you can.
Try to sit down for any task that allows it.
Avoid unnecessary bending and stretching.
Stop tasks when you feel tired.
Use an activity tracker or pedometer to measure your heart rate so that you know if you are overexerting yourself.
 To the extent that you are able, organize tasks over time in such a way as to make them more manageable. Plan your tasks for home and work carefully. For example:Make a list of tasks you want to carry out, and prioritize them. When possible, eliminate those tasks that are least important.
Alternate active tasks with those you can do while sitting.
Look for energy saving shortcuts and ways to divide heavy tasks into multiple lighter ones.
Rather than "clean the kitchen," for example, break this job into several smaller tasks that can be interspersed with physically easier tasks. You might, for example, sweep the kitchen floor, then sit down and balance your checkbook, then wipe the kitchen counters, then sit down and answer emails, and so on.
 There are many things you can do to make your home easier for you to live in and minimize strain and fatigue. For example:Replace low, soft chairs with seating that has firm and supportive upholstery to make standing and sitting easier. Similarly, have a raised toilet seat installed.
Install seating in your shower.
Keep a bag at the top and bottom of your stairs so that you can move any objects up or down in a single trip.
Get a long handled dustpan and lightweight vacuum for easier cleaning.
Keep as many kitchen items as possible at around waist level to avoid bending or stretching to reach items.
 Get help with challenging tasks from friends or family members. The less energy you have to use on tasks that could be carried out by others, the better.


For example, if you need help moving something heavy, you could say to a friend: "My condition makes it difficult for me to move this chair up the stairs. Would you be willing to do it for me?"
Consider occupational therapy. An occupational therapist can help you find ways to minimize the strain placed on you by day-to-day activities, such as those related to your job.An occupational therapist may also be able to provide you with specialized equipment to make your life easier and minimize strain and pain, such as special braces. These therapists can also do assessments of your home and workplace to look for potential hazards and give you advice on how to pace activities to avoid fatigue., People with EDS often have trouble sleeping, in part due to chronic pain and discomfort. Make sure to allocate plenty of time for rest. Take breaks between tasks and go to bed early.


Rest helps your muscles to recover their energy.Even for short breaks, consider lying down rather than resting in a chair.
Get a mattress that provides plenty of support to make resting as comfortable as possible. Make sure it is of a height that makes it easy to lie down and get up.
Use a pillow that will not push your head forward too much.

