 The more frequently you clean the cage, the easier the job will be in general. A cage should be thoroughly cleaned once or twice a week. Put a reminder on your calendar, so that you don't forget.


If you clean the cage twice a week or more, you will only need to do a thorough cleaning once a week.;
, You’ll need to take the guinea pig out in order to clean the cage. Guinea pigs love “floor time.” If you can, let the guinea pig roam around on the floor while you clean their cage. If your floor is not safe for them, you can put them in a bucket with tall sides.If you let your guinea pig have floor time, make sure there are no small places where it could escape to and get lost.
Be prepared to clean up after your guinea pig if it have floor time. It may leave a small mess behind.
Make sure the guinea pig still has access to food and water while out of its cage.
 Take the guinea pig’s toys out of the cage. Take out its food and water bowls, too. Look for any small toys it may have buried in the bedding. Put these in a tub or in the sink to be washed.If the guinea pig has disposable toys, such as an oatmeal container, throw these away.
Check for any wear and tear. If a toy has started degrading or getting chewed up, it should be replaced.
 You can use a whisk broom and a dustpan to remove hay or wood shavings. If your cage allows for it, you may be able to remove the entire bottom and simply dump it into the trash. If you use fleece or a towel as bedding simply remove it and put it in the washing machine.If you use wood shavings or hay, you can actually compost the bedding instead of throwing it out.
Wash towels or fleece with soap and hot water in the washing machine.
 You should always put a layer of newspaper at the bottom of the cage to line it. When you clean the cage, remove the newspaper and throw it away.If there are large or significantly wet spots on the newspaper, it means that you need to put more bedding in the cage, or that you need to clean it more frequently.
Never use plastic instead of newspaper. Guinea pigs can become sick if they accidentally ingest plastic.
 Mix 1 part white vinegar to 1 part water. White vinegar is non-toxic, but it’s a very effective cleaning agent. Stir these together and pour them into a spray bottle. One you have this solution mixed, you can store it indefinitely for future use.If you use a used spray bottle, make sure it is clean and free from any harsh chemicals.
Some people use a solution of 10% bleach and 90% water. However, bleach fumes can be dangerous for the guinea pig and should be avoided. If you must use bleach, always rinse it off well afterward.
 Spray the solution over all of the surfaces of the cage. Make sure you hit every surface, and be liberal with it. Let the vinegar solution sit for a few minutes to loosen debris that is stuck to the cage, the scrub the cage with a sponge.If a surface is proving hard to clean, make a paste with baking soda and water. Use the paste with an abrasive sponge to scrub away the caked-on debris.
You can also try using very hot water to clean the surfaces. Just make sure to also use vinegar solution afterward to sanitize the cage.
 Use a dry, clean towel or a paper towel. Wipe every surface dry so that no vinegar solution or water remains. You may need to use more than one towel or paper towel.Be sure that the bottom of the cage is completely dry. If it's damp when you replace the newspaper, the newspaper will get soggy.
Make sure to wash the towel you used to dry the cage. Even though the cage is clean, the towel should be considered dirty.
 Wash all of the toys and dishes with the same vinegar solution. You may want to wash these in the sink. You can spray the solution on them, wipe them with a sponge, and then rinse them in warm water. If the toys and dishes are hard to clean, you can wash them in hot water.
Don't submerge anything porous in water, such as fabric toys or toilet paper tubes. If these can't' be cleaned, throw them away.
Dry everything off with a towel afterward.
 Take some sheets of fresh newspaper. Lay them down to cover the bottom of the cage. Never use plastic, even if you think your guinea pig won’t get to it. This can be very dangerous for a guinea pig.Use a few sheets of newspaper so that there are a few layers between the bedding and the bottom of the cage.
Try to avoid shiny parts of the newspaper, such as ad sections. These are not very absorbent.
 Wood shavings, such as Aspen or CareFresh, are common types of bedding. You can also use hay, though that will not be as absorbent as wood shavings.Never use cedar shavings with guinea pigs. This can be bad for their health.
If you use fleece or towels, make sure they are clean and dry before placing them in the cage.
 Fill the food dish and water bottle up and place them back in the cage. Put the toys back in as well. If you’ve disposed of a toy such as an oatmeal container, you may want to replace it with something else.Everything should now be clean and dry. Check each item before you put it back in the cage.
You can add new toys every so often to keep your guinea pig stimulated.
 Your guinea pig will be thrilled to be back in its cozy, clean home. Pick it up gently and put it back in the cage. Be mindful to close the door so it won't escape., Your guinea pig might have made a mess on the floor. Sweep up any shavings or droppings it left behind. Wipe surfaces down with the same water and vinegar solution to sanitize the spaces where your guinea pig played.

