 Doors seem to be very noise, or at least my doors. If your apartment block has guards, spy on them. If they seem strict, they may tell your parents.;
, Tell your parents how tired you are, but don't overdo it. Sleep at your normal time. Go to your room and turn off all your lights. If you know your parents check on you, act like you're asleep until you know they won't check again. Then whip out a Nintendo, computer, iPod, or anything electronic and play a few games. Do NOT turn on any lights. Your parents will be able to see the light from under your door or from your window. If you don't have an electronic, read a book in the dimmest light possible. Put a dark coloured piece of clothing (Like a scarf) under your door to stop light shining through. Close your curtains.
 Once you are completely sure your parents are asleep, sneak out of bed. Put a few stuff toys or cushions under the blanket so it looks like you are still there. Grab some important things you need (Optional: Wallet, phone, Keys, Id card). Quietly open your door and stuff a sock at the bottom when you close it so it doesn't close completely, but doesn't open. Closing doors is usually very noisy. Sneak quietly over to the door. If you have a pet, don't wake it up, because when my dog sees me sneaking out, she thinks I'm going to play with her and starts running around. When opening the main door, remember to keep it unlocked. If you can't unlock it, bring keys. If you don't have keys, use a slipper to put under the door. Once you are out, stay still for a few seconds to make sure no one woke up when you were sneaking out.
 Casually walk by and tell them you couldn't sleep and you are going for a walk. If they are nice, they may not tell your parents or question you. Don't tell them your name, try not to show too much of your face and wear some clothes you never wear, so if they don't know you and they see you with your parents they may tell them. If your guard is strict, I suggest going through a different entrance with no guards. Maybe take the lift but go down to the car park instead. They may see you on the security camera, but just act casual, not suspicious, but don't show too much of your face. If they don't meet you face to face, they can't ask you anything.
 Party, visit some friends, go to your super secret agent base, create a plot to dominate the universe, or just take a midnight stroll!

, Now it's time to sneak in. If you passed the guard when sneaking out, do not go through another entrance. I repeat. Do NOT. Why? Because since they know you went out, they may not realize you went through another exit, and they may think you got lost, kidnapped, whatever. They could call your parents. Now quietly sneak back in the opposite of the way the snuck out. If your parents find out, tell them you just went for a stroll. And tell them you only went around the block. You'll get in trouble, just not as much.

