 While on the job seekers permit, you cannot work either on your own or for a company.  You will need to either support yourself off savings, or have a local sponsor who will sign a document called a “Verpflichtungserklärung” (obligation letter) which states that they will be financially responsible for you. This will be a requirement in your application.;
, It is also strongly recommended to already have a solid foundation in the German language (B1 or better), unless you work in a field that operates primarily in English  (software engineering, for example.)  Even in that case, learning a little bit, even just a 'Können wir Englisch sprechen?' would be likely appreciated before going to the Ausländerbehörde where many of the staff may only speak German.
 How will you find a job? Do you have contacts in Germany already? If you do not, how do you plan to make them? It will help in your application if you have already figured this out in advance.
 While this permit seems to be open to all nationalities, only a few are able to get it without a concurrent long-term Schengen area visa. If you are a national of Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea and the United States of America you will not need any additional visa - this permit will just supercede and replace your class C Schengen visa. All other (non-EU) nationalities will need a concurrent long-stay visa.
 Basically a cover letter stating why you want to come to German, how you plan to succeed in your job search. Make it as specific and concise as possible.
 Standard CV advice applies here - focus on relevant experience and measurable deliverables.
 Bank account statements, investment account statements, the Verpflichtungserklärung letter described above, or anything else that can demonstrate your ability to support yourself for up to six months.
 This is one area where a job-seekers permit is easier than the others as travel insurance is acceptable. Make sure your insurance is valid for the duration of your intended stay as they will only issue a permit through its expiry or you will only be issued a residence permit for its duration.
 Bachelor's degree or five-year equivalent is required to make an application. Look up your college to see if it is recognised on Anabin. Click on 'Institutionen' on the left, then the 'Suchen' tab, and fill in your school's information. Look for the status column.


If your school's status is H+ then the school and its degrees are recognised by Germany. If it is H+/- then it will be a judgement call by the approver. If it is H- then it is not recognised and you will be unable to apply. Print this page out and include it in your application. You will need to also include some proof of graduation. A signed letter from my college simply stating that was adequate.
 This is applicable only if you are making your application while already in Germany., Make sure it meets the requirements., Download the Aufenthaltstitel-Erteilung form for your language.
 Get at least your intent letter, CV, and educational certification translated into German.
, It means dealing with either Ausländerbehördes or local Bürgeramts, both of which can be rather tedious. In Berlin there is only a single Ausländerbehörde, where the lines can be rather extreme. Other cities (Cologne for instance) can process this paperwork at local Bürgeramt offices. The bureaucratic waits can be a bit lower there. Overall, it will vary from location to location.
 If you are already in Germany, and know about 5-6 weeks in advance that you want to apply for this, and have 5-6 weeks remaining on your current visa, then this is the best way to go. If you do not have enough remaining time on your current resident permit it will be extended through your appointment date.
