 The field is set up like a diamond. If you have ever watched baseball, it is the same as a baseball diamond.Home base, where the ‘batter’ kicks the ball from, is the base of the diamond. First base is diagonally fifteen yards away from home base up to the right. Second base is diagonally up to the left fifteen yards away from first base, and third base is diagonally up to the left from home base.


Foul territory is everything outside of the line from home base to first base, and home base to third base extending into the outfield. ;
, The defensive positions include a pitcher, a catcher, three players to cover each base, three out fielders, and one shortstop to cover the area between second and third base. When your team is on offense you take turns standing at home base and kicking the ball that the pitcher from the opposite team rolls at you. The pitcher rolls the ball to the kicking team across home plate. They stand about 10 yards (9 m) away from home plate.
The catcher tries to tag players out at home base and passes the ball back to the pitcher.
The players covering each base try to get the ball after the opposing team kicks it. Once they get the ball the goal is to tag the runner out before they get to the base safely.
You tag a runner out by touching them with the ball or throwing the ball at them.
The outfielders want to get the ball if the opposing team kicks it away from the players covering the bases and pass it to one of the bases so that their teammate can tag a runner out.
The shortstop tries to stop the ball from bouncing into the outfield and also wants to tag runners out or pass it to the players covering the bases.
 A team scores a run when a player touches all four bases in order and touches home base without getting out. When it is your turn to be up at bat, the pitcher from the opposite team will roll the ball to you. You try to kick the ball in such a way that it stays in the field of play. Once you kick the ball, you immediately try to run to first base before the opposite team tags you with the ball or touches first base with the ball. If you make it to first base, you are safe.Whenever you are on a base you cannot be tagged out.


If you have a really good kick, you might be able to run all the way to second or third base before they catch you.
The team with the most runs at the end of a game wins. A Kickball game lasts six innings. During an inning each team gets a chance to kick. Your team continues to kick until you have accumulated three outs., The defensive team needs to get three outs before they can switch to offense. There are four ways to get an out.The pitcher can strike the batter out. If the pitcher rolls three good pitches at the batter and the batter fails to keep the ball outside of the foul zone or misses the pitch all together, that is called a strikeout. The next player on the offensive team will then come up to bat. Some friendly kickball games play without strikeouts.
A tag out occurs when a defensive player touches an offensive player with the ball when they are not on a base. The defensive team can cause a force out if the ball gets to a base before the offensive player arrives and they offensive player can’t go back to their previous base. They can’t go back to their previous base if it is occupied by a teammate or if it is home base. The defensive team can catch a fly ball. If the ball is kicked into the air by the offense and the opposing team catches it before it hits the ground that is considered an out.

