 Get up at a comfortable time where you have gotten 8-10 hours of sleep, no more no less. If there is a specific time you have to be somewhere, then wake up an hour to an hour and a half before leaving.;
, Turn on your favorite music or television show to help you wake up, but only if you know this won't distract you. Get a cup of coffee or juice to help kick-start the morning.
 Take a quick 5 to 10 minute shower doing things in this order:


Wet hair and put in shampoo.
Rinse. CONDITION! Rinse.
Use soap or body wash to cleanse you.
Use a foam and razor to shave quickly.
Apply and ointments or creams.
Get out.
, Apply lotion that smells good and hydrates. Use a face wash to open and de-clog pores. Afterward, you may choose to use a stronger substance in wash or pad form.
 Use whiting strips to have a bright smile.
 It is important to be careful when applying, to avoid makeup lines and smears. Look at your freshly washed face and cover any major flaws (i.e. acne, scars, rashes, bumps, or skin texture variations) with concealer. The concealer should have a yellowish undertone to provide with the best coverage. Cover the areas with a light blendable powder using a large brush. If you want a professional look over a natural one, use a liquid foundation mixed with sunscreen and apply it with a brush to your skin. Avoid using too much and make sure to blend it in to the hairline and jaw line well. If you want a more natural look use bronzer or blush on your cheeks,nose and forehead to create the illusion of being sun kissed. Prepare to add color.
 Apply a small amount of mascara to elongate the eyelashes. Use a neutral (i.e. plum shades, black, gray, or brown) liquid or stick eyeliner. Apply by using small strokes in or outside the lash line. Use 2-3 variations of one eyeshadow shade on the lid. The lightest goes directly under the brow (brow bone). Two shades can be mixed to put on the crease or a middle shade used. The darkest is used on the actual lid.
 Find a color that compliments your skin tone- gloss or stick.
,


For work, a nice neutral suit or pencil skirt with heels and a colored blouse.
For a date a somewhat revealing dress in a hot color with a peep toe heel and delicate jewelry.
For a day trip with the girls a casual jean or khaki pant and a comfy shirt or cute cami under a structured jacket works. Pair this with a hobo back chunky jewelry and a nice running shoe or ballet slipper. Wear clothes you like and you look good in.
 For frizzy or unruly hair, use John Frieda's FRIZZ EASE. For shiny hair, use Bed Head's SUPERFICIAL. To get a curly crimped look twist wet hair and pin then dry with blow dryer. You could also use a small barreled curling iron for tight curls and a big one for


For Waves ( hair must be dry to use irons.) For straight hair use a paddle brush and dry while pulling down on hair. Then for a sleek finish use a ceramic flat iron. You can also use clips, barrettes, and hairspray to create amazing looks. Wear it the way you want to express yourself.
,