 He may not like the taste of them, or simply prefer to eat unhealthy foods such as fast-foods;
, If they know how much sugar and fat they are consuming, they will be less likely to want to continue eating it. Teach them to read ingredients' lists and recognize the unhealthy and disgusting components. However, if the children are very young, they may need your help explaining what all of the nutrition facts mean.
 If you force your child to eat healthy at home when they really don't want to, they aren't going to continue these healthy eating habits at school or at a friend's house. It's important to make children want to eat healthy instead of forcing it upon them.
 If children pick up the types of healthy foods they like to eat, then they will be more wanting to eat them. You could also try purchasing "fun" fruits and vegetables, such as a banana with a face on it or an apple with a sticker. Children actually love to eat foods that look fun and exciting.
 Whenever you buy products from a store, they contain a lot of processed junk that makes the food extremely unhealthy. Also, when you take your child out to eat at a fast-food restaurant, they are eating a lot of hidden fat and sugar that you probably didn't even know was there. Try making your own peanut butter with the children. Not only will they be eating more healthy, but they will also get to spend quality time with you and learn a new skill.
 If children learn how to cook fun foods on their own, they will be more than thrilled to eat their own creations. This can be beneficial because soon enough, your children will want to make their own food instead of begging you to take them out to a fast-food restaurant. You will save a lot of money by spending a few extra minutes to help them make a meal.


Children can make breaded chicken cutlets if you show them how.
They can make meatballs and brown them in olive oil.
They can make cakes and pies from scratch and enjoy doing it.
 You may think this is time-consuming but you will be helping them live longer, so isn't it worth it? If children constantly eat unhealthy foods, they could become overweight, or even obese. They could get made fun of at school and suffer emotional impacts. No parent wants to see their child suffer, so teach children to eat right to avoid the consequences.
 Encourage your child to eat half of their plate or a certain amount of food before leaving the table or getting dessert. Provide plenty of praise and encouragement as they eat.,, Or, you can promise him you will let him do things he likes (playing computer, going with him outside for a walk, etc.)

