 If your cat can take his medication with food, your best bet is to use a commercial product like Pill Pockets to coat your cat’s pills. You can find Pill Pockets in pet stores. If you cannot find pill pockets or if your cat does not like them, try using wet cat food to make tiny meatballs to coat your cat’s pills.You can also look for Flavor Doh, which is another brand of pill concealing treats.
 It is much easier to mix a powder in with a strong-flavored food (to hide the taste) than administer a pill; however, be aware not all pills are suitable for crushing. If the pill is a slow-release pill, crushing it will destroy this property, making an overdose possible. Or crushing it may simply make it taste unpleasant, and your cat will taste it and reject the food., Put your cat’s pill into a Pill Pocket or Flavor Doh. Make sure that the treat is sticking to the pill so that your cat will not be able to separate the pill from the treat. Have a few other non-medicine treats ready to give your cat after he eats the pill treat.If you are using wet cat food instead, make four tiny meatballs using a cat food that your cat likes and then insert one of the pills into one of the meatballs. Keep track of which meatball you put the pill into!

, Give your cat the treats you have prepared in a location that he likes, such as where he normally eats or a favorite roosting spot.If you are using the Pill Pockets or Flavor Doh, simply give your cat the treat and make sure he eats it. If he spits it out, you can try again with a new treat or use wet cat food to make tiny meatballs.


To give your cat the treat using the wet cat food, give him two of the four meatballs that do not contain the pill. Then, give him the pill meatball and wait for him to swallow it. Follow up with the last non-medicine meatball to help get the medicine taste out of his mouth. The last non-medicine meatball will prevent him from associating the cat food with a bad taste, which will make it easier to keep using this method.
 After your cat has taken his treat using either method, make sure to follow up by giving him one of his favorite treats. You can also pet him and play with him if he is feeling up to it. Just do whatever you can to make the experience pleasant for him so that he looks forward to taking his medicine in the future.Be aware that some cats develop an aversion to the food containing the pill. Try to avoid "pilling" with a food your cat relies on, in case they refuse to eat it in future because they link it to a pill.

