


The easiest way to improve your chances of getting a lot of likes is to have a lot of Facebook friends. If you only have ten Facebook friends, then you won't be able to get very many likes, no matter how amazing your posts are. Here's how to get as many Facebook friends as you can:
Don't be shy about friending acquaintances. If you briefly met someone and you run in the same circles, it is socially acceptable to friend that person. As long as you don't go over the top and send the acquaintance a message or post on his or her wall immediately, just sending a friend request will be a great way to make a new Facebook friend.
Don't be afraid to friend someone from your past. If Facebook keeps recommending friends to you, it will be because you have friends or a network in common. As long as the person knows who you are, it's okay to request to be his or her friend.
Be socially active. If you're friendly in the workplace, in your yoga class, and during your Saturday afternoon volunteering sessions, you'll be more likely to meet more people who can be your friends on Facebook.
Don't be discouraged if many of your Facebook friends never like your posts. Many people feel that they have to be closer friends with someone to like his or her photos, but there are many exceptions to this rule, and you will definitely get likes from people you haven't heard from in years if you post the right things.;
,


Having a lot of Facebook friends will certainly improve your chances of getting likes, but cultivating real-life relationships will also help you get people to like you're photos. Here's how this works:
If people feel closer to you, they will be more likely to browse your profile. If they find something they like, then they will let you know!
People will also feel more comfortable liking your photos if they hang out with you face-to-face.
You can also tell your real-life friends about things you have posted. You don't have to be obvious about it or plug yourself too much, but you can casually say things like, "Hey, did you check out that link I posted on Facebook?" or "I just posted an album from last weekend's party. You should check it out--there's an amazing photo of you there!"
You can also tag your friends in your photo albums. This will make them much more likely to browse your photos, and to like your various posts.



You have to be a Facebook community member of good standing to get a lot of likes. You can't expect to post an album, photo, or comments and get an instant reaction if you don't reciprocate. Here's how:
Update your status with something fun or meaningful at least once a day. That way, people will be thinking of you.
Go on Facebook at least once a day. Make a goal to like at least five things that come up on your newsfeed.
Try to like the posts of someone different every time, so you are on his or her radar. If you like the posts of a person you don't know so well, he or she will know it's okay to like your posts. Just make sure to not like the photos of someone completely random who barely remembers who you are.
Make a goal to post on the walls of a few of your Facebook friends each day. Send at least one person a message each day.
Don't underestimate the power of an occasional poke.
Be active on Facebook, but don't be annoying. You don't want your Facebook friends rolling their eyes at how often you pop up on their newsfeed. If you're too active, some of your friends may block your status updates or unfriend you.



Once you've amassed enough Facebook friends and have many real-life connections, you can work on honing the photos that you post. The type of photo you post can determine how many people will like it. Here are some Facebook photo posting dos and don'ts:
If you post a photo of yourself, make sure it's silly, fun, or extraordinary in some way. If you're in a new location, wearing a fun costume, or dressed up for a special occasion, it's worth posting. If it's just an ordinary photo of you, then it may not be like-worthy.
Posting a photo with a celebrity is guaranteed to get you lots of likes.
Posting a photo from your childhood, if it's really cute or goofy, will also get lots of likes.
If you graduated from school or ran a marathon, post a photo of you with your diploma or your finisher's medal.
Generally, posting photos of more than one person will make it easier for you to get more likes. If multiple people are tagged in the photo, then they will be more likely to look at it.
If you post a cute photo of you and your significant other, people tend to like those. Just try not to look too smug in the photo, because your Facebook friends may get annoyed by that.
Post your photos at the right time of day, when you know people are at their computers. If you post it too early in the morning or too late at night, it may get overlooked.
Avoid posting too many photos of scenery or monuments. You may be really proud of your vacation to Rome, but if you're not in the photo, then you will just be the 100th person to post a picture of the Trevi fountain that day.



Your status update is not only your way of letting people know what's going on in your life, but your way of trying to show your Facebook friends how witty, thoughtful, or just plain fun you are. Here are some ways to get a lot of likes on your status update:
Be short and sweet. Pretend that you're posting on Twitter. Try to entertain your audience in 100 characters or less. If your status is so long that your friends have to click to read the rest, they will get bored.
Don't be afraid to be completely silly. You don't have to show off all the time.
The right quote from a popular TV show right after it airs is sure to get lots of likes from the people who know what you're talking about.
If you're going on vacation or have recently arrived in a new city, post about it and people will be excited for you.
Don't post too many updates that complain about the weather, talk about how boring work is, or are way too personal for the Facebook community. Your Facebook friends are used to seeing this every day, and will be more impressed if you're original.
Check the news frequently. If you're the first person to spot a breaking news story and you post it, you will get lots of props.

