 This is the minimum level required for evolution. You can level them up by feeding them Experience Crystals, but only up to your current level, so make sure you’re level 40 or higher before attempting this.;
, Head on over to the Eidolon menu by pressing N or by clicking the icon that looks like a silhouette of Serif in the lower part of your screen. Then click on your Eidolon’s icon on the left half of the menu, and select “Evolution,” which you’ll find on the right half of the menu. This will show you a small screen depicting the ingredients you need to gather to evolve them.


The ingredients vary for the first evolution, but usually, for the starter Eidolons, you need 30 Small Experience Crystals and 1 Hero’s Emblem. For the other Eidolons you can get, you need 1 of the Eidolon’s corresponding Key of Gaia, 4 of a specific Elemental Crest, and 30 Small Experience Fragments.
 Now comes the hard part. This bit requires a lot of grinding and farming, and will take a very long time. Just be patient and know where you will find what you need.


You can get Hero’s Emblems from connecting your starter Eidolon with Gaia. This is an uncommon reward from linking, but you only need 1.
You can get Key Fragments from connecting your other Eidolons too, or by beating some Eidolons over at the Temple of Eidolons in Crescent Hill just south of the Navea gate. You can then fuse 10 of the same type to make a Key of Gaia for that Eidolon by right-clicking on the Fragments to trigger the Fusion menu, then click “Fuse.” You also have a small chance of getting an actual full Key of Gaia from beating Eidolons at the Temple. Just know that the selection of Eidolons in the Temple are random, but the Key Fragments you get from linking are somewhat rare, meaning that either way, you’re in for the long haul.
Small Experience Crystals can be farmed in mainly in Crescent Hill and Cactakara Forest.
You can get Elemental Crests from either completing quests or, more reliably, from linking any Eidolon to Gaia.
If you plan on evolving them further, you’ll need Brilliant Evolutionary Beads, which you can get at the highest levels of the Sky Tower. You’ll need to be level 99 to reach it, so consider it a stretch goal for long-time players.
 Now, once you get all your ingredients, it’s time to evolve your Eidolon. Head back to the Eidolon menu, and click the “Evolve” button again. If you have all the required items, the button on the bottom of the Evolution menu becomes available for you to click, so just click it and rejoice in your Eidolon’s growth of power!


Quite a lot of Eidolons can evolve up to level 3, and quite a few of them get a change in appearance when you reach level 3. The game is also currently updating which Eidolons change appearance once you reach that level, so don’t be surprised if yours suddenly gets a new look.

