 Worrying about how you smell, especially to the opposite sex is a natural concern, and not something you should feel embarrassed about.;
, Showering or bathing daily is one of the easiest and most effective ways to make sure you smell good. Focus on cleansing the areas that are most likely to produce odor such as the armpits, groin, and feet.Bathing right before you go out to meet a boy or where you might meet a boy will ensure you smell your best.
If you exercise, sweat profusely, or do work outside, bathing after these activities will reduce body odor and keep you smelling great.
Showering or bathing too frequently can actually irritate your skin, so if you find yourself showering more than twice a day, you might want to reconsider your bathing habits., Although shampooing your hair too often can damage it, establishing a regular hair-washing routine will remove excess oils and dirt from the hair, which can lead to bad odors. It’s time to reach for the shampoo bottle when you notice your hair seems oily or smelly, or your scalp is itching and flaking.If you exercise a lot, live in a humid place, have an oily scalp, or have fine hair, experts recommend shampooing daily. This will help ensure you smell good for boys.
People with thick hair, curly hair, or who don’t have oily hair can usually wait longer between shampooing.
If you are worried that your hair or scalp smells but you don’t want to risk damaging your hair, try just using water or a leave in conditioner instead of shampooing. You can also test out products such as powders and dry shampoos, which will help you go longer between washings since they reduce oils and the bad smells that might repel boys.
If you are not sure how often you should wash your hair, ask a professional stylist or dermatologist.
 To maintain dental health and prevent bad breath, which boys might find unattractive, brush your teeth at least twice a day. Flossing your teeth everyday will also help keep your mouth and breath smelling great.
Brush after a meal to remove food particles and get rid of germs that cause bad breath.
If you practice good dental hygiene, but still feel like you have a problem with bad breath, talk with a doctor or dentist. You might have a medical condition that is causing this problem.
 Antiperspirants help prevent sweating while deodorants mask odor, so applying these products every day will help you smell great for boys.To maximize the effectiveness of these products, use them twice per day—in the morning and at night.Many antiperspirants also contain deodorants, so these products are often more effective at preventing body odor than simply using deodorants.If regular strength products don’t seem to work for you, try a stronger, clinical strength antiperspirant or deodorant. Doctors can also prescribe even stronger products.
Keep antiperspirant or deodorant with you at school or work so that you can reapply it as needed.
 Hair can trap bacteria and odors, so shaving areas such as your armpits should help you reduce and manage body odor., Although it is natural, foot odor is unattractive and can make you feel less confident around boys. Avoid wearing the same pair of shoes each day so they have time to air out.To cut down on unpleasant odors and freshen shoes and feet, you can also sprinkle foot powder in your shoes or apply these products directly to your feet.
 Bathing regularly and going through the steps above won’t be effective if you put on dirty, smelly clothes. Wash your clothes regularly to keep them smelling fresh.To get rid of bad smells on your clothes and boost the effectiveness of your detergent, consider adding white vinegar, lemon juice, borax, or baking soda during the wash cycle., If your attempts to practice good hygiene don’t seem to be working and you have concerns about how you smell, talk with a medical professional about your situation. They will be able to diagnose and treat any medical conditions that might be causing the problem.


They may even be able to prescribe certain products or medications that are more effective than over-the-counter ones.

