 A patch test is when you rub the sunscreen on a small part of your child’s skin, such as on the inside of his wrist, and wait several minutes to see if his skin becomes irritated. If your child’s skin becomes irritated as the day goes on, you will know that you cannot use that sunscreen on your child.


Skin irritation usually means that your child’s skin will become red, bumpy or itchy.
 Sunscreen takes a little while to get absorbed by the skin, so it is generally a good practice to rub the sunscreen on to your child’s skin at least 20 minutes before he will be exposed to the sun.


After the initial application, reapply the sunscreen every two hours to keep your child’s skin fully protected.
 In order to make sure that your child does not burn, it is important to apply the sunscreen to every part of your child’s skin that might be exposed to the sun. In addition to this, there are some areas that tend to burn more easily than others. In particular, make sure to apply sunscreen to your child’s:


Ears.
Face (and in particular the nose).
Front and back of the neck.
Shoulders.
Hands and feet.
Lips (you can use an SPF lip balm for this).
Along the edges of your child’s swimsuit.
 There is no need to be liberal when applying your child’s sunscreen; in this case, too much is always better than too little. As mentioned above, pay particular attention to spots like your child’s nose and ears.
 While you may find that sunscreens make it easier to apply protection to your child’s skin, they are also less thorough in their coverage of your child’s skin. With a spray on sunscreen, it is hard to tell if the spray got on to every part of your child’s exposed skin.


In addition to this insufficient coverage, your child can also accidentally inhale the sunscreen while you spray him, which could cause a serious problem for asthmatic children.
 Make sure to put the sunscreen on for them so that they do not accidentally ingest it or get it into their eyes or nose. However, while you put the sunscreen on your child, make sure to explain what you are doing so that they will learn and will be able to apply sunscreen on their own when they are a little older.
 Sunscreen should not exclusively be used in the summer, especially if your child has sensitive skin or if there is a history of skin cancer in your family. UV rays exist all year, though winter clouds can filter some of them. Keep in mind that snow has the same power as water does; both water and snow can reflect and amplify UV rays.


In general, try to apply sunscreen to your child’s skin every time he goes outdoors on sunny days, regardless of the season. In particular, use extra caution if your child is playing outside during the hours of 10 AM to 3 PM.
 While sunscreen can help to protect your child from the sun, taking extra precautionary measures can help to protect your child even more. These measures include:


Having your child wear a hat and sunglasses during the middle part of the day.
Bringing an umbrella to the beach or park to provide some shade.
Keeping your child hydrated to compensate for any fluid your child might lose through his sweat.

