 The best way to create a barrier to your yard is to put up a fence. Most strays won’t jump a fence to get into your yard (although some might) and it also prevents your own animals from getting loose or coming into contact with unknown animals. The size of your fence will depend a lot on the size of the strays wandering into your yard, as well as the size of your own animals.


If you’re not crazy about the idea of looking at a fence all day, or if it’s just simply not a financial possibility for you, you can also try liquid fence. Liquid fence is a spray that you can purchase for just over ten dollars at most home improvement stores. The scents in the spray repel dogs and can therefore create a barrier to your yard without the cost of installing an actual fence., A sonic repellent device works by emitting high-frequency sounds that dogs can hear but humans can’t. Some versions are motion activated so when a stray dog (or other animal) wanders into your yard, the device emits a sound that will drive the strays away.Keep in mind that this is not a good choice if you have dogs or other pets of your own. If you let them into the yard, they’ll set off the device and have to deal with those high-pitched sounds themselves.
 Like a motion-activated sonic device, a motion-activated sprayer will turn on when strays enter your yard. Spraying dogs with water is a eco-friendly option for keeping strays out of your yard.If you have pets (or kids) of your own, keep in mind that they’ll get sprayed, too, so you might want to try a different option if this is an issue for you.
 Dogs are repelled by the smell of vinegar, so spraying the edge of your yard with white or apple cider vinegar can help create a barrier that keeps strays out. Just pour some vinegar into a spray bottle and walk the perimeter of your yard, spraying the grass as you go.Keep in mind that depending on the size of your yard, you’ll be able to smell the vinegar after you spray it. You might not want to use this method right before you’re going to be using your yard.
 Sprinkling small amounts of black or cayenne pepper in your yard will make it less appealing to strays. Dogs use their keen sense of smell and taste to assess most situations. If they come across a patch of black or cayenne pepper, and either sniff or lick at it, they'll learn to stay away from your yard. Use very small amounts of pepper for this. However annoying strays are, you don’t want to cause permanent damage to them by leaving out huge mounds of pepper that can burn their noses or mouths.

