 This will be the card that does the most damage to the opponent's towers. You will build a deck around this win condition. It should be high-enough level to be strong in your current arena.

Some win conditions are: Hog Rider, P.E.K.K.A., Royal Giant, Balloon, X-Bow, Miner, Golem, Rocket, and Three Musketeers. There are much more possible win conditions.;
, The archetypes are beatdown, siege, control, cycle, spell bait, and hybrid. They each have their own strengths and weaknesses.

Beatdown focuses on creating a huge push that the opponent can't stop. This method has a heavy tank with high damaging units behind it. Beatdown is weak to control decks. To counter it, never let your opponent build up that push in the first place. Continually pressure their towers and don't let them build up elixir.
Siege archetypes have a building as their win condition: either Mortar or X-Bow. It is a rare deck archetype and its goal is to defend their building to do damage on the towers. This archetype is weak to huge beatdown pushes but is strong against control.
The control type decks are the most diverse. Cycle is a type of control where the deck is very cheap and quickly cycles their win condition faster than the opponent's counters. Otherwise, these decks chip away at the other towers, doing damage over time. Any amount of damage matters.
Spell bait isn't really an archetype. They can be beatdown, control, or hybrid. These cards are all usually countered by the same spell. If you get your opponent to use that spell, you can attack and leave him with no good way to stop you. Skeleton army, Princess, Goblin Gang, and Goblin Barrel are common in these decks.
Hybrid decks are the most powerful and the most difficult to create. They combine two archetypes and two win conditions for a deck that is hard to defend against. A hybrid deck might have an X-Bow and a Giant in the deck.
 The most effective decks are 3.5-4.5 in average elixir cost.(AEC) There are good decks higher or lower than that. Cheaper decks are faster but have less tank-oriented troops. Heavy decks have a slow play style and are usually beatdown.

If you have an average elixir cost of 4.0 or above, you might want to consider having the elixir collector in your deck. This card will collect more elixir for you and allow you to play troops faster.
 Do you want a fast deck continually attacking the opponent? Do you want a slow deck that builds up momentum? Or do you want a balance of the two. It is up to you.

Troops have different movement speeds. Fast decks might want speedy hog riders, elite barbarians, or goblins. A slow deck could include the mighty Golem or executioner.
 Get troops that attack air, do splash damage, deal heavy single target damage, and troops that do more than one at a time. You will need one of each in your deck to make it effective.

Musketeer, Minions, Mini Pekka, and some more do single target damage.
Wizard, Witch, Bowler, and Ice Golem have splash attacks.
 These cards compliment your win-condition and help defeat its counters. You should try to play these with your win condition. They need support to be effective and are usually glass cannons.

For example, Wizard is good with P.E.K.K.A. because it is good at removing swarms which the P.E.K.K.A. is weak to.
Some support cards are Valkyrie, Musketeer, Witch, and Electro Wizard.
 These are generally slow moving cards good for protecting your towers. Some are swarms of low health cards that do a lot of damage.

These include Ice Wizard, Barbarians, Minion Horde, and Skeleton Army.
 These can be used whenever you need to. Cycle cards are cheap and cycle your deck for a better card to use. Utility cards can be used to counter almost any card and are usually cheap. Both of these help you make positive elixir trades, or when you spend less elixir to counter a troop than it cost for your opponent to deploy it. This allows you to have more elixir than your opponent.

Cycle cards include Ice Spirit and Skeletons.
Some utility cards are Spear Goblins, Minions, and Fire Spirits.
 These are also part of your defense, Some buildings spawn troops periodically. Others do damage against enemy troops. Most decks will have one of these in them.

The inferno tower does damage that increases over time. It will do heavy work against all tanks.
The cannon is cheap (3 elixir), so your can use it to kill Hog Riders and defend small pushes. The Tesla is like a cannon that targets air.
Bomb tower deals splash damage.
Barracks spawn barbarians, Goblin Hut spawns Spear Goblins, Furnace hatches Fire Spirits, and Tombstone raises Skeletons.
 These offer direct damage and are incredibly useful. They all are different.

Zap is cheap and stuns troops. Log knocks back cards and deals splash. Lightning deals high damage against the 3 highest health units. Rocket does the most damage to a small area. Arrows pepper a large area and Fireball is a lighter Rocker.
Other spells affect troops. Heal spell, well, heals your troops. Rage increases movement speed and attack speed. Freeze freezes troops in place.

