 You're trying to build a relationship with the people you're pitching you're movie to, as well as tell them a story. You want them to love you as much as they love your script. Take some time at the beginning to have a conservation with them.Don't drag on too long. They won't appreciate you wasting extra time.
For instance, when you go into the room, if you know what the producers have done in the past, you can compliment them on their work: "You worked on , didn't you? I loved the dark, gritty feel of that movie, which is why I wanted to pitch my movie to you."

, This piece of advice holds true whether you're giving a short or long pitch. The first sentence should quickly draw your audience into the story.Hooks always have something a little bit different or something that counters expectations. As an example, you could say something such as "Jessica Reese is a scientist who knows everything from engine mechanics to quantum physics, but you're just as likely to catch her delivering flowers to crew mates as you are to see her huddled over a math problem."

, The long pitch, or story pitch, should be under 10 minutes or so., Keep it to the main characters and plot points. You don't want your audience to get bogged down in the pitch.For instance, only name a few characters in your pitch. Anymore than three or four, and it's going to be overwhelming., The genre provides a background to your story, giving your listeners an idea of what kind of film you want to make.Also, make sure you know your genre. Movie executives expect certain things from each genre, and though you may be able to play with those elements somewhat, you still need to have certain elements in your story. Bring those elements to the forefront when you're pitching your story., Don't just list the plot of your story. Make them believe in the story.For example, don't just say "Joe meets Sarah. They adopt a dog together. They get married." Instead, say something such as "Joe catches Sarah's eye across a crowded coffee shop. Sarah doesn't seem interested, so Joe moves on. Later, though, they bond when Sarah trips and Joe catches her. Their first date is at a pet adoption agency because they both love animals but don't think they have time for them. Sarah takes home a puppy anyway, against her better judgement, which becomes their puppy and even carries the ring at their wedding."

, Characters are where people connect to the story. Tell about their motivation and what kind of world they're in. Characters draw people into the story., That is, what is going to make it most appealing to an audience? Play that up in your pitch., Tell your story, not what social justice issue you're trying to resolve in the world.As an example, don't include lines such as "Sarah is suffering under the patriarchy, and she really comes to her own as a feminist" unless the movie actually is a pseudo-documentary about a feminist. Instead, let your story show how women can be strong characters and work toward a better society.
 If you use comparisons to other films, make sure you don't use movies that didn't do well at the box office. Also, be sure to choose films that actually do match your movie style and tone.Some experts advise against using comparisons. However, the executives are probably going to be making comparisons in their heads anyway, so it doesn't hurt to throw out a couple of movies that are similar. You could say that your movie is somewhere between "Waitress" and "Sex and the City," as an example, for a movie that's about a strong, independent woman who comes into her own in a quirky small town and isn't afraid to show her sexuality., Whether it's "yes" or "no," stop pitching if you already have an answer. If the answer was "no," you don't want to annoy them because you may be able to pitch another movie to them in the future. If the answer is "yes," you've already won, so stop trying to convince them., Leave the executives with a tidbit that is smart or funny at the end to help sum up your script., You can even ask in the middle of pitching, especially if someone looks like he or she doesn't understand.