 A foster parent provides care and a home for children who cannot currently live with their natural parents, often because of abuse or neglect. They take care of the child until the child can safely return home. Foster parents teach children skills and offer encouragement.Foster parents must also be engaged in the child’s case. Accordingly, they attend school meetings, court hearings, provide transportation, and stay in regular contact with the caseworkers and service providers.
Most children return to their families within a year, although it may take longer in some cases.;
, In order to provide foster care, you must be licensed by the state. General requirements include:

Be at least 21 years of age.
At least one member of the household must be able to communicate in English.
The household must have enough income to provide for the family, including the foster child.
You must be free of physical, mental, or emotional conditions that could endanger the child.
You cannot have a disqualifying criminal conviction.
The house must be certified as free of hazardous conditions.
 In addition to providing a benefit to the child and your community, foster parents also receive subsidies to help them meet the child’s needs.Each county sets its own rates.


The basic rate in Columbiana County is $20.00 a day.In Erie County, foster families receive a base rate of $20.00 per day for each child under 12 and $30.00 a day for children aged 12-18.Children’s Services also assumes the costs for medical and dental care., Generally, you can begin an application by contacting the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS). Call (866) 886-3537 and select option 4. The ODJFS licenses foster parents through county public children services agencies or through private agencies certified by the state.


A directly of public children services agencies can be found here.
A list of private child caring agencies is available here.
 You will need to provide the agency with various financial documents, as well as complete an “Applicant Financial Statement.”Documents you will need include:


Proof of household income for the most recent tax year prior to your application.
Proof of household income for a two month period. This verification of income cannot be more than six months prior to the agency’s recommendation for certification.
One utility bill for each utility. The bills shall not be dated more than six months prior to the agency’s recommendation date., All interested families must participate in 36 hours of pre-service training. The training will seek to educate you on the role foster parents play, licensing requirements, and the needs and feelings of foster children.You will have to fill out paperwork while you attend the training. Try to get copies of everything you fill out.
Continuous training is required for as long as you are a foster parent. You must complete at least 40 hours of continuing training in the preceding two-year period. Homes that care for children less than six months old have different training requirements., As part of the application, each adult who resides in the household will need a criminal background check.You will need to be fingerprinted as part of the check.


You cannot be licensed until the agency reviews the results.
You should discuss any criminal convictions or guilty pleas with the licensing agent. The rules are somewhat complicated. Not every conviction will disqualify you.For example:

If the offense was a misdemeanor and at least three years have passed since the end of your prison or probation sentence, then you could still qualify for a license.
If the offense was a felony but at least 10 years have passed, then you may still qualify.


However, convictions for homicide, assault, spousal abuse, rape, sexual assault, or drug offenses can prevent you from being licensed.Discuss any convictions with the licensing worker.
 You should ask people that you know if they are willing to serve as personal references for you. Only name them as a reference if they confirm that they can give a strong reference. Ask your licensing worker how many references you will need.
 You will need to have a “Medical Statement” form completed for all members of the household. Give the form to your licensed physician or other health care professional to fill out. You must complete this form within six months prior to the agency’s recommendation for certification.The medical statement form is here.
You may need to provide additional medical reports if anyone within the house has suffered a serious illness or injury over the past year., Ohio has specific bedroom requirements that must be satisfied in order for you to get a placement. The foster child’s bedroom shall sleep no more than four children. It must provide a safe and comfortable sleeping area, assuring reasonable privacy as well as access for adult supervision.No child age five or older shall share a bedroom with a child of the opposite sex.
Make sure you have a clean and comfortable mattress for the child.
 Your home will be checked to make sure that it is clean, safe, and sanitary.You can begin to clean your home by removing any piles of old clothes, papers, trash, magazines, or toys. Properly store or dispose of this material.


Vacuum carpets or sweep and mop floors. Try to remove any unpleasant odors, including animal odors.
Clean up after your pets and make sure there are no feces present.
Pay particular attention to your bathroom. Scrub sinks, toilets, tubs, and showers, and make sure you have running cold and warm water. Make sure all bathroom utilities work.
 The home was be in a safe condition and in good repair. Go throughout the house and check for any hazards, such as:



Exposed wires. If you find them, then make sure that they are safely covered.

Chipped paint. Chipped paint can be eaten. Scrape off loose paint and then repaint or wallpaper.

Broken windows. Replace broken windows. Also make sure that windows have screens.Cracked stairs, bannisters, and railings. Replace or mend, and make sure that they are sturdy.

Medication and chemicals. Store these securely and out of the reach of children.

Firearms. Make sure that your firearms are stored in a locked metal or solid wood gun safe, or trigger-locked and stored without ammunition. Ammunition should be stored in a separate place.
 You must make sure that you have both smoke detectors and fire extinguishers in the house., You must obtain an approved inspection by either a State-certified fire safety inspector or the State fire marshal’s office. This inspection will certify that the home is free from hazardous conditions.You must obtain this inspection within 12 months prior to the initial recommendation for certification by the agency.
 The home study involves more than assessing the physical space. The worker comes to your home to conduct in-depth interviews with all members of the family.The licensing worker will discuss a variety of topics with you. For example, you may talk about your own childhood experiences and family relationships, your feelings about neglectful or abusive parents, your approach to discipline, and how you deal with stress.The home study is a great time to ask questions and raise concerns about becoming a foster parent.Always communicate freely with your licensing worker.
 Being licensed does not guarantee the placement of a child. Instead, a license makes a placement possible. However, the demand for foster parents in Ohio is great.


During your home study, you will be asked what ages and sex of children you are willing to take. The agency matches available children to foster parents based on your preferences., Effective foster parenting requires open communication between foster parents and caseworkers. When you get your first placement, ask the caseworker any questions that help you understand the child’s background. You might want to know:Why the child is in foster care.
Whether the child has been in foster care before.
If the child has any allergies or other medical concerns.
How long the child is expected to be in foster care.
 The first moments when you meet the foster child can be nerve-wracking. It is best to go outside and greet the caseworker and child together. Speak softly and smile.Do not insist that the foster child call you “Mom” or “Dad.” Let the child use whatever name is comfortable.
 To help the child adjust, you should show him or her your home. Start by showing where the child will sleep. Then show where his or her clothes will be stored.Finally, you should sit the child down and discuss the rules of the house, including your expectations. Encourage the child to ask questions and answer honestly. Be open to his talking about his natural family, and let him know that you are aware of how important his family is to him.