 It is important to realize your negative thinking so that you can begin to change negativity into positivity. Negative thinkers tend to always anticipate the worst in a situation. In addition, they are quick to blame themselves for anything bad that has happened. Moreover, negative thinkers tend to magnify the negative aspects of any given situation. They also tend to polarize a situation, only seeing things as good or bad., Try to check in on your thoughts regularly during the day. Identify what you normally think about in a negative way and put a positive spin on your thoughts. It also helps to surround yourself with positive people, as negative people can increase stress and increase your own negativity. Here are some examples of changing negative thoughts into positive thoughts:This is scary, I've never done it before. = I have a great chance to do something different.
I'll never get better at this. = Let me try this one more time.
This is too big of a change. = Let's try something new and exciting.
 It can feel like where you are in life defines who you are. If you're in an environment that sucks, it can be hard to remain positive. Focus on your innate qualities, rather than the situation around you. Remember: the situation is always temporary.


For example, if you're worried about being unemployed, remember that your job status doesn't define you as a person. Consider this an opportunity to pursue a new direction, or search for meaningful work in another area, such as volunteering or focusing on your family.
If you're feeling like your life sucks because you're being bullied, remember that bullies take their own insecurities out on others. Their actions only reflect on them, not on you. Inform the proper authorities, such as your parents, a counselor, or principal, and stay strong.
 Oftentimes people who feel that their life sucks will remove themselves from social contact. Ironically, this can be a further cause of depression. Take small steps to get yourself back into social circles again.Try meeting a friend or family member for a brief coffee at first.
Make more phone calls to friends and loved ones.
Don't expect to enjoy it at first, or to be the star of a party. The key is baby steps back into a social life.
Be friendly with strangers you meet throughout the day. Don't shy away from small talk. Talking with strangers can boost your happiness.
Join a club or taking a class to meet new people.
 If you believe your life sucks, chances are that you are not thinking clearly and not responding to situations in a reasonable manner. Instead of letting your thoughts get out of control, return to clear thinking by asking yourself the following questions.How can I test if this idea is valid or not?
Was this always true?
Are there any exceptions?
What is the missing part of the picture here?

, Exercising three times a week has been shown to relieve mild to moderate depression. It will help you feel better about yourself, help you sleep better and can even improve mood. Eating a healthy diet is another way to help with depression. Limit your alcohol intake to one drink per day and eat a wide variety of healthy foods. You should also avoid drugs, smoking, and other habits that are detrimental to your health.


Aerobic exercises are particularly effective. Try working out for 30 minutes on a treadmill, or going for a 30-minute walk.Yoga may provide relief as well.
Try eating fish, drinking plenty of fluids, whole grains and fruit.
 Repetitive messages, whether positive or negative, can have a big effect on the psyche. Replace all the noise with positivity by filling your mind with meaningful thoughts. Pick a mantra that helps you get through the day. Repeat it when you feel overwhelmed, and each time you do, think about what it really means.Here are some examples.


Be the change you wish to see. (Mahatma Gandhi)
Action is the antidote to despair. (Joan Baez)
None but ourselves can free our minds. (Bob Marley)
It is better to light a candle than curse the darkness. (Eleanor Roosevelt)

, People who feel that life has a purpose tend to be happier than those who think it's meaningless. Have you ever taken time to think about the meaning of life? No one can truly know the answer to this universal question. However, you can decide what life means to you. Finding the meaning in your life will help you keep getting out of bed every day, even when things are at their worst.


Some people find meaning by participating in a religion or nurturing their spiritual side.
Learning more about philosophy might also help you figure out more about your personal worldview.
On a more intimate scale, the most meaningful parts of your life might be your relationships, your work, your art, or something entirely different.
 There are bound to be a few things in your life that bring you comfort or peace. Whether it's drinking that first cup of coffee in the morning, walking to work in the sunshine or taking your ten-minute smoke break, savor the moment. Give yourself permission to slow down and enjoy the good things in life. You'll develop a healthy reserve of positive thoughts you can draw upon when things get bad., Exerting more effort through volunteering will give you even better results. Figure out what you have to give, and share it generously as often as possible.


Think you have nothing to offer? Find a homeless shelter in your area and volunteer for a few hours a week. You'll see that every bit of time you can spare is absolutely needed.

