 If your fruit trees have been disturbed by an animal in the past, there is likely a route that the animal habitually takes to gorge on your plants. Places like a hole in your fence, a well-worn path leading from the garden, or entrances leading to a burrow are obvious signs of a known route. Set your trap up on these routes to maximize the chance that you'll catch it.You can maximize your chances of catching a burrowing animal by setting the trap up directly at the entrance of the hole.
 A human scent on a trap can act as a deterrent for most animals and can prevent you from successfully trapping your animal. There are two main ways that you can mask your scent on the trap that you plan on using. One way is to wash the trap with a mild soap, then immerse it in boiling water to remove your scent. Another way to mask your scent is by leaving the trap outdoors in the sunshine for several days. Moving your trap outdoors will make the trap smell like the surrounding environment., Animals like chipmunks, squirrels, and rabbits will usually exhibit signs such as biting off large parts of the plant, eating an entire plant to the ground, or the removing and damaging individual fruit. Look for these signs to verify that your plants are being eaten by a mammal and not insects. Knowing which animal is eating your plant will help you get the right bait and appropriately sized trap. Monitor your plants and see which animals are pestering them.If you can't determine what animal is eating your fruit plants, you can set up hidden cameras to catch the animals in the act.
If your plants are slowly being eaten away and there are small holes all over your fruit, chances are that insects have been eating it.
 Different animals prefer different foods and will be attracted to different baits. For example, rabbits prefer foods like apples, carrots, pea pods, peppermint, or cider sprayed over the trap while raccoons enjoy sugar filled foods like marshmallows as well as different kinds of fish. Use the right bait for the animal that is eating your fruit plants. Opossums eat marshmallows, apples, melons, other fruit.
Skunks prefer chicken, fish, and bacon.
Squirrels enjoy nuts, seeds, and peanut butter.
 A loose cage on the ground can be tipped over or manipulated by the animal in your yard. The doors on most live traps will only stay closed when the trap is sitting upright. To keep your trap standing upright, shove a metal rod through the trap into the ground to hold it in place. Alternatively, you could strap the trap to a tree or pile of rocks to secure it. Make sure that the trap is secure and won't fall over if an animal gets caught in it., Since all of these traps are no-kill traps, the final step in your animal trapping journey is to release them into the wild. Take the animal to a park or forest and carefully tip the trap to release it. Wild animals, even smaller mammals can be dangerous or carry disease, so be incredibly careful when releasing the critter. Confirm with your local park department if it's okay to release the animal you've trapped before you release it. If it's not authorized, then call animal control to come to your house to remove the animal.Wear thick construction gloves to protect your fingers from animal bites when handling the trap.

