 Canned dog food often has a higher water content and a lower carbohydrate content. This can be beneficial for dogs who have urinary tract disorders, as added water in their food can help with their issue. Canned dog food can also be good for dogs who tend to get dehydrated, especially if it is very hot outside or they are very active.Canned dog food can be better for dogs who have delicate gums and missing teeth. Dogs with jaw issues or smaller mouths can also benefit from canned dog food.
If your dog has lost his appetite due to illness or age, the smell of canned dog food can encourage him to eat more.
 Canned dog food often contains more meat protein and natural fats than dry dog food. Your dog may benefit from a higher protein diet, as dogs tend to do well on high-protein diets.High quality canned food can also contain less preservatives and by-products than dry dog food. If your dog is sensitive to these ingredients, you may opt for canned food over dry food.
You may go for canned dog food if your dog is overweight, as obese dogs need food high in protein. Canned food can make obese dogs feel full for longer, so they tend to eat less.
 Puppies do better with canned food because it keeps them hydrated and is easier on their teeth. You may consider giving your puppy mostly canned food and some dry food.If you have a dog that is older, he may benefit from having canned food over dry food. Older dogs often need more moisture in their food and dry dog food does not provide much water content.
 Canned dog food is often more expensive than dry dog food and does not have a long shelf life once it has been opened. This means you may have to set aside time to go to the pet store every week and get more canned food for your pup.Keep in mind you can keep canned dog food if it is unopened and sealed for a long period of time.
 Canned dog food cannot be left sitting out in your dog’s bowl for more than one to two hours. Once wet food is exposed to the air, bacteria can grow quickly and it can become contaminated. You need to make sure your dog eats his food within one to two hours and throw away any uneaten food right away.You must always refrigerate any open cans of food and make sure your dog eats it within two to three days. This will reduce the risk of bacteria and contamination.
 If you cannot decide between dry and canned dog food, you may try combining them or alternating between the two types. You may mix a little bit of both types of food together in your dog’s bowl, called “topping”. If you do this, make sure your dog eats all of his wet food right away to reduce the risk of contamination.You may also try alternating between the two types. Feed your dog dry food four to five times a week and then give him canned food one to two times a week. This may also be a more cost effective option.Keep in mind combining two types can lead to added calories for your dog. You should consult with your vet to make sure your dog is not at risk of weight issues due to his diet.

