 Reach out to other hotline workers who are coping with the same feelings as stresses as you are to talk about your highs, lows, and problems. You may also end up making some new friends.


Following a difficult call, connect with a supervisor or other designated person to help you debrief and address any emotional impact. Reaching out for your own help will help keep you strong and focused to continue to help others., If you are feeling drained, emotionally depleted, or overwhelmed with other stressors in your life, talk to a supervisor at your agency. Let them know you need a break. Because of the stressful nature of suicide hotline work, there should be plans in place to help you manage your stress effectively and avoid burnout.


Learn to recognize your own signs of burnout. These may include symptoms like fatigue, anxiety, detachment, or depression.You could say, “I have been dealing with so much stress in my life over the past couple of weeks. I don’t think I can do a good job answering calls right now. Can I take a few days off, or work on something that doesn’t require client interaction?”

, Because you will be giving so much of yourself in order to help callers in places of crisis, be sure that you have effective ways of taking care of yourself. Self-care is an intentional action that meets your physical, mental, emotional, or spiritual need. Self-care looks different for different people. Some ways you might consider meeting your self-are needs include:Physical needs: Go for a walk, get a massage, or make a special meal for yourself.
Mental needs: Take up a new hobby you’ve always wanted to learn, create an art project, or listen to a podcast about something that interests you.
Emotional needs: Listen to music that relaxes or inspires you, make a donation to charity, or attend a support group meeting.
Social needs: Call your loved ones, go out to dinner with friends, or smile at strangers and strike up conversations.
Spiritual needs: Attend a religious service if you are religious, meditate, pray, or connect with nature.