 Everyone has an imagination, but not everyone is good at accessing it. One of the easiest ways to have fun by yourself while tapping into your imagination is to sit down at a table with pens, pencils, markers, or crayons and start drawing. Be sure to set out plenty of scrap paper, and don't hold back: just keep drawing and drawing until you hit on something you like. Expand it, add details (and color, if you have colored items), and keep building on it until you're satisfied.


You don't have to show your doodles to anyone else if you don't want to. Just recycle them when you're finished, if you don't want to keep them.;
, Playing with dolls, action figures, and other such figurines is a time-honored children's tradition the world over, and for good reason: It's a great way to pass time when there's nothing else to do. If you don't own toys, you can buy some, make some, or use decorative figurines. Assign each of them a name and title, and move them around to act out stories. Give them distinct voices and personality quirks.


Try using a crumpled blanket or stacked books to create “scenery” for your characters. Perhaps one figure is a lone U.S. Marshal riding down a box canyon made of books, about to be ambushed by a desperado; maybe it's a witch on a broomstick, about to rescue someone from jumping off a bridge. The possibilities are endless.
 You're at home alone, so why not? Pick some music, crank the volume, and start shaking to it. You might be surprised how much fun it actually is. Mix things up by putting on music you don't think you could dance to (such as a slow piece of classical music) and try to dance to it anyway. Let your body express the sounds and emotions of the songs. This is a great way to improve your mood and get some exercise, too.


Be sure the front door is locked before you go wild, unless you want someone who lives with you to walk in and see you dancing around crazily. The time it takes them to unlock the door is all the time you need to stop dancing and try to make your face look serious.

Trying to look serious after dancing usually just makes you laugh even harder, but isn't having a good time the whole point?


Clear plenty of space before you dance. Once you begin to get into it, it's easy to lose track of where your body is moving.
 This includes one-player variants of social games. The best known one-player game is probably Klondike solitaire, a simple matching game played with cards. Other solitaire card games include Pyramid and Spider. Aside from card games, marbles can be played by yourself, as can checkers and even chess. Obviously, the challenge of such a game is limited, but the chances to learn and practice strategy are plentiful. You can also shoot hoops, throw darts, or practice trick shots in pool by yourself, provided you have the necessary equipment.


Solo marbles is as easy as setting an X of marbles inside a circle, and then taking shots from outside with a larger marble (the taw) and trying to knock out all the small marbles. It can be played indoors, provided you have tape for a square ring and enough smooth flooring to take shots.
There is a massive list of solitaire card games available on Wikipedia. Note that not every variant version of these games is actually explained.
Proprietary games, such as Magic: the Gathering and other collectible card games, can be played in solo matches in much the same way as chess or checkers. Playing decks against each other is a useful way to test strategies and deck balance.
Putting on music in the background is a great way to help time pass quickly while playing a solo game, as well as keep track of how much time has passed. Just make a note of the length of your playlist or album, and you'll know what time it is when it ends.
 Today more than ever, video games are everywhere. Even if you don't own a console (such as a Wii or PS3) for playing games, there are many thousands available for your computer and phone. Most of these are designed for one player. Some pit you against other online players; a few are best in the company of friends (especially go-kart racing games and fighting games). Avoid these if you truly want to play by yourself, and look into action-adventure games and role playing games instead.


There are many free games available to play online. Try Yahoo! Games for a large selection of recent and classic titles, or http://www.onemorelevel.com/ for a smaller, curated list that's easy to navigate and includes some lesser-known (but still fun) titles.

Some free games allow you to pay money to unlock extra features or get an edge. Don't pay for anything unless you're 100% sure you want to. Remember, it's just a free Internet game.


Don't discount older game consoles. Many fun games were made for consoles like the NES, Sega Genesis, and original PlayStation. These games, and the systems that play them, can often be bought for a tiny fraction of their original cost from garage sales and thrift shops.
 If you have free time and no one to spend it with, why not build or make something for fun? Try gluing and painting a model plane or car, or building a model rocket from a kit and then launching it behind a nearby school over the weekend. Some craft stores even sell kits that allow you to make working robots, grow neon-colored crystals in water, and do a whole range of other fun and offbeat things. Most of these kits cost less than $30, and are a great way to while away an afternoon.


Other kits include sand art, jewelry, and dreamcatcher kits. Shop around and see what's out there!
You can also make your own “kit” by purchasing basic parts and keeping them in a box or bag together. Try making your own scented soaps or bath salts, beeswax candles, T-shirt designs (with decals and fabric paint), or even wine (if you're old enough).

