 Using your sense of humor is a wonderful way to flirt around. It's good to be able to talk about serious things – but don't let your relationship itself become too starchy and serious! Relax and have fun every once in a while. Don't be afraid to get goofy and let your true self shine!

, Put away your phone, your computer, and your other devices when she's around. If you are always fixated on other things when you're hanging out with your girlfriend, she might feel as though you don't value her time. Listen to her, and make it clear that she has your full attention. This is one of the simplest ways to make your girlfriend—or anyone, really—feel wanted and appreciated.


Keep perspective. Your phone isn't going to go anywhere. You can call that person back. Indeed, it can be a great, simple romantic gesture if you make a show of seeing your phone buzz, then decisively turning it off and putting it away.
If you absolutely need to take a call or send a text, just explain yourself and get it over with. Say, "I'm sorry to be rude and text while we're at dinner! I just want to send this quick text to my brother so that I can give you my full attention."

, Set some plans in advance, but remember to be spontaneous! Create new experiences together, and make her feel as though her life is an adventure. This can be as simple as a trip to the movies, or as involved as a spur-of-the-moment trip to Hawaii. It can be easy to fall into a routine when you're always going to the same places and doing the same things together. She's your girlfriend, now, but that doesn't mean that you should stop dating her!


Take her on a trip for the day or the weekend. Go camping, or to the beach, or to a new city. Shake the patterns of the everyday, and see how it spices up your love life!
Find something that neither of you have ever done before. Explore the world together. Choose experiences that enrich and excite you both.
 Not every girl likes surprises. If she does, however, a mystery date or an unexpected visit to her workplace can be a great way to show her that you're thinking about her. Building anticipation can also be a great way to create sexual tension and get her thinking about you

.