 Because of respect for your wishes (and the fear of rejection), a guy generally won't try for a first kiss unless he's pretty sure you want him to. If you do, you should try to make him feel comfortable and confident. Flirt with him, laugh at his jokes, smile a lot, and compliment him. If you put him at ease and let him know you enjoy being with him, he'll usually find the courage to try to kiss you.;
, Touch him lightly on the arm or shoulder when you're talking. Just make it a quick, innocent touch and don't make a big deal out of it. Holding hands is also a good way to break the touch barrier. The simple act of touching can strengthen the intimacy between you and him. Sometimes, a guy will break the touch barrier, and if you're comfortable with him doing so, touch him back. But don't wait for a guy to make the first move here, because girls can generally get away with breaking the touch barrier earlier in a relationship than guys can.
 When you're alone with a guy and want to be kissed, make eye contact and then move your gaze briefly down to his lips. Then move your eyes back up to meet his and smile demurely. You don't have to be really obvious about it—just a quick glance down at his lips is better than staring at them all conversation. Many guys will take the hint. If it doesn't work the first time, try again when the time is right.
 Drawing attention to your lips will serve to subtly remind your date that you'd like him to kiss you. Focus on physical draws rather than piling on lipgloss or lipstick.


Touch your lips. Gently run your fingers across your lips periodically, or play with your bottom lip. In moderation, these are both good ways to signal to your partner that you'd like a kiss. However, overdoing it will make it look unnatural and can be a huge turn off.
Bite your bottom lip. Again, you should do this softly and in moderation. Subtle, playful lip bites will draw his attention to your lips. It will also make your lips slightly redder and more plump without lipgloss or lipstick, making your lips more inviting without making him scared of messing up your carefully planned makeup.
Lick your lips. Try to avoid the clichéd, slow lick across the lips while giving sexy eyes. Not only is this hard to take seriously, but few people actually do it well. Instead, gently wet your lips once in a while with your tongue. You can then follow immediately with a subtle bottom lip bite if you want to drive the point home. Too much licking, though, can make you look crazed and hungry while making your lips slobbery and unappetizing. Try to use this one only as a last resort.
 If he's dropping you off after a date, linger for a moment. If you're in the car, don't get out right away. Instead, sit next to him and wait for a few seconds. Unbuckle your seatbelt and look at him expectantly. Making somewhat awkward conversation may seem painful, but it may be just the thing to spark him into kissing you; if the conversation is too passionate or exciting, there might not be enough pause for him to feel comfortable moving in for the kiss.


If he walks you to your door, fiddle with your keys for a couple seconds. This is a universal sign that you're asking for an after-date kiss. Look up once or twice to give him a chance to lean in.
 You have to be close to each other to kiss, and the less distance a guy has to travel to kiss you, the easier it is for him to give it a try. So get close. When the moment seems right, put your face close to his and look at him expectantly. If you're brave, you could try moving in as though you're going to kiss him.


Try this move during or just after a hug. Give him a long, intimate hug (avoid patting him on the back or just using one arm—these can both be interpreted as disinterest). Before unwrapping your arms or pulling your body away, lean your head back. This will give him a chance to lean in for the kiss. Worst comes to worst, you can just let go immediately with your body and arms, or else you can quickly kiss him on the cheek.
 If the guy isn't taking your subtle hints, bring up kissing in conversation. If you're watching a movie together and see an on-screen kiss, mention that it's "so romantic" or something to that effect. Alternatively, bring up your first kiss or a silly story about a bad kiss you've had. Then, bring up how much better you've gotten since then. It might be the feeder line he needs to lean in and see for himself.


If the guy is really shy, you might just want to put it on the line and tell him that you'd like him to kiss you.
 There's no law that says the guy has to initiate the kiss, and some guys--especially if they've never kissed a girl before--just won't take your hints. If you want to kiss him, just go ahead and do it.

