 This device is easy to construct at home, after a little shopping trip. Called a "Joly photometer" after its inventory, it can be used to measure the relative intensity of two light sources. With a little knowledge of physics, supplied below, you'll be able to discover which of your light bulbs gives off more light, as well as which are most efficient for the amount of power they use.



Relative' measurements won't give you a result in terms of units. You'll know exactly how two light intensities compare, but won't be able to relate them to a third intensity without repeating the experiment.
 Purchase a package of paraffin wax from a hardware store or grocery store, and pull out one ¼ pound (0.55 kilogram) slab. Using a sharp knife, cut the slab into two equal pieces.


Cut through the slab slowly to avoid breaking off pieces., Tear off a sheet of aluminum foil and lay it on top of one of the two paraffin pieces, completely covering the top surface. Lay the second piece of paraffin on top of the aluminum.
 For this device to work, we'll need to stand it on its end, so the foil sheet in the middle is vertical. If your wax doesn't stand up on its own, you can keep it horizontal for now. Just remember that the box you'll be constructing should be designed to hold the wax in position vertically.


You can use two rubber bands to hold the block together.Put one near the top of the sandwich and the other near the bottom.
 Choose a box just large enough to hold your wax block. The packaging that the wax was sold in often works well. Use a ruler and pair of scissors to cut three windows into the box:


Cut two windows on opposite sides, exactly the same size. Each window will view a different half of the paraffin, once the block is placed inside.
Cut a third window of any size in the front of the box. This should be centered, so you can view both halves of the paraffin block, on either side of the aluminum foil.
 Keep the aluminum foil between the two paraffin wax blocks, in a vertical position. You may need to use tape, small pieces of cardboard, or both to keep the wax blocks upright and parallel with the opposing windowed sides, and touching the foil between them.If the box is open at the top, cover it with another piece of cardboard or other light-blocking barrier.
 Choose one of the light sources you'll be comparing as a "standard candle," which you'll use as a baseline for intensity. If you're comparing more than two light sources, you'll use this light source during every comparison.
 Place two light bulbs, LEDs, or other light sources on a flat surface in a straight line. The distance between them should be significantly larger than the width of the box you made.
 The photometer should be at the exact same height as the light sources, so that the lights completely illuminate the wax blocks through the side windows. Remember, the light sources should be a fair distance away, to allow even illumination.
 Close any window, shades, or blinds so that only light from the test light sources is hitting the blocks.
 Move the photometer toward the side with the dimmer wax. Watch through the front window as you adjust the position of the box, and stop when both wax blocks appear equally bright.
 Use measuring tape to measure the distance from the aluminum foil to your chosen "reference point" light source. We'll call this d1. Write this down, then measure the distance from the aluminum foil to the light source on the opposite side, d2.


You can measure the distance using any unit, but make sure not to mix them. For example, if your measurement is in feet and inches, convert the result to use inches only.
 The brightness of the blocks decreases with the square of the distance, because we're measuring the amount of light that falls onto a two dimensional area, but the light is radiating through three dimensional volume.In other words, when a light source moves twice as far away (x2), the light it produces is spread out across four times the area (x22). We can write the brightness as "I / d2

I is the intensity and d is the distance, just like we used them in previous steps,
Technically, what we described as brightness is referred to as illuminance in this context., When both blocks appear equally bright, their "illuminance" is equal. We can write this as a formula, then rearrange it to solve for I2, or the relative intensity of the second light source:I1/d12 = I2/d22

I2 = I1(d22/d12)
Since we're only measuring the relative intensity, or how they compare, we can just say I1 = 1. This will make our formula simple: I2 = d22/d12

For example, let's say the distance d1 to our reference point light source is 2 feet (0.6 meters), and that the distance d2 to our second light source is 5 feet (1.5 meters):
I2 = 52/22 = 25/4 = 6.25
The second light source has an intensity 6.25 times greater than the first light source.
 If you are using light bulbs with a wattage marked on them, such as "60W" for "60 watts," that's how much electrical power the light bulb uses. Divide the relative intensity of the bulb by this power to find out how efficient the bulb is, relative to your other light sources. For example:


A 60 watt bulb with a relative intensity of 6 has a relative efficiency of 6/60 = 0.1.
A 40 watt bulb with a relative intensity of 1 has a relative efficiency of 1/40 = 0.025.
Since 0.1 / 0.025 = 4, the 60W bulb is four times as efficient at turning electrical power into light. Note that it will still use more power than the 40W bulb, and thus cost you more money; efficiency just tells you how much "bang for your buck" you get.

