 Items such as purses, head dresses, and socks with designs like flowers, music notes, candy or anything sweet printed on them (knee-highs or over the knee socks).;
, You can still wear dark colors, but it should definitely be toned down. Popular colors are mostly pastels: pink, sax blue, white/cream, pale yellow, mint green, & lavender.
 A Lolita almost always adds decoration to her hair, because it would be a wasted surface if one could not slap a bow on it. The traditional head covering is the headdress, which may come in all shapes and sizes, but is typically rectangular so that it may arch over the head like a headband.


The Alice bow is also popular. This is a large bow made to sit on top of the head. Smaller bows, such as on barrettes and elastic bands, may also be used if one wants a less overpowering look. Hair corsages are more common among classic Lolitas, as are vintage-style hats.
 In general, Lolitas prefer to minimize exposed skin, and so shoulders are, of course, usually covered. Most jumper skirts are made to be worn over a blouse. A typical Lolita blouse buttons in the front and features a collar which is, traditionally, in the rounded Peter Pan style.
 The ideal Lolita silhouette is of the bell shape, whether or not she is wearing a dress or a skirt. This shape is achieved thanks to the petticoats and bloomers beneath the skirt. A skirt which cannot fit enough petticoats underneath to achieve this shape is usually improper for the style. A Lolita skirt should be no shorter than 2" above the knee.
 If you're wearing a jumper-skirt (Like a lolita dress, but sleeveless), wear a blouse underneath. Lolita fashion aims to be cute and modest and is not supposed to be a sexy style! Your skirt should go 1" above the knee usually.


A Lolita dress for £200 will probably be worth it. Brands like Angelic Pretty and Baby The Stars Shine Bright will never let you down. Love them and look after anything you purchase from there. If you want cheaper brands with an effect that almost matches, look at Anna House and Metamorphose. When it comes to blouses, bloomers, and shoes, use Bodyline.
 An often ignored but vital key to a proper Lolita's attire, bloomers and petticoats should top every new Lolita's shopping list. A proper petticoat is necessary to achieve that bell shape that is so essential to the Lolita silhouette, while bloomers are necessary to retain a young Lolita's modesty.


You may be asking yourself, "But why should I need such fancy undergarments if nobody else is going to see them?" Because you are wearing a skirt in the shape of a bell. You may recall that if a real bell swings upwards, much as a bell-shaped skirt may do when a Lolita is moving around, the interior becomes quite visible. For a Lolita with naught but her hot pink Hello Kitty panties underneath, this is unacceptable. Wearing a set of matching bloomers keeps one's thighs--and all else--well protected from the casual eye.
 Though a Lolita's skirt may scandalously reveal her knees, a Lolita tends not to expose her legs too often, as this would be improper. It is generally good practice to cover one's legs at least up to the knee, which means wearing knee-length socks.


Other options include over-knee socks, stockings, and opaque tights. Sheer tights tend to be too "sexy" for Lolita, while ankle socks, especially those topped in lace, remind one too much of unassociated subcultures such as Sissy, and are simply less flattering on people's legs.
 The traditional footwear of choice for Lolitas is the Mary Jane, but similar options are available. A proper Lolita shoe should feature a closed, rounded toe as well as chunky, thick heels or platforms (although flats are also an option).


Boots fitting into this criteria are quite common with brands, though care must be taken not to go too edgy in one's boot choice. Another favorite style, owing to the popularity of Vivienne West-wood in Japan, are rocking horse shoes.
Socks are very important at the moment. In Lolita it is fashionable to have pretty, high socks. Prints on socks always look cute! Find prints with gingham, cakes/sweets, animals, bows, hearts, musical notes, etc.
 They have some things that could be modified with a little extra lace or ribbon that may turn out very nice.
 It must be a style suited to Lolita, such as pigtails or curls. If you think you would like to wear a wig for Lolita, make sure it does not look fake; get a high-quality one from eBay. Also important: make sure you have a fringe, and that it does not go over your eyes.


For headbands, try bows, bonnets, headdresses and flowers.
 Facial stickers are adorable, light pink blusher is a must-have! Eyelash extensions, if worn, must not be too long or else they will look bad.
 This is optional. Hello Kitty or other cute stuffed animals are a good way to go.
,, Take Purikura pictures with your friends if you can! It's a great, fun activity.
