 The best way to engage your Facebook friends, and Facebook’s recommendations feature, is to word your post as a question. Like any good question, it should be kept short and sweet. Instead of statement like “I’m in New York for the weekend, and I think I want to get a burger” use a question like “Where can I get a good burger in New York?”
, Facebook’s recommendations features has an algorithm designed to recognize status updates asking for recommendations from their friends. While an exact list of words that are recognized isn’t available, using the word “recommendations” in your post is sure to trigger the feature.

Don’t be afraid to experiment with the wording of your post; if it doesn’t work, you can always edit it and add “recommendations.”, Whether it’s a city or a specific neighborhood, you need to mention the area you’ll be in. Not only will this ensure your friends give you appropriate recommendations, it also allows Facebook’s recommendations feature to pull up the exact locations of businesses or services your friends suggest., Make sure to include the type of service you’re looking for in your request. For example, if you’re looking for a mechanic, you may want to specify the type of work you need done, such as an oil change or bodywork. It might be a good idea to include your budget as well, especially when dealing with restaurant recommendations. This will ensure the recommendations are appropriate for your needs.

Here’s an example of a well-worded request: “Hi guys! Anyone know of a good place for sushi in downtown Seattle? Looking for no more than $50 for two people! Thanks!”

, You’ll find it in the same place whether you’re on your newsfeed (essentially your “home page”) or your profile page. To quickly reach your newsfeed, you can click on the Facebook logo at the top left corner of the screen., After clicking on the status box, the text option should be selected by default. Write your request for a recommendation here., After writing your status asking for recommendations, click on the blue “Post” button at the bottom right corner of the status update box. This will post the request to your wall., It should state the specific location mentioned in your post (such as a city, state or country) in place of the “___”. Clicking this will add a small map of this location to your status update, and allow for your friends’ suggestions to be mapped on it., Whatever page of Facebook you find yourself on, you can find the search bar at the top of the screen, right next to the Facebook logo. Enter your query here, whether it’s related to a type of food, a particular interest, hobby or service. Then press enter to launch the search.

For instance, if you’re looking for a good mechanic in the Los Angeles area, you’ll likely want to search for “Los Angeles Mechanics.” Pay attention to the group’s name, as this will tell you if it’s appropriate for your needs.
 Once you’ve found a group you think will help you find what you need, you should join it. This can be done from the group’s page by clicking on the “Join Group” button.

Be aware that, depending on the nature of your request, you might not find a group relevant enough to truly help you. This is especially true if you live in a more rural area.
Some groups are private, and an administrator will need to approve your request to join them. The time this takes will vary from group to group; it can take a few hours or a few days., Near the top of the group page, you should find a box inviting you to post something. It’ll look much like the box you’ll find on your profile or your newsfeed. Write your request for recommendations here.

Since you’ll likely have joined a group that matches your location and the service you’re looking for, you might not need to be as specific in your request as in other methods.
Note that many Facebook groups have rules concerning what you can and can’t post. Be sure to review these carefully before making your request, or you might get banned from the group. They’re usually found in “pinned” posts, at the top of the group page, or in the group’s description.