 Voicing your own desires clearly and early is central to minimizing backlash later. However, no matter how thorough you were at sharing your own expectations, you are bound to get interference on some aspects of your wedding. If it's really significant to you and your fiance, and your personal beliefs, don't budge if you're footing the bill.If your parents demand that you get married in a church and you dreamed of an outdoor wedding, you will have to let them down firmly, but gently. Say, "Mom, Dad, I understand how much you want us to be married in the church. We know it's tradition in our family. But, we're a new generation and we want to start new traditions. Since I was younger, I have envisioned my wedding being outdoors in the fall. Can you please support our decision not to get married at the church?"
You may also get them involved in other ways, such as by asking them to help you pick the perfect outdoor location. This will help to show them that you do value their opinion.
 A common point of contention involves one or both families wanting a religious or traditional ceremony when the couple wants modern and secular. It's mainly up to you and your future spouse as to whether you want to consider your parent's wishes. Just know that effectively handling this dilemma requires tact.

You may have no interest in having a traditional affair, but it might help to ask your parents what aspect of a traditional wedding is important to them. Some things you may be willing to make allowances for, while others you may not. For instance, if your mom is deeply invested in you being married by your family priest, and that's okay with you and your fiance', then make a concession., Although it may sound counter-intuitive, involving the person who has the most expectations with your wedding plans can actually get them off of your back. The key is to make them believe they are helping you make decisions with what is going on. Keeping them in the loop on the small things allows you to make the decisions on the big details.

Take the person with you to help make small choices like table settings or interviewing DJs. Doing so will make them feel involved, and they may back off on inserting themselves into other responsibilities.You could even assign them a small project that you don’t care too much about and give them full reign over it. This will help them to feel like they have some control and it may help to prevent them from nagging you as much.
 You may have no interest in listening to other's opinions about your wedding planning, but if your parents, friends, or other family members are pitching in financially, it's only appropriate to let them have a say.

For example, if the bride's parents paid for the wedding (which is still tradition in many areas), you might sit down early on during the wedding planning and have them voice their expectations. You might say, "Since you all are paying for the majority of the costs, do you have any specific details you would like to have included?"Keep in mind that they might initially say they want to leave everything up to you, but then voice some strong opinions later on.
Once they have voiced their expectations, be sure to say "So, is every decision besides the venue open for Patrick and I to decide?" This settles any further disputes about who is dictating what moving forward.
 Although you should only do something you and your fiancé are comfortable with, allowing someone who has helped you to have some input in your wedding-making process is quite courteous. Finding a way to acknowledge them may also be helpful if you think they are looking for some kind of recognition.

For example, if a friend of yours has gone above and beyond when helping you with the wedding, include them in the wedding party, make them an usher, or even ask them to perform a reading during the ceremony. This small gesture can prevent hard feelings from forming., Although someone’s expectations may not fit into your big picture, making small sacrifices can benefit you greatly. Bending a little bit here and there could stop a potential disaster from happening. You’ll likely find that giving in some is nothing compared to having a peaceful and enjoyable wedding.

For example, if you know guests who do not get along at all, like divorced couples, it will likely behoove you to set them far apart from each other, even if it disrupts your entire seating arrangement. Putting this little bit of effort and compromise in now could prevent an embarrassing firestorm during your wedding later.