 For example: Documentary, educational, action, comedy, suspense...etc.;
, For example: Do not hold a United Nations conference in your garage, it detracts from the quality and reality of the film.
 If you plan your film well enough, you will not film the clips in successive order, you will film what you need at particular locations. Therefore you may actually film the beginning and end of the movie at one location all at once, to save travel time.
 For HD filming you are looking at around a 100 dollar camera for your cheapest version. Of course you will not be using the Hollywood 5-10 thousand dollar cameras. Another huge part to filming in a professional way, is to use a tripod. The easiest way for someone to tell if this is low quality is if you use only your hand to film. The TRIPOD IS KEY to making a great movie.
 Try different camera angles, take multiple takes of a scene and record absolutely everything you do. Sometimes you do things by accident that are either really amazing or otherwise hilarious. If you only have one camera there is a way to get multiple camera angles of one scene. Simply ask your actors to freeze on the spot and then change the angle, begin recording, and ask them to continue. If edited correctly the time lapse is entirely unnoticeable.


Certain techniques to filming that one may want to take into account are zooming in, moving shots, field vision…etc. The idea is to give the film variety, use the tripod to your advantage to steadily move the camera on the swivel of the tripod. Zooming in is a very difficult art technique to master. Zooming should be done before you begin recording the scene, unless the particular scene situation calls for zooming in or out. Keep in mind that there is no definitive filming protocol; it is all about the art-form and style that can be your own.
One helpful yet optional step is to film only bits at one time, edit it together and continue filming. Filming only parts allows you to see what the final product may look like and then maybe see some changes or improvements that could be made to future footage.
 First create a folder, preferably with the movie title as its label. Then copy (DO NOT CUT) files from the camera memory. Then paste the video files in the folder labeled with the movie title.
 Your files will be automatically placed in the timeline for you in successive order of the file name. Begin watching your film clips and begin cutting out the unneeded portions of the video, (usually at the beginning of the clip and at the end). It is not a good idea to do any serious editing until your film has been cut to a reasonable amount

, You should now put the clips in order on the timeline so that you may begin the intense editing portion of the film.
 Is the clip too loud? (by default, the clip will be played at its loudest volume) Is there any special effects that are needed? For example: does it need music, sound effects, slow or fast motion, flashes of light?


As a practical purpose most sound effects can be generated with sound to a given sequence of events. If your goal is to create visual special effects such as fire, lightning, explosions, floods…etc. The most effective way to do this is to create a microscopic version of your scene that literally can be affected with such effects, and the key is to formulate the two clips together in such a way that the transition is seen as an overwhelming change of effect, as seen from the first person point of view. (This is the most difficult part of filming).
 You may increase or decrease this value to your liking.
 Use the split video tool if you want to cut something away from the video. For precise editing use the two arrows under the preview screen. The arrows are on either side of the play button under the preview screen. These arrows allow you to proceed through the film frame-by-frame. Cutting at exact frames makes the movie flow nicely and professionally.
 As a tip, do these transitions infrequently and generally when you want to reflect a lapse in time. Otherwise simple changes in video are the best way. The Windows live movie maker offers numerous transitional effects, which is why it is important to be mindful of your over/under use of them. The amounts will very based upon the length of the film, as well as the film type. Action films will generally have fewer transitional effects between scenes than would a documentary. To add a transitional effect, the process is quite simple click on the film clip you wish to transition to (not from) then go to the tool bar at the top and click on animations. Immediately you will see transitions that you may select for the clip.


When you click on the transition in the tool bar, the preview screen will show the transition from the previous clip to your selected clip. This makes the process easier and faster to determine which effect to use.
 The intro screen or screens set up the film make it look blockbuster worthy. The intro should consist of the title, maybe a narration in the beginning if you wish, (again all depending on the movie type.) You will get a feel for what is acceptable and what is not as you experiment. To create an intro to the film click on the home tab on the top tool bar. In small print next to the snapshot logo, will be a caption named “title,” go ahead and click on this tool. Now at the top tool bar you will have many options as to that you wish your title to consist of. You may change the wording in the text box, the font, the size, the background color, the outline color, and the effect in which you wish the title clip to present itself. Go ahead and experiment with some versions of a title clip. You may add as many title clips as you deem necessary.


Credits are essentially the exact same process as the title. Go to the home tab on the tool bar, then under the title caption you will see the credits caption. If you click on the credits tab the process and tool bar layout will be the same. Then you may add your credits as you wish.
 What should be done here is to first think about what scenes of the film require music or otherwise sound effects i.e.… Gun shots, explosions…etc. Make sure that the format of the music or audio clip is sustainable in Windows Live Movie Maker. Use either a WAV. Or MP3. File format for your audio. Both are compatible with the movie maker.


Go to the Home tab on the tool bar and click on it. Within the tab is a caption with the logo of an eighth note labeled, “add music.” Click on the add music tab and search your directory for a song or audio clip that you wish to use.
When you finally select your audio clip, the audio will automatically be fitted to the film. You may then drag the audio over to your desired place and have it play during a particular part of the film. As with video clips, you may trim and remove portions of audio clips. Simply click on the audio clip and allow it to play to the point where you wish it to split, and conduct the splitting process the same as you would with a regular film clip.
 To create the final product you will want to save your movie to your computer. To save the movie, go to the home tab and on the very far right side of the tool bar you will see an icon labeled save movie, you will not want to click directly on the icon, but rather on the words listed below which will bring you to a fold down menu that has an option to save the movie to your computer. you will then always have a master copy that you can publish on the Internet or otherwise burn a DVD for. The rendering and publishing process will take a while depending on the length and complexity of the film. More transitions, audio, and credits will take longer for the film to publish.

