 This includes the top shelf.;
,


Measure the cabinet lip.
Measure the cabinet from the hinge. The hinge might lessen the drawer's clearance, so be sure to measure from the widest part of the hinge.
Measure the inside of the cabinet. Measure from all corners of the cabinet because your cabinet might be a little off.
Measure the cabinet height from the lip, if installing a double stacked drawer system.



A 14" drawer: This means that the drawer is 14", but the sliding mechanism may be wider. Be sure the slide drawer does not exceed the hinge's clearance measurement.
You do not need to get wood large enough to fill the entire cabinet; you need wood large enough for the base of the drawer to be secured to the base of the cabinet. Get these measurements if you want to save money/resources.
 Unless you are one of the lucky few who can find wood exactly the height you need or don't mind spending money, you will need to "build" the layers to match the height of the cabinet's lip. This can be done through using scrap wood, solid foam insulation, or other such materials.


If you use foam materials, be aware that the material will have some give, especially once it is screwed down and as more weight is added on top.
If you happen to have old wood flooring or MDF, use it!
Look at the various types of wood at your local hardware store. The prices vary greatly for similar products.
 Most large hardware stores will cut the wood you purchase to size. Otherwise, mark the wood and make the necessary cuts.


If necessary, sand the cut wood edges smooth.
 The easiest way to do this is to place the wood inside the cabinet. If it does not fit, you can re-measure to see where/how it is off and make adjustments accordingly.Image:Install a Slide Drawer in a Lipped Cabinet Step 6 Version 2.jpg
,, This is to protect the original wood finish from the glue/adhesive you should use in the next step. The cabinets may be old enough that you do not care about preserving it; if so, you may skip this step.
 This is done to limit the amount of adhesive that accidentally gets sprayed onto the walls of the cabinet.
 The adhesive/glue is to prevent bugs and/or dirt from working its way underneath the wood layer.



Press down firmly along the entire wood layer.
Let the adhesive/glue dry.
,,


Make sure the wood screws are flush with the wood.
, If wanted, lay down another layer of contact paper, or use a polyurethane finish to protect the new base.



If possible, keep the sliders open or test them to be sure you have proper clearance.
,