 Calamine lotion, capsaicin cream or hydrocortisone cream can provide some relief from itching. Don't do this immediately after contact with the plant (as rubbing the lotion could spread the oils), but after a few hours or days when the itching feeling begins. Capsaicin cream, usually sold in drugstores labeled for arthritis pain relief, burns a bit at first but suppresses itching for hours.
 Antihistamines are medications that treat for allergies, and since poison oak and ivy cause allergic reactions on contact, taking these drugs may offer minor relief. Antihistamines generally offer only mild relief from the symptoms of poison ivy, but if you take oral medications before bedtime, their combination of anti-itch and drowsiness-inducing effects can help you get some rest. Only take these orally, and do not apply the creams to your poison ivy as this can worsen your rash.
 Use an oatmeal bath product or an aluminum acetate soak. If you need a quick fix without running to the store, blend a cup of oatmeal in a food processor or blender and add it to your warm bathwater. Avoid using water that is very hot, especially right after being exposed to the poison as this will open your pores,, Crack acorns and boil them in water. Strain out the nuts, cool the liquid and apply it to your rash with a cotton pad. Although this method hasn't been studied, it has shown to reduce the itchy feelings of poison ivy rash.
 Make a paste consisting of 3 parts baking soda to 1 part water. Apply the paste to your rash to pull the fluid out of the blisters. Leave the baking soda paste to dry, and allow it to crack or flake off. Reapply this paste every few hours for the best results.
 Use buttermilk or yogurt to apply to your skin, unless you have a dairy allergy. When you apply buttermilk or yogurt to your rash, the proteins will draw out fluid from your blisters.
 Soak in your tea bath for 20 minutes to help reduce the itchiness and uncomfortable feeling. You can also brew very strong tea and dab it onto your rash with a cotton ball every few hours.
 Press a cold watermelon rind or banana peel against your rash. The watermelon rind acts as a cold compress, and the juice helps to dry out blisters. On the other hand, using a banana peel helps to cool and soothe the area.
 If you have a bit of leftover dark-brewed coffee, use a cotton pad to dab it onto your rash. You can also brew a fresh cup, but allow the coffee to cool in the fridge before applying it. Coffee contains chlorogenic acid, which is a natural anti-inflammatory.
 Among the many medical treatments apple cider vinegar can be used for, expediting the healing process of poison ivy exposure is one of them. Use a cotton pad to gently apply the vinegar to the area, or rinse it with a mixture of equal parts vinegar and water.
 Aloe vera is a cactus-like plant that excretes a cooling gel from its leaves. You can use a real aloe vera plant by snapping off leaves and applying the gel directly to your rash, or use a processed bottled form. If you buy a bottle from the store, make sure that it is at least 95% real aloe vera.