 You will need either Visa or Mastercard to purchase points.


Select the “Wii Shop Channel” icon from near the top right of the Wii Menu screen, and press “A”.
Agree to the Wii Shop Channel User Agreement if its your first time accessing the service.
 You will see this option when the “Welcome to the Wii Shop Channel” screen appears.,, You will be given the option of either buying Wii Points with a credit card, or redeeming a Wii Points card., Click the appropriate button to select your amount.

You will be prompted to select 1000, 2000, 3000, or 5000 points, for $10, $20, $30, or $50, respectively.
Games range in price. Some are free, but most cost about $5-$10. Some are more expensive.
Each console can store a maximum of 20,000 Wii points at one time. This number may change at Nintendo’s discretion.
 These options will be shown on the screen after you select how many points you want to buy.

If you are unwilling to use your personal credit card, or you received a prepaid credit card as a gift, you may do so.
Your prepaid card must display the Visa or Mastercard logo.


You will be asked to enter the card number, expiration date, and three digit security code.
The three digit security code is located on the back of the card.
 This address should match the address where you receive your credit card statements.

You will be asked to enter the street, city, state, zip, and county of your credit card.
Do not use any punctuation marks in the street, city, or county spaces. For example, write “street, or st” instead of “st.”

,

Make sure the purchase amount, and all your information is correct.
Your purchase will not be processed until you click “Yes” on the confirmation screen.
 You should see a confirmation screen indicating that Wii points were entered to your account., This can be viewed by re-opening the Wii Shop channel, then selecting “Start Shopping.”Your available points should be displayed near the bottom of the screen, in blue.
If there is no change to your available points, there may have been a problem with your transaction. Check that your card was not charged, then try again. 