 You should be able to find most of these items around the house, but those you are lacking can be found at your local craft store. Be sure to check your clasp has a jump ring (the solid ring the clasp clips to), otherwise you'll need to purchase this as well. Your entire supply list includes:


Buttons
Jump ring
Scissors
Clasp
Measuring tape
Twine or fishing line;
, If you have a large number of buttons to choose from, you may want to lay each out on your work surface. Arrange the buttons until you're happy with the color scheme and have a general idea of how many you want to use in your necklace.At this point, you should also take into consideration the sizes and shapes of your buttons.
Your necklace might benefit from larger buttons being used in the center with smaller buttons tapering to either side.
You might also stack smaller buttons atop larger ones to give your necklace contour. However, this approach will require extra line to thread the buttons.
 Use your tape measure to portion out a length of your line that matches the length you envision for your necklace. Then add four inches (10 cm) to the end to allow enough line for weaving on buttons and tying off the end of your line.


If you intend on stacking your buttons, you should add an extra six inches (15¼ cm) to be sure you can accommodate the vertical threading distance.
Depending on the size of your neck, your necklace might require a larger or smaller length, but generally:14" long: choker length16" long: collar sized. May reach the collarbone on petite individuals or feel like a choker for plus sizes18" long: descends below the throat at the collarbone; a popular pendant length20" long: lays below the collarbone; suitable for deep necklines22" long: rests approximately at low necklines

, Tie a simple, sturdy knot to the end of your clasp. Pull the knot tight to ensure that it is securely fastened. You'll need to leave your other end loose for now so that you can string your buttons on the line.
 You might alternate your line, threading it first in front of your button and then behind, to create an even arrangement of buttons.As mentioned previously, you can also stack smaller buttons atop larger ones, threading your line through the stack to give your necklace a 3-D look.


The more buttons you stack atop each other, the more thread will be needed to accommodate the vertical threading through the stack.
 Remember, as you slide buttons onto the loose end of your line, the first button will form the outer edge closest to your clasp. This means that you'll likely have to string several buttons before you reach the center of the necklace, where you'll probably want to add a special button as a centerpiece., Grasp the loose end of your necklace securely so buttons don't fall off and hold your necklace up to your neck to check its length. You may need to add or remove some buttons before it's satisfactory. Then, tie your line to a jump ring, or a small metal ring for the clasp to latch onto, and pull the knot tight.
 Wrap your necklace around your neck and clip the clasp in place. Take note of any irregularities or issues you see with the pattern you used. This will be helpful in improving your skill in fashioning beautiful button jewelry.

