 They have distinctive black, yellow, and green striping and can be found around plants such as parsley, fennel, dill, and Queen Anne's lace. Plant a small herb garden in your yard, and start checking it in late summer! The caterpillars can be found on any part of the plant, including the stems.


It's easy to tell the sexes apart! Males will have yellow spots/stripes, while females will have blue. Both equally beautiful!;
, Try to catch your little guy by snipping off whatever section of the plant he's sitting on, rather than trying to pull him off with your fingers. Not only do these guys have great grip, and can be very difficult to pull off, but they emit a smelly odor as a defense mechanism when they're handled!

, Any glass jar or small plastic container will work fine for your temporary pet! Try to pick something that has enough height for a few small twigs and sticks, which will later be used by the caterpillars to hang their chrysalis/cocoon.


There's no need for substrate on the bottom of the container; if you want some because it looks nice, that's totally up to you.
 All he will need is a fresh, daily supply of his food plant (whatever plant you found him on). A small handful each day is plenty. You do not need to give him any water or mist his environment, but if you feel better giving it a spritz every few days, it certainly won't hurt him. Your growing, hungry caterpillar will happily eat... and poop. A lot. Make sure you dump the poop out each day to avoid a smelly mess.
 You'll know your little buddy is getting ready to build his cocoon when he becomes rather still for a day or two, and then one day you'll notice he's in a rather weird position on one of his twigs, sort of like a candy cane, or an upside down "J". Leave him alone at this point and stop feeding.


Keep an eye on him, though, because you'll get to witness the fascinating progress of his cocoon-making! At first just a few silky strands to anchor him to his stick or twig, but in a few days, he'll suddenly look very different, like a little brown leaf, all closed up.
 It generally takes a few weeks for him to emerge as a butterfly. Leave him alone for several hours at least, so that his wings can fully inflate and strengthen for flight. Touching or disturbing him too soon can be a death sentence. Once his wings are wide open, rigid, and you can see him slowly flapping them open and closed, he's ready to emerge!

, Don't just dump him out of the container, just in case he's not quite ready to fly. Many times, you can gently ease him onto your hand (but be very careful to not touch his wings!) and enjoy the thrill of holding one of the most beautiful butterflies in the world for a few moments! When he's ready, he'll take off on his own. If you can't hold him until then, gently guide him onto a bush or shrub where he can rest until he's ready to go.


Some people choose to keep the butterflies as pets as well, but since their life cycle is so brief after hatching (2-4 weeks), it's recommended to let them experience the natural freedom they were meant to have.

