 You could meet this person in a bookstore or a coffee shop, online, or in the middle of the street. Never lose hope as to where you will find your one true love. It obviously didn't work out with you and the other person you once love(d), otherwise you wouldn't be here right now. If it didn't work out between you two, it wasn't meant to be.


Everything happens for a reason in the great scheme of things. Know that better things are ahead for you, and be glad that your love story will be in the future and not in the past. Motivate yourself for the future and never give up on finding your true love, because he or she is out there somewhere.
 You're probably going to start looking for someone new, which means exposing yourself to different situations and people. Throughout it all, remember to learn from past relationship mistakes instead of making them all over again. That way, you hopefully only have to move on once and put that behind you. Fingers crossed!


For example, if you were in a manipulative relationship with someone, look for clues in the next possible relationship that it's turning manipulative. Stay away from people who make you feel bad for not getting what they want. Stay away from those can't ever admit having done something wrong.You may be attracted to the pitfalls of the other person, and actively look for those in a new mate. But that's only because that person didn't give you the benefit of a healthy, active, mutually-respecting relationship. Once you're in a healthy, active, mutually-respecting relationship, you'll begin to realize that all the things you thought you needed in a relationship were, in fact, things that kept you from achieving your fullest happiness.
 Be happy of the memories you shared with this person. There were probably good lessons learned. Don't wish it never happened — just wish to move on. Sometimes, moving on can be happy, too. You just have to see the good that this experience has shown you.
 Somewhere in your mind, you're going to think "I can make them love me. Maybe they didn't mean that, they were just embarrassed. Maybe one day everything will work out." No. Let go of all of that. In order to move on, you need to know now that there is no hope for you guys. If he or she rejected you, they were probably being serious and holding onto false hope is not going to help you whatsoever. Know that if they wanted you, they would come back to you.


If they haven't already, you have to move on and let go of any false hope between the two of you. You can't make someone love you, and if you're thinking that, you might as well drop those thoughts. Everyone does it-you think it'll make you feel better. But in reality, it's really only making the situation worse because you're once again not moving on.

