 the pill. If you are NOT breastfeeding, you can discuss starting the pill with your OB/GYN at your first postpartum checkup. Discuss with your doctor when you should start taking the pill, because usually you should wait at least 4 weeks from birth, if not until after your first postpartum period (usually 6-10 weeks after delivery).If you like using the pill but want to breastfeed, consider the “mini-pill.” It’s a progestin-only (no estrogen) pill that won’t affect your breast milk. It has to be taken at the same time every day. Ask your doctor – it may still be best to wait about 6 weeks after delivery to start taking it.Some women should not take the pill if they have a high risk of blood clots, and you shouldn’t use tobacco if you take the pill., The NuvaRing is a small ring you insert into your vagina and leave in place every 28 days. The patch, like OrthoEvra, gets applied to your skin weekly. Both of these methods release hormones that prevent pregnancy.These use both progestin and estrogen, so may not be the best choice for breastfeeding mothers. Some feel that the patch and ring are still a safe choice once your baby is 6 weeks old, even if you’re breastfeeding., Consider getting a long-term birth control method started before you leave the hospital, like the birth control implant. Norplant is a small rod that’s surgically inserted under the skin of your arm and lasts for up to 5 years. It’s progestin-only and doesn’t contain estrogen, so won’t interfere with breastfeeding.These have a high success rate of preventing pregnancy – over 99%. You might get side effects like headaches or breakthrough bleeding.
You can get the implant in the hospital right after you give birth, or you can wait until you get your first period (using a backup method in the meantime). Some doctors suggest waiting at least 3 weeks for the implant; ask your healthcare professional for advice., You can get a Depo-Provera injection before you leave the hospital with your baby, and then continue to get them every 3 months. The shot is also over 99% effective, though consider when you want to have another child – it may take a while to be able to get pregnant again once you stop getting the injections.You might gain some weight while taking the shots.

