 One way to help relieve pain from a cavity is to use natural extracts. You can use vanilla, almond, peppermint or lemon extracts to relieve pain from a cavity. Soak a cotton ball in the extract, and then place the cotton ball on the tooth or gum where the ache is. Leave it there for around ten minutes.You may also choose to put the extract on a Q-tip.
 Some essential oils have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties that can aid in pain relief. Try using sunflower oil,sesame oil, oregano oil,nutmeg oil, clove oil,or tea tree oil to stop cavity pain.You can place a few drops of the oil into a few tablespoons of the water and rinse your mouth out with the rinse. You can also put the oil on a cotton ball or Q-tip and rub the oil directly onto the sore gum or tooth.
You may want to try packing a cotton ball soaked in one of the oils, particularly clove oil, into the cavity. Try not to get the oil anywhere else in your mouth because it could cause irritation.Make sure you don’t swallow the essential oil. Always spit it out.
 Plantain and peppermint leaves have anti-inflammatory properties that can help relieve pain in your mouth. To use for tooth cavity pain, place the leaves in your mouth and chew for a few minutes to release the helpful juices. Then, move the leaves over to the sore gum or tooth and let it rest there for around 15 minutes.You may also choose to use dried peppermint leaves or peppermint tea.
Plantains are backyard weeds that have healing properties. The plant is in almost every backyard. The leaves are easy to identify due to the long, vertical veins along the leaf., You may be able to relieve cavity pain using fruit from your refrigerator. Lemons and limes may be able to stop tooth pain because of the citric acid and vitamin C, which have antibacterial properties.Cut the lemon or lime into slices. Then, bite into the slice to release juice into your mouth. Place the juice and the slice over your sore gum or tooth., Apple cider vinegar is used in many folk and home remedies for its antimicrobial properties.To make a rinse for your sore mouth, combine ¼ cup of warm water with two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar. Swish the solution in your mouth for 30 to 60 seconds. Make sure to swish it around the tooth with the cavity.Spit out the rinse and repeat two to three times. Rinse with warm water.
You can do this three to four times a day, but do not swallow the water-vinegar mixture.
Do not repeat the vinegar rinse for more than four days in a row. Vinegar contains acetic acid, which can erode the enamel surface, especially if you brush your teeth immediately after.
 Garlic, onion, and ginger are known for their antimicrobial properties, which can help with cavity pain. Place a small piece of garlic, onion, or ginger in your mouth, directly over your painful tooth or gum area. Slowly bite down on the sliver, which will release the juice inside. This will relieve the pain by numbing the gums., Asafetida is a plant known for its antimicrobial properties that is used in Middle Eastern traditional medicine.You can use this to make a paste to help with cavity pain. Combine ¼ teaspoon of asafetida powder with fresh lemon juice. Make sure to use enough lemon juice to make a thin, spreadable paste. Spread the paste on the cavity and around the gum. Leave it on for around five minutes.


Rinse the paste from your mouth water.
You can put the paste on your tooth two or three times each day.

