 The longer you have to prepare, the more comfortable you’ll be when you make your presentation. Try to start a few weeks before the day you present your project.Finish up your experiment, research, and other aspects of your project.
Get the materials you’ll need for your display board.
Start to imagine how you’ll organize your information.;
, Your outline should lay out the skeleton of your presentation. It should include these elements:An introduction to your topic or the problem you’ve addressed.
Your hypothesis, or what you expected to prove through your experiment.
The research you did to learn more about your topic.
Each step of your experiment’s procedure.
The results of your experiment.
Your conclusion, including whether you proved or disproved your hypothesis and what you learned.
 While you should avoid reading your presentation word for word, it’s a good idea to write out what you want to say. Writing your presentation will help you make sure you communicate clearly and avoid grammar mistakes.When writing your speech, try to keep it simple, and avoid using phrases that are more complicated than necessary. Try to tailor the presentation to your audience: will you be presenting to your class, judges, a higher grade than yours, or to an honors class?
Writing out your presentation can also help you manage your time. For example, if you’re supposed to talk for less than five minutes, try to shoot for less than two pages.
 It’s a good idea to make note cards with your presentation’s main points. However, keep in mind presentations are often scored based on your ability to speak about your topic without reading a report word for word. Use your notecards primarily to help you practice your presentation and keep them on hand to make sure your presentation stays on subject., Demonstrating your experiment or your research topic can help engage your audience with a visual example. If your presentation involves making a demonstration, practice it several times in advance to be sure everything goes as planned.


For example, if you've made a volcano, make sure you know the exact mix of chemicals that will create the eruption.
 First, practice by yourself or in a mirror. If you have a time limit, time yourself to make sure your presentation isn’t too long or short. Ask your parents or a friend if you can present your project to them, and ask if they have any pointers., Do your best to anticipate questions that your audience might ask, especially if you know there will be a Q&A component to your presentation. When you practice making your presentation to friends or family, have them ask you questions to help you prepare. This will help you avoid getting caught off-guard and to refine anything in your speech that's unclear.

