 Most conferences these days have adopted a corporate, casual style of dress, which offers a variety of wardrobe choices. However, some limitations still apply for both genders. Make sure your attire is made from quality materials, is pressed, clean and in excellent condition. Shoes must be clean, not worn, and polished. Though your accessories can have a touch of flair, keep them limited and conservative.Also keep in mind your particular industry’s codes and standards, time of day, location, and purpose.
Cover any tattoos and piercings.
Athletic shoes are usually not appropriate.
 If you want to play it safe, opt for navy blue, black, brown or grey, which are known business colors. Match with long-sleeved, button-down, solid-colored (usually light blue or white) blouses or shirts. You don’t have to wear business colors, though. Instead, choose colors that you know are personally flattering. In fact, you may find wearing colors different from the norm attracts people to you!


Avoid loud colors and patterns.
For outdoor or more casual events, polo shirts are a good choice.
Pack a few blazers for the inevitable air-conditioning.
Bring a formal outfit just in case.
 Keep the hemline of your skirts just below the knee and not more than two inches above it. Skirts can have slits in the back but shouldn’t reveal your legs. Don’t let your undergarments and slips show. Avoid clothing that is too baggy or tight. Keep your cleavage and midriff covered, even outside conference events., Wear a stylish, leather wristwatch. It looks great when resting your arm on the board table! Combine smart trousers or a pencil skirt with a well-fitting jacket. Wear low-heeled, neutral-colored shoes. Comfortable heels save your back, and a light-colored shoe easily matches other colors in your wardrobe.
 Stay within the business casual realm style of dress, but add unique touches that make you who you are. Wear interesting but stylish accessories. Instead of long-sleeved tops, go with ¾-sleeves. Consider not wearing black or cardigan sweaters. Both tend to be overdone at conferences. You don’t have to look like everyone else, and it’s smart business to use your visual voice to your advantage!Proper fit attracts all the right attention and makes you look like you’re at the top of your profession.

