 This will be your computer's monitor. For LCD monitors, make the rectangular cube be a bit thinner and a bit closer to the first cube you drew of a line connecting the two sides (front and back together).;
, Newer monitors have buttons on the side that are away from the mainstream seen area that are drawn as an oval or circle with the power symbol that looks like a circle that isn't closed at the top and have a perpendicular line extending from above this cut out into the center point of the circle (and that isn't attached to either part of the circular part of the symbol, but the olden-days monitors of the late 80s and early 90s contained on-off switches for the monitor that can be drawn as a rectangular switch on one of the sides of the monitor.
 This will be it's stand that will seem like it connects in the back of the monitor.
 The absolute base point of this, creates the stability point for the monitor, ensuring the stand won't have the computer fall over on it's own. If this computer is an LCD monitor, you can also make it curved, as long as it has a connection point to the monitor itself while the glass panel seems to hang freely from the connection point in back of the monitor.
 Draw a rectangular cube to the right of the computer's monitor. Make sure to draw a small circle for the power button on it and a thin long oval and a button or two inside of it for the CD/DVD/Blu-ray drive.


Older computers of the 80s and 90s were elongated and even half as tall as those we know today as a CPU. Many had square diskette drives where 3.5 inch and 5.25 inch disks(to scale, these would seem smaller) could be inserted that weren't drawn as an ovular shape, but had an additional green light on the smaller drive and an additional closing switch (that can be drawn as a J-shaped hook over top of the disk drive itself).
Optical drives can be a bit trickier to draw (however, they're drawable too.) These drives are thin ovals that are a little bit wider than they are thick. Current drawn drives like this are generally operated as disc slide-in insert versions and those drives not requiring a tray. Although these types were popular in the late 90s and early 2000, a bunch of these types are still operable to this day in 2017!

, The square layout should resemble the key layout on your keyboard.
 If you want a simpler version, you can draw an oval shape with the top divided into two and a button placed in the middle.
 Draw one other cube (or rectangular cube). For older style printers, you can draw to unconnected lines coming out of the top - as these are the paper feeder spot. For the newer printers, you can adjust the placement and angle at which this paper feeding area is placed and place it below that and curve the lines at the end in the style of a cube. You can make this one hard-wired or wireless, dependent on your thoughts on the matter.
 If you wish, you can also draw a set of speakers, a UPS, a Wi-Fi router,and other accessories.
 Try to avoid drawing wires through other pieces that aren't being connected. Don't draw wires through your LCD monitor's base if it connected to a set of speakers and if it's coming from the CPU.
 Apple products look like an apple that's had a bite taken out of it from the top-righthand side (jagged as it may be), while Hewlett-Packard (just the two lettered lower-case"hp" denoted) and Dell (with it's all uppercase "DELL" insignia denoted) and several other major ones are just alphabetical letters. Gateway is a Dalmatian-spotted (almost 3D like) box above the word "Gateway" (where the G dips below (by a little) the rest of the word in it's traditional form "ateway").

In the case of the former Gateway logo, one of these "spots" on the box was colored in green while the remainder were colored in black.
On a really old Apple computer, the apple was colored in rainbow colors, starting with the apple's stem colored in, in green.While not used too much anymore in homes, there are big companies such as IBM which had it's trademark IBM logo in the bottom right of all the products they made.,