 Buy untreated barley that has come straight from the farm. You can usually use barley that is used to feed livestock.
 You may have to purchase a 50 lb. bag, but you will want to start with 10 lbs. or less while you become accustomed to the malting process., High-protein varieties can result in cloudy beer., Make sure there are few broken grains and no mold or bugs., You will want several so that you can soak and drain the barley during this part of the process., of barley. You need enough space and water for all of the grains to float. When in doubt, use less barley instead of more, since the barley expands as it absorbs moisture., If you have a lot of mineralization, use a water purifier on your faucet while you cover it with water. Fill the bucket to the top until it overflows a few inches.

Letting some of the water flow over will get rid of dirt and debris in the water., The grains will be floating during these two hours. If they aren’t you may be using a bucket that is too small., Pour the grains into a thin layer on trays and dry them for eight hours., Pour the barley back inside. Cover it in warm water and steep it for two more hours.,, After 24 hours of this process you should start to see the chits, or roots, growing from the base of the barley kernels. Move onto the next part of the process when it looks like 95 percent of the grains have sprouted., A clean concrete floor or counter is ideal. The room must also be well ventilated and stay at 64 degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius)., Turn them every two hours to avoid bacteria and mold from forming., Keep this process going for two to five days., This is the white leaf that grows inside as it germinates. When the leaf is 80 to 100 percent of the size of the grain, it is time to move on to the next step.

Split a kernel to test the germination every day for five days.
 You will want a steady temperature between 90 and 125 degrees Fahrenheit (31 to 50 Celsius) for up to two days. You can use a dehydrator on a low setting, an oven with the oven light on or a protected, sunny place outside.

Test the temperature of the area you are considering ahead of time to ensure the temperature is right for drying the malt.
 Leave it outside for about two days. Turn the malt every half an hour., The easiest way to tell is to weight it at this point. If it weighs 10 percent more than it did at the beginning, it is ready., You want to separate the barley from the rootlets. Discard the rootlets., Crush it for use in beer., You can toast for 350 °F (177 °C) for an hour to get brown malt.