 Maybe you are jealous of your brother, or he is jealous of you. Maybe you think your brother is annoying because it seems like he gets all the attention. It’s pretty typical that an older sibling thinks the younger sibling is the favorite.Understand that you and your brother have different personalities and, because of that, sometimes butt heads. You can still be kind to your brother even if you don’t always like him.
If you typically feel left out or like your parents only give attention to your younger brother, consider requesting a family meeting or talk to your parents one on one.Very politely explain that you desire a good relationship with your brother and have realized that the conflict stems from your feelings of jealously. Try to come up with a solution together. It's possible that your parents just aren’t aware that you feel this way. Be sure that you aren’t accusing them of neglecting you. Instead of putting the focus on what they don’t do, put the focus on your feelings.
 If your brother tries to pick fights or purposely does things to annoy you, don’t take the bait. Smile and keep doing whatever you were doing.


If you find that you can’t keep yourself from responding negatively, you can say something like “I’ll have to think about what you said,” and then go into another room. Lock the door if necessary.
 Ask your brother why he is bothering you, but don’t make it sound like you are attacking him. Say, “Why are you (saying, doing) that?” If he continues to bother you, tell him, “I feel (sad, hurt) when you (say those things, do those things) to me.” Make this about your feelings and not about his actions.
 You don't want to behave in a way that could damage your future relationship with your brother. It might not seem like it now, but when you get older, your annoying brother might just turn into your close friend.
 We fight most with the people we are around all the time. Time away from your brother will help you have a more positive relationship.If you find it hard to avoid your brother at home, consider joining an after school club or volunteering in your community. In this way, you would be taking yourself out of the situation and would also be doing something positive for yourself or your community.

