 If your loved ones are expressing homophobic thoughts, consider confronting them. Have a heart-to-heart about tolerance. Explain why homophobia makes you uncomfortable, whether or not you are LGBTQ yourself. Try to help them understand why their actions might be intolerant, uninformed, or unjust.Wait for a time when they'll be receptive to what you have to say. Don't start this conversation when these people are distracted or focusing on something else. Give your words the chance to be as impactful as possible.
Be warned that this tactic won't work on everyone. Trying to educate people may only lead to more frustration. Ask yourself whether it hurts to try.
 Give people a chance to understand where you're coming from. You may have had a hard time coming to terms with your sexuality, and your family and friends might also need some time to get their heads straight. Try to remain open and non-judgmental through this process. If you are close with these people, there is a good chance that love will prevail over any discomfort. Give them time, and never stop showing love for them. You don't have to take their insults, but make sure they know you will be waiting if they change their mind., Don't say "You are homophobic!" even when someone is acting really homophobic, because they'll be on the defense. Instead, try saying "What you said sounded homophobic because X implies Y. Is that really what you meant to say?" Often, when someone gets their words put back into their faces, they will back off – or at least see how you're interpreting what they said as homophobia. Sometimes people just honestly don't know how to act around gay people because they haven't done it much.
 It's rarely easy to cut friends and family out of your life. However, at some point you may need to ask yourself whether a person's negative influence in your life outweighs their positive influence. If someone you love simply won't accept you (or won't accept someone else that you love), it may be healthier to turn your energy toward more welcoming people.


You don't need to make a big deal of removing someone from your life. All you need to do is create distance between yourself and the intolerant person. Over time, if your values diverge, your paths may diverge as well.

