 Pure and simple: cocoa is the source of the health benefits in chocolate. In fact, raw cocoa helps your body absorb dangerous free radicals more than any other food.Raw cocoa comes in powder or nib form, and can be consumed in various ways, including rich savory dishes.


If purchasing cocoa powder, make sure is it unsweetened, and that the only ingredient is cocoa. Often, products labeled “ground chocolate” or “drinking chocolate” will include other less healthy ingredients.
Note that 100% cocoa bars are not sweetened, and are sold for baking purposes.
You should be able to find raw cocoa at health food stores or online.
Go with organic, fair-trade options whenever possible.
 The fat in raw cocoa is not from milk or other added ingredients — it’s from the bean itself. While cocoa with the highest fat content is often more expensive, it is also healthy, more flavorful, and more satisfying than cheaper options., Raw cocoa nibs are the least-processed edible form of cocoa. You can get them raw or roasted. They taste extremely bitter, and are comparable in flavor to coffee beans. Roasted nibs are great in salads, as they add a crunchy, nutty element.Roasted cocoa nibs are especially good with bitter greens, as well as fennel, olives, and dry cheese such as Parmesan.
Dress a salad that includes cocoa nibs with a balsamic or red-wine vinaigrette.
 Cream sauces with cocoa and other spices can provide a rich, warm accompaniment to vegetable and/or meat dishes. For instance, try a cream sauce with 1 cup of coconut milk, 1 teaspoon of crushed black peppercorn, and 1 tablespoon of crushed cocoa nibs. Gently simmer it all together for 10 minutes in a small saucepan and strain the cream before serving.This particular sauce goes well with veggies, including carrots, sweet potatoes and butternut squash.
For example, roast cubed butternut squash seasoned with coconut oil and cumin seeds in the oven for about 15 minutes at 400°F (204°C). Top with the cocoa cream sauce.
 Spice rubs can be used in all sorts of meats and other dishes. For a particularly flavorful option, mix 1 teaspoon of cocoa powder with 1 tablespoon of smoked paprika and 1 teaspoon each of oregano, marjoram, brown sugar, and salt. This rub will go especially well on a rich red meat, such as lean beef or buffalo.