 You will need casings, primers, bullets and powder to make a working cartridge.


Dirty casings will need cleaning before use. A vibratory cleaner with corn or walnut media works great. Adding a casing polish will make your brass look almost as good as new!

, Each set of dies will have a somewhat unique way to set them correctly.


Calibrate them to specifications of a respected loading handbook. Crimp diameters and bullet seat depths are very important for your safety (more on this later).
If available for the specific caliber you are loading, purchase carbide dies. This is an especially dense type of metal which removes the need for lubricating the casings.



Powder is very specific. Having the incorrect type of powder or an incorrect amount of powder can have very bad results. It is recommended you buy a respected loading handbook with the calibers you intend to load and follow their suggested powders and amounts.
 Check the amount of powder deposited in a separate scale. Most loading handbooks have a minimum, maximum, and recommended starting. When calibrating the powder measure toward the minimum or maximum, always err toward the recommended.
 This usually involves some type of primer pickup device (often a long tube with plastic on either end and a pin). Be sure the primers are oriented correctly in the hopper.


There are a few different types of primers, be sure you have the right kind: small and large pistol primers, small and large pistol magnum primers, small and large rifle primers, and small and large magnum rifle primers. The simplest way to get the right primer is to consult a loading handbook, they will have the size and type of primer, and may even have they exact primer brand/model number that they used for testing.
 If you are reloading necked-down cartridges, lubricate the interior of the neck as well.


Be sure to use a lubrication specifically designed for ammunition casings.
This step can be skipped if you have carbide dies (carbide is much more available for pistol calibers than rifle calibers).

