 If a boy is bothering you, calling you names, or trying to touch you, probably the best thing you can do is to walk away from the situation, which may be more difficult to do than fighting back. He will thrive on getting a reaction out of you, and if you don’t give it to him, he will eventually get bored and hopefully leave you alone.If you are feeling upset by something he did or said, consider visiting your guidance counselor to discuss what happened. Not only will this give you someone you can trust to talk about it, they may also talk to the boy directly, informing him of the consequences of such behavior.;
, It may be that the boy who is being inappropriate thinks he is giving you a compliment, or that he is just trying to be funny. He may not realize that what he is saying/doing is inappropriate, and that it truly does bother you. Therefore, you should approach him, and politely ask him to stop.Try to approach him when he is by himself, if he is with a group of friends, he is more likely to respond defensively. If you think he doesn’t realize his behavior is wrong, you can try starting out with a friendly, but firm tone of voice. Don’t walk up to him and start yelling accusations, as it will make him less likely to listen, and more likely to become defensive.
State clearly what he has said/done that has bothered you. For example, if he constantly points out that you have big boobs, you can say something like, “When you talk about my boobs, it makes me feel very uncomfortable, and you don't have the right to talk to me like that.” Hopefully, at this point, he will realize you mean business, and promise to stop (don’t worry if he looks or acts annoyed, he is probably just embarrassed). However, if he says he’ll do whatever he wants, and continues like that, tell him you will report him to the principal (or to your boss) for sexually harassing you if he says anything else.
 If a boy has been bothering you, and you are worried that he might try to touch you or bother you, try to avoid being alone.For example, if you walk home from school try to walk with other friends. When you see the boy who has been bothering you, try to join in the conversation of people around you so that he will see you are with friends.
 It may be tempting to slap, kick, hit or punch a boy who is saying hurtful things to you, but it will show him that he can easily provoke you. If he is a violent person himself, he might even hurt you physically. Therefore, resist the urge to show him what you think physically., As a woman, it is very likely that someone, at some point will make a comment that is inappropriate or will stare in a way that is inappropriate. Accept this fact, and have a few ideas about how you will react.For example, if your co-worker or classmate says something inappropriate to you, you can respond by firmly, but politely saying, “I feel that what you said is inappropriate, and I would appreciate it if, in the future, you would avoid such comments.”
If you catch someone staring at your breasts while you are talking to them, simply stop talking until they realize you have stopped, and look at your face to see why, then begin talking again as if nothing happened. More than likely, they’ll get the hint.
 If you feel afraid for your safety, or the person has ignored your polite requests to stop, don’t be afraid to tell human resources, a trusted teacher, or guidance counselor about what is going on.If the person you tell doesn’t seem to take you seriously, don’t be afraid to tell someone else. For example, if you have told a teacher, and the teacher responds by telling you to relax and take a joke, then go to your guidance counselor, vice principal, or principal. If you are at work, start by telling your immediate supervisor, and keep moving up the chain of command until someone takes you seriously. If it seems that no one in your work or school will take you seriously, you may need to go to the police.
If you have to tell more than one person because you aren’t being taken seriously, be sure to report the authoritative person who didn’t take you seriously in the first place. If they think sexual harassment is a laughing matter, then they also need to be taught about why it is a very serious issue.
If you are a child or a teen, make sure to tell your parents what is going on.
It is true that reporting a person to human resources or a teacher might cause awkwardness in the office or classroom, especially if it somehow gets out. However, it is better that the person bothering you truly understands what he has done, and that you can go to work or school each day without fearing what will be said to you.

