 A slicker brush is a rectangular-shaped flat brush with thick steel bristles. This type of brush suits both long haired and short haired cats, and most cats enjoy being brushed with it. Buy a slicker brush online or at your local pet store and introduce it to your cat slowly (e.g. let your cat sniff it and rub up against it before you attempt to use it for grooming)., If you have a long haired cat, try using a wide tooth brush with long, beaded bristles, which will be gentle and less likely to get caught in the fur. If you have a short haired cat, try a soft-bristle brush to gently remove dead hairs and keep its coat healthy. Both types of brush should be available at pet stores or online., If your cat refuses to cooperate when you try to brush it, purchase a grooming glove. Grooming gloves fit over the hand and allow pet owners to pet their cat while brushing them inconspicuously. These rubber gloves have tiny bumps that are gentle enough to remove dead hair without alarming your cat., Fleas comb are not just useful for detecting fleas in your pet, they can also help you remove dead hair. These fine toothed combs work well with both short haired and long haired cats. Purchase a flea comb at your local pet store or online and use it regularly to keep your cat free of dead hair, dirt, and other debris., For long haired cats prone to shedding, purchase a de-shedding tool (available online or in most pet stores). These tools have a unique stainless steel edge that removes shedding hair without scratching your pet. De-shedding tools can reduce up to 90% of shed fur., Scissor-style nail trimmers are a popular choice and have the advantage of being easy-to-use. Unlike regular scissors, they have shorter blades with a contoured edge designed to fit the cat’s nail in. If you are a beginner to cat grooming, purchase this style of trimmer at a local pet store or online., If your cat’s nails are strong and difficult to cut with simple, scissor-style clippers, opt for plier-style clippers instead. This tool offers a better grip and stronger cut than scissor-style clippers, despite being a bit less intuitive. Look for plier-style trimmers at pet stores and online., If you have an easy-going cat who doesn’t spook easily, try an electric style nail trimmer. This tool has the benefit of having safety features to prevent harm to your cat (e.g. cutting the quick of your cat’s nail, which could cause bleeding). It is not a good option for impatient or fearful cats, however, as the electric trimmer can be time-consuming and makes a great deal of noise, which your cat may not appreciate., For easy, on-the-spot grooming, purchase "kitty" wipes online or from a pet store (e.g. Whisker City Gentle Tearless Cat Wipes, available at Pet Smart).These non-toxic disposable wipes can be used to gently clean your cat's ears and nose. They can also remove dander and to refresh your cat's coat., To ensure that your cat's teeth stay clean, buy a toothbrush with flexible, soft bristles from a pet store. Since regular toothpaste is not an option for cats (as it may include ingredients that are toxic to cats, such as Xylitol), purchase cat-friendly toothpaste from a pet store. Pet toothpaste comes in a variety of flavors (like chicken and fish) to make it appealing to your cat., For the rare occasions that you cat needs a bath (e.g. getting something stuck in its fur), purchase a cat-specific shampoo from a pet store. Opt for an all-natural, veterinarian-approved shampoo with mild ingredients like oatmeal. Never use human shampoo on your cat, which can severely dry out its skin and coat., To clean your cat's ears, buy an ear cleaning liquid from your veterinarian or from a pet store, with your veterinarian's recommendation. Ear cleaning liquid evaporates quickly and should be used to clean your cat's ears instead of water, which can build up in your cat's ear canals. You should also purchase gauze or cotton balls to gently apply the liquid.