 You may already have an idea about what kind of job you want to get. If so, that is great because it helps you narrow down the job search. Look on job websites or at companies in your area for jobs that you want to apply for. With assistive technology, you can do almost any job. Even without accommodations, there are a lot of jobs you can do.Try computer-based jobs, like programming and IT, or architecture, drafting, and civil engineering. Many people who have hearing impairments also work in office settings. You may also enjoy skilled work, like a carpenter, auto mechanic, plumber, factory worker, or landscaper.
Many people with hearing impairments have found rewarding careers in the sciences, including chemistry, conservation, biology, geology, astronomy, and meteorology. Writing jobs can also be great employment opportunities. You can work for newspapers, magazines, websites, or blogs. You can also try jobs working with technical manuals or editing.
 When you are looking for jobs to apply for, look for jobs where you can perform the essential tasks and functions. These tasks are outlined in the job posting. You can discuss the essential functions during an interview.Essential functions are tasks you will have to perform at your job. These tasks are sometimes based on what others in similar positions do. For example, if other employees in the position don’t take phone calls, it would not be considered an essential function.
Employers may look at the essential tasks to determine if it can be removed without changing the job.
 The basics for applying for a job doesn’t change if you are deaf or hard of hearing. You should write a resume and research the job position and company. When you get a call for an interview, you should dress appropriately for an interview., Most countries have a disabilities act that makes it so an employer has to make reasonable accommodations for a person who is deaf or hard of hearing. Reasonable accommodations are accommodations that won’t put hardships on the employer, and may include providing accessible worksites, modifying equipment and schedules, restructuring job requirements, or providing assistive technology or interpreters.Knowing your rights can help you be better prepared when you go on the job market.
For example, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is one of a few federal laws that cover the rights of deaf and hard of hearing people in the workplace.

