 Light therapy treatment for acne might be followed by side effects like mild stinging or pain, crusty or peeling skin, changes in skin tone, or redness and irritation.Your doctor will be able to provide advice and medication for how to best guard against or limit these unpleasant side effects.More serious – but rarer – side effects include blisters, burns, and enduring pain.
You can limit side effects by using special medications provided by your doctor. They might recommend lotions containing vitamin C or hydrating formulas to deal with flaking or dry skin. You might also get prednisone, a corticosteroid, to reduce any inflammation or swelling.Commerically available products like Aquaphor or Cetaphil moisturizers, both of which are readily available from your local pharmacy, could also reduce likelihood or severity of your side effects.
Commerically available pain relief medicine like Tylenol or Advil can help you cope with any lingering pain.
Light therapy treatment might cause temporary acne flare-ups in the short term.
After getting light therapy, stay out of the sun for a few days while the effects of the photosensitizer wears off. Additionally, do not use tanning beds.
 People who get light therapy for their acne tend to need multiple treatments and may not see immediate results. For instance, after four weeks, you might see a 50% reduction in your acne. But after 12 weeks, you might see a 75% reduction in your acne., Research shows that light therapy alone is often not enough to clear acne. When receiving light therapy for acne, it is important to continue treating your skin gently. Use nontoxic soaps and facial products, rinse with lukewarm water, do not use makeup, and avoid touching your face. Talk to your doctor about what else you can do to supplement your light therapy and rid yourself of acne.If you absolutely must use makeup, use a nontoxic mineral-based formulation like Jane Iredale Mineral Make-Up. Makeup of this sort is less likely to irritate the skin and cause acne flareups.
The one supplemental treatment you cannot use in conjunction with light therapy is Accutane (isotretinoin).

