 If you know you've made a mistake and you've been caught, the best course of action is often to just admit it.Don't feel like you need to go into detail about it. Just stay calm, and speak matter-of-factly about the situation. Your reaction to being caught may have an impact on your punishment; you don't want to make things worse.


Don't try and justify your actions. Say, "I know what I did was wrong, and I'm sorry."
Saying as few words as possible in a serious tone is usually the right tactic. The sooner the interaction is over, the sooner you can put it behind you.;
, Whether it's your parents, a teacher, or someone else who caught you, let them react the way they want to. Don't cut them off; it is important that they feel like they are being heard. If you interrupt, it may appear as though you don't feel sorry for your mistake.


You may want to solemnly nod your head as the person who caught you tells you what they think. This will make you seem more contrite.
It's good to act sorry, but don't go overboard. Crying or yelling dramatically probably won't seem genuine under these circumstances.
 If you think it would help, you can explain why you did what you did. For example, if your mom caught you looking at a website that's banned in your house, tell her that your curiosity got the best of you. Tell her that it's difficult to keep yourself from exploring the internet, but you'll try hard not to let it happen again.


In some cases, explaining your side of the situation could backfire. For example, if your teacher caught you cheating on a test, telling him that you forgot to study probably won't help your case. Under these circumstances, it's best to stay quiet.
 Actions have consequences; accepting them is a sign of good character. If you knew what you were doing was wrong, it's probably best to deal with the punishment instead of trying to resist it. Tell the your parent or teacher that you accept the punishment and will fulfill the requirements as soon as possible.


In some cases you may not accept the punishment; you may feel it is unfair. Weigh the pros and cons of resisting. If you refuse the punishment, will it make things worse for you? Will it be worth it to take a principled stand? Only you can decide. You can either swallow the punishment and move on, or stand up for yourself and possibly face more extreme consequences.
 Getting caught for a minor mistake is one thing; getting caught doing something illegal is an entirely different matter. If you were caught doing something against the law, it's best to involve your parents instead of trying to handle the situation by yourself.


If you were caught by a police officer or another authority, call your parents right away.
If you were caught at school, it's also important to involve your parents immediately.

