 Dynamic stretching involves active movement, warming up your muscles for exercise. Avoid static stretches (holding a stretch) before exercise, as this does not prepare your body and may even decrease athletic performance.The rest of this section describes various dynamic stretches that are useful for volleyball players. You may go through all of them, or pick and choose the ones that seem to help most.;
, A few minutes of light to moderate exercise will warm up your muscles. Maintain a moderate pace, but don't push yourself to the point of gasping or exhaustion.
 Next, get some lateral lunges in to warm up for side-to-side movements. Make sure to avoid overextending your thigh muscles, keeping your knee directly above your toes.
 Stand up straight with your feet at hip width apart. Jump from one foot to the other, lifting the other knee up to hip height.This will improve your hip flexibility.


You're doing this as a warm up, not an intense exercise. Stick to moderate speed.
 Return to a low-intensity jog. Every couple steps, bring one of your feet backward to touch against your backside. Alternate feet as you do this.Don't push back with force. Make it a slight flick that brings your foot up for only a moment.
There is no need to bring your knee forward for this exercise. Keep your upper leg close to vertical.
 Jump forward about 1.5 meters (5 feet), or less if necessary for a comfortable landing. Try to land as quietly as possible, then stand slowly. Repeat this exercise five times.
 By now your muscles should be well warmed up. Add some leg flexibility with some targeted dynamic stretches, such as the leg swing:


Stand sideways to a wall and put your hand out against it for support.
Swing the leg closest to the wall forward and back as high as you can. Do not hold your leg in an upright position.
Turn around and put your other hand against the wall. Repeat with the other leg.
 If your back is sore or tight, address that with a targeted exercise. Here's one option:


Lie flat on the ground with your arms straight out, in a T shape.
Swing your leg toward your opposite arm, keeping both shoulders on the ground.
Return that leg immediately to the ground.
Repeat the exercise with alternating legs.
 Static stretches hold one of your muscles in an extended position. These exercises improve your flexibility and help your recovery after exercise. Read on for examples of these stretches, starting at the lower muscles and moving up.
 Places your toes against a wall and your heel on the floor next to it, with your foot in a straight line. Push your heel down and lean toward the wall with that leg, with your other leg behind you for balance.
 Sit down and place your left foot against your right knee. Lower your left knee to the ground, or as close to it as you can with moderate stretching. Reach for your right foot with your right hand and hold it for a few seconds. Repeat with your other foot.
 Sit up straight with your legs outstretched. Bend one leg at the knee while keeping it flat, bringing that foot to the side of your body. Lean back to stretch the quad on that side. Repeat for your other leg.
 Volleyball usually puts the most use on the thighs and calves. Try this exercise to stretch them out after a game:


Stand up straight with your feet wide apart.
Bend over and touch your right hand to your right foot. Hold for 20-30 seconds.
Repeat 10–20 times, alternating feet.

