 Look for a "lobe and sinus" pattern on the oak leaves--the blades of the leaf and the indentations in between.


The lobes of the leaf are the rounded and pointed protrusions that give the leaf its shape. Think of these lobes like "leaf fingers", or extensions of the stem. Different species of oak may have either pointed or rounded lobes. Red oaks tend to have pointed lobes, and white oaks tend to have rounded lobes.
Between each lobe is a sinus, which is an indentation in the leaf that accentuates the lobes. Sinuses may be variably deep, shallow, wide, or narrow.
 Oak leaf shapes can vary across a single tree. You may need to inspect a number of leaves to make an accurate classification.If you can't tell the species from the leaves alone, consider other characteristics, such as the acorn, the bark, and the location--both in terms of terrain and geographic location.
Oak leaves grow in a spiral pattern along the branch, meaning that a fan of leaves will rarely appear "flat" or parallel in the way that, say, palm fronds grow.
Oak branches tend to divert from a straight line, and they do not have opposing growth on the branches: imagine that you're looking at a fork with multiple branches originating in the same place.
 Most oak tree leaves sport a deep green hue during the summer months, but transform into red and brown colors for the fall.


The oak tree is one of the most colorful fall trees, which is another reason they are popular in many types of landscaping today. Some oak leaves also emerge in a red or pink shade in early spring, but quickly change to their standard green color by summer.
Oaks tend to lose their leaves late in the season, and younger trees or branches will hold their dead brown leaves all the way into spring. They will begin to fall when new leaves start to grow in the spring.
A telltale sign of an oak in the winter is a tree with dead brown leaves. Oak leaves have a longer decay rate and will stay around longer than most other leaves. You can usually find them near the base of an oak tree, but be careful, as leaves can blow around on a windy day.



White oak species may yield reddish-brown leaves when autumn comes, but red oaks tend to boast the most dramatic fall foliage. Red oak leaves turn to a deep, rich red which bursts out boldly from the late-autumn forest.Red oaks are often mistaken for maples. Maples tend to show their fall colors earlier in the season, and they've mostly exhausted their pigment by the time the oak foliage comes into full swing. You can also tell maples by their large, distinctive leaves.

