 In order to get help for suicidal thoughts, you must be willing to confide in someone. Although you might first choose to tell a peer or friend, you need to reach out to an adult who can connect you with needed services. Consider telling a teacher, coach, school counselor, or family member you trust.

You might say, “I’ve been having thoughts of hurting myself lately, and I’m really scared. I think I need to see a doctor.”
Be sure that you impress on the person that your thoughts and feelings are serious. If you tell someone and they don’t help you take action, find someone else to confide in. Don’t stop until you get the help you need.;
, Usually the first step in a chain of treatment involves seeing your family doctor or primary care physician. This doctor will likely conduct a thorough interview and ask you many questions relating to depression and suicide. Answer questions honestly, as that is the only way you can get adequate treatment.Try keeping a log of your thoughts and feelings in the weeks or days leading up to this appointment.
If you think you’d feel better having someone come along with you, then ask a friend or family member to accompany you. They can also provide the doctor with objective information on how you have been doing.
 Your doctor will likely provide a referral to a mental health provider in your community. Such professionals typically have specialized experience detecting and treating psychiatric disorders and situations like suicidal thoughts. Your mental health provider may work with you and your parents to determine the best course of treatment.You will have to undergo additional screening to figure out if you are struggling with an underlying mental illness like depression or anxiety.
 Your treatment options for suicidal thoughts may include talk therapy and/or medications. One of the most effective talk therapy methods is cognitive-behavioral therapy, which helps you identify and change negative thinking patterns that make you feel suicidal.

Medication options typically include antidepressants, which may be prescribed by your family doctor or a psychiatrist. However, you must be sure to follow your doctor's instructions when taking these medications, and never stop taking them suddenly. Doing so can cause your suicidal thoughts to worsen.
Keep in mind that you may have to try several treatment approaches before you feel better., As a part of your treatment, your mental health provider will suggest that you complete a safety plan. This is basically a written plan of action you will take when suicidal thought arise. In addition to working with a therapist, you may also have your parents help you with this plan.Your safety plan should include: self-soothing strategies, reminders of why you want to live, family and friends you can call, mental health providers you can call, and a crisis hotline number.
 If you have immediate thoughts of hurting yourself, you should call your local emergency services department or a crisis hotline. In the United States, you can call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 anonymously anytime, day or night.