 If you have a smart phone you can tap on “MyAccount” from the main menu of your Virgin Mobile phone. The MyAccount app will open and display on-screen.


Once the MyAccount app has opened tap on “My Account” again, and select Account Information.
Enter your Virgin Mobile telephone number and password, then tap on Submit. Your current account balance will be displayed just below the section entitled, “Balance Info.”You can also visit m.virginmedia.com/account on your smart phone web browser. If that isn’t an option, you are able to text ACCOUNT to the number 80150 and the number will respond with a link leading you to your account.
 To check your balance on the go you can always call the number 225. The number will answer and you’ll hear an automated message telling you your account balance and your expiry date if you’re on a Pay as You Go plan.You have to dial the number using your personal Virgin Mobile phone. The balance stated on the recording will reflect the balance for the number you are dialing from.
Be aware that each call costs twenty cents. , If you are unable to call Virgin Mobile or would prefer to see the account balance in writing, you can always text Virgin Mobile. Text the word BAL to the number 225 and you will receive your account balance over text message in seconds.Be aware that each text costs twenty cents.
 If you’re having troubles checking your balance you might want to speak with a real person over the phone. Dial Virgin Mobile customer service at 1-888-322-1122 between the hours of 4 a.m. and 8 p.m. PST Monday through Friday, or between 4 a.m. and 7 p.m. PST Saturday through Sunday.


You can also dial *611 directly from your Virgin Mobile phone if you have a Virgin Mobile Custom account.
Once you’re connected, listen to and follow the prompts provided by the Virgin Mobile automated system to reach a live representative who specializes in billing and account management. The representative will assist you with checking your current account balance.