 Requirements vary based on where you live, so look up local codes on the subject. It will likely need to be about 6 square feet (1.8 meters), and the bottom of the window opening will need to be no more than 44 inches (1.1 meters) off the floor.
, You need to do this if you are cutting into a wall that is perpendicular to the floor joists above.

Make a 9-foot-wide (2.7 m) frame out of 2-by-4's, erected about 3 feet (0.9 m) from the where the window will be installed. Erect and secure vertical 2-by-4s inside the frame directly underneath the joists.
, Use a drill bit that is long enough to go through the wall. Make sure the drill is perfectly level when it penetrates the wall., It needs to be at least 6 inches (15 cm) deeper than the bottom of where the window will be. The hole should be about 4 sq feet (1.2 sq m)., Use the pilot hole as a reference point., Cut only about 1/4 inch (cm) your first time around the lines. Then, after you have established a straight groove for the blade to cut through, make deeper cuts, until you have cut halfway through the wall.

You can rent a concrete saw. Renting a diamond blade is also recommended.
You can use a 12-inch (30 cm) blade if your wall is only 8 inches (20 cm) thick.
Wear hearing and eye protection, a dust mask, and gloves when operating the saw.
Plug the saw into a GFCI outlet.
, Start at the top-center.,,

Avoid using too much concrete by stuffing newspaper into the cores beforehand.
Cover the wet concrete with plastic sheeting.
 Saw pressure-treated 2-by-10s to fit the perimeter of your hole.

Partially drive 3-inch (7.6 cm) deck screws into the bottom 2-by-10, which will be stuck into the wet cement to hold the sill in place.
Screw the top of the rough frame into the floor joists.
Use concrete screws to secure the sides of the rough frame to the block wall.
,, Most windows will come with installation instructions, but it is likely that you will need to:

Caulk around the edges of the box.
Unfold the metal fins of your untrimmed window and nail them into the box.
Apply mortar to the area between the box and the wall.

