 H. pylori damages the lining of the stomach which normally protects the stomach from the stomach acids needed to start digesting your food. Once that lining has been damaged, the acids in the stomach begin to literally “eat away” at the stomach and duodenum, and may eventually cause pits (ulcers) that can bleed and cause significant pain.


This bleeding can cause anemia, fatigue and weakness, and the accompanying pain and discomfort can be debilitating.

H. pylori is associated with a type of stomach cancer and the gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The infection is also associated with a decreased risk of another type of stomach cancer and a type of cancer of the esophagus., You can get infected with H. pylori from infected foods, water, cooking utensils, or through contact with the fluids of other people already infected. For example, if you share a fork or a spoon with someone who is already infected, you may get infected as well.


The H. pylori bacteria are everywhere. They can be found in about two thirds of the world’s adult population, and children can be infected as well.Infection rates in the developing world are higher than in the developed nations.
To help prevent an infection, make sure you wash your hands before eating, especially after using the bathroom. Only drink water from a clean and safe source and make sure your food is prepared safely and with sanitary practices.You probably can’t avoid the bacteria completely, but you can decrease your chances of getting infected. If you eat well to keep yourself healthy, your immune system should be in a good position to combat the infection.
 Early infection of H. pylori can be totally painless and symptomless. In fact, unless your get tested, you may never even know you have the infection. When there are symptoms, these may include:An ache or burning sensation in the abdomen (which may worsen when you are hungry)
Nausea
Burping and belching
Decreased appetite
Bloating
Weight loss without intentional dieting

, Your doctor can diagnose H. pylori by your symptoms and by a number of different lab tests.


A urea breath test is one of the best ways to diagnose H. pylori.

You would be asked to drink a liquid containing a “label,” which can be slightly radioactive or non-radioactive, depending on the specific test used. After a relatively short time period, your breath would be tested for the presence of urea.Urea and ammonia are produced as a by-product of bacterial metabolism and give an indication of the presence of H. pylori.


A stool test checks for the presence of material from the bacteria.
Less often, your doctor may order a stomach biopsy which is then tested for the presence of the bacteria. Usually a biopsy is used when there is a suspicion of cancer, but it is the most reliable method for diagnosis and is preferred by some doctors.

