 If this person is part of your main crew or is someone with whom you’ve been very close, it’s time to expand your circle or friends. Call up someone you haven’t seen in a while and ask if she wants to hang out. Or chat with that guy you’re sort-of friends with in science class and see if he wants to catch a movie sometime.


Focusing on this one person you have feelings for can narrow your scope: it can seem like no one else exists or can make you happy. Meeting new people reminds you this is not true.
Don't isolate. You may feel like you just want to be left alone, and that's okay sometimes. But spending time with other people will speed up the healing process and distract you.
 Keeping busy is an important step toward redirecting your focus and not thinking about your feelings for this person. Don't give yourself time to think about it.Volunteer or get involved in a cause you are passionate about.
Go to the movies, listen to up-beat music, read a good book, exercise, or dance.
Start a new creative project, like writing a story, song, or poem; draw or paint a picture; learn a dance.
Concentrate on your studies or work.
 Laughter releases endorphins, which make you feel good and happy. Spend time with people who make you laugh, doing things you love. Go to a karaoke lounge and laugh at each other as you try to belt out pop hits. Go to an amusement park or play a sport that you love--exercise increases endorphins, too.Watch a comedy, funny videos online, or even just search for funny animated gifs.
Laughter increases pain resistance. When you experience emotional pain, it activates the same areas of your brain as physical pain.Laughing will relieve your heartache.
 Your self-esteem can take a major hit after rejection, and it's common to only focus on your perceived faults. He didn't like you because you are this or because you aren't that... this only worsens the pain.Focus on your positive traits, writing down your achievements, good things you've done, and things you really like about yourself.


Ask your friends and family for help if you are having trouble with your list.
Are you generous and thoughtful? A good listener? Dependable? Write it down.
Re-read your list often, especially when you're feeling down.

