 The easiest way to do this is to simply unplug it from the receptacle. This will prevent accidental electrical shocks and burns.;
, This means disconnecting the vent duct and unplugging the electrical power if not already done. If the dryer is ducted in with solid metal pipe, or hardwired into the home's electrical power, you may need to reconsider doing this job yourself. Do not attempt to loosen or disconnect the gas pipe (from any gas appliance) in order to move it. Even a slowly leaking gas pipe is a very dangerous condition that will eventually ignite with potentially deadly results.
 Most dryers built in the last 20 years have hinge-like clips on the rear, and snaplock fasteners under the top to make removing the top easier. Check at the lint filter access door for additional fasteners, usually counter-sunk phillips type machine screws.
 Most dryers body screws are either 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) or 5⁄16 inch (0.8 cm) machine screws, so a nut driver of the right size will make this job easier, but even a pair of common pliers will do in a pinch.
 Be careful not to twist or pry in such a way that the screwdriver slips and scratches or chips the finish. Once it is free of the locking ring, you can lift the cover high enough to see the top of the dryer drum. You should see a narrow reinforced rubber belt wrapped around the drum. If it is missing or very loose, you will need to proceed with replacing it. If it is still in place on the drum, you may have a problem with the electric motor which turns the drum or the electrical switches that control the dryer's functions instead of a belt problem.
 There is usually a plug connector on the wiring harness to make servicing the drum area easier, but if there is no apparent removable connector, you may have to cut these wires and reattach or splice them when you reassemble the machine.
 Watch the wires from the timer and machine controls so that they do not tear loose from their terminals or snag on a sharp metal edge when doing so.
 You may find a volunteer to simply hold the top up, but fitting the belt onto the motor and around the drum can take time, so having something to support it will make the job easier.
 There are usually two friction type clips that fit a slot on the front panel, securing the bottom of the panel to the sides of the machine, and lifting this part will allow it to be removed so the drum can be taken out. If lifting does not free the front panel, check underneath the machine for concealed screws or other fasteners. If none are located, try prying the front free.
 Now you are ready to slide the dryer drum out of the dryer housing. If the old dryer belt is still attached, you will need to slide it off the drum so the drum can be removed, or cut it and simply pull it out.
, Some dryer manufacturers do not have aftermarket replacement parts suppliers, so you may find you have to locate a dealer for your particular brand of dryer.
 If the lint filter ductwork is removable, now may be a good time to do so and clean it, as well. Wipe down the drum rollers and guides while you have the drum removed as well.
 Observe the drum, you should see a mark where the old belt fit the drum, and make sure the new belt is set at the same location. Slide the drum back into the machine, and support the front of the drum to hold it in position.
 Fit your new belt through the tensioner and around the pulley on the motor, making sure the traction grooves are facing the pulley in the correct fashion.
 Push the front completely in, lifting it over the latches and allowing it to drop onto them to secure the bottom in position. Push the top in, making sure the seals fit inside the drum snugly, without damaging them. These seals are usually felt, or some other soft material, and are held in place with an adhesive.
 Let the top of the dryer drop down into position, and press at each corner to engage the snaplocks. Check to make sure all additional fasteners are replaced and tightened snugly.
 Make sure this ductwork is clean inside, since lint bypassing the lint filter can eventually stop the duct up. Plug the dryer back into its receptacle and turn it on to test it.

