 If you have a vaginal tear that is causing you a lot of pain, is larger than a small cut or abrasion, or won't heal, go see your doctor. They will do an exam to assess the damage to your vagina. The doctor will determine the best course of treatment.


The doctor will also determine if you have any underlying conditions that lead to the vaginal tear.
 If you have a vaginal tear, the doctor may prescribe medication to help with infection or healing. These medications may include ones for yeast infections, herpes, vaginitis, or dermatitis.They may be in the form of oral tablets, creams, or gels.
 Low estrogen may lead to atrophic vaginitis, which can cause a dry vagina that can tear easily. Other conditions, like cancers or hormonal imbalances, can also cause low estrogen. The doctor may prescribe estrogen creams to help. They may also suggest changing your diet to increase the estrogen you get from foods.Never try to increase your estrogen without consulting a doctor. This can mess with your body’s chemical balance.
 Some women develop vaginal tears because they are deficient in certain nutrients. This deficiency causes a breakdown of the skin and membranes in the vagina. Talk to your doctor about your diet if you have frequent vaginal tears that won’t heal. A nutritionist can help you identify which nutrients you are missing and how to increase them safely.Zinc deficiencies are a common reason for vaginal tears. Other deficiencies may include vitamin A, omega-3 fatty acids, calcium, and vitamin C.
 Some tears are deep or violent. They may bleed a lot, have pus, have loose flesh, or give you severe pain. If you experience any of these symptoms, you should see your doctor immediately for treatment. These types of wounds often occur because of childbirth, trauma, or accidents during sex.These are serious wounds and should be treated as such.
 Many deep vaginal tears are treated with stitches. Stitches are used for tears that are longer than one inch. The doctor will stitch the skin together. This may occur at a clinic or hospital. Generally, these wounds heal well. While you are healing, you should keep it clean and dry. Wear loose fitting clothing.Don’t perform any activities that will cause the stitches to tear or the wound to pop back open.

