 Give your brain the time to reflect and de-stress by taking short breaks throughout the day. Consider these ways to avoid mental overload and anxiety about the amount of information in front of you:Take a step away from the situation. Take a walk. Get some distance from the project for 10-20 minutes.
Take a nap. A short 15 minute nap can help reset your brain and make you feel rested.
Leave your phone in another room for 15 minutes or more at least once per day. This will give you a break from information overload as well.
Spend time with your family and friends without your phone. Try putting away your phone when you have dinner with your family, or put away your phone when you are talking with a friend.
 Technology is good in moderation. Don't let your modern devices control you. Avoid the impulse to check or recheck your phone or email constantly.Block the internet or Facebook during work hours. Avoid using social media sites during designated work or study times.
Avoid the need to immediately react to a message. For example, you will check email at 10am and at 3pm each day. All other times you will learn to wait.
 When you're overwhelmed, it's important to separate yourself and get some time away. Experiment with short periods of inaccessibility. You may see that your world will not fall apart. It will also help to set boundaries between you and the things in your life.


Think of this process like detoxing. When you do too much of something, it's important to give your body and mind some rest.
Use this time to think clearly about what forms of communication are most important and what ones you can get rid of.
 Your day needs to have time set aside for reflection, decompression, and focusing on your own needs. Staying healthy in mind and body will help you to cope better with modern communication. Take time to do these:


Eat healthy. Avoid junk food. Drink plenty of water.
Exercise. Stretch. Go outdoors. Take a walk.
Get a good night's rest. Create a relaxing bedtime routine without using your devices to wind down. Avoid technology an hour before bed.Relax your body. Take a hot shower. Get a massage. Use muscle relaxation techniques.

