 Because huskies are so stubborn, it is important to set boundaries right away. They need to learn that you are in charge.


Do not let your puppy sleep in your bed, as this creates confusion about its role in the family. You may make an occasional exception when the dog gets older.Have everyone in the household feed the dog a handful of kibble. This teaches your husky that everyone in the house can control its access to food.Be consistent with all rules you set. If you are not, the dog will learn that it can sometimes get what it wants if it tries hard enough. Make sure everyone else in the house on the same page.Be patient. Your dog can be trained if you are firm and consistent. Huskies often enjoy training tasks because they are work dogs., Like any new puppy, your Siberian husky will have to be housebroken. There are three main components to potty training a dog:


Monitoring your puppy. Keep a close eye on your puppy when it is inside to prevent accidents. This is easiest if you confine the dog to small part of your home.If you catch your dog in the act of urinating or defecating inside, make a loud noise and say "no!" Then, promptly take the dog outside.Frequent trips outside. A puppy will need to go to the bathroom more often than an adult dog. To minimize the risk of indoor accidents, take the puppy out as often as you can, and on a regular schedule.Rewarding the desired behavior. When your dog goes to the bathroom outside, praise the dog and give it a reward in the form of a small treat. This will help it understand where it should do its business, and reinforce the behavior.Using a clicker can help your dog learn this faster (see below).
 An important part of potty training your dog is crate training. This is when you teach your puppy to be content spending time in its crate. Dogs will not want to soil their own space.For huskies, this is also a good way to minimize damage to your home when you can't be there.When you can't keep an eye on your puppy, put it in its create with a treat or kibble and a chew toy. After awhile, the dog will begin to enjoy spending time there, and may even retreat there if things get stressful.Crate training is easiest if you start by offering your dog a treat inside its crate without closing the door. After a day or so of doing this repeatedly, you can try closing the door for short periods of time. You can then build up to longer periods in the crate.Puppies under ten weeks old should not be confined to a crate for more than an hour. From weeks 11 to 14, your puppy can spend up to three hours in a crate. At weeks 15 and 16, up to four hours may be acceptable. After 17 weeks, a puppy can spend up to five hours in a crate.Never use going to the crate as punishment if you want to successfully crate train., Leash training is also crucial for huskies. Because of their tendency to run off, you must teach them to be cooperative walking on a leash.


Huskies can easily run off and get lost if not on a leash.Get your dog used to the collar by putting one on it while it is eating. The dog will develop comfort and even a positive association with the collar.Then, start by just walking it around the house a little, giving it treats whenever it walks at your side and doesn't pull on the leash. Once you've got that down, try it outside!, As with other puppies, clicker training is a good way to teach huskies commands and obedience.In clicker training, every time your dog does something desirable on command, you click the clicker and give it a treat. the combination of the sound and a reward helps your dog more quickly learn what you want it to do.Start by teaching your dog to associate the click with a treat. Just click at random intervals, then immediately provide a treat.Once your dog has learned this association, you can start using the clicker-treat combination to reward desired behaviors.

