 It's possible to act the Dumb Blonde and not be one. Make a list of things you want to change about yourself to make people see you as a Dumb Blonde.;
, Many stereotypically dumb blonde are girly! Wear lots of pink skirts, tops, dresses, and blouses. Also, carry a girly purse, have your ears pierced, and wear makeup. Go heavy with the make up and use lots of pink if you think that will make people see you as a Dumb Blonde.
 Bleach your hair, and decide which color fits you: bleach blonde, platinum blonde, or white blonde. Some people subscribe to a scale of one to ten how dumb each blonde should be, so you can decide what blonde fits your dumb blondness!: white: 7-8, bleach blonde: 9, platinum: 10! You can wear a wig if you don't want to bleach your hair and you can even act like a stereotypically dumb blonde and have brunette or ginger hair. Dumb Blonde is just a label, use it for yourself or act in a way that will make others call you it, it's a perception, not a definition of a person.
 Think all stereotypical Dumb Blondes have blue eyes.
 Remember that Barbie is an astronaut, a teacher and a vet and has a net worth in the millions of dollars region so perhaps she's not so dumb, and, you can get Barbies with other hair colours than blonde. Potentially a good goal is to become a dumb version of Barbie.
, Trip over your feet and giggle, but don't get hurt. Realistically faking clumsiness is an acquired skill. Many actors and actresses will say that acting clumsy and falling believably is not easy. If you can convince people you are clumsy, you are not being dumb, you are using some rare skills.
 Spell almost everything wrong, use abbreviations, write like in every sentence, and write using bubbly big handwriting. You may struggle to keep this up if you have neat hand writing and an ability to use grammar correctly more often than not. You will need to unform all your good writing habits to write in a way that others will perceive as typically "Dumb Blonde". Try reading brand new articles on wikiHow to see what dumb writing is like, in some cases.
 Pronounce almost everything incorrectly, use abbreviations and say like in every sentence. You may struggle to keep this up if you speak well and have an ability to use grammar correctly when speaking more often than not. You will need to unform all your good speaking habits to talk in a way that others will perceive as typically "Dumb Blonde".


Get a group of dumb blonde friends, strength in numbers and all that. Pretending to be a Dumb Blonde in a group of dumb blondes could be more convincing and may hide any inadvertent breaks from character.
 This will be very hard as you will have to ensure simultaneously that you stay in character and watch for any hints from those around that they have seen through your act and may be doubting their perception of you as a Dumb Blonde.
 Be careful here, no witty comments, no double entendres, no speaking French - flirt in a way that will keep up your dumb blonde persona. If you actually like the guy, this could be really tricky. Feel free to break character if you want to get to know someone better. Equally, break character and diss any charmless fools who think that they can get one over on any woman who happens to be blonde and not meet their intelligence standards.
 Other people who are shallow and dumb, who will be the easiest ones to convince you are a Dumb Blonde, will be convinced you are a Dumb Blonde if you say these are your ambitions. Anyone of normal intelligence doesn't believe only dumb blondes become models so choose a more suitable ambition for your dumb blonde persona.
 When you do something ditzy, which you'll do all the time, giggle or say something cute like 'Oh poo!'

, You're bubbly and dumb now, and that's how they act. This could make your face muscles sore but on the plus side it might reduce wrinkles in later life, and, smiling burns more calories than frowning which you may see as a bonus.
 If the stupid, girly, bubbliness doesn't come to you yet, keep at it till you can act dumb blonde almost as easily as you can be yourself. Try to really get into character and Make yourself believe you are a dumb blonde, this is who you always are around those you want to convince, they'll believe it's what you have always been.
 In a quiet, every day situations, talk in a higher pitch. Do this until your voice is girly enough for your dumb blonde persona. Aim to imitate Venus Angelic if you like.
 Go as far as, unless it's fashion or makeup, you can't focus on it if you wish.

