 You can make a basic striped bracelet using 6 strands of embroidery thread. You will use some of the methods outlined in the basic thread bracelet above to make a more elaborate design. To begin, gather your supplies.


You'll need either a safety pin or tape to secure the thread while you're working.You'll also need scissors for cutting the thread.You'll need embroidery thread, which you can buy at a craft store. Pick six different colors you like., Once you have your supplies together, you'll be able to begin the process. First, you have to cut the embroidery thread.


Cut 12 strands of thread in your different colors. Strands should be about 24 inches (61 cm) each. Make sure you have 2 sets of each of the six colors you chose.Combine the thread by tying a knot towards the end of the strands, leaving at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) of slack. You'll need these 3 inches (7.6 cm) later when you're finishing up your bracelet.In order to work with your thread, you'll need to secure it. There are two ways you can do this. You can tape the knot to a flat surface, like a table. You can also use a safety pin to pin the knot down on a pillow., Now you have to arrange your threads. You'll have to do so in a way that creates a mirror image. This helps create the stripe design.


Separate your threads, placing six strands of the different colors on each side. Then, move them in such a way that the colors mirror each other.If this is confusing, look at this example. On your left side, moving from the outermost thread to the innermost thread, you have red, then orange, then lavender, then green, then yellow, then blue. On your right side, the innermost thread would be blue. Blue would be followed by yellow, then green, then lavender, then orange, and ending on a red thread., To begin, you would start with the outermost thread on your left side. In the example above, that would be the red thread. You would take the red thread and make a forward knot over the second outermost color. In our example, the second outermost color is orange. If you do not remember how to make a forward knot, see Step 3 of Method 1.
 Using your outermost thread, move inward. Continue to make forward knots over each color until you reach the thread in the middle. In our example, this would be the blue thread. Make sure to remember to knot twice when making forward knots., Once you're finished with the left side, you can move to the outermost thread on the right. The process is mostly the same. You're moving the outermost color inwards towards the middle thread. However, you'll be using what are called backwards knots instead of forward knots.


Once again, you'll lay the outermost thread on top of the thread next to it. In our example, this means placing the red thread on the right over the orange thread on the right.Loop the red thread under the orange thread. This time, move downward when you loop the thread, moving away from the knot holding your strands of thread together. Pull tight into a knot. As with a forward knot, knot twice.As you did on the left side, continue moving inward with your outermost thread. Make two backwards knots with each color on the right side until you reach the innermost thread. In our example, this would be the blue thread.
 In the middle, you'll have two stands of the same color. In our example, there are two blue strands in the middle. Once you've finished knotting the left and right side, tie these middle strands together. Use a backwards knot, outlined above, to do so., After you've knotted the first outermost color, a new thread should emerge as the outermost color on each side. In our example, orange would become the new outermost color. Repeat the above process with the orange thread.


Start on the left side. Use forward knots, remembering to knot twice, to tie the orange thread with all the other colors.
On the right side, use the orange thread to tie backwards knots with all the other colors. Remember to knot twice.
When you reach the center, tie the two innermost strands of thread together using a backwards knot.
Repeat this process until you've knotted all the strands of thread together. You should have a nice, simple striped pattern by the end of the process., When you're done merging all the threads, tie a tight knot on the end of the bracelet. Braid the remaining strands together. Remove the tape or the pin from the other end. Braid these strands together as well. You've made a simple, striped pattern bracelet out of thread.