 Before you sit down to create your page, get a feel for the kind of site you want to have. This will enable you to have a clear image of what you want when selecting a platform.


The sky is the limit for site potential, but common ideas include blogs (lifestyle, humor, artwork, and so on), photo galleries, news sources, tutorials, or any combination thereof.;
, Once you know what you want your site to be about, find a relevant platform. WordPress and Tumblr are two of the most widely-used platforms for free websites, with WordPress powering over 65% of all websites on the Internet for both small and large companies to meet most general requirements.


Some platforms, like Tumblr, specialize in visual content; others, like WordPress, are more writing-centric.
Some platforms allow you to create a custom .com URL for free, but most free platforms require their name to come before the ".com" (for example, www.yourwebsite.yourplatform.com).
Tech-savvy users may prefer platforms such as Joomla and Drupal for their customization capabilities, but most prefer easy-to-use platforms like WordPress.
 Most platforms will require you to log in with an email address and a password. Make sure you select an active email account so that you don't miss any updates.


Most platforms will send you a confirmation email; depending on your email provider, this email may be in your spam folder. Click the confirm button in the email to lock in your account.
 After you've created your account, it's time to pick a theme. Your theme determines aspects of your site such as layout, persuasion--for example, photo- or script-oriented--and the general aesthetic of your website. Choose a theme that best reflects your content intentions.


For example, a minimalist theme with a heavy emphasis on visual media is great for a photo portfolio, whereas a visually-stunning text-only theme works well as a news source.
 After you've chosen your basic theme, you can tailor certain aspects such as font, the color of the writing, and the heading to your liking. If your platform allows it, you can also determine the URL of your site and similar mechanics.


If you're tech-savvy enough, most sites will allow you to access basic HTML editing for extensive customization purposes.
 Once your site is customized to your liking, it's time to start fleshing it out with content. Most professional sites go for a balance of written content and visual media, so be creative!

