 Brush your teeth, use mouthwash, and floss daily - twice a day. Also, try chewing sugar-free gum after meals. You don't want to smile at your crush (or anyone else) with some cabbage in your teeth. Have a packet of mint gum nearby to chew when your breath isn't great! Get braces if you have to, and don't be ashamed to wear them - you'll be the one smiling in the future with lovely teeth when your braces come off!;
, Deodorant is probably a healthier choice than antiperspirant since there is no aluminium in deodorant, but antiperspirant works better and is easier to find. A bit of perfume is great as long as it isn't strong and it gives off a nice scent. For perfume, try some celebrity scents that aren't cheap (for example, you could try Justin Bieber's Girlfriend perfume or Taylor Swift's Wonderstruck perfume) or you could try something from a beauty shop (for example Bath & Body Works or The Body Shop). These types of shops are also great for finding deodorant without aluminum in it.
 It might not seem like it matters much, but being in shape and being healthy makes a huge difference. It's not as hard as it seems. Make sure you eat healthy foods, and stay away from fatty/sugary foods, eat lots of veggies and fruits, and exercise at least 30-60 minutes a day. After doing a good cardio workout, like running, for 30 minutes you raise your heart rate which puts your body in "fat burning mode". Try to burn more calories than you eat a day, and make sure you never skip a meal. It makes your body take muscle tissue into your metabolism and makes you store fat, making your metabolism run slowly resulting in weight gain. Also, after a cardio workout (dancing, running, kickboxing etc), try a mild strengthening workout, like yoga or pilates, but not something intense like weightlifting.
 Use shampoo and conditioner at least 2-3 times a week. On the days you can, let your hair get greasy. This sounds gross but the natural oils are really good for your hair. However, when your hair is greasy, pull it back into a ponytail and/or wear a hat or large headband/hairband so that your hair looks a little bit nicer.
 It's a good idea, if you're doing any facial hair removal, to go get it professionally done. For best results with shaving, exfoliate your legs first, towel dry, then cover legs in shaving foam (lots of it!) and shave. Be careful not to get into the habit of over-shaving (shaving every day, for instance) as it will just make the hair grow back thicker and it'll end up being a huge hassle. Plus, you'll probably accidentally cut yourself while over-shaving.
 You don't have to go to a salon. Just get a nail file and/or nail clippers or manicure scissors. You can shape your nails with a file or clip off uneven parts with the clippers or manicure scissors. If you want a natural look, apply clear nail strengthener to them or a neutral colour like beige, light brown, or pale pink. If you want a funky look, then go for any colour you want, just make sure to fix them if they chip at all. Chipped paint looks terrible. If you want to, try some nail art.
 Stop biting your nails, picking at skin blemishes.
 Seriously! It makes you a lot prettier and approachable. Just make sure your teeth are clean!

, Don't plaster it on, and use neutral colours. Use bold mascara to make your eyes seem bigger. Lip balms and glosses are cute, or use lipstick to achieve a bolder look. If you don't want lip stuff on your lips, you can moisturize with lip chap. Acne is very common with teens, you can cover it up with concealer and foundation. Fit Me or Cover girl works great, and is super cheap! Maybe buy a good, gentle face wash to help clear it up.
 Don't wear really tight clothes if you're a little bigger, and not wear really baggy clothes that fall off either. Make sure your clothes are clean and tidy. If they have stains or holes (unless they are those famous "ripped jeans") just throw them out. Don't wear the same outfit two days in a row and make sure all of your clothes are clean and wrinkle-less.
 Yep, that's a bit clichéd, but it's the truth! Being yourself will make you look even more beautiful.

Remember, confidence is the key and when your confident it will make you feel more beautiful than what you already are!