 The only way you can have confidence in relationships is if you have in yourself first and foremost. Follow the steps in Part 1 and try to build your own self-confidence. If you believe in your own self-value, that's part of the journey to building more confidence in your relationships. In addition, try spending constructive time alone with yourself and finding satisfaction and fulfillment in that; read a book, go for a walk, or do some exercise. You'll tap more into yourself and what you want and can then bring this into your relationships with others.


Remember that developing healthy self-esteem is an important part of having a successful romantic relationship. In a study of 287 young adults, researchers found that those with higher self-esteem, which includes confidence in one’s appearance and personality, were more likely to have successful romantic relationships.If your confidence has recently taken a hit due to a bad relationship or breakup, take time to recover. Many studies have been reported that divorce and separation can have an adverse effect on your mental and physical health, including heightened stress and anxiety as well as the increased likelihood of developing alcohol abuse problems, diabetes, and heart conditions. It's not easy when relationships end, but you can recover from an ended relationship by taking time to emotionally work through it and move forward., We can't change the past; however, we can change how we view the past, both its good and bad components. Try to think about your past relationships and how these might affect your present outlook. This will help you learn to cope with your romantic past without letting it define you.For example, maybe you had an ex who cheated on you in the past. Rather than blame yourself or carry the burden of the relationship on your shoulders for forever, instead think about how this experience has reduced your ability to trust potential partners easily and how you're always waiting for the other shoe to drop. Simply knowing about the relationship areas in which you lack confidence will help you overcome them.
 Once you've "mourned" a prior relationship and have taken time to regroup and recover, you'll be better able to show some perspective and see that one end is another beginning. Think about that whole wide world of people out there; this is an opportunity, rather than something to be afraid of. There really are plenty of fish in the sea.You'll also realize that your romantic past isn't a reflection of who you are, but of bigger situations involving other people and factors (such as third-parties, long-distance, incompatibility, etc.). Relationships are not who you are, but something you engage in. When things don't work out, though you may feel to blame at the time, a little time and perspective will help you realize that there are lots of reasons things didn't work out and that you are not fundamentally at fault.
 Try something new to meet new people and build your confidence. Sign up for a free online dating service or just go out and try to meet people at parties, events, markets, and classes. Be confident and don't fear rejection. You might be surprised at how easy it is to strike up a conversation with someone you've just met.


It's particularly scary for many women to approach men because this isn't traditionally how relationships were initiated. However, this is the twenty-first century! If you're a woman who's scoffing at the idea of initiating, don't. This is a chance to increase your romantic confidence; you should take it, and you might be surprised with the results! Remember, if you'd don't try, you'll never know how things may have turned out.
You don't have to date everyone or try everything. Instead, be selective. Enjoy the company and affections of people you're attracted to and interested in, and to remind yourself that you still bring a lot to the table in a relationship.
 Don't pretend to be someone you're not and put on a show for others of being something like you're really not. Everyone is human and has vulnerabilities and flaws. Let these shine through in your interactions with others and strip away any pretenses. For example, if you like someone, don't pretend to "play it cool" by being hard to get and not expressing interest. Instead, put yourself out there and tell the person that you're really excited to be there with them. Being real, genuine, and letting down your guard is REAL confidence. In turn, this will help you open yourself up to real connections with people.In addition, learn how to express concerns and insecurities. When trying to deal with and combat the insecurities that seep into a relationship, you should always be honest with yourself and then with your partner. Honesty really is the best policy. Put a name on and verbalize what you're feeling. Being open IS being confident.