 Always start with steaks fresh out of the fridge that are not frozen. When choosing a surface, keep in mind not all surfaces can be properly sanitized.


When it comes to working in the kitchen, many cutting boards cannot be properly sanitized after contact with meat products. If you feel strongly about using natural fibre boards such as bamboo, keep a separate board to use only with meat products.Otherwise, plastic or glass cutting boards can be safely sanitized after contact with meat.Choose cutting boards not only for material, but also for sturdiness. When pounding out steak, large amounts of force may be used. A thin, glass cutting board may not be the best option for housing your steaks while the mallet is used.
 The plastic cover atop the steak has two functions: prevention of cross contamination, and loss of juices. Keeping your steak properly wrapped will minimize the contact between meat juices and cutting board.When covering your meat with plastic wrap, keep in mind that it will expand in surface area after pounding. Ensure there is enough space for your meat to spread out once you start using the mallet., Pound rhythmically, starting from the middle and working out.Rather than using excess force, apply firm but effective pounds, adding a small outwards push to the end. Proper use of the mallet will keep your steak looking plump and attractive, rather than skinny and worn down. Work over the entire surface of the steak, flip it over, and start again.


Don’t have a mallet? No problem. Try using a heavy cast iron pan, rolling pin or wine bottle.Know what side of the mallet to use. The spiky, triangular side of the meat mallet is the primary tenderizer.By poking holes in the meat, the fibres are torn apart and when heat is applied, the meat will become significantly more tender.The flat side of the hammer is responsible for thin cutlets is used to make a cutlet thinner, allowing for more efficient cooking.After using a meat mallet, your meat may look slightly defeated. Try breading or adding a topping to help hide this.

