 In most cleft palate cases, the defect is hereditary and present at birth. You might notice a visible cleft or gap when a kitten opens its mouth, or notice signs such as difficulty suckling, milk bubbles at the nostrils, poor weight gain, and respiratory infection. Bring the cat to a vet for an examination if you suspect or detect a cleft palate.The vet will give you more information about the scope and severity of the cleft.;
, If the cleft is merely a cosmetic issue, you can manage it by feeding your pet blenderized cat food, also called a cat food slurry, or soft wet food. You should also monitor for signs of respiratory distress. However, most minor clefts, or small gaps in the hard palate, require surgery. Extensive clefts that affect both the hard and soft palates are more difficult to treat with surgery.Ask, “How extensive is the cleft? Is corrective surgery an option and, if so, what are the chances of recovery and maintaining a good quality of life?”
Unfortunately, some cases of cleft palate are not treatable, and a vet might recommend euthanasia.
 If your cat is a good candidate for surgery, it’s vital to find a board certified surgeon who has performed successful corrective operations in the past. There’s a limited amount of oral tissue that can be used to correct the gap, so the first attempt will have the best chances of success.Ask the primary vet to recommend a local, board certified veterinary surgeon. You can also use the search tool on the website of the American College of Veterinary Surgeons., Surgery costs vary depending on the scope of the cleft and location. However, you should expect to pay up to three thousand dollars (US). You should also account for follow-up care, including pain medications and antibiotics, which could cost hundreds more.Even after successful correction, the cat will most likely have a higher risk of developing respiratory infections that require antibiotics.
Pet insurers typically don’t cover congenital cleft palates, which they define as preexisting conditions. On the other hand, if your cat is already insured and develops a cleft palate due to a traumatic injury, the insurer will likely cover treatment., Scheduling surgery to correct a congenital cleft palate takes a bit of finesse, but it should occur at three to four months of age. It can’t be performed too early, since the kitten’s teeth and mouth are still growing. However, it should occur as soon as possible, since pneumonia and other cleft-related complications can be life threatening.The board certified veterinary surgeon will help you decide the best time to schedule surgery.
If the cleft is due to a traumatic injury, it should be corrected as soon as possible.
 A kitten with a cleft palate will likely have difficulty nursing normally and will need to be bottle or tube fed. If the kitten has a suckling reflex and bottle feeding is possible, use a specially designed long nipple. This will reduce the amount of milk that passes through the cleft into the nasal cavity.You should feed a kitten every two hours around the clock.
After three to four weeks of bottle feeding, you can wean the kitten onto soft, blended food.
 If the kitten can’t suckle or if the cleft prevents it from eating after being weaned, you’ll need to tube feed it. Lubricate the feeding tube, gently insert it into the kitten’s mouth, and slide it down the esophagus until the indicator mark is lined up with the kitten’s nose. You then use a syringe to inject food into the external end of the tube.The vet can help you acquire a suitable feeding tube and lubricant and show you how to use it.
If you don’t have experience with a stomach feeding tube or aren’t comfortable with it, the vet can place an esophagostomy tube, or E-tube, through a small incision in the neck. You’ll only need to inject food into the tube rather than inserting a tube each time you feed your cat., An overhead dispenser, also called a water bottle, will help limit the amount of water that leaks through the cleft into the nasal passage. While they’re most often associated with rodents, overhead dispensers are also used for kittens and puppies.You can find an overhead water dispenser online or at a pet store.
 Bring your cat to the vet immediately if you suspect it is experiencing respiratory distress. Food and saliva make its way through the cleft into the nasal passage, so the cat is prone to life-threatening respiratory illnesses. If you elect not to have the cleft surgically repaired, you’ll need to monitor it closely for signs of distress for the rest of its life. Signs of distress include:Wheezing or labored breathing
Coughing, or sneezing
Clear or colored nasal discharge
Fever

, The cat won’t be able to eat anything for at least twelve hours prior to the corrective cleft palate surgery. Unless otherwise directed, you should still make sure it has access to water.Ask the board certified veterinary surgeon if there are any other preoperative actions you should take.
 Following surgery, the cat will be hospitalized for one to two days. When you take it home, you might have to give it pain medication, anti-inflammatories, and antibiotics. Be sure to administer all medications according to the surgeon’s instructions, and bring your cat to all follow-up appointments., An Elizabethan collar, or E-collar, is the cone that’s placed around a pet’s neck after most surgeries. This will prevent the cat from pawing at the surgical site.If the cat paws at the surgical site, the corrective graft and sutures might fail.
 The cat will need to be fed soft, blenderized food via an E-tube for two to four weeks. When you bring the cat in for a follow-up visit, the surgeon will let you know if the graft was successful. If so, they will likely remove the tube and advise you to feed the cat normally.Avoid hard food and toys for at least one month after surgery.
 There will still be a risk of pneumonia and other respiratory infections, especially while the surgical site heals. Keep an eye out for signs of illness and contact a vet if your cat shows any concerning symptoms.Since oral tissues will be swollen after surgery, snoring or difficult breathing are common, but they should go away on their own. Contact the vet or surgeon if you notice coughing, sneezing, or nasal discharge.

