 In order to make your smoothie into a drinkable smoothie, you’ll need to add a liquid. This part of the smoothie is extremely flexible. You can add just about any type of liquid you like. You can use any type of milk (e.g. dairy milk, soy milk, almond milk, coconut milk, etc.), water (coconut water works great, too), or even juice if you want to.


Using a type of milk will make the smoothie more creamy, and water will make it thinner.Start by adding 3/4 of a cup of the liquid of your choice to the smoothie. If you want the smoothie to be thinner, you can add a bit more liquid.
 If you want to add a little extra sweetness to your smoothie, you can 1 or 2 dried and pitted dates, a spoonful of agave nectar, a bit of honey, or even a dash of maple syrup.Simply add the sweetener of choice into the blender.


If you don’t need the extra sweetness or are trying to keep the sugar content as low as possible, you can always leave these out.
 Choose a protein and add 1/4 cup of the ingredient to the blender. Some examples of good protein sources include Greek yogurt, any type of nut butter (peanut butter, almond butter, cashew butter, etc.), raw cashews, powdered milk, or even silken tofu. Adding tofu may sound strange, but it won’t add a whole lot in terms of flavor (so your protein smoothie isn’t going to taste like tofu), and it is a great source of protein.If you want to use cashews, try soaking them overnight in water. This will make them softer and they will blend better.
You may be tempted to use a protein powder for this step, and you can do that if you want to; however, you should be aware that many protein powders contain potentially dangerous heavy metals such as arsenic, lead, mercury, and/or cadmium. Additionally, protein powder often supplies more protein than you really need., Consider this an extra boost for your shake. They won’t add much in terms of flavor, but they will add extra protein and may make the shake more creamy. Examples of things you can include are: flax seeds, chia seeds, whole oats, or hemp hearts.For each protein booster you choose to add, add about 1 tablespoon.
 Now that you’ve got your sources of protein, you can add any fruits and vegetables you like. Try adding 2 cups (~500 mL) spinach to turn your smoothie into a healthy meal, or just a large handful for a small boost with less effect on flavor. Adding frozen fruit will help make your smoothie refreshing. Any fruit that you enjoy will work: raspberries, strawberries, mangoes, nectarines, peaches, blueberries, blackberries, and so on.


If you like peanut butter and bananas, consider adding a frozen banana to your smoothie and use a nut butter as your protein. This will turn your smoothie into a creamy and tasty treat.
Adding half an avocado may sound strange, but it won’t change the flavor much. It will, however, make your smoothie extra creamy.
If you don’t have anything frozen to put in your smoothie, consider adding a handful of ice cubes before blending. If everything in your ingredients is at room temperature, your smoothie will be too.
 Now that you’ve got all the necessary ingredients to make your protein smoothie, all you have to do is blend it all together. Be sure to place the lid on securely. Blend until all the ingredients are blended smoothly together.


If your smoothie isn’t blending well and seems to be sort of stuck in the blender, try adding a bit more of your liquid of choice or water, then stir it with a spoon a bit before resuming blending.

