 Don’t beat around the bush when you have a problem with your coworker. It is usually easier to address the problem as soon as it comes up, rather than stew over it or get someone else involved.Be informal about it the first time you address the person. You could say, “Hey, Jack, I’ve been noticing that you’ve been returning the truck almost on empty lately. Could you remember to bring it back with a full tank next time?”
If the behavior continues after you have informally addressed your concern, you may need to ask your supervisor to intervene. Follow your company’s rules on handling employee conflict resolution.;
, It is important to listen to your coworkers needs respectfully and to try to see their point of view. It is also important to express yourself in a respectful manner. When discussing issues with a coworker, make sure you don’t make them feel defensive when you speak to them. You can do this by using “I” statements. The other person hears your reactions to the situation, not your accusations.Instead of saying, “We are always waiting on you to get your portion of the work done,” you could use “I” language and say, “When the work isn’t in on time, I get really stressed out. I end up needing to work later to get caught up. So it’s really helpful to me if everyone can get the project back on the agreed-upon day.”
You could say, “While I appreciate feedback, your comment on my work the other day felt very personal and upset me.”

, You may or may not get along well with your supervisor, but keep the lines of communication open between the two of you as best you can. Remember that it is part of your boss’ responsibility to ensure that you are in an environment that enables you to get your work done, so do not feel like you need to keep concerns from them.Remember that you and your boss do not need to be friends, you just need to be able to work together. (This goes for all of your coworkers, too.) It’s okay to maintain a professional distance from the person if you don’t really care for them.
If you are having a difficult time communicating and getting along with your boss, you may wish to bring your concerns to your HR department or, if you don’t have an HR department, talk to your boss’ supervisor. You could say, “Ms. Jones, I’m coming to you because I’ve been having some problems working with Mr. Roberts lately. I’m hoping you can help me figure out what to do.”
If your boss doesn’t have a boss (for example, they run a small business), and you are having a difficult time working with them, it may be best you begin looking for another job.
 If you are dealing with a coworker bullying or harassing you, be sure you are keeping track of all incidents with that person. Record the date, time, what happened, and if there were any witnesses.Be sure to find out what your employer’s protocol is in dealing with coworker conflict, bullying, and/or harassment. Your employee handbook or human resources representative would be a good source of information.
Research laws protecting your rights when you are being bullied or harassed by a coworker.
 You spend a lot of time with the same group of people at work; why not get to know some of them better? Try to make some good connections with others, and develop a network of friends who can help you through your work (and life) frustrations.Spend your lunch break with your coworkers and get to know them better away from work.
Spend a few minutes chatting with your coworkers each day.
Invite them to get together after work. You could say, “Would you like to grab dinner after work tomorrow?” This can be a good way to get to know your colleagues better. If you feel comfortable doing so, then you might even invite them to happy hour with you to grab a drink after work.
 If you and a coworker are disagreeing on how a project needs to proceed, refuse to take the disagreement personally. Instead, look at the conflict as an opportunity to learn from the other person.You could say, “Kristin, I have to admit that I don’t understand your approach. Could you tell me more about why you want to go in this direction?”
Avoid getting personal when giving feedback to a colleague. For example, it would be better to say, “I think we need more detail in this section,” rather than “If you hadn’t waited until the last minute to get this in, you could have given us more information.”

