 Finding a safe, quiet space is good for both you and him. It will make both of you feel more comfortable and open than if you were in front of other people. If you want to have friends there to help you feel more comfortable, make sure you don’t make him feel attacked. Don’t gang up on him, or he is likely to shut you out.


Talk to him directly, rather than over the phone. This will cause him to answer quickly and directly. If you discuss it with him over the phone, he has leverage and can respond at his leisure, promoting negative conflict management., Either with a close friend, a pet, or in the mirror, prepare the first few minutes of the conversation. This can be an awkward moment for your guy and if he feels attacked, misled, or ambushed, you’ll want to stay direct and emotionally neutral. This will help him feel more comfortable in opening up to you.


”I feel like you’ve been angry at me about something, and I’ve been thinking about what. Can we clear the air?”
”Lately, I feel like we haven’t been the same. I’ve noticed you shutting me out, are you angry about something?”
”Is something bothering you? You’ve been acting differently lately and I would love to help you.”

, Do not escalate the emotional level of the conversation by showing inconsistent feelings. Stay positive and consistent to keep the conversation flowing. Remind him that you’re concerned about him and that you want to help him through any conflicts he might be feeling.
 Show you care by using positive eye contact and by talking with your hands. Occasionally touching his hand or shoulder will encourage him to be more open. Avoid rolling your eyes at all costs! He will take this as annoyance on your part and can make him more upset with you., If he is mad, it is important that you don’t get defensive. Be prepared to apologize for any mistakes you have made. You’ve put him on the spot and asked him to be open to sharing his anger with you, denying it or becoming aggressive may close this window in future conversations.

