 The Slide Over feature, which allows you to keep one app in a sidebar with another full-screen, requires an iPad Air, iPad Air 2, iPad Pro, iPad Mini 2, iPad Mini 3, or the iPad Mini 4. All other older models do not support Slide Over., You'll need to be running iOS 9 or later in order to use the Slide Over feature. You can check for updates in the "General" section of the Settings app, or by connecting your iPad to your computer and launching iTunes. See Update iOS for more details.
 This is the app that will be the main app you have open.
 Start with your finger on the right bezel and slide it left across your screen to pull the sidebar out.
 You can scroll up and down the list to view the different apps you can open in the sidebar. Not all apps will support this mode.
 This will let you select a different app to open in the sidebar. When you open the sidebar on subsequent uses, the last-used app will appear instead of the app menu.
 You can also close it by dragging the bar on the left side of the sidebar off the right side of the screen.
 Split View allows you to run two apps side-by-side, and requires the newest iPad models. You'll need to be using either an iPad Pro, and iPad Air 2, or an iPad Mini 4 to use this feature. All other older iPad models will not work with Split View.Your iPad Air 2 will need to be updated to iOS 9. You can do this from the "General" section of the Settings app, or by connecting your iPad to your computer and launching iTunes. The iPad Pro and Mini 4 come with iOS 9 installed, and don't need an upgrade to access this feature.
 Even though you'll be in split-view mode, one app is still the primary app. Launch any app as you normally would., Place your finger on the bezel on the right side of the screen and slide it in left to open the Slide Over sidebar., The sidebar will display an app menu, or the last app you used in Split View mode., Touch and drag the bar on the left side of the sidebar towards the center of the screen. This will change from Slide Over mode to Split View mode., You can drag the center bar to resize the Split View windows. In Portrait mode, you can only do a 60/40 split of the main app and the Split View app. If you're in Landscape mode, you can select between 70/30 and 50/50., You can change the primary app on your screen by using traditional methods, such as returning to the Home screen and picking a new one, or double-tapping the Home button to view recent apps., This will open the list of apps that support Split View. Not all apps have Split View support yet, so you may not find the app you're looking for in the list., You can drag the bar all the way to the right to close the secondary app, or you can drag the bar all the way to the left to make the secondary app the primary open app., This feature allows you to keep a video playing in a small window while you use other apps. Only 64-bit iPad models support PiP, which include the following: iPad Air, iPad Air 2, iPad Pro, iPad Mini 2, iPad Mini 3, or the iPad Mini 4.
 You'll need to be running iOS 9.0 or later in order to use the PiP feature. You can check for updates in the "General" section of the Settings app, or by connecting your iPad to your computer and opening iTunes. The iPad Pro and iPad Mini 4 come with iOS 9 already installed.
 Not all apps support PiP mode. You can use the Videos app on your device, use PiP for FaceTime conversation, or use PiP for any video you play in Safari. You can also use some third-party apps like Hulu, but other third-party apps like Netflix and Youtube do not support the feature.
 The video will need to be open and playing (or paused) in order to switch to Picture in Picture. You may need to be in full-screen mode to see the PiP button.
 This will move the video to the PiP window. If you don't see a PiP button and the video doesn't pop out when you press the Home button, the app does not support PiP.
 You can place it anywhere on the screen that you'd like.
 You can move two fingers apart to make the window bigger, or pinch them together to make the window smaller.
 The pop-up window will close and the video will be restored to the app's video player.