 One quick and easy way to stir things up is to change the way you dress. This can include items you wear during the day to work or out to social activities, as well as what you wear in the bedroom or to sleep at night. Wear clothes that energize you and that you feel attractive in.Also choose clothes that you know your partner likes.


Buy new lingerie that makes you feel attractive and pampered.
Surprise your partner by being skimpily dressed or naked when they return from work or get out the shower.
If you are used to wearing more baggy clothes, try something a little more form-fitting so your partner can enjoy getting to see your shape.
 In the beginning of your relationship, you may have tried setting the stage for romance. Get back to that excited feeling you had while dating and create a romantic atmosphere for you and your partner. Putting in the effort will show your partner you are committed to increasing the intimacy and reconnecting. Try the following to add a little more romance into your time together.Have soft, warm, and low light by dimming lamps or using candles.
Play slow, romantic, or sexy music to set the mood.
Stimulate the sense with scented candles, perfume, or room scents.
 Changing up your routine and doing things together allows you to step out of your comfort zone, adds excitement, and increases intimacy in your relationship.Try something altogether new, or take a normal task that you would typically do alone and complete it together.


Shower together and apply soap or shampoo for each other. If you are feeling bold, have sex in the shower together.
Exercise together. Exercise is beneficial not only to your health, but will also increase blood flow and flexibility in both you and your partner.Get competitive with an activity like tennis, rock climbing, or even with games at an arcade., If you or your partner travel frequently or are often spending time apart, trying some of the other suggestions may be difficult. Instead try and explore any connections you have available, such as phone sex. Phone sex can be challenging, but it can also increase your communication and connection with your partner. It can additionally provide you with the opportunity to talk about fantasies or things you might be nervous about trying in person.Try the following.


Start by talking to your partner over the phone about routine activities, while he/she is at work or away from home. Do this in small bits through the course of the day.
Occasionally, add in some hints about how you are dressed at the moment or what thought just crossed your mind about your partner.
Have longer conversations about fantasies that you have with your partner.
Read erotica out loud together.
 Another suggestion to being spontaneous and trying something new can be to add food into your sex life. It sounds messy, but using food can be very arousing for you and your partner. Consider foods that are aphrodisiacs, or foods that cause an arousing physiological response, such as dark chocolate.Think of new and interesting ways to incorporate food into your time with your partner.


Bring their favorite dessert and feed it to them.
Try strawberries, cream, and champagne for a pampered luxurious vibe.
Purchase and use edible body paint.
 Try to make sex a different experience every time you have it by trying role play. Role play is simply, the act of taking on a role, pretending to be other people, or pretending to be somewhere you are not.Role play gives you the opportunity to bring excitement into your relationship, try things you haven't before, and a freedom to get a little wild if you want.


Pretend to be a masseuse and client. Act like you do not know each other and are meeting for the first time for your client's massage appointment.
Try being a magician's assistant. It might involve blindfolds, handcuffs, or scarves.
Discover power play. Start with little playful fights while in bed, ending in you overpowering your partner or vice versa. If you are comfortable, try giving one partner total control.
Agree on sessions where, during an agreed upon amount of time, you or your partner gets to be "spoiled," or ask for whatever they want, within both of your comfort zones.