 By reading an employee's self-appraisal, you can learn a lot about the employee's self-perception, the additional duties he takes on that you may not have observed, and any aspects of his job in which he takes particular pride. Use this as a tool when you prepare to write the performance appraisal.;
,


Read past email communications between you and the employee. Make notes about positive and negative situations covered the emails. Make observations about the employee's overall communication style.
Analyze reports provided by the employee explaining project results or statuses. Take notes concerning the value provided by her communication style and reporting abilities.
Peruse memos provided by the employee in regard to his attempts to communicate with you or the whole department.



Determine the current status of quantifiable goals or objectives. Goals that have been met or exceeded should result in positive feedback in the appraisal. Objectives that failed to be met should be addressed by negative feedback.
Reflect on qualitative goals. Qualitative goals are not quantifiable and may include objectives like improving customer service, broadening communication and expanding computer skills. Analyze whether the qualitative goals have been met by the employee.



Note any over-use of sick leave, if the employee is not known to have any health problems.
Question repetitive tardiness if it is apparent in an employee's attendance records.
 Address any issues if you observe the employee is not fulfilling her job description. Give positive feedback to an employee who goes the extra mile to exceed her job expectations.



Ask members of other departments to provide information about the employee's reliability.
Question other department heads about the employee's cooperation and willingness to work as part of a team, if applicable.



Address positive and negative issues regarding an employee's attendance record.
Comment on the employee's leadership skills and abilities, including whether he takes initiative, serves as a role model for other employees and provides solutions toward goals and objectives.
Give feedback about the employee's job knowledge and whether she is meeting expectations.
Provide comments concerning an employee's communication skills with you and others.
Write about the employee's time management skills in accordance to getting his work done and meeting objectives.
 Early presentation helps decrease the tension caused by negative feedback.

