 Before you commit to undergoing any type of surgery to make your boobs bigger, speak to your doctor or a plastic surgeon. She can inform you of the risks and benefits of surgical procedures.Tell your doctor your goals for the surgery to help you develop realistic expectations for the procedure.Ask questions you have about the surgery, risks, complications, and after-care.Answer any questions the doctor has for you about your expectations and medical history.
 There are a couple of different types of surgical augmentation for boobs. Learning about them can help you and your doctor make the right decision for you.You can have the following types of breast augmentation:


Silicone implants, which are pre-filled and placed under the breast tissue and mimic the feel of human fat. Silicone implants are available to any woman over the age of 22 and any woman of any age for breast reconstruction.Saline implants, which are also placed under the breast tissue but are not pre-filled. Once in place, they’re filled with sterile salt water. Saline implants are available to any woman over 18 and anyone for breast reconstruction.Fat grafting, which takes fat from another part of the body such as the thigh, and then injected into your breasts.It can take 4-6 sessions to achieve the results you want with fat grafting., No surgery is risk-free, and breast augmentation can come with significant risk. Learning about these risks can help you decide if surgery is the right decision for you.Some of the risks include:


Development of scar tissue that can distort the shape of your implant and breast
Pain
Infection
Changes in sensation to the nipples and breasts
Leakage or rupture of the implant.Reabsorption of injected fat cells and loss of breast volume over time
Stimulation of dormant breast cancer cells by injecting fat cells
Necrosis, or dying, of some of the breast tissue., After speaking to your doctor and learning about the risks, make a decision about having surgery. Read any documentation related to the surgery and consider other factors related to surgery before making your final decision. Think about:


Sagging, which breast implants won’t prevent
Durability, because breast implants can’t last a lifetime
Complicated mammograms or routine MRIs because of implants
Potential inability to breast-free
Cost, because most insurance won’t cover augmentation unless it’s medically necessary.The average cost is $3,708., If you’ve decided to have breast augmentation surgery, schedule the procedure for a convenient time. Make sure to get any pre-surgical testing and follow post-op instructions.Get a mammogram before the surgery if your doctor suggests it.Stop smoking before the surgery. Your doctor will let you know how long you should avoid smoking.Avoid medications before surgery that can increase bleeding, such as aspirin.Arrange for someone to drive you home from the hospital.Ask questions about post-op care if necessary and schedule follow-up visits with your doctor. Make sure to follow any instructions your doctor gives your for caring for your implants.