


Do you hope to lose weight, increase strength, tone muscles or increase cardiovascular health?
When you know your goal, you can customize your program to fit that need.;
,

The most recent recommendations for physical activity published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are included in the latest Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans.
Children and adolescents should be active at least 60 minutes every day, with aerobic activity making up the greatest portion of time. Muscle and bone strengthening activities, such as sit ups and jump roping should be done at least 3 times a week.
Adults need at least 2 hours and 30 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity, such as brisk walking, every week, and muscle-strengthening activities on all major muscle groups, such as weightlifting, 2 or more days per week.






Older adults, more than 65 years of age, need at least 2 hours and 30 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity, such as brisk walking, and muscle-strengthening activities that work on all the major muscle groups 2 or more days each week.



Ask yourself what you enjoy doing so you may choose an activity or activities to which you'll adhere.


Join a gym and follow the recommended aerobic, muscle and bone building time guidelines each week using the gym equipment.
If you prefer a simpler activity solution, take daily walks, bike rides or hikes in your neighborhood or outlying community.


Gyms, community centers and private organizations offer a variety of classes that usually meet several times each week, such as yoga, dance or spinning.






City leagues or other private or nonprofit organizations hold adult recreational leagues throughout the year, such as basketball or soccer.
,


Exercise-themed games such as Wii Fit may be a good start.
Wear a pedometer to keep track of daily step measurements and then set goals to increase your activity.



There are a variety of boot camps in most communities that range in intensity.
You'll be pushed to perform at a maximum capacity.



Trainers can tailor workouts to fit individual needs for special situations, including for those who are pregnant, mending from an injury or surgery, or are physically challenged.



Indoor worker: choose an outdoor activity.
People that do a lot of walking at work should choose a activity like rowing, swimming or stretching on their days off.
Laborers who use their backs, should not do rowing and surfing.
Workers who work independently could do an activity that involves other people like an exercise class or a group sport.
Those with people oriented jobs can take up soul replenishing activities like walking or kayaking.
Those that have physical jobs could do a light activity on their days off like arts and crafts or bridge.
If you have a sedentary job, you should be as active when not at work. Any activity is great like housework, sport, even window shopping.
When your job results in a lot of eye strain, rest your eyes with an activity that does not require fine eyesight.

