 Since solid food is a new experience for your toddler, you should introduce it slowly. Trying to make your child eat too many new, unfamiliar, and daunting foods may result in resistance to eating. When you make foods for your family, introduce one food at a time. Serve it with something you know your child likes.


If your child doesn’t like the new food, be calm. Don’t react negatively, and don’t force your child to eat the new food. Let the child taste it, and try again later.
 Sometimes, a person may not like a food one way but enjoy it prepared a different way. This might be true for your toddler. Before giving up on a food, try preparing and serving it different ways. If you run out of ways to make a food, search the internet for new ideas.For example, if your child doesn’t like cauliflower, try making mashed cauliflower with a little cheese and bacon crumbles. Make sweet potato fries instead of serving a baked sweet potato. Make kale chips. Cook some broccoli tots, or use spaghetti squash in place of pasta or mixed in with a pasta dish.
Offer your child different foods from the same food group. Just because your child doesn’t like one food may not mean they won’t like another similar food.Many food blogs and cookbooks are geared towards parents. These resources can provide you with healthy and kid-friendly recipes.
 Smoothies are not just an after workout snack. They can be great for helping improve the eating habits of toddlers. You can add vegetables and fruits to the smoothies to get your child nutritious and tasty food.Make sure if you make smoothies for your child that you don’t fill it full of unhealthy junk food, like ice cream, sherbet, or sugar-filled yogurt.
Make smoothies with vegetables, like pumpkin, leafy greens, broccoli, peas, or beets. Add fruit for some natural sweetness. Berries and bananas are great in smoothies.
You can also include avocados for healthy fats.
Use low-fat milk, or almond or coconut milk. You can also try plain yogurt or kefir.
 Sometimes, a plain vegetable may not be appealing. Maybe your child likes to touch and play with the food before eating it. Dips and sauces can be helpful in getting your kids to eat vegetables or fruits. Kids love dipping veggies and fruit in sauces, and it adds some additional flavor your child might like.Make sure to offer healthy dipping sauces. Don’t provide dipping sauces with lots of cheese, heavy cream, and fat. Also avoid dipping sauces with too much sugar. You want to supplement the nutrition of the food, not cover it up with fat, sugar, and junk.
Try traditional or vegetable hummus, natural applesauce, mustard, or plain yogurt lightly sweetened with honey.

