 The most common dermatologist-recommended treatment for pimples/acne is salicylic acid treatment at the correct pH between 3 and 4. A BHA, this acid is used to safely kill bacteria and dry up the excess oil that causes a pimple. Look for a spot treatment that advertises a salicylic acid compound, and apply it as soon as you feel a pimple coming on. You can also use a facial soap that contains salicylic acid, to help reduce acne and the formation of more pimples in the future.
 Retinol is a type of Vitamin A complex that is used in drying out zits. Retinol can be a bit strong for sensitive skin, so look for an over-the-counter product before asking your dermatologist for a retinol prescription. Apply the product once daily (or per instructions via the box) until your pimples have disappeared.


When using a retinol product, be sure to apply plenty of moisturizer as it is likely that the skin around your pimple will become very dried out and possibly peel/flake off.
 These sponges gently physically exfoliate skin, helping with skin cell turnover.
 Throughout the day, pollution from the air, sweat, and dirt stick to the skin on your face and make your pimples worse. Wash your face twice daily, and keep cleansing pads/towelettes with you throughout the day. This way, whenever your face feels oily, grimy, or sweaty, you can wipe it off and leave your skin fresh and clean. These are especially handy for after a workout and in hot weather.
 If you’re suffering from deep cystic pimples, you may not be able to get rid of them on your own. Take a trip to your dermatologist and get a steroid injection instead; this will reduce the redness and swelling significantly, and your pimple should disappear much faster than normal. Talk to your dermatologist about other options as well, to keep your pimple gone even weeks after the injection., Another go-to for skin care, benzoyl peroxide is an active ingredient in most acne-fighting medications. Find a spot treatment whose primary ingredient is benzoyl peroxide, and apply it once or twice daily until your pimple has disappeared. It works by drying out the excess oil and killing the bacteria that is clogging your pores.
 One of the primary uses for aspirin is to bring down inflammation and swelling; something it does when applied to a pimple, as well. Another form of salicylic acid, aspirin is a BHA. Grind up one or two aspirin tablets, and add a drop of water to form a paste. Put this directly on your pimple and leave it on for as long as you’re able. Rinse it off with cool water, and your pimple should be nearly gone!

, Similar to aspirin, ice is often used to bring down swelling and redness on the body. Hold an ice cube or an ice pack over your pimple for 20-30 minutes. This will cause the pore to close up, which then causes the excess bacteria and dirt to drain out on its own. Furthermore, it will lose its redness and size, giving your skin a nearly normal texture and appearance. This method may also help if the pimple is causing you pain.

