 Sit down with a notebook and your partner to decide together what sorts of candies you'd like to have at the wedding reception. You'll both have favorites, so take each other's preferences into account when planning. Choices can be based on the wedding couple’s favorites, the color scheme of the wedding, or the way the candies complement the dessert or wedding cake being served. Given the breadth of possibilities, be sure to do the planning of the candy buffet in conjunction with the food planning, reception layout and color choices.


Bear in mind that coordinated candy colors look more effective than a random mismatch of different types of candy.
Consider a centerpiece, such as a chocolate fountain. While it isn't necessary, it's a lot of fun and it might be something of which you've always dreamed!;
, About 7 to 10 different types of candy is a good variety and around 15-20 pounds (7-9 kilograms) of each variety should be enough to cater for a medium-size wedding.Too many candies is not a problem but too few will be! Extra candy can be taken home by the guests as a fun and memorable take-home sweet memento. A good rule of thumb is to order between .2 and .25 pounds of candy per guest. For an event with 100 guest you should plan to have round 20-25 pounds of candy.


Buying candy locally is often less expensive than ordering candy through the mail or online but check the prices, as some discount retailers online might send free of charge or at a very cheap rate. Alternatively, you might like to browse online but then collect the candies direct from the source to save on delivery costs.
 Some dietary considerations should be taken into account when preparing the candy buffet as this might be bad for some people. For those candies that are provided specifically for certain dietary needs, be sure to label them so that all of the guests are aware. Things you might like to consider include:



Gluten-free candies for those with gluten intolerance.

Vegan/vegetarian candies (no gelatin, no animal derivatives, no dairy, etc.)
Sugar-free candies. Not everyone is a fan of sugar but most people still like sweetness. Look for a few sugar-free treats.
Health food crowd and diabetics: Provide a few dried fruits and nuts for those who think candies are only for kids or who cannot eat sugary treats.
 Select containers of varied heights and shapes that match well with the theme and quality of items being used for the reception.


Add tongs and scoops for the guests to use. Many of these items can be hired from catering specialists if your reception venue doesn't already have them. A florist might also be able to assist.
Some couples match the containers with the flower vases., Have paper lunch bags, half-pint takeout containers, cellophane or glassine bags available at the buffet.
 Accentuate the buffet with balloons, ribbons, flowers, and small figurines or other objects that fit in with your wedding theme. Candles are another good choice, and consider adding a few photos from your engagement or from your times as children along the table.


To help guests know what they're choosing, put labels on the containers of candy.
Wrap the containers with ribbon, curling ribbon, and bows.

