 These first signs are vague and non-specific, and include restlessness, fever, lack of energy, and loss of appetite. Sickness and diarrhea usually develop within 24- 48 hours of this.


The incubation period for parvo is 5 - 7 days, but can be as little as 2 days or as many as 20 days.;
, The sickness and diarrhea are severe. People who have experienced a dog with parvovirus remark that the diarrhea has a distinctive smell, not present with other diarrhea. The animals are unable to keep oral fluids down and rapidly become dehydrated due to the severe nature of the vomiting and diarrhea.


The dog will then become toxic and go into shock, meaning it may collapse and lose consciousness., This may be very obvious if your dog is having uncontrolled diarrhea, as is common with parvo. Any dog that starts to pass blood should see a vet without delay. This is especially true for unvaccinated dogs. Call your veterinary clinic immediately and make an appointment for that day.


However, keep the dog isolated because they could pose an infection risk to other dogs. When making the appointment explain to the receptionist the nature of your concern so that the clinic can isolate the dog appropriately.
 Dogs that are too young to have gotten the Parvo vaccine yet are clearly at risk for the disease. Parvo can be devastating to the developing systems of puppies and can kill them easily.


If they are nursed through the acute gastrointestinal phase (sickness and diarrhea) and survive, they may still have life-altering damage to the heart muscle., A dog older than 16 weeks that has received a full initial vaccine course and regular boosters as an adult, should be protected against parvovirus. Thus, it is unlikely (but not impossible) for this dog to get parvo.


However, an unvaccinated dog or a puppy under 16 weeks old is at high risk should they come into contact with parvo.This does not mean that you shouldn't take your dog to the vet right away! A dog that is vomiting and having bloody diarrhea should be seen by a veterinarian immediately.
 It is very, very important to start treatment for parvovirus as quickly as possible. Quick treatment can save your dog's life, while delayed treatment puts it in danger.


In many cases with puppies, parvo can not be caught early enough to save the puppy's life. This is one of the most devastating aspects of the disease, its mortality rate in puppies., The treatment given remains the same regardless of whether it is severe hemorrhagic gastroenteritis (another illness with symptoms of vomiting and bloody diarrhea) or parvovirus. Therefore, it is not usually essential to reach a specific diagnosis. However, where finances allow, there are tests which can confirm the nature of the problem.


It is most useful if the vet runs a full blood count, which gives an overview of the organ function, dehydration, white cell count, and anemia. Parvovirus attacks the bone marrow, and a low white cell count in the face of signs of infection, is a strong pointer towards parvovirus in dogs with the corresponding symptoms.Next, there are various lab tests that can be run on feces. Your vet can run a test in the clinic called an ELISA test.These work on a similar principle to a pregnancy test and change color in the presence of parvovirus proteins. The test takes around 15 minutes to run, but can occasionally produce a false positive or negative result.
Further testing can confirm the veracity of the ELISA test. This test needs to be sent to an outside lab and so there is a delay. The lab can either look for the virus itself under an electron microscope, or run a PCR test, which identifies small pieces of parvovirus DNA in the feces., Treatment involves aggressive intravenous fluid therapy to correct dehydration, drugs to control nausea, and antibiotics if the dogs has a secondary infection. With quick treatment, parvo does not have to be a death sentence. Without treatment, however, parvo has a 91% death rate.Some clinicians have had success using interferon therapy, but this involves high doses of a costly drug and so the cost can be prohibitive.
 Vaccination is highly effective in dogs with a good immune system. Get your dog vaccinated as soon as it is old enough. This is the best and most effective way of keeping your dog safe and stopping the spread of the disease.


Puppies cannot be vaccinated when they are very young. A puppy has maternally derived antibodies (MDA) present in the bloodstream. These interfere with the pup's body registering the vaccine, as the MDA can attack the vaccine.This is why the last vaccine needs to be given around 16 weeks of age, because by this time the MDA has gone from the pup's body.
 When a puppy is too young to be vaccinated you should keep it away from other dogs. While it is good to get a young dog socialized to many different animals and experiences, the risk of a life-threatening parvo virus should delay this socialization.


You should also keep an infected dog isolated. This will help to limit the spread of the infection. Also tell your neighbors that your dog has parvo so that they can take proper precautions to keep their dogs safe., If you have had a parvo breakout in your home, do not risk infecting future dogs in the home. Bleach kills the virus, so all items that can be thoroughly cleaned with bleach should be. Items that cannot be cleaned with bleach should be disposed of.


If you have had a dog with parvo you should not bring a puppy into your home for at least six months after the virus is treated. This is even after you disinfect your home with bleach and replace items that cannot be properly disinfected. The risk to a puppy is too high to risk exposing it to this deadly virus.
 Since parvo can live in the environment for long periods of time, it is a good idea to keep dog areas as tidy as possible to limit the risk of parvo being present. If you know a dog with parvo has gone to the bathroom in a specific area, that area should be disinfected. Use a solution of bleach and water to accomplish this, with a ratio of 1 part bleach to 15 parts water. Pour this on outside areas that may be infected with parvo.This is not to say that you can eliminate it for sure, but you can reduce the chances of it surviving in your yard or dog area. Even after you disinfect an area, you should not bring uninfected dogs into the area for six months.Parvovirus is extremely hardy and it is not deactivated by high temperatures. It can survive at up to 60C for 60 minutes, meaning it can even survive steam cleaning. It is also resistant to desiccation (drying out). The only thing that will kill it is bleach, so all laundering and cleaning needs to include bleach.
 Parvovirus does a lot of harm in the body because it requires dividing cells to grow. It tends to colonize the gut wall, because the cells there divide rapidly.This rapid attack of cells leads to a quickly debilitating illness.


This is also why the heart is at risk in puppies, because the cells of the heart are dividing rapidly in young dogs and so they are ripe for viral colonization.
Infected feces can pose a risk to unvaccinated dogs for weeks or months, or even years, to come.This combined with the severity of the virus' effects is why parvovirus outbreaks are so serious and devastating.

