 In most cases, medical treatment for Zika is not necessary. You can just stay home and rest until you recover from Zika. However, if you experience any symptoms or pain that you cannot manage on your own, then you should see a doctor right away.


Since Zika can resemble dengue fever and chikungunya, it is a good idea to see your doctor to confirm your diagnosis as well. Your doctor can perform a simple blood test to confirm whether you have Zika or something else., If you are struggling with symptoms of fever and/or pain (the Zika virus can cause muscle aches and pains), then you can try taking acetaminophen (Tylenol). Acetaminophen is available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore.


The usual dose is 500 to 1000mg every four to six hours. Do not exceed the recommended dosage.
 Note that, until your diagnosis of Zika is confirmed, it is wise to stay away from ibuprofen (Advil) and aspirin. If you have dengue fever instead of Zika (both are transmitted via the same type of mosquito), both ibuprofen and aspirin increase your risk of bleeding., As you recover, one thing to be aware of is the potential complications of the Zika virus. In many cases, you will recover within a week or so. However, there can be complications of Zika that you should watch for as you recover. Complications may include:Guillain-Barre Syndrome.As you recover, look for any unusual signs of numbness or tingling in your feet or lower extremities. Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) is an autoimmune disorder that sometimes follows a virus. It damages the outer coverings of your nerves, leading to numbness or even paralysis. GBS begins in the feet and lower legs, and moves up the body towards the head. This complication is rare, but you should see your doctor as soon as you can if you notice any of these symptoms.

Microcephaly.If you are recovering from Zika and happen to be pregnant, there is a possibility that your baby could be born with microcephaly. This is an abnormally small head circumference that is connected with developmental delays, intellectual disability and, in the most severe cases, death. If you are pregnant while recovering from Zika, or trying to become pregnant and have visited the above countries and develop symptoms, talk to your doctor to prepare for the possibility of this disability in your child.

