 Look for a chemise, the long shift worn as the base layer for female Renaissance clothing. You can forgo or supplement modern underwear with this garment.


A half size chemise is like a loose blouse, while a full size is like a long, loose nightgown. Substitute a long shirt or nightgown in a light, neutral color if you can’t acquire an authentic chemise.Forgo a modern bra if you plan to wear a traditional corset or structured bodice, as these will provide support for your chest and be more accurate to the time period if you’re going for full authenticity.
 Cinch a corset or a pull on a structured bodice over your chemise to achieve the narrow hourglass shape that was popular in all classes for women of the Renaissance period. Find modern and more vintage styles available widely in stores.


You can wear a corset or bodice as the main outer garment for your upper body, or you can use one as support and structure for a top and skirt or dress that you pull over it.
Make sure any very fitted garment like a corset is not worn to the level of discomfort or for a very long period of time.
 Wear a skirt or dress that reaches the floor or your ankles for a typical Renaissance look. Wear a gown or dress over your chemise and corset, or a separate skirt to complement your corset or bodice.


Avoid any ruffles, adornments, or patterns on skirts. For more volume, add crinoline or other layers underneath your main skirt.
Wear two or more skirts layered over one another and tuck the the top layer up into the waistband at the sides for a typical peasant look and shape.The costume for a woman of nobility would include a more formal and elaborate gown, made of velvet or silk and including a very full hoop skirt or “farthingale” underneath., Don a hat and belt and opt for jewelry with natural metal or stones. Remember that you want to keep the jewelry authentic if you aim for a period costume.


Go for light or no makeup, unless you are achieving a nobility look, in which case pale powder and dramatic rouge are acceptable.
Nobility can wear a girdle adorned with chains, jewels, and a purse that matches the gown. A fold-out fan is also a high class accessory.
Pull your hair up into a snood (a traditional hair net to hold back the hair), a simple clip, or a bonnet or other hat to keep you cool for a summer Renaissance faire., Keep footwear plain and simple, in a material like leather if possible. Try flats or boots worn under your dress or skirt.


Note that flat, practical shoes have the added real-world benefit of being more comfortable when walking around Renaissance faire grounds.
Don’t worry too much about the authenticity or quality of shoes compared with the rest of the outfit, as they will mostly be hidden under long skirts anyway.

